Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church and hope that you're having a great day. Uh it's a beautiful, beautiful spring day, and uh just looking forward to worshiping the Lord together. Pastor Chris has a couple of announcements. and then we'll get our service started. All right, good morning. Hope you had a chance to grab a bulletin. We have Just a few things to point out that are coming up. We have the mothers of littles on the 24th at 1030. If you're in the group chat, look there for further details. And then we got community canvassing on 29th. And I highly encourage you to come out for that. We've had a really good time ministering to folks and talking to folks and had some really good discussions. And it it really is an encouragement. I I highly uh would ask you to to consider coming out for the community canvassing and And allow that to be a blessing to you. And also we have our ladies' luncheon on May 6th, that it will be at 11. And I hope you ladies will be able to join us for that as well. well. Pastor. Okay, our opening scripture this morning is found in Ephesians chapter 6. Ephesians chapter 6 and we will read verses 10 through 13 together. If you don't have your Bible, please look up at the screen. Here's what the scripture says. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities. Against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand in the evil day. This morning the focus of our worship is going to be Christ's power over the kingdom of darkness. And you will see the significance of this opening scripture as we dig into Luke chapter 8, verses 26 through 37. And that's the story of Christ healing the maniac of Ghedera. So I'm looking forward to getting into that passage. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to really help us to understand his word today. And to really have hearts that are encouraged in the Lord. Let's pray. Father, we're so grateful for the privilege of being called your children. We recognize that there is no work in us that has given us this position. It is entirely the work of Christ's redemptive sacrifice on the cross, his triumph over death and the resurrection. And his righteousness that gives us a righteous position in Christ. I pray that this morning, as we look at a very delicate passage of Scripture, that you would open our eyes to the significance and the weight of what we are witnessing in this text. Help us to recognize that indeed there is a kingdom of darkness, a kingdom that is very evil, that is well organized, that is terrifying. Yet it is a kingdom that is ultimately submissive to your purposes and has no choice but to submit to your jurisdiction. I pray that this morning, as we look at this very important uh truth and series of truths, That you will help us to live in the light of them. I pray that you would empower the preaching of your word. And as we sing these wonderful hymns of the faith, I pray that we would think about the richness of the truths that we express in song. Father, we pray for those in our congregation who are carrying heavy burdens. There are many who are sick, many who are dealing with physical affliction. Many who are weary and discouraged, and Father, I pray that you would uphold them and strengthen them this morning. I pray that as they have opportunity to come in contact with your word , that your word would minister richly to their souls, that they would be fed, and that they would be energized by the work of the Spirit. I pray that our fellowship would be very sweet and Christ-centered and that indeed we would bear one another's burdens. and that we would uh have a deeper bond with one another. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. And good morning, everyone. Good morning, Acre Baptist Church and esteemed guests both with us in person and joining us on live stream. What a beautiful morning we've been given this morning. This is my kind of weather. 60, 65 degrees also. In conjunction with the theme, please stand with me. Turn to page 81 in your hymnal or follow along on the screen as we sing all four verses of a mighty Fortress is our God. Sing out Amen. Just over a couple pages to page 84. Eternal Father, strong to save. All four verses. All right, good singing, please have a seat. For the next song on page twenty-nine, praise my soul, the king of heaven. All four verses. Amen. That's good singing. And as we come to our scripture reading, this morning will be in the book of Luke. Luke chapter 8. As soon as I get there. Luke eight, verses twenty-six through thirty-seven. Verses 26 through 37 and the scriptures say, And they arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is over against Galilee. And when he went forth to land, there met him out of the city a certain man, which had devils long time, and wear no clothes, neither abode in any house, but in the tombs When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God, Most High? I beseech thee, torment me not. For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man, for oft times it had caught him, and he was kept bound with chains and in fetters And he broke the bands, and was driven of the devil into the wilderness. And Jesus asked him, saying, What is thy name? And he said, Legion, because many devils were entered into him. And they besought him that he would not command them to go out into the deep. And there was there an herd of many swine feeding on the mountain And they besought him that he would suffer them to enter into them, and he suffered them. Then went the devils out of the man and entered into the swine And the herd ran violently down a steep place into the lake and were choked. And when they that fed them saw what was done, they fled and went and told it in the city and in the country. Then they went out to see what was done, and came to Jesus, and found the man, out of whom the devils were departed, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid. They also, which saw it, told them by what means he that was possession of the devils was healed. Then the whole multitude of the country of the Gadaraines around about besought him to depart from them, for they were taken with great fear. And he went up into the ship and returned back again. May the Lord bless the reading of his word. Oh Lord, our Lord, how majestic is thy name. Alright, we will continue with our congregational singing. We're going to turn to page 99 or follow along with us on the screen. Sing those parts out, page ninety-nine, a shelter in the time of storm. All four verses. Watch me on the board, it's on the class, okay? Amen. I think that put a couple smiles in the congregation out there. Amen. All right. I hear some chuckles. Alrighty, we're going to go to the blue book. Now follow along with me. We're just going to go up to a couple pages, page four. Page four, follow along in the blue book or on the screen. Almighty Father. All three verses. Stand with me on this last song. Yeah, Mark Bell on the web. Joyce is God Me, Joyce is the majesty, given God. Please be seated. Sometimes does it seem too good to be true That God's only son lived and died just for you Is it hard to believe? If that is lost really there When in spite of your sin he continues to care I don't know what a sinner you are But I know What a savior he is I don't know where your feet have taken you But his kind of helper is ill I don't know Oh my god, you spoke, but his words were father for him. I don't know what a singer you are, but I know what a singer he is. Sometimes does it seem you've wandered so far, you'll never get back to that place in his heart. Don't you know that he waits for the sound of your prayer? Just whisper his name and you'll find that he's there. I don't know what a saver you are, but I know you are. What a savior is I don't know where your feet have taken you But it's time of Calvary What kind of words you've spoken and his words were bothered for kiss I don't know what a sinner you are, but I know what a savior he is. What we are is not one matter, but one matter. He is to us, who we are is not important, by who we choose to. I don't know what a sinner you are, but I know what a savior he is. I don't know where your feet have taken you. But it's kind of covered. I don't know what I know what you've spoken, but his words were bothered for gifts. I don't know why a zero you are, but I know what is Savior Yes Yes my know Yes I know Yes my What a favour. Okay, well our children who are junior church age may be dismissed to the back with some oversight from parents. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to the book of Luke. We're in Luke chapter 8 this morning. And I don't know about you, but the music this morning has really, really stirred up my heart. And I'm so excited to be able to take this passage of Scripture and lay it before you. And I hope give you an appropriate appreciation for what is being communicated in this passage of Scripture. And not just what's being communicated in the text in front of us, but really a good biblical understanding of a topic that sometimes we do not like to think much about, but it is just as real as uh you and I sitting here this morning. And that is the kingdom of darkness. And Satan and those who do his bidding. Luke chapter 8 verse 26 says the following And they arrived out of the country of the Gadderens, which is over against Galilee. And when he went forth to land, there met him out of the city a certain man. Which had devils long time, and wear no clothes, neither abode in any house, but in the tombs. When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said , What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God, Most High? I beseech thee, torment me not. The passage before us is a fascinating passage of scripture that gives us insight into a realm that is real. And that you can see the effects of, but you cannot see with your eyes. Just because we do not have the ability to see the kingdom of darkness, does not mean that the kingdom of darkness is somehow not in existence and not actively at work. In fact, as we look at this passage of scripture, we're going to see that the reason that this man was acting the way that he was is not because he was a drug addict. It's not because he was out of his mind in the sense that he had some kind of mental illness. The reason that this man was acting the way that he was is because he was literally possessed by the realm of Satan. Not Satan personally But those who fall under his jurisdiction. And this morning, we're going to talk exactly about what he means when he says he was possessed by devils. The reason that this man acted the way that he did is because his life was being torn apart by evil. It's because he was deceived. It's because he was being controlled. And what we're going to see in these verses is not just Christ's authority and his power over his tormentors. But the way that God chose to use this man to be a part of a fascinating story, really a story that we see all throughout the Gospels, and that is how God would take the gospel to some of the most unlikely places and people who you would never think would ever embrace the gospel would come to him in droves even more than those who had access to the old testament law and understood the time the writings of the prophets and those who did the Jewish festivals, he was actually going to reach people in a Gentile community that was very far removed from what you would think was a place that the Lord Jesus Christ would be embraced. This passage reveals Christ's authority over the kingdom of darkness. Through his encounter with a demon-possessed man to demonstrate that God permits evil. with limitations to accomplish his good purposes. That's something that might make you uncomfortable That God permits evil, but I want you to recognize that when God permits evil, he always does it with limitations, and he always does it with a purpose. And that purpose is ultimately good, and it is redemptive. And this text in front of us is one of the greatest examples of this in all of Scripture. Not the greatest example, but one of the greatest examples. God wants us to be a people who walk in wisdom as we think about the fallen world that we live in. And so in order to do that, I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts, and then I want us to dig into this topic with a a good bit of rigor this morning so that we can appreciate what is here and then we can see it and then the implications that flow from it. So first of all, the Christian's dilemma living in a fallen world, whether you realize it or not, you do live in a world that you have a dilemma of sorts. This world reflects both the good design and the effects of evil and corruption. We see both. We're reminded of spiritual tension in our daily lives. You know what it's like to desire and long to serve and do what God says to do, and at the same time you feel this dominating pull to do what you know to be evil. You see examples of God's goodness being demonstrated in the actions of people in some of the darkest moments in history. And at the same time, you see the absolute depravity of humanity. and some of the most evil atrocities that have ever been done in all of the world. And by the way, those evil atrocities continue to this day. It's not as if the world was evil a thousand years ago or two thousand years ago or five thousand years ago, but now you know we've gotten to a place where we don't do these dark and gruesome and evil things. Our own society is filled with tremendous evil, all the way from the highest places. And you ask the question, how do we live with such attention? Does Satan do whatever he pleases? Or is he ultimately contained with limits? If he has limits, then what principles govern those limitations? Is Satan God's peer? Should we fear Satan's power, and if so, to what extent? These are questions that I believe as Christians we ought to honestly ask. But don't just ask the question, answer it from the Bible, not just from how you wish things were or how you hope things are or how somebody told you things are, but what does the scripture lay out is reality in these situations? That's where we need to land as believers. So the first thing I want us to do this morning is I want us to look at the reality of the kingdom of darkness. Notice what he says in verse 26 and 27, and then we'll skip down to verse 29. It says, They arrived in the country of the Gatarenes, which is over against Galilee, and when he went forth to land, there met him out of the city a certain man. Which had devils long time, wear no clothes, neither abode in his house, but in the tombs Oftentimes he had caught him and he was kept bound with chains and in fetters and he breaks the bands and was driven of the devil into the wilderness. Now, the Bible doesn't apologize for the way it describes the source of this man's problems. He doesn't give a bunch of qualifications, he just speaks plainly, and he says, this man is demon-possessed. This man's life is wracked with pain and misery and destruction because he is bound by evil forces and might I say persons. You know, there is an unseen yet visibly active kingdom of darkness. We see that where he says he had devils a long time. He wear no clothes. He breaks the bands, was driven of the devil into the wilderness. If you saw this man, you didn't see these little mysterious people floating around him. All you saw was the change that took place in him, and the power that he physically had, the way he related to the people around him. You know, the Bible is full of scriptures teaching the reality of the kingdom of darkness. If I was to go and read through the passages, text after text after text, we would literally be here all day. And then to take those things and digest those things and appreciate what they're saying would take us an unbelievable amount of time. Perhaps it would be a worthy study to do on your own time. But I want to take you to what is one of the most prominent texts on this issue, and that's Ephesians chapter 6, verses 10 through 13. I've mentioned the name Martin Lloyd Jones a few times. He preached over fifty sermons from this text. And they are very rich, and they are very practical, and they would be very well worth your time if you're willing to dedicate an hour of your day to listening to one sermon a day. But listen to what the text says. It says to put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day. Now we are living in a time where we are a little bit removed from, we could say, the combat generations of the past parts of history. Where literally every single young man in society needed to learn how to wrestle and how to fight with his hands and how to carry a sword and how to shoot a bow. Every single able-bodied man needed to stand up and defend his society. We'd be in huge trouble if we were in such a situation today. And in those days, out of all the illustrations that Paul uses, he says that when we talk about the kingdom of darkness, it is like a warfare, it's like a physical struggle, like a wrestling match. These are illustrations that the people understood very well. They understood that there is blood, and there is sweat and there is exhaustion and there is death and there is difficulty in such a realm. He said, there is a realm you can't see that's like that. The realm is circled around one individual, the devil. Satan is an angel who's rebelled against God shortly after the creation, but before the fall. And there's a lot that the Bible says about this individual, Satan. Satan isn't a joke, folks. I know that we have this picture of this red person that's got these little horns and a pitchfork and a tail that he whips around and he has this cackle, but that is not who we're talking about here. We're talking about someone who hates God and they hate you and he works active and has throughout all of history from the time he rebelled against God to disrupt God's purposes and destroy people. Ezekiel twenty-eight says, Thou hast been in Edom the garden of God, every precious stone was thy covering. The workmanship of thy tablets and of thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that thou wast created. Thou art the anointed cherub that covereth, and I have set thee so. Thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day that thou wast created till iniquity was found in thee. That is who the devil is. And Isaiah chapter 14 it expands that little statement till iniquity was found in thee. What does he mean by that? He says, How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning? which did weaken the nations, for thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God, I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation and the sides of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will be like the Most High. By the way, if you remember back to the fall. As Satan comes to Eve, he doesn't just say, wouldn't you like to smell the fruits and taste the fruit? He says, Don't you want to be like God? God 's keeping something from you when he says that you'll know good and evil. And so it says that she took the fruit because she desired to become wise like God. Let me tell you that one of the greatest ways that Satan deceives people is he allures them into thinking that their ways are better than God's ways. That they can control their own destiny, that they can control this world that they live in. And so he appeals to the pride of humanity. 1 Peter 5, verse 8, he says, Be sober and be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. I'll pause there. So many more scriptures we could go to, but you get the idea there's this vicious individual, and his name is Satan. We then see in the Ephesians six passes the word principalities. And the idea of the principalities it's an administrative well-organized state. If you were to go into a city, there are people that are at various degrees of government within a city, and we would say that that is a principality. He's not talking about the the town that you live in or the town that you grew up in. But he's talking about the fact that the kingdom of darkness is a well-organized system. It is a kingdom that is active in rebellion against God. Revelation chapter 12, verse 9 says that the dragon was cast out, that old serpent called the devil and Satan, which deceived the whole world. He was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. There's only one devil, folks. How in the world does this one individual deceive the nations? Well, it's because Under his jurisdiction, under his authority, are many other angels who rebelled with him and they do his bidding and they work together as a well-organized army. You say, Joel, this is a bit uh dark and scary. Good. Then you understand the reality we're dealing with. But I promise you it will not end dark. You have to appreciate reality before you can appreciate the glory. We then see spiritual wickedness in high places. This kingdom is active, influencing the most powerful people in the world. Today. Yes, in our own nation, the most powerful people in the world are unquestionably being targeted And they're being used by this kingdom. Revelation chapter 2, verse 13 says this: thou dwellest even where Satan's seat is. Thou holdest fast my name and hast not denied my faith, even in those days where an Antipas was my faithful martyr, who was slain amongst you, where Satan dwelleth. Why did John mention that Satan dwells in the city? And why does he talk about the fact that they held fast? And that there was a martyr named Antipas who was faithful even to death where Satan dwells. Why is that Because Satan had influenced that particular community to such an extent that there was evil at the highest places, and that evil was affecting the Church of God. Why do you think Christians have been persecuted historically throughout human history? Well, it's because spiritual wickedness in high places means that Satan targets those who are in authority, those who have power. He uses them to accomplish his purposes. Revelation 20, verse 7 says, when a thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed. out of his prison and shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of earth, Gog and Magog, and the number of whom is as the bat as the sands of the sea. Satan has terrifying power, folks. In Job chapter 1, verse 12, it says, The Lord said to Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power. Only upon himself put not forth thine hands. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord. And do you know what happened in Job's life after Satan went from the presence of the Lord? Listen carefully. In verse number 19, it says, There was a great wind from the wilderness, and it smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young men, and they are dead. When Satan went from the presence of the Lord, he was able to influence nature. In verses, verse number seven of chapter two, it says, So Satan went forth in the presence of the Lord, and he smote Job with some boils. Sore boils from the sole of his foot, even unto his crown. What happened when Satan smote Job? All of a sudden he had these terrible physical infirmities. You know what that tells us? It tells us that Satan has the ability to break someone's health. Now that doesn't mean that every time you're sick, it's because Satan has attacked you. That's not what it's saying. And clearly the Bible has lots and lots of different categories for sickness, but this is a category that most clearly the scripture addresses. Satan can plant thoughts in people's minds that lead to catastrophic outcomes. And that is in no way saying that when Satan has influenced the person's thinking, that the person is no more responsible for the decisions and the actions and their thinking processes. That's not what we're suggesting. But the source of those thoughts came from outside of themselves. 1 Chronicles 21, verse 1. Satan stood up against Israel and provoked David to number Israel. Acts chapter 5 verse 3, Peter said, Ananias, why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost? We see that Satan has the power to possess an individual. And we see this in this context, but we also see this in Luke 22. It says, then entered Satan into Jewish, uh Judas surnamed Iscaria. Being of the number of the twelve, and he went his way and communed with the chief priest and the captains how he might betray him unto them. By the way, notice something here When these devils possessed this demoniac of the Gatarenes, he acted like an absolute wild man. He wore no clothes, he couldn't live in a house with anybody, he's sleeping amongst the tombs, he's cutting himself, he he is he has a strength that is not normal for an individual to have, and that is the way that his life was being torn apart. But when Satan came and possessed Judas, did Judas act like that? Not a chance. Judas looked very respectable But the disciples had absolutely no idea he was getting ready to go out and betray Jesus. He went and he sat down in the midst of people in the Sanhedrin. And they discussed, they plotted together how he was going to take Jesus, how he's going to betray Jesus to those individuals. What we're seeing is that as Satan influences people, it doesn't always end up the way that it did for the Gathering. It could be a person who looks very respectful, but is very evil in what they're saying and very evil in what they're doing, and very evil in the kind of influence that they have. You could be influenced by Satan wearing a coat and tie, and everybody thinks you're good and everything's going well. And we see this in this text. He can influence groups of people. In Job 1. 17, it says the Chalides made out three bands and fell upon the camels, and have slain the servants with the edge of the sword. Satan is behind all those things. Second Thessalonians chapter 2, verse 8. Then shall the wicked be revealed whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders. Don't worry. I'm not going to ask you to close your Bible and it's time to go home. There's a lot more to this topic. Because Satan is a vicious foe. He hates people. He disrupts God's work in the world. He wants nothing more than to destroy you as an individual. And he will do it through so many different means. But the second side to this is the balance. He is entirely under the authority of God. What I mean by that is not that God manipulates Satan. It's that when Satan says, I want to do this, God has to say, okay, or not a chance. We actually see this in Job chapter 1, verse 12. The Lord said to Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thine power. Only upon himself, put not forth thine hands. And when Satan left God's presence, he touched everything that he could, but he could not in that moment touch Job's physical life. In Daniel chapter 4, verses 34 to 35, it says that God's dominion is an everlasting dominion. His kingdom is from generation to generation. He doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven and amongst the inhabitants of the earth. None can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? That little statement, the armies of heaven, is saying, his authority is not just over people, but even over the angelic beings that are out there. Those who submit Willingly to his purposes, and those who resist on every single level. Colossians 1:16 and 17. By him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible. Whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities, remember that word? Or powers. All things were created by him and for him. And he is before all things. You know what that tells me? Satan's under God's authority. He's under his jurisdiction. God permits him to do what he wills with limits. He's just a creature who will one day be conquered and banished and demonstrate God's glory for all of eternity. We talk about Satan, we're not talking about someone who's omnipresent, where he's everywhere. Satan is limited by location. Just like you and I are limited by location. We're not talking about someone who's omniscient. He doesn't know everything. Satan has to learn, just like you and I have to learn, though he's had thousands of years to do this, he's not omnipotent. He has limits to his power. He is in no way God's peer or God's equal. And many times we as Christians sometimes get into our heads as if God is strong and Satan is strong too, and they're kind of like equal. And we kind of get to Turn the balance one way or the other. Folks, that is not the way this issue works. Satan is submissive to God. He pleads with God for opportunity to disrupt. And you'll even see this come out in the text. So that moves us to part number two. How did Christ engage with the kingdom of darkness? We see this in verses 26. through 39. But I want to just kind of move through the text so you can you can see the very things that we've just talked about from all these other passages of scripture, we see them play out in real time in the way that Christ interacts with this man. The first thing that we see is that he and his disciples meet a man whose life is completely dominated and even being destroyed by Satan's influence. In verse 26, it says, They arrive to the country of the Gaterenes. And when they went forth to land there met him of the city a certain man which had devils long time. He wore no clothes, neither abode in any house but in the tombs. Oftentimes it had caught him, and he was kept bound with chains and in fetters he break the bands and was driven of the devil into the wilderness. This man had lost his inhibitions. One of the things that Satan does to people is he dehumanizes them. They don't see the value of their bodies and they don't see the value of their purpose that God has given, and so they don't treat their bodies with the dignity that God has ascribed to them as individuals. And we see this in this man He doesn't have a family who is willing to live with him. He has a family. We know that because later on he's going to say, go back to your family. Can you imagine him knocking on the door? And they go, oh no, look who's here He looks a little different than the last time we saw him. But this man's relationships were shredded. He was allured by death and the realm of the dead. Where is he living? He's living amongst the tomb. We have a culture that is enamored with death. This sounds a lot like what we see in our society today. A complete shredding of our humanity. A complete lack of a disregard for life and vitality. Destruction in our relationships. That's what Satan does. He had supernatural physical strength that couldn't bind him with fetters. He lived a miserable, shameful, isolated life. And when we read this, I think more than being terrified, we should be sad. He's not the only person in human history that's lived this way. Did you know that even in the modern era there are textbooks that talk about these kinds of cases? It's true. You can read stories that medically speaking they didn't know what to do with people because they found themselves in such a place. Next, we see that this man meets Jesus. And when he meets Jesus, those who possessed him knew exactly who he was. It says, when he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before him. With a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God most high? Now that's an interesting question that pops up in my mind as I read this. It says, what do I have to do with you? But he knows who Jesus is. Later on, Jesus asks them, What's your name? They say, We are many. So it does not appear that the demons are speaking to Jesus at the moment. It appears that it's the man he's actually talking to Jesus. He knows who Jesus is because he's been informed. The confession of these demons and this man was more consistent with Christ's true identity than the confession of many of the people who followed him and witnessed his miracles. Isn't that a shocking thing? What's also interesting is that these individuals understood their end. I beseech thee, torment me not, for he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. What does that tell you? What that tells you is that those who possessed this man understood because of this interaction with Christ. Christ's authority over them. And they were completely, they were completely, we could say, helpless if he says, I'm going to take you out of this world and you're going to go to the abode where the rest of your demons are living. Basically, what it's saying. They understood their end. They petitioned God just like people petition God. Do you realize that just like people pray, get on their knees, and ask God for things, so do the demons? It's true. We see it in this text. It says, and they besought him that he would not command them to go into the deep. There was there a herd of many swine feeding on the mountain, and they besought him that he would suffer them to enter into them. And he suffered them. This is a fascinating example of the demons trembling in the presence of the Lord Jesus and pleading with him to let them do something that they wanted. What does that show you? It shows you the authority of Christ. It shows you his power. It shows you that in this moment, while the disciples had absolutely no power, Christ did. We then see that the man is literally liberated. And there's a visible transformation that takes place in this man's life Then they went out to see what was done, and they found the man out of whom the devils were departed, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed. And in his right mind. Think about this. He was clothed, he was calm, he was in his right mind. He wanted to be with Jesus. The very same man who couldn't live in a house with his own family. The same man who could shred apart, with his physical power, he could shred apart fetters of iron, chains. The same man who would walk around screaming and howling in his nakedness. This man is sitting at the feet of Christ, calm. And the question is, how did the people respond? They said, Jesus, what did you give this man? It's not what they did. They said, please leave. Isn't that amazing? Please leave. We do not want what you have Is that not stunning? Is that not a great picture of the way the world is today? God has the ability to take a person and not just forgive them of their sins, but to literally transform them. To give them a life that is pure and rich and good, please leave But that's not the end of the story, folks. In fact, I submit to you that the purpose of the story is not to show Christ power over demons as much as it is. To show his love for a demon-possessed man. I'm serious. Not only his love for a demon-possessed man, but his love for that man's community If you look at verse thirty-seven, it shows us that his community was afraid of Christ. It says the whole multitude of the country of the Gadderens around about besought him to depart from them, for they were taken with great fear. The next thing we see is that in verses 38 and 39, the man says, Jesus, I want to go with you. Ah, do you blame him? Okay. This man has lived a life that is bound in chains of affliction. His family doesn't want him back. The people that live in the community where he is from, they tell Jesus, leave. Why in the world would this man want to go back to that kind of a community? I mean, really, think about it for just a moment. He says, I don't want any part of this. You have delivered me. You have rescued me. You have transformed me. I want to be with you. But Jesus didn't allow him to do that. Notice what it says in verse 38. Now the man out of whom the devils were departed besought him. That he might be with him. And Jesus sent him away, saying, Return unto thine own house and show how great things God hath done unto thee. This right here is actually the key to the entire text of Scripture. In fact, it's amazing if you look at the story of Jesus and the Samaritan woman. More than the story being about the Samaritan woman, it was about Jesus going to the Samaritans through the Samaritan woman. Jesus was going to this region. through a man who had been demon-possessed and had lived as a wild man and people were terrified of him and they wanted nothing to do with him. That's what the story is really about Because in verse number forty there's this fascinating little detail that is left. It came to pass that when Jesus was returned, the people gladly received him, for they were all waiting for him. him. You say, why in the world did God allow this man to have his life so wrecked by evil? Why did he allow him to be so dehumanized? Why did he permit Satan to wreak so much havoc on this man's life? That's the wrong question. Why did God position this man to reach his community is the better question. The fact is that God used Satan's vicious assaults to reach into a community that was untouched by the gospel. And as he reaches into that community that was untouched by the gospel, it became a vibrant community sitting at the feet of Jesus. There's stories of so many missionaries throughout uh the the the modern missionary movement, people who sold themselves as slaves To reach slaves in the Caribbean islands. People who went to work with cannibals in the South Pacific Seas and were eaten, eaten by those whom they desired to minister. Which ultimately opened the door for their family to reach this peak with the gospel. You know the story of Jim and Elizabeth Elliott? Jim and Elizabeth Elliott went to minister to the Akas in Ecuador. Jim was killed, along with several other of his close friends. Elizabeth went back. And the wives of those men who had been killed went back, and they ministered for a very long period of time amongst those peoples. During the Roman era, there was a statement that would go around throughout the Roman Empire that said that the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church. Now, I'm in no way saying I want to receive what these people received. But I want you to notice something. God used it. And God uses all kinds of He uses illnesses in our lives, He uses afflictions He uses seasons where we go into great spiritual darkness and we get away from the Lord. He uses all kinds of circumstances. He uses wars. And famines, and the disruption of households that ultimately lead to him reaching into people's lives and transforming them through the power of the gospel. And only God knows when to permit and when to forbid, and to what extent He will manage these details. Christ used the possession of a hurting man to draw a complacent people out of spiritual darkness, an overwhelmingly gentile community. So that leads me to this question. How do we walk in wisdom in a fallen world? We've seen the text in front of us. We've seen uh A rich concept laid before us that we've scratched the surface of how do we respond to these things? I want to go back to those questions I asked at the beginning, and I want to answer them. Our world reflects God's good design and the effects of evil and corruption. That's true. We shouldn't bear our heads in the sand and act like it's one or the other. It's both. We're reminded of the spiritual tension every single day. And rather than getting upset and frustrated, we need to recognize this is reality. There's a reason that we're told to stand with our loins girt with truth and having on the breastplate of righteousness and our feet showered with the preparation of the gospel of peace. That's the reality of the world we live in. Satan is real, and so is his kingdom, which should sober us and drive us to God. He is a vicious foe, but he's also a fellow creature. With limits. This morning we sang my absolute favorite hymn, A Mighty Fortress is our God, and though this world with devils filled Should threaten to undo us, we will not fear, for thou hast willed his truth to triumph through us That's a great line, is it not? I wonder what it sounds like in German. I have to ask Pastor Chris. This kingdom is under God's rule and must ultimately submit to his governance. Satan isn't God's peer. They are not equals. He is a tool through whom God restrains the vicious assaults against his people to ultimately work to accomplish his good purposes. So how do we face such a vicious foe? Two texts of scripture I'll mention briefly. Ephesians 6, put on the whole armor of God. If you go to Ephesians 6 and you work your way through it, you will see that every single piece of the armor connects back to a clear understanding of the gospel. Breastplate of righteousness, justified in Christ. Helmet of salvation, our future glorification. Our feet shall of the preparation of the gospel of peace. The fact is, there's nothing that can take us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Why does he talk about a shield of faith? Because we are justified by faith alone, and we have peace with God. Why does he emphasize truth? Because every single truth of the gospel is vital. If you have a deficient view of the gospel, you are exposed to Satan's devices. And you will crumble and you will fall if in any way your understanding of that simple gospel of grace alone and the finished work of Christ. If it is deficient, he will exploit that deficiency. And I've seen it many, many times in the lives of Christians. Christians whom I love dearly. But because of a deficiency in their understanding of the gospel, Satan exploits it in their personal lives. The second example is 2 Timothy 2, verse 24. The servant of the Lord must not strive but be gentle, apt to teach Patient and meekness instructing those that oppose themselves, if God peradventure will grant them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth, that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who are taken captive by him at his will. Do you know what that text emphasizes? Sound doctrine. If we have a deficiency in our understanding of the gospel, he'll exploit it. If we have a deficiency in our understanding of sound doctrine, he'll exploit it. And so what that tells us is if we want to stand, we have to be gospel-centered people, and we have to be doctrinally grounded people, and we need to be rejoicing in those wonderful truths. Revelation 12, they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, by the word of their testimony. They loved not their lives unto death. That's how you deal with Satan. 1 Corinthians 10:13, there hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. God is faithful. Who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that ye may be able to bear it? I ask you this morning: Is your life built on the gospel? I ask you this morning, is your life built on sound doctrine? If you're sleeping through the expounding of Scripture, you are hurting your soul. If you hear the gospel over and over and over again, and there's different aspects of the gospel being applied to how we think and how we live as Christians. And you say, ah, I've heard the gospel a thousand times. I don't need that little dimension to it. That's where you get exploited. You've got to have a life that is built soundly on the truth. May God help us to be such a people. Let's pray. Father, we think about the text in front of us. It is sobering. Yet it is triumphant. It is saturated with your wisdom and your power and your kindness. And I pray that you would help us as a people to live like we truly believe these things. May we have a life that is built on the gospel. May we put on that armor that addresses so many different nuances of gospel-centered thinking. May we be word -centered people who are in the scriptures daily and continually meditating upon these things and giving ourselves wholly to these things May we be living lives that are built on sound teaching. I pray that you would use this for your glory in our lives. If there's anyone here this morning that is struggling, I pray that you would use the word to drive them to biblical answers. May we find ourselves strengthened as we rely entirely upon you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, I need Doug up here because he's going to lead us in our song. We have a baptism to close out our service. So our song is hymn one hundred nine, Great Is Thy Faithfulness. We have all three verses. So you might have to do another one. All right. Okay, on our hymnal or up on the screen, we're gonna go to page one hundred and nine. Page one oh nine. Sing out all three verses of Great Is Thy Faithfulness. Sing out So I 'm not going to be the one I do at all. But I don't know what I mean.