Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our final Anchored in the Word morning reflection for this week. And if you've joined us for each of our episodes, I hope that you have uh really gleaned a lot from these passages. We've been working our way through Luke chapter 9 verses 57 through 62 and uh this is going to be the conclusion of not just the section we looked at this week, but the conclusion of Luke chapter 9. So if you have your Bible, let's turn there together, please, and we'll read the text again, kind of summarize what we talked about this week, and then uh leave you with some final thoughts. Here's what it says. And it came to pass that as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. And he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. Jesus said unto him, Let the dead bury their dead, but go thou and preach the kingdom of God Another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go and bid them farewell, which are at home at my house. Jesus said unto him, No man having put his hand to the plough, and looking back Now, as we've been working our way through this passage of Scripture, we've seen that the theme of the entire passage of Scripture is that as we come to understand who Christ is, as we understand his identity Then what that's going to do is it's going to shape the way that we relate to him. And the way that we're supposed to relate to Christ is that he is our highest authority. He is our highest responsibility. Allegiance to him is our highest priority. That is the sense of Luke chapter 9, verses 57 through 62. And in each of the days we looked at different aspects of that. For instance, on the first day, we talked about the fact that because of the nature of the way that Christ presented himself, the way that he taught, what he said about himself, all of those things. What it did is it presses us to recognize and consider his identity. It's something that we have to wrestle with, it's something we have to face. And as we see who Christ is and we see what he did, then we should turn to him and we should place our faith in him. The second of the studies that we did is that we were challenged by considering the weight of the cost of following Christ. When a person follows Christ, before they make that commitment, and before that becomes the driving force of their life, they need to consider the implications of what they're doing Not so that they'll be discouraged from doing it, or not so that they'll hold back, but so that when they do it they will be all in The third thing we looked at is that we have been challenged at the danger of delaying that commitment to following Christ, putting off to some time in the future and saying, well, Lord. I'll do it down the road, but let me first do this, or when this season is over, then I'll be willing to take on this commitment. And we saw that great danger. And then the fourth thing that we talked about was the fact that we were challenged with the need to follow Christ by conviction. We're not going to be pushed into following Christ simply because we're trying to go along to get along with those who say, you know, following Christ is what you should be doing. And we're not holding back from following Christ because someone is saying, well, if you do this, here's what it's going to cost you. We see that we are to follow Christ by personal conviction. not be swayed by the opinions of others, including family, and especially family in the context. We might say, well, well Joel, how do you you know what do we take away from this passage description? What do we take away from these studies? Well Let me give you a couple of concluding thoughts, some applications that I think should flow out of this. And I would like to do this in the form of questions, because questions make us think, and these questions They demand answers. And so the first question that I have for us this morning is this: Have we faced the reality of Christ's identity? Do we understand that you cannot be neutral about Christ? Either he's God in flesh, who literally died on the cross for our sins, He bore the wrath of the Father in our place, and through his death and his resurrection and his righteousness we can stand righteous in Christ and forgiven. Do I believe that? Have I faced that reality? Have I placed my faith in Christ? That's the first question. If we've not done that, then all these other questions, in in in some sense, they don't matter because that is the most pressing need. to turn to Christ, to place our faith in Him and in Him alone. So that's my first question. The second question is this. Have we considered the practical, personal, daily implications of Christ's authority in our life Notice the word practical. This is a daily matter. It's personal. These are decisions I have to make And it's not just something I do once and then it's over, but this is a daily matter, something that I have to put before myself day after day after day. Have I considered those personal practical implications on a daily basis? Third question. Am I unreservedly committed to submitting to his rightful authority in every area of our life? It's really easy for us to take one area and say, well, I'll submit to Christ in this area, but here's another area of my life that, well, it's off limits. God, why don't you worry about this area but not worry about that area? It's very easy for us to compartmentalize our lives. And so the question is, have we unreservedly committed him to his authority? and and submitting to his purposes and his will in all of our lives. Number four, have we created pragmatic excuses that ultimately are veiling our unwillingness to follow him immediately? Remember back to the to the uh man who says, well let me first bear my father. The problem was not that his father had died and that he was uh trying to get the the burial prepared and all those things. That wasn't the issue What he was basically saying is, my dad's not dead yet. And so rather than me following you now, I'd like to wait until that time comes. Sometime in the future. I don't know when that's going to be. But once I've taken care of all of my family responsibilities, once I've gotten the money that I'm supposed to get and the inheritance and all those things, well then I'll follow you. Jesus says, no, no, that's not the way you do it. You can't veil your unwillingness to follow now by using some excuse like family. Number five. Are we allowing a fear of man to put us in a disingenuous commitment to Christ? You know, if all the people around us are talking about what they're reading in the scriptures and They're talking about the books that they're reading theologically and the journal articles they've been reading and all those different kinds of things It's really easy for us to go along with that and say, well yeah, here's what I'm reading in my Bible, and here's what I've read in my journal articles, and here are the books that I've read recently. And we're not doing it because We really love the Lord and we want to do this, but we're actually doing it because we fear the people around us. We want their affirmation. And so the question is, are we allowing a fear of man to push us in the right direction for the wrong reason? Number six. Are we allowing a fear of man to hold us back from an unreserved commitment to Christ? That same principle can be turned in the other direction. And it often is turning the other direction, where rather than us saying, I'm all in for Christ and whatever he desires, I will do it, instead we hold back because we're afraid of what a parent might say or whatever what a sibling might say or what a grandparent might say or a a co-worker might say or somebody that we rub shoulders with on a regular basis. We cannot allow a fear of man to push us or to cause us to shrink back from responsibilities. So the final question is a simple one. Are we willing to take the text and apply it and living the lie of it. My encouragement to you this weekend, as we go into the weekend and we think about these things, is that we would be a people who allow the Lord to help us see Christ as he is. and that we would follow him as our absolute highest priority, not tomorrow, today. That's the challenge for us going into the weekend I hope many of you will be able to join us this Sunday as we have a wonderful Sunday. We're going to have a baptism. Actually a couple people getting baptized. We have the Lord's table. Just looking forward to a great time of fellowship as we dig into the Word of God. To give you a little bit of a sermon tease, we're going to be in Psalm 32, and that is a great text of scripture as we reflect on the Lord's table. I hope that you'll be able to join us either in person or on the live stream, or maybe you'll be able to if you live outside of our area, maybe you'll be able to check out the service online sometime afterwards. Have a great weekend. And if this has been an encouragement to you, please take a moment to share that. And if you need anything, don't hesitate to reach out. And Lord willing, we'll see many of you at the weekend. Bye now.