Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And uh if you joined us yesterday, you saw that we started a new a new topic and we were in Luke chapter 8 and we were talking about We looked at that on one side yesterday dealing with the deity of Christ, and this morning we're going to look at the other part of that, and that is the humanity of Christ. And so if you have your Bible, let's look together at Luke chapter 8. We will dig into verses 22 to 25. Here's what it says. Now it came to pass on a certain day that he went into a ship with his disciples. And he said unto them, Let us go over unto the other side of the lake, and they launched forth. And as they fell, uh and as they sailed, he fell asleep. And there came a storm of wind on the lake, and they were filled with water and were in jeopardy. And they came to him and awoke him, saying, Master, Master, we perish. Then he arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and there was a calm. And he said unto them, Where is your faith? They being afraid wondered, saying one to another, What manner of man is this? For he commandeth even the winds and the water to obey him. Now if you can remember yesterday we focused in on that last little statement. He says What manner of man is this? For even the winds and the water they obey him. When the disciples witnessed this miraculous event that Christ is performing, where he is speaking to the sea and he's speaking to the storm and the winds and all those things. And immediately there's a change. They recognize this is not something that just any ordinary person could do Only God has authority and power over nature. And so they asked the question, who is Jesus? And so yesterday we looked at the topic of his identity. And we were in Philippians chapter 2, and I'm going to read that little section again, kind of emphasize what we talked about yesterday, and then pick up on the second part of that passage of Scripture. And so here's what it says. He, that's Jesus, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself no reputation, and took upon himself the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Now if you remember from yesterday's study, we we focused in on two statements. Being in the form of God, which basically means this. He is God in his essence or in his substance. And he is the express image of his person. He is uh In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Okay, we're talking about God and we talk about Jesus. We're Colossians 1, he is the image of the invisible God. And we we talked about the distinction between someone being made in the image of God and someone being the image of God. So when we're talking about Jesus, we're talking about someone who is God, fully God. His deity is not in any way diminished in the person of Christ. And then we saw that the second statement thought it not robber to be equal with God. And the idea was that Jesus wasn't stealing glory that didn't belong to him, or stealing uh nature that didn't belong to him. Um, he is God. He possesses the full deity of of of God and the the full divine nature, I guess we would we put it in that way. So we're talking about Jesus, we're talking about about God. Not one of the gods or someone who is mostly like God or someone who is a lesser God. We're talking about God Himself. The creator the eternal God who made everything and sustains everything, that's who we're talking about when we talk about Christ. But we also see a secondary side to this, and that is the humanity of Christ. And someone might say, well, is Jesus God? Or is Jesus the man? And the answer is yes. He is both. And you say, well, how does that work out? Well, it's what we call the hypostatic union. It is it is The full deity and the full humanity being melted into the same person so that humanity is kept intact fully and deity is kept intact fully. When we talk about Jesus, we're talking about The God man, God in flesh. Emmanuel, God with us. And so let's kind of walk back into this passage and look at this concept of the deity of Christ. And I made or the humanity of Christ. I made this distinction yesterday. Jesus has always been God, but he has not always been A man. Okay? That's important for us to notice. So for instance, in first or John chapter 1, it says, In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God. The Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things are made by him Without him was not anything that was made. And then it says later on in that text it says, and the word became flesh. And dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory. The glories of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. What that's telling us is that the eternal Son of God who is always, who always has been, is today, and always will be God, the eternal God, second person, the Lord Jesus Christ, at a point in time took on humanity. Okay? This was something that was new, that was not a part of his nature when he created the worlds. Okay? So he takes on flesh at a point in time. And notice how it puts it. It says he made himself of no reputation. The text is describing how the Lord Jesus Christ voluntarily emptied himself of all that God could lay aside to take on humanity without his essence as God being in any way di diminished. So the idea is that there are certain things about Christ's person that were voluntarily laid aside so that he could take on humanity. Now, he did not stop being God. He didn't diminish his deity. He didn't become half God and half man. No, he is fully God and fully man But he is voluntarily humbling himself. So Christ temporarily, voluntarily empties himself of the privileges, power, and position But not his nature that will allow him to take on humanity. And you might say, well, I don't understand how this works. And the answer is I don't either. But the c the text is clearly stating it And so think of it this way. The omniscient God, the one who knows everything, had to learn how to read and how to write. That's a that's a fascinating thing. What does that show us? It shows us that while he is still God, he's taken on humanity as well. And he is humbling himself and he is putting himself in the position that he has to learn. Or the omnipotent one, the one who's all powerful, had to physically rest and he had to physically grow and he had to mentally and emotionally develop. You say how does that work? Well that that is how God in flesh is able to do this, okay? It's the emptying of himself that that allows him to do this. Or he is the creator who experiences physical birth. Okay? So he makes the whole world and everything in it. And he's sustaining it by the word of his power. Yet he takes on humanity and he's physically literally physically born. He literally experienced physical death. The one who sustains life, the one who has the power over life and death, the one who by his own power rose from the dead and triumphed over sin, death. That's what he did. The great physician got sick. The author of the scriptures had to study the scriptures and grow in his development in the study of scriptures. So these are truths about Jesus. We're talking about full Deity and full humanity, in no way diminished on either side, yet altogether in the same person And this is what makes Jesus a one-of-a-kind, unique Savior. There is none like him, never ever has been one like him, and there never ever will be one like him. He is the unique, eternal Son of God. And by the way, we can see these concepts within the text here. We can see his weakness. It says in verse 23 that he fell asleep. We see that while the disciples were terrified because of the storm, Jesus was soundly sleeping. They had to literally wake him up. What does that tell you? Well, that shows you that he physically got tired. And he physically grew weird. And there's many, many examples of this throughout the Gospels, of of his of his being tired. It's part of being a man. His authority, verse 24. He arose, he rebuked the wind and the raging of the waters, and they immediately ceased, and they were calm. Well, what does this show us? The same person who was wearied and sleeping in the boat stands up, rebukes nature, and it immediately obeys him. So what does it show you? It shows you the weakness of his humanity and the power and the authority of his deity bound up in the same person. They're both true at the same time. We see the uniqueness of this person. Verse 25. What manner of man is this? That he commands even the winds and the water, and they obey him. The disciples are understanding that when we interact with Jesus, we're interacting with a normal man, a perfect man, a sinless man, but he gets tired. He eats, he gets sick, he experiences weakness just like anybody else, yet he commands nature with power and authority. How does this all work out? That's really what they're saying. This is a mystery. This is something that's beyond our full comprehension. This is something we accept by faith. We see the scripture affirms it. And we see the evidences of it in the scriptures, and we say, We believe that is who our Savior is, the Lord Jesus Christ, worthy of all of our worship and praise and all of our glory. And at the same time, he can sympathize with us because, like us, he has been tempted in all points, yet without sin. That's an amazing thing to consider. The Lord Jesus Christ triumphs in his power and he sympathizes with us in his humanity and weakness. That's our Savior. So let's try to put it all together because this is a concept that is foundational to the gospel. And so let me state it this way. God is our Savior, not just the Father, not just the Son, not just the Spirit. God, the triune God, all three persons of the Godhead are involved personally and intimately in your salvation and in my salvation. Listen to what it says in Titus chapter 1, verses 1 through 3. It says, Paul is servant of God and apostle of Jesus Christ according to the faith of God's elect. In hope of eternal life, which God, who cannot lie, promised before the world began, but hath in these times manifest his word through preaching, which is the which is committed unto me according to the commandment of God our, here's the word, our Savior So in this particular context, who is Paul saying is our Savior? He's saying God is. Does he mean the Father? Sure. Does he mean the Son? Sure. Does he mean the Spirit? Sure. The Father, the Son, and the Spirit are all personally involved in unique roles in our redemption. The Father takes a part in our redemption. The Son takes a part in our redemption. The Spirit takes a part in our redemption. We are saved by God Himself, the triune God. That's very important. That's essential to the gospel. Secondly, without the Trinity, we have no gospel. 1 John 4, verse 12, listen to what it says. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, his love is perfected in us. Hereby know we that we dwell in him and he in us, because he hath given us his spirit And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. Now notice something about that text. It's very important. We see the role of the Spirit, we see the role of the Father, and we see the role of the Son. All three persons of the Godhead are mentioned in that particular text that talks about our redemption. our salvation and how we can be confident that in fact we have been saved by God and we're going to spend all of eternity with the triune God. So the doctrine of the Trinity is an absolutely essential part of the story of redemption. The third thing, without the full humanity of Christ, we also have no gospel. So God is our Savior, all three persons. Without the Trinity we have no gospel, and without the humanity of Christ we have no gospel. So how does God die? It's a simple question. How does God die? What body does God have? We know that God is a spirit and and and we can't see him. So the only way that you have the ability for a person of the Godhead to physically die That person has to take on humanity. That's very, very important. And by the way, in the 1 Corinthians 15 passage where the Apostle Paul talks about the effects of the fall from Adam and how the fall affects us And the effects of the crucifixion, the resurrection on those who are in Christ. He emphasizes the fact that a man is what ruined it for humanity, and a man is the one who must redeem humanity. Listen to what it says He says in 1 Corinthians 15, 21, Since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Do you see why this passage of Scripture is so vitally important? Not just the deity of Christ. but also the humanity of Christ. And not just the deity of the Son, but the deity of the Father and the Deity of the Son and the Deity of the Spirit All three persons who are distinct in person, eternally distinct in person, who are of the same essence, united as one God, all three persons are an essential Have an essential role in your redemption and in mine. And so this morning I want to remind you, we don't just worship the Son. We worship the three-in-one God. We actually come to the Father through the Son, being led and guided by the Spirit. That's how we live the Christian life. All three persons are essential. So what is the the big takeaway from the text in front of us? The big takeaway is that Jesus Christ is unique. He's one of a kind. There's never ever been anybody like him. There will never ever be anyone like him again He's fully God, He's fully man. In no way was His humanity diminished when it was united with His deity and His person , and in no way was His deity diminished when He took on humanity. Jesus is fully God and fully man at the same time. He is equal to the Father and equal to the Spirit in essence. Distinct in person and in function and clearly in order. And so this Lord Jesus, the unique person The second person of the Godhead is the only person uniquely qualified to redeem us from our sins. And so when we read the scriptures, what we see is the evidence That in fact what is affirmed in all these theologically important texts is what was demonstrated in a very practical way when the disciples witnessed the life and ministry of Christ. He is the center of the redemption story. Not you and me. He is the center. We get to be a part of it because he has purchased our redemption through his death. and by his resurrection. I hope that you have a wonderful, wonderful rest of your day. Lord willing, we will continue this series and we're going to get into some really important topics. uh throughout the rest of the week. And so I hope that you'll continue to join us for that. If this has been an encouragement to you, I hope that you'll share that. Perhaps pass it along to someone else who can be encouraged by it. And I hope that you have a great rest rest of your week. Lord willing, tomorrow we'll meet again. Bye now.