Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And if you joined us yesterday, you saw that we talked about the apostle and their role and their function. and this issue of authority. And so we're going to dig back into the passage of scripture that we started yesterday. And so if you have your Bible, it's Luke chapter 9. I'm going to read it. And then we will get back into the second part. of this issue of the authority of the apostle. Here's what it says in Luke chapter 9, verse 1. Then he that is Jesus called his twelve disciples together. And gave them power and authority over all devils and to cure diseases. And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God and to heal the sick He said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neither staves nor script, neither bread, neither money, neither have two coats apiece. Whatsoever house ye enter into, there abide, and thence depart. Whosoever will not receive you when ye go out of the city, shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them. They departed and went through the towns, preaching the gospel, and healing everywhere Now Herod the Tetrarch heard of all that had been done by him, and he was perplexed because that it was said of some that John was risen from the dead. And of some that Elias had appeared, and of others that one of the old prophets was risen again. Herod said, John I've beheaded, but who is this? Of whom I hear such things, and he desired to see him. And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all that had been done, and he took them and went aside privately in a desert place belonging to the city called Pseada If you can remember yesterday when we began our discussion on Luke chapter 9, there were three words that are going to be the focus of our study this week. They're the words authority, the second word is verification, and then focus. When we talk about the role and the function of those apostles, they were people that were delegated authority from Christ. Their ministry had been verified through signs that God gave them the ability to perform. And then they had a very distinct focus in their ministry. And what I want to do this week is I want to focus in on the authority, the verification, and their focus. And then we want to take those things and we want to do our very best to appropriately apply them into our our current situation. How do we apply a text that is ultimately showing us the authority that Christ delegated to his apostles? Well what I first of all I want to do is I want to read again the little portion of these verses that focuses in on the authority side. Remind you of what we said yesterday and then dig into a continuation of that study. Here's what it says in chapter 9, verse 1. He called his twelve disciples together, and then it says this, and gave them authority. He tells us the kind of authority. He gives them authority over all devils, and the authority to cure diseases. And then at the end of the section, chapter 9, verse 10, he says, the apostles, when they were returned, told him all that they had done. And he took them aside privately into a desert place. Now, what is this showing us? It's showing us that of out of all the disciples that Jesus had, the people that followed him, he chose twelve disciples that he sets apart and he calls them apostles. And he gives them authority and a responsibility. The authority was power over the realm of darkness. And if you remember back to the story of the Maniac of Gadera, Jesus demonstrates his authority over the kingdom of darkness. And so he delegates authority to these apostles in that particular realm. We've also seen that Jesus has the ability to heal the sick. He's done it on several different occasions. And so what does he do? He delegates authority to these apostles to be able to cure diseases. He also is going to give them the responsibility to preach the gospel. We're going to talk later on in our study about the connection between these miracles that were verification of the apostles' authority delegated from Christ to them, and their responsibility ultimately to preach the gospel. Well what we talked about yesterday was the uniqueness of their ministry. We don't see apostles today We don't see apostles two or three hundred years after these events. We don't see apostles at the 500-year mark or at the thousand-year mark. or during the time of the Reformation or during the Victorian era, we don't see apostles functioning ever again in church history the way that these did. And we know that because these were people who physically lived through this period of time where they saw Jesus' ministry, they heard him teach. He personally called them. They were eyewitnesses to the resurrection. And no one living today or over the last 1500 years of church history has the ability to make such a claim. Well, today what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to kind of dig into the uniqueness of that ministry by noticing a couple of passages in John and in Hebrews. And so we're going to see in these verses that Christ spoke directly to these individuals called the apostles, and then he spoke directly to through them to give us an inerrant standard called scripture, and that scripture is given to us so that our faith and practice are built upon that inerrant standard that was given. By inspiration of God, breathe through these men, and ultimately preserved up until we are today, so that we can read the scriptures, we can preach the scriptures, we can apply the scriptures. That's what we see in these passages. So the first one that I want you to go to is John chapter 14, verse 26. Here's what it says in this passage. Jesus says, the comforter, he's talking about the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name. He shall teach you all things. That's a fascinating statement. Notice he's going to teach you, not he's going to teach everybody. He's going to teach you And he's referring to the apostles, all things. What he's talking about there is the sufficiency of Scripture, everything that God wants these men to know and to communicate. for all of church history is going to be taught them by the Holy Spirit. And then he says this. He's also going to bring all things to your remembrance. Now he's talking about things that they eyewitness saw, he's talking about things that they heard, he's talking about things that they've read. What he is referring to is the ministry delegated to the apostles of writing the scripture. He's going to teach them things. He's going to remind them of things. And then he says, whatsoever I have said unto you. He's going to remind them of the things that Jesus has said. And so when Peter is writing in 1 Peter and he refers back to an Old Testament passage of Scripture or refers to something from the ministry of Christ or refers to something that Jesus taught, this is a direct example of what Jesus is talking about in John chapter 14, verse 26. Another example, John 16, verse number 13. He says, When he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth. He shall not speak of himself, but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak, and he will show you things to come. Now this is giving us even more information about the nature of the apostolic ministry. So he's going to teach them things, he's going to remind them of things that they've heard, things that they've seen, things that they've read. He's going to guide them into all truth. When we talk about mysteries in the New Testament that are revealed, we're talking about concepts that in the Old Testament they were not fully laid out, they're not fully explained, and so what's he going to do? He's going to give them further information. He's going to uh more f thoroughly furnish out those concepts in a way that you and I, when we read the New Testament, can look at Old Testament texts and understand them differently. or more fully than those who would have read them thousands and thousands of years before their fulfillment. And then he also says, and he will show you things to come. He's talking about the prophetic nature of the apostolic ministry, just like the prophets of the Old Testament, Isaiah, Jeremiah Ezekiel, Micah, Hosea, Joel, just like those prophets of the Old Testament predicted future eschatological events. Things referring to the first coming of Christ, the second coming of Christ, the day of the Lord, the millennial reign of Christ, all those things. In the same way that that God spoke to and through the prophets of the Old Testament. He is speaking to and through these apostles of the New Testament era. People hand-selected by Christ. That's what he's referring to. Another passage that has bearing on this discussion is Hebrews 1, verse 1. It says, God who at sundry times and in diverse manners spoke in times past unto the fathers by the prophets. And then next statement's fast saying. hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son. Now who is he referring to? The us. Not just in general everybody. He's referring to himself as an apostle, and the other apostles who are in in the position, in the role, serving the function, having the office of being apostles. And so all of these passages show us that God promised and fulfilled that he was going to speak to and through these individuals to ultimately give us the scriptures But what I'd like you to see is that there are a lot of other scriptures that kind of take the Old Testament role of the prophet and the New Testament role of the apostle. And they put them together so that we can see that they are interconnected with one another. There is a harmony. There is a more thorough explanation of things. that are going on in the Old Testament. Not a contradiction, but a harmonization, an interconnection between the Old Testament prophet and the New Testament apostle. And so I want to read a couple of those verses just so that you can get this sense And appreciate what we're talking about here in this passage. The first one is 2 Peter 3, verses 1 to 3. Here's what the text says. This second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you. in both which I stir up your pure mind by way of remembrance, that you may be mindful of the words which are spoken before by the holy prophets and of the commandment of us, the apostles of the Lord and Savior. Knowing that first there shall come in the last days scoffers walking after their own lusts. And what's fascinating about 2 Peter is that Peter basically says, in the last days there are going to be false teachers. People making false theological doctrinal claims, and you need to have discernment to know what is true and what is false. And so what does Paul, or what does Peter do? He starts out by establishing the fact that the ministry of the prophets in the Old Testament was the standard upon which we judge truth. And the ministry of the apostles in the New Testament is also the standard by which we judge the truth. And when you take the ministry of the prophets of Old Testament and the Apostles of the New Testament, and you put them together, what you see is this harmonious story that is interconnected, that establishes the foundational standard by which truth and error are judged. That's what he's saying. 2 Peter 3, verses 1 to 3. Another example that we see this connection between the prophets and the apostles, and the foundational nature of this is in Ephesians chapter 2. In fact, in Ephesians 2 he mentions this In Ephesians 3 he mentions this, and Ephesians 4 he mentions this, and I'm going to read them to you. He says, Ephesians chapter 2 verse 19. Through him, we both, Jews and Gentiles, have access by one Spirit unto the Father. Now, therefore, you are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God Now here's the statement that is the foundation here, and are built upon the foundation Of the apostles and the prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone Now, the way that Paul speaks is not we have uh the the foundation of the prophets, and you could stand on that one, and then we have The foundation of the apostles, and you could potentially stand on that one. And then we have the foundation of Christ. You can potentially stand on that one. And as if you have three options. That's not the way that he refers to it. You have the foundation of the prophets And the apostles, Jesus Christ. You know what that tells us? The prophets pointed to Jesus Christ. The apostles pointed to Jesus Christ. He is the foundation, and we know about him through their ministry. That's what he's saying And so the foundation is Christ. In the Old Testament, it's pointing to Christ as one who is about to come. And when we come to the New Testament, to the Apostles, we see Christ revealed as the one who came. and is coming again. That's what we see. We see the same concept in Ephesians 3, verses 3 to 5. He says, by revelation he made known unto me, what an amazing statement. Paul saying, Jesus revealed this to me. The mystery, as I wrote afore, of a few words, whereby when you read, ye may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ, which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men, as it is now revealed. unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. Do you see the connection between the prophets and the apostles? And how he uses the term mystery, saying in the Old Testament this was revealed, but not fully. And so now we come into the New Testament era, and this concept is more fully thoroughly and fully developed and it is developed about Christ and it is revealed by the Spirit to the apostles and through the apostles. We see the foundational concept here. We see the interconnectivity between the prophets and apostles of Old and New Testament. And then the last example I want to give you is Ephesians 4, verse 11. It says, And he gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers for the perfecting of the saints. Now when the Apostle Paul talks about how saints are perfected, and that word perfected means how they mature into Christ-likeness. how they become spiritually strong and mature and Christ-like. How does that happen? He says it is through the foundation of the prophets and the apostles And the evangelists and the pastors and the teachers. You say, well, well what's the connection between them? Well, prophets and apostles are what gave us the scriptures Evangelists are the ones who bring us the gospel and they proclaim the good news so that when we hear it, we say, I need to turn to Christ I need to place my faith in the finished work of Christ alone. So what is the evangelist doing? He's proclaiming the ministry of the prophets and the apostles found for us in the scriptures. And then he talks about pastors and teachers. And really what he's saying is there are some people who are pastors who teach the word, and there are some people who are who are just they're teachers. They're not necessarily pastors, but they proclaim the word. Well, what are they proclaiming? Well, they're proclaiming the word that was given to us by the prophets and the apostles. And so what we see is the foundational nature of prophets and apostles' ministry, giving us scripture. And then we see how evangelists and pastors and teachers take the word and they use the apostles' ministry that was given to us by inspiration of God. God breathed. Preserve for us through the copying of Scripture and the distribution of it all throughout the world, all the way up to the time that we live today And so the way that we grow into Christ's likeness is what? When a pastor or a teacher gets up and takes the Word of God, the ministry of the prophets and apostles, preserved for us today. And he proclaims it. He says, Thus saith the Lord, and our lives are built and strengthened by thou. So when we think about this issue of authority, what we are seeing is a very deep concept, a very foundational concept. And what it tells us is that there is no other place that you and I can go to find such an authoritative word. Such a trustworthy word, such a pure word, a word that God has given so that we can mature and grow. The simplest way to put it is don't neglect your Bible. Because your Bible is the ministry of the prophets and apostles written and preserved for us today. I hope you've spent some time in the Word. I hope that this has helped you understand this concept a little bit more thoroughly. Lord willing, tomorrow we will look one more time at this issue of authority because I want to kind of Fill it out. And then from there, we're going to work into this issue of verification. And then Lord willing, by the end of the week, we'll talk about their focus and how that applies to us. If this has been a challenge to you, I hope that you'll share that. If it's been an encouragement, share that. If you have a question, please reach out through email, through text message, through Facebook Messenger. I'd be very, very happy to. uh to either sit down with you, to email, correspond with you, have a conversation with you, to answer your questions. And if this is something that you think will be an encouragement to others, please take a moment to share that so that they can Uh enjoy this as well. Have a blessed day by now.