Take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of Isaiah. Isaiah chapter 9. Isaiah chapter 9. Let's all turn together in our Bibles there. We'll read the text in just a few moments. We'll bow together for prayer, and then we're going to dig into a very important text regarding the incarnation. Isaiah chapter 9, we'll begin reading in verse number 6. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulders. His name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace Of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end. Upon the throne of David, upon his kingdom, to order it and to establish it with judgment. And with justice, from henceforth, even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. Please let's bow together. Ask the Lord to bless the preaching of his word this morning. Our Father, as we think about the text in front of us, I pray that you would help us to not only understand the theological significance of the Incarnation. But Father, help us to think about the very rich practical implications that flow out of The background of this text, what was going on in the lives of the people as this prophecy came through Isaiah, and as we think about how that informs the time we're living in today. I pray that as we dig into your word this morning, that your spirit would open our eyes to the very beautiful truths that we find in the text. Father, as we think about the Christmas season and all the blessings that we have as a result of what Christ has done for us, I pray that this passage would warm our hearts very deeply. We ask for it for your honor and your glory's name in Christ's name. Amen. Before we dig into the details of this passage, I want to give you a couple of thoughts uh for us to just reflect on that are kind of at the the background of the passage in front of us. I want you to use your imagination for just a moment. And for some of us, that's really easy for others of us, maybe not so easy, but I want you to imagine a day. Where there is no more death, no sickness, no poverty No weeping and misery. No war. No sin. A world where the miserable effects of living in a sin-cursed world are gone. Can you even imagine such a world? Some people say I can't because it's so different than the world that I live in right now. Well, the fact is that people have naively theorized. That through societal reformation, religious instruction, teaching morality maybe in the schools or in people's homes That somehow through education, through advancements of medicine, that at some point we're going to reach this utopia where we're not going to deal with the kinds of problems that are a part of this world that we live in. In fact, there are some people that are so very passionate about it that for a period of their lives, they give all of their energy to causes that they think are going to bring in some kind of a utopia. And by the way, this desire for the advancement of people is not a bad desire. I want things in this world for the generation beyond us. I want it to be better than it is for my generation. In fact, when I think about my grandparents who lived through the Great Depression, one of the things that my grandparents really, really emphasized to their kids And then it kind of got to us as grandchildren as they said, We want you to have things better than we did. We lived through the Great Depression and that was a miserable time and we lived in a lot of poverty. We didn't get to go to school as much as you guys have gotten to school school and so they really, really, really worked hard to make life better for their children and then for their grandchildren. I think it's a very noble desire. I think we should desire for our kids to live in a more peaceable world than the one that we're living in. But here's the truth. No matter what you and I do, there are certain things fundamental about humanity that you and I cannot change. And because we don't have the power to change them, even though we see certain areas in history where we could say there's advancement, we're also going to see regression. And we see these cycles all throughout history where people see improvements in their lives and then things get worse. The fact is there are certain vices set are entirely undeterred by the passage of time If you think about the things that people have going on in their interpersonal lives, you think about how people have challenges in their marriages, or how parents and children have problems, or siblings have problems, or people in their work environments have problems. Or people in government fight about things politically. Doesn't matter what who's who doesn't matter who's in charge, doesn't matter how much time goes on, those things are still going to be going on in society. That's because humanity's best efforts do not have the ability to change the heart of mankind. And the passage of time provides all kinds of examples of the fact that we need something better than what a king or a president or an administration can give us. We need a king who is perfect. Who's a part of a kingdom that is perfect? Whose citizens are perfect. And I want you to realize that the text in front of us, in fact, it points us to such a king, and it points us to such a kingdom, and it's going to give us incredible encouragement as we think about the implications of it. So, Psalm chat, or excuse me, Psalm, Isaiah 9 emphatically affirms that there is a certain future hope, no matter the immediate miseries that we face, because of Christ. And because of his future everlasting kingdom. And what is central to the text in front of us in Isaiah 9 is the fact that there is a king coming who is better than any king who has ever lived on this planet. A king is going to establish a kingdom that is perfect, that is righteous, that is holy, that is eternal, and that is free from all of the miserable effects of a fallen world. That's what Isaiah 9, 6, and 7 is all about. So God wants us to joyfully reflect on that certain, guaranteed future. And so let's dig into God's word this morning and think about what it says about this king and his kingdom. So the first truth I want you to notice in Isaiah 9. Is that in these verses, Israel was a broken people experiencing the painful consequences of living as a broken people. In fact, if I was to put it in simple terms, I would use the term misery and the term brokenness. They go together. These people were struggling, and we see this. Because of the things that are stated, if we go back in the verses leading up to this prophecy, so look in your Bibles at Isaiah chapter 8. And we'll pick up in verse 13 because what it's going to do is it's going to show us kind of the background leading up to the for, the Lord Himself is going to do this. So in Isaiah chapter 8 verse 13 it says this, Sanctify the Lord of hosts himself. Let him be your fear, let him be your dreads, and he shall be for a sanctuary, but but for a stone of stumbling and for a rock of offense to both the houses of Israel and for a djinn and for a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And many among them shall fall and stumble and be broken and be snared and be taken. We skip down a little bit further and it says, they shall fret themselves. And curse their king and their God, and look upward, and they shall look unto the earth, and behold trouble and darkness, dimness and anguish, and they shall be driven to darkness. Now, when I'm reading this passage of scripture, some of you are sitting there going, I thought you were talking about how this is going to be an uplifting and encouraging kind of a message. And absolutely, it's going to be an uplifting and encouraging message. But it's also going to be a very transparent and truthful message. Because if you want the encouragement of the Word of God, you've got to look at the totality of what God is saying. If a person wants to go to heaven and spend eternity with God, they need to know about the cross and they need to know about the resurrection of Christ and they need to know about what Jesus has done for them. But they need to know about more than just what he did for them. They need to know why he did it. And the answer to the why he did it is in fact a tough pill to swallow. We've got to talk about sin. We've got to talk about the fact that we're guilty. We've got to talk about the fact that God is going to punish our sin. And so before we go to the good news, we've got to understand the bad news. Because they go together. The good news makes no sense at all if you don't understand the bad news that is associated with it And so if we're going to really appreciate this passage that talks about the Lord Jesus, we've got to understand the desperate times of the people that God is speaking to through the prophet Isaiah. So notice that there are really two groups that he's talking to in the text. And you'll notice this how it changes in almost kind of an awkward way. Notice he says He shall be for a sanctuary, but for a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. Now, you and I, if we read that, we go, well, hold on a second. Which one is it? Is he the rock of offense or is he the sanctuary? And the answer is, well, it depends on how you personally are related to him And so in these verses we see that there is both an encouragement to a group of people and there's also a warning to a group of people, and they're all apart. of the same people group, the nation of Israel, either Judah or the tribes that are to the north, but this prophecy has both some sting and it also has some comfort and encouragement. We've got to see them both side by side. So first of all, notice how God has some very specific commands to a group of people that we would call his remnants. Now, when I use the word remnant, what I mean by that is amongst the nation, there are people who are not believers, and there are people who are believers. And if we were to step back and we were to look at the nation of Israel, God makes these covenant promises to them as a people, as an ethnic group of people. The Jewish people are God's chosen people to bring in the Messiah. But just because someone was ethnically Jewish did not mean that they were properly related to God. They had to personally respond to the gospel, the promise of a coming redeemer, in order for them to be a part of that group of people within the nation that were a redeemed group of people. And that group of people was sometimes large and sometimes it was small. If there was a national revival, then there were many, many people during that time period. who were believing in the Lord, looking for the Messiah, anticipating his return. And then there were lean times when it was just a small group of people. But God always, always, always had a group of people within that nation who were looking for the Messiah. This first section is him talking to that group of people. And notice what he says. Sanctify the Lord of hosts. It means treat me like the God that I am. Let him be your fear. Another way to put that is reverence me. He shall be for a sanctuary. Draw close to me. The Lord Jesus Christ came to bring us into the presence of the Father. In fact, on Tuesday night when we were talking about the concept of Christ being our mediator, it is a fascinating concept. That literally the Lord Jesus Christ is seated at the right hand of the Father, and as he sits there God the Father hears this over and over and over again from the Son. Remember what I have done for them. Remember my sacrifice. Remember my death. Remember my shed blood. Remember my resurrection. Remember that I bore on myself the sins of those people. Why does he do that? Is it because the father forgets what the son has done? The answer is of course not. It's that he is continually presenting this remembrance, this memorial to remind us that in fact we have access to God because of what Jesus did. And so this first group of people, he is reminding them to remember him. In fact, I'm going to come back to this a little bit later. But there are times that we live in history where it doesn't appear that the side of good and righteousness and right is winning. In fact, it seems like it's on the other side. And there are times we look at our society, we look at our culture, and we go, I mean, where are the Christians? Where are those who are truly dedicated to the Lord? Where are those who are living for the Lord and they're living with this healthy anticipation? I don't think it's healthy for us to get this us versus them mentality, but it is true that when we look at human human human history, for most of human history, those who are believers has always been smaller. than those who are not. And God wants us to live faithfully as his people, no matter what's going on around us. But there's a second side to this. He leaves this unmistakable warning to the rest of the nation that in fact when this king comes, he will not be received warmly. He will not be received as Savior and Lord, but in fact the people will respond entirely wrong to him. Notice what it says. He will be a stone of stumbling, a rock of offense. What is Isaiah saying? He's saying that many people, when they have access to Christ, in fact, rather than embracing him and receiving him, they will be offended in him. They will stumble over him. He will be offensive to them. The next statement that stands out is he says, Many among them shall stumble and fall and be broken and be scared. snared and be taken. The idea is that the rejection of Christ is going to lead to something tragic. Their demise. If you reject Christ, the question is, where else do you have to turn? Who else can you embrace that can give you what He can give you that will accomplish for you what he has accomplished for you. The answer is there's no one. There is no alternative. There's no one you can turn to that can save you from your sins. That can give you this kind of kingdom, that can make you a citizen of this eternal kingdom of righteousness. There's no other place you can turn And so for those who stumble and who he is a rock of offense to, they will be broken and they will be snared and they will be taken, and you'll say, Why is that? Because they chose to reject the one and only sacrifice. The only one who could save them from their sins. The third statement that stands out is this, they shall look upon unto the earth and be troubled. And darkness and dimness of anguish, they shall be driven to darkness. Their rejection would leave them in spiritual darkness. One of the most tragic consequences of a society that rejects God is the spiritual darkness that takes root in such a society that leaves people in so much unnecessary misery. And I have seen this firsthand As I've had many a conversation, as I've read many an article, as I've contemplated a lot of the different things that we see in our culture today. today. There's a reason that we see some of the great tragedies in our society today that maybe 50 years ago we did not see as regularly as we see today. You know why that is? That's what happens when people reject the truth. That's what happens when there's spiritual darkness in communities, in cities, and families, in regions. And so what he's talking about here is that, listen, if you reject Christ, there is a personal consequence associated with such rejection. And when a massive group of people, a society, rejects the Messiah, it brings deep spiritual darkness. This is very negative, but it will not end here. I would summarize it this way. When Isaiah wrote these words, he wrote to a nation in great turmoil. They were living through generational cycles that demonstrated the futility of life without God. And they had not yet reached the full effects of this culmination of consequences, but in fact that was a certain outcome because of the direction that the people were moving. But I want to pause and say something here. This isn't just a 6th century BC problem. You realize that what we're reading about happened thousands of years ago? But human nature and the consequences of rebellion against God, they do not change through the passage of time. If we live our lives separated from God, we're going to experience the same kinds of consequences that had it happened 3,000 years ago or 2,500 years ago. Or whether Christ tarries to return, it happens another 500 years ago. The consequences of sin, the natural effects of it, they are constantly going to take place in such a world. So any civilization that rejects God's ways is going to experience the same kind of darkness. Our nation is an example of this. Like the people of Isaiah's day, there's a remnant of faithful believers in our time, and we need to function as salt and light and take comfort in the next thing that Isaiah is going to write. From this point on, we're going to see a very sudden and a very distinct turn. And this turn is going to bring incredible comfort. And encouragement. Because it is a promise of a stunning reversal that God is going to actually accomplish For the benefit of his people. Listen to what it says in verses 2 through 7. It says, the people that walked in darkness Have seen a great light, and they that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined. Wow, isn't that an incredible statement? People who walked in darkness, people who are stumbling in that darkness, people who are experiencing the miserable consequences of not understanding the way that life is designed by God These people who were stumbling in blindness, the light has come on, and they have access to something they never understood before. Thou hast multiplied the nation, not increased the joy. They joy before thee according to the joy in harvest, as men rejoice when they divide the spoils. Thou hast broken the yoke of his burden, the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, as in the days of Midian. Every battle of the warrior is with confused noise and garments rolled in blood, but this shall be with burning and fuel of fire. For unto us a child is born A son is given. I'm going to pause before I get into breaking this all down. But this is what he's basically saying. He's basically saying that these are people who were blind, these are people who were suffering. These are people who were experiencing misery. These are people who understood warfare. And I'm talking about ancients Warfare when people went head to head in battle, sword and spear and bows, and they went hand to hand and they fought and they saw the horrible consequences of the carnage of war. And these people have gone through all of that trouble. And now they're on the other side, and the battle is done. And they're on the winning side. And all of the spoils of the battle are laid before them. And where they have gone through all of this turmoil and all of this trouble, and their lives have been on the brink of disaster, they now are celebrating victory. That's crazy to think about, isn't it? In fact, we almost don't even have the ability to process this because of the time that we live in. But he's saying, in the same way that someone celebrates the harvest season, and the same way that warriors celebrate the battle is over and we're on the winning side, our lives are preserved, he said, in that same way. God's going to flip a switch. And he's going to do something that is absolutely remarkable. God promised a stunning future reversal, and all of this was the result of a person coming into the world. This passage provides a powerful contrast between two very different experiences. And God's grace is the only explanation for this stunning future reversal. Notice what he says. The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwell in the land of the shadow of death on them hath light shined. They joy before thee according to the joy of harvest, as men rejoice when they divide spoils. You have broken the yoke of his burden and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor. This is a reversal of circumstance. And people who were in misery are now rejoicing. That's what the gospel does to people. The gospel takes people who are broken. And people who have no hope. And people who are stumbling. And people are looking for answers. And the gospel says that's the answer right there. And Christ provides it all. He does it all. He gives us a new heart. He washes away our sins. He removes that stain that stands between us and God. He gives us the presence of his spirit. He gives us a totally different outlook. He puts in us a new heart. We are new creatures in Christ, and old things pass away, and all things have become new. All of that comes through Christ. This grace is 100% rooted in him. And how does he put it? For unto us a child is born. Isn't that amazing? When people come to the Christmas season, if they don't understand until us a child is born, they don't get any of it. And if they don't understand who that child is, they don't get any of it. And if they don't understand what that child came to do, they don't get any of it. And if they don't realize that he did it, they don't get any of it. And if they've never personally responded to this person and trusted in what he did for them. They haven't gotten it. Unto us the child is born. This misery connects back to their dismissive rebellion towards this child. This stunning reversal is rooted entirely in how this child erupts human history. Int i interrupts human history. It's all about Jesus. Their current misery will be replaced with a kingdom unlike any in human history. Notice how he describes it. Everlasting peace. Everlasting peace. You know, after World War I, they said this is the war to end all wars. Guess what? There are people that fought in both of them. It's true. Think about how long it's been since there was a conflict to the level of World War II on the European continent. Yet what happened just a short time ago? Ukraine was invaded by Russia. Think about what's going on in Israel right now. People came across that border and just Brutally killed. Over a thousand people. Rockets being launched all the time. The threat of nuclear war, all kinds of things. Everlasting peace. Everlasting peace. Eternal joy. You ever get frustrated with life? Even the good things aren't good enough sometimes for us. We get some blessing and our head gets turned by something that, well, if I'd only had that, and then you get it, and then you realize that doesn't give you happiness either. Eternal joy, God's eternal presence. Eternal justice. All of that is talked about. How does it happen? By the work of that child. This kingdom is only possible because it will be governed by a perfect ruler. Notice how he describes this person. It says he's a child. He's going to be a sinless man. I say gonna be. He is. He already came, all right? We're looking at a passage that was anticipating his return. This is fulfilled in Christ. He's a sinless man. The government will be on his shoulders. He will rule with an absolute perfect authority. He's called the wonderful counselor. He will govern according to infinite wisdom. He's called the mighty God. He's not just human, but he's God in flesh. He's called the everlasting Father. This is not saying that we have like the Son becoming the Father. We're not talking about this in terms of Trinitarian distinction. But we're talking about a role that He will function as. He will care for us. Like we talk about him being the good shepherd. He is the everlasting Father He won't just be our king, but he will love us like someone who cares for his children. He's referred to as the Prince of Peace. There will be no disruption disruption or rival to his rule. Of the increase of his government there will be no end. This kingdom will last forever. Isn't that an absolutely amazing thing to think about? But here's the question. Are we living in it right now? We're anticipating it. So that moves us to truth number three. History will continue to repeat itself until God accomplishes this reversal. My mind goes back to Ecclesiastes chapter 1, where it says this the thing that has been, it is that which shall be. That which is done is that which shall be done. There is no new thing under the sun. Is there anything whereby it may be said, see this is new? It hath already been of old time, which was before us. There is no remembrance of former things, neither shall there be any remembrance of things that are to come, with those that shall come after. Let me put it very simply. God has promised to send this child. This child has come. But we wait for this kingdom. And the time from the giving of the Christ child, the establishing of a basis of redemption through his death His ascension to heaven and this period of time from ascension to coming. We don't know how long it's gonna be. But this is a reality of this time. During this time we're just gonna see history cycles. No new thing under the sun. It's a fallen world. It's filled with broken people. It's ruled by flawed rulers. And God continues to save people and to leave them here for a season to function as salt and light. We've got to be faithful in the time that God gives us. You know what history reminds us? It reminds us that until He comes, we have to walk in wisdom. And until he comes, we have to walk with an anticipation of his return. Until he comes, we need to be a faithful people. We need to live according to a simple, healthy, balanced life. When times are good, be thankful, but be humble. When times are tough, don't despair. Rest in his care. He's going to establish this kingdom one day. As seasons change, embrace those things rather than fight them. That's the way life works, guys. Learn from the past and apply it in the future. Live life richly. But not just for now. Never take your eyes off of that future glory. I want to pause and make that little clarification to consider before we look back at the next thing he says in the text. We live in a fallen world. We're going to experience trouble. We need to walk in wisdom. A part of walking in wisdom is keeping this promise in the forefront of our minds. Look back at verse number seven again. Christ is our only future hope. Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end. Upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order and establish it with judgment and justice from henceforth even forever, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. That little statement has two sides to it. And both of them are promises. And both of them can't be shaken. God's not going to fall short of what he's promised. The first part of this is that he has promised an eternal kingdom, and God cannot lie. Of the increase of his government and peace, there will be no end. Promise. Do you believe that? Are you looking forward to that? Is that future promise strengthening you and upholding you today in the present? This promise is sure. But there's a second part to it that really should warm our souls. It is God's passion for his glory and to fulfill his word that is on the line. And notice how he puts it. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. It's not just that God promises and he can't lie. It's that God is passionate about accomplishing what He promised to accomplish. And so we should live today. with a healthy perspective that is looking forward to that future return because of what he's done for us. That's what Christmas season is all about. You say, well, Pastor, how do you respond to this? Let me give you some thoughts. First, be faithful, not discouraged. Be faithful, not discouraged. 1 Corinthians 15, 58. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Galatians 6, let us not be weary in well-doing. In due season we shall reap if we faint not. We should be faithful, not discouraged. Secondly, don't allow the noise of history to shake your confidence and what's going on. I think sometimes as Christians, we we know what the Word of God says. We know how history is going to end. We say we believe it, but then the things around us kind of pull our eyes off of this all the time. And so I remind you of Romans chapter 8, verse 18. I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. The earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. The creature also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption. Hebrews 12, we have received a kingdom which cannot be moved. Let us have grace whereby we serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear. These are promises that we should be motivated by, that we should be faithful, that we should be enduring, that we shouldn't quit, that we shouldn't be distracted, that we shouldn't be Scourge These things should press us forward in the Christian life. I'm reminded of Revelation 21. What does God say? There's going to be a new Jerusalem. There's going to be a new heaven and a new earth. God will absolutely make all things new. These words are true. And these words are faithful Do you believe that? Do you recognize the significance of that? Do you understand that those things are supposed to shape how we live right now in this moment? This isn't just, oh, it's going to happen in the future. That's great. This is actually going to impact us today. And that's what God desires for us. So I close with some final application thoughts that I hope will be an encouragement to you. The first is this rather than imagining a day when the brokenness of this world will be reversed, let's take comfort in the promise that God says He will do. This is not about imagining, this is about trusting God's promise. Second. Rather than putting our confidence in people who are going to let us down, let's put our ultimate confidence in our future King who will do everything he said he would do. Thirdly, rather than chasing the empty promises of human experiments and theories, let's rest in the blessing of the resurrection and God's future kingdom. You know, in every generation there are people that say, let's try this and see how it works. And people give their whole lives to following a theory. And guess what they find out? They're just doing something another generation did a long time ago. It falls short. And rather than living lives that are battered by circumstance, let's live lives with a healthy balance. When times are good, be thankful, but be humble. When times are hard, don't despair. Rest in his care. As seasons change, embrace that rather than fight it. God has a purpose in that. Learn from the past and apply what you've learned in the future. Live a rich life that is for more than right now. Never take your eyes off of that future glory. May God help us to glory in our Savior, the Lord Jesus. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father in heaven, we thank you so much for your word. I thank you for this great promise of the Lord Jesus Christ, who came, who died, who rose triumphant from the grave. Because of what he has accomplished, we are redeemed people. May that strengthen us today. Father, if there's someone here who does not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior, I pray That you would open their eyes to their need to trust Christ. They would turn to you in a humble repentance and place their faith in Christ's finished work. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.