I'd like to ask you to turn your Bibles with me to John chapter 1. John chapter 1, and one of the reasons that I enjoy this season, I enjoy the beautiful music. Uh I enjoy the change of the hopefully cold weather, right? And uh maybe it'll snow a little bit. Uh just love this time of the year. But one of the reasons as a pastor that I love this time of the year is because more than any other season, this is a time that we focus on the uniqueness of the person of Christ When we come to the season where we remember his death and his resurrection, we focus in on his work, and during this season, we focus in on his person, his nature. And obviously both pieces are absolutely essential to the gospel, and I'm not going to just focus on one without the other But I really enjoy this time because we talk about who is the Lord Jesus Christ. So John chapter 1, we're going to begin reading in verse number 1, and then we're going to work our way to verse 14 this morning. Here's what. The scriptures say, in the beginning was the word. And the word was with God, and the word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by Him. And without Him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men, and the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. The same came for a witness to bear witness of the light that all men through him might believe. He was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light. That was the true light, which lighteth every man which cometh into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. The word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. The glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Please let's bow together for a moment and ask the Lord to really speak to our hearts as we dig into his word today. Our Father, we are so thankful for this beautiful Christmas season where we stop and we reflect on the miracle of the incarnation. And I thank you so much for the Lord Jesus Christ, who was for foretold by the prophets of old who he was, what he would come to do, where he would be born, all of those details that are so essential to the gospel message. And then he fulfilled them all one by one. Left not one stone unturned, not one piece that was predicted leading up to his death and resurrection was left undone. All have been fulfilled in the person of Christ. And so, Father, I pray that this morning as we open the Word of God, the Spirit of God would move in our midst. And take these truths and plant them in our souls. Father, help us to understand the weight and the significance of these truths. Help me to be able to present this in a way that is It's very simple, easy to understand, and that your spirit will use to work in the heart. I ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a fascinating passage because it is often called the prologue to the Gospel of John. Now, there are four Gospel accounts of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want to mention something about the uniqueness of each of those because sometimes in a time like what we're living in today where uh YouTube and TikTok and those places are very uh popular especially for young people, people will go to those sources and they will watch these short little videos, and those little videos will tremendously misinform them about a lot of things in the Bible. And so it's really important for us to understand that when we come to the gospel accounts, the differences that we find between those gospel accounts are not mistakes. They're not accidental or incidental. In fact, the differences between those four accounts are really come uh culminate in the fact that each of those gospel accounts were written to unique audiences. And those unique audiences were being argued to and presented this story of the life of Christ in a unique way that was going to really help those individuals to understand who Jesus is, why he came, what he accomplished, and what that means. for every single person today. Each of those four gospels paint a portrait of Christ. And I want to mention just for a moment a couple of uniquenesses about those. Because that is important for us to understand when we come to the book of John. For instance, when we open up the book of Matthew and we read through the book of Matthew, we will see that this gospel account was written for a Jewish audience. Now, I am not Jewish, and probably a lot of us in this room are not Jewish. That doesn't mean that the book of Matthew is impertinent to us But what it does mean is because of our cultural background, there may be some things about the book of Matthew that we will not pick up on the way that someone who was reading this book or listening to it being read a Jewish person in the first century would have read through this book. Certain details that are included that would have really caught their attention in a way that they might not catch your attention. This account for a Jewish Jewish audience records Christ's legal right to the throne of David Now, when I use the term legal, it's important that when we go to the genealogy of Christ, this is through Joseph. But the text is so very clear that Joseph is not Christ's father. He is the legal right to the throne of the father David, but he is not a biological father because Jesus was not conceived the way that you and I were conceived. This is a unique miracle. The incarnation is something that only God could do. And we see this statement over and over and over again in the book of Matthew, the statement, it was done that it might be fulfilled. Which was spoken or written by, and then a prophet's name is given. Why was it presented in such a way? It's because the people who were receiving this book knew the Old Testament very, very well. And I want you to notice how it is worded when it speaks of Christ's genealogy in Matthew 1. 16. It says, and Jacob begat Joseph. the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who was called Christ. Now, the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Now those details, every single piece of them, is critically important. When we look at the genealogy in Matthew, it is not through Mary, it is through Joseph, and the text is so clear to say Joseph was not the father of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then we come to a second gospel account, and that is the gospel of Mark. Now Mark was actually probably written before the other gospel accounts, but again, it is a unique audience. Mark was written primarily to a Roman audience. And what's fascinating about the way that Mark is written is that he just goes straight to the details of the ministry of Christ. He doesn't even bother to talk about who his mother was. or what his right was to the throne of his father David, because that was not as important to his audience as what was written in Matthew to a Jewish audience. And so he skips over the genealogy and he moves straight to his public ministry being announced by John. And there's a statement that we see over and over and over and over again in Mark, and that is the word immediately. Because he's moving quickly through the account of Christ. Notice how he starts the book in Mark 1. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ. the Son of God, as it was written in the prophets, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord. make straight his paths. And then we move to the third gospel, and that is the gospel of Luke. This gospel account is probably the most thorough of the gospel accounts, and it was written to a primarily Hellenistic Jewish audience. So these are people who are ethnically Jewish, but they were not necessarily practicing Judaism the way that those who were receiving Matthew's gospel would have. And so they do care about genealogy, but they care about it in a different kind of a way. What's interesting about this is that when when Luke records the genealogy of Christ, You will see different names in that genealogy than you do in the Matthew genealogy. And someone, if they're watching a TikTok video, might say, there you go. Obviously, Luke and Matthew, one of them was wrong But if you look at the details very carefully, you realize that that TikTok video is wrong. Because Luke is not recording the genealogy of Christ through Joseph, but rather through Mary. And not back to David and Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, but rather back to Adam. In Luke chapter 3, verse 21, it says, it came to pass that Jesus also being baptized And praying to heaven was open, and the Holy Ghost descended upon him in bodily shape like a dove upon him, and the voice came from heaven which said, Thou art my beloved son. In thee I am well pleased. And Jesus himself began to be about 30 years of age, being as was supposed the son of Joseph, which was the son of Heli. And by the way, when he says was supposed the son of Joseph, he's actually talking about the lineage of Christ through Mary. But then we come to the text that we're going to look at this morning, and that is in the book of John. The book of John presents the story of Christ, the start of this book, in a different way. And that is because his audience is a Greek audience, not a Hellenistic audience, not a Roman audience, not a Jewish audience. A Greek audience. And by the way, a lot of the details that you see in the book of John, you're going to see them again in First John Written by the Apostle John, who was a pastor who cared about a primarily Gentile-oriented congregation. Obviously there were Jews in that congregation, but it was the congregation of Ephesus. And in the prologue, he identifies Christ as the Word, who was in the beginning with God. That's what we're going to focus in on this morning. Notice how he opens the book, John 1. 1. In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God. The word was God, the same was in the beginning with God. All things are made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men, and the light shineth in darkness And the darkness comprehended it not. And then if we go to the end of the book of John, he closes with the following two statements. John chapter 20, verse 30. Many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples. Which are not written in this book, but these are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, that believing you might have life through his name. I love this second statement in John 21. He says, this is the disciple which testifieth of these things, and wrote these things, and we know that his testimony is true. And there are also many other things that Jesus did, the which, if they should be written, every one, I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books that should be written. Amen. You ever think about that statement? He's saying, listen, I didn't even scratch the surface of all the things I could have told you about Christ. All the other gospel accounts did not scratch the surface of what could be said about Christ. These things are written with a very particular purpose in mind to convince you To believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and be safe from your sins and have the gift of eternal life. So this morning we're going to dig into this prologue for a couple of minutes and we're going to answer just three questions The first question is, who is Christ? Who is Christ? The second question is, what did he come to do? These are simple questions, right? I think some of our kids could probably answer this question. Who is Christ? What did he come to do? And the third question is, how should we respond to these truths about him? Some of the kids are going, man, I can answer them all right now. Well good. But we're going to answer them from the Word of God this morning. So question one: who is Christ Who is Christ? Let's look in our Bibles at verses 1 and 2, and we're going to see exactly who Christ is. It says In the beginning was the word. And that word, word, is capitalized in our Bibles. You know what that tells us? It's not talking about just a word on a page. It's talking about a name that identifies the Lord Jesus Christ. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. Now when I read that verse, I think that probably some of us are going, hold on a second In the beginning, he was. That's saying something about him being eternal, right? And then it says that he was with God and he also was God. How does that work out? How can you be with someone but also be who they are? How is this a possibility? How can you be existing already when time begins? Well, we start out with this simple fact. When we talk about Jesus, we're talking about someone who is eternal. When we say he's eternal, we mean he has no beginning. He has no ending. He is self-existing. He wasn't created. He's not dependent on anybody. He's God. We see these four statements. He was in the beginning. I think about a statement later on in the book of John, in John chapter 8, where Jesus says, before Abraham was, I Am. That's an amazing statement. They say you're not even 50 years old. How can you say these things? He says, Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he was glad in it. Before he was, I am. What's he saying? I'm not like Abraham. I'm eternal. We talk about the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. We need to understand That we're talking about a point in history, but that point in history is not the creation of Jesus. It's not the beginning of his life. It's talking about a moment when God, who is eternal, takes on human flesh. There's a big difference between those two things. He says he's with God, he was God, he was in the beginning with God. You say, how do I make sense of all of that? Well, first of all, I'm going to say this. When we talk about the nature of God, there are certain things that we can comprehend them. There are certain things we can comprehend them, but only on a limited level. And there's something some things that we have to accept them by faith because they're bigger than we can understand. Can you explain eternal? Uh not really. Why is that? Well, because everything that we have reference to has a a start date and an end date. That's the way it works. That's all that we can compare to. Everything that we interact with was created, right? And so it's very hard in our minds to wrap our minds around an eternal God who has no beginning and no end. But that's what the Bible teaches. He is outside of time and space. There's a unique relationship between Father and Son within the Godhead. The term that we use is Trinitarian doctrine. The Bible talks about the Lord Jesus Christ and the Father, the Father and the Son being unique and distinct when it comes to this issue of person. But when we talk about the essence of who they are, they're both fully God. The same thing is true about the Son. In fact, this is not just a New Testament concept. This isn't something that was created a few hundred years after the birth and the death and the resurrection of But in fact, we could go all the way back into the Old Testament and if we look very carefully at the way these messianic passages are written Especially in the Isaiah passages or also in the Zechariah passage. When we look at these passages, what we will see is the concept of distinction of person And the oneness of essence. In fact, in our in our uh class on Christology that we do on Tuesday nights, we did uh one not this past week but the week before all of our focus was in the old testament looking at messianic passages talking about the Lord Jesus Christ that in fact he is God And we also see the distinctiveness between him and the Father when it comes to this issue of person. The third thing is that he is God in all of his essence. The fourth is that this unique relationship amongst the three persons of the Godhead is an eternal relationship. So we wouldn't say that, well, you know, in the Old Testament, God was the Father. And then in the Gospels, God was the Son, and now in the New Testament, now in our church age, God is the Holy Spirit. That's called modalism. That's a false teaching on who God is. God has always existed as three distinct persons, Father, Son, and Spirit. This is an eternal relationship Second thing I want you to notice from these verses is that it clearly states that not only is he eternal, but he is creator of everything. In verse 3 he says, all things were made by him. Without him was not anything made that was made. Now, he states what Christ has done in two different ways. He states it both positively, all things were made by him, and then negatively, without him, was not anything made that was made. He could have just said he's the creator, but he says I'm going to state it two ways so that you don't mess this up and you don't miss what I'm saying. He made everything, nothing that exists was somehow created without him This makes him the source of everything. That's you. That's me. That's this world that we live in. By the way, when we think about the creation that we live in and we look at all of the wisdom of how God has orchestrated his creation, what does it do? It declares his glory. Whose glory is it declaring? The Son's glory. He made all of these things. He is the source. It also makes him the head of everything. In fact, when we go to Colossians, It says, by him were all things created that are in heaven and earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers. All things were created by him and for him, and he is before all things, and by him all things consistent. He made everything. This makes everything dependent on him. Now this is a fascinating thought to contemplate. Lord willing, next week we're going to have a cantata. And we have this cantata, we're going to focus in on the birth of Christ, and we're going to talk about a little baby that was born in Bethlehem. That little child Is God and flesh. And so here is the one who made everything, yet he takes on the limitation of humanity. And the weakness of humanity and the humiliation of humanity. That is who Christ is. No exceptions. Everything falls under his authority and under his care. So who is Jesus? Jesus is the eternal God who made everything. But there's a third thing I want you to notice that's stated in these verses. And that is that he is the ultimate source of light, excuse me, of life and knowledge. Now it's kind of fascinating when when John is writing this, remember he's writing to a Gentile audience. And as he's writing to a Gentile audience, there is a concept in the minds of these people when he uses the terms, in him was life. And the life was the light of man. He's talking about what Christ gives, how he is the source of two things. He is first of all the source of life. And when he uses this term life, we could talk about it in the sense that nothing would be alive if he didn't create it. But I think that there's a qualitative sense to what he's saying. He uses the term life in the sense of a vibrant quality of existence that is rooted in him and in him alone. In fact, if we go back to like Psalm 1, where he says, Blessed is the man. I talked about this in Sunday school this morning. Blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the ungodly or stand in the way of sinners. or sit in the sea of the scornful. He's like a tree that is planted by the rivers of water, that brings forth its fruit and its season, its leaf will not wither, and whatsoever it doeth shall not or shall prosper. He gives the the illustration of a tree that's planted by a river and it produces fruit and it's vibrant. It's alive. It's not just that it is physically living. But it has a vibrant quality of existence because it is rooted by a river that is a continual source of life and sustaining that life. That is who Christ is. Think about the story of the woman at the well. He says, if you knew who I was, then you would ask me to give you living water. She says, give me this water, so I'll never have to draw water again. And he says, well call your husband and we'll talk about it. Oops. What's he doing? He's getting to the heart of the fact that if she wants this life that he's talking about, she needs to understand the gospel. She needs to understand who he is. She needs to understand why he came. And so this verse, in him was life, a vibrant quality of existence rooted in him. Secondly, light, a true knowledge of that existence which is oriented toward God. We were reading this this morning in the book of Proverbs. It says that the way of the wicked is as darkness, and they know not at what they stumble. The way of the just is as a shining light that shineth more and more unto the perfect day. That's a beautiful illustration of what Jesus is being described as in this passage of Scripture. Do you want to understand life? Do you want a quality of life that is vibrant the way it was intended? Do you want to know your creator? Well then it all starts with Jesus. You're not going to get any of that outside of him. Real life and real understanding come back to him. Fourthly, we see that he took on human flesh. In verse 14 it says, and the word, notice the word who was in the beginning with God. Who made everything, the word was made flesh , dwelt among us. And what's that talking about? When he says was made flesh, I think it's important for us to kind of stop and clarify what he means and what he doesn't mean by that. So let me give you a couple of thoughts. First of all, it does not mean that Christ stopped being God and then became a man. Please understand that. He didn't stop being who he was and now he's somebody totally different. Well he was God in the beginning, but now he's a man. That's not what the Bible's teaching here. It does not mean that he was partially God and partially man, like Well, you know, he's the eternal God who created everything. He kind of diminished his deity a little bit. He takes on humanity. So he's a little bit half and half. He's like half God and half man. No, that's not what it's saying. It means that he continued to be the eternal God and took on full humanity as an inseparable union of God and flesh forever. That's what it means. He voluntarily laid aside his glory to experience the full limitations of humanity in his humiliation. When we think about Philippians chapter 2, he says, who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God. but made himself of no reputation, and took upon himself the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men, and being found and fashioned as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross Those verses are describing what Jesus did for us. Continuing to be God, he takes on flesh. And he limits himself willingly so that he can suffer and bleed and die to remove our sin debt And to rise from the dead so that we can be redeemed to God. He voluntarily laid aside his glory to experience the full limitations of humanity and his humiliation. Jesus got tired. Jesus learned how to walk. He learned how to talk. He experienced the same kinds of struggles that you and I experience. Yet without sin. A perfect man, God in flesh. And the second part of that is it says that he dwelt among us. Now, who is the us? Well, that's the people who are writing this. We're talking about John. We're talking about all the other apostles These are the apostles who lived with him. They saw firsthand the expressions of this one-of-a-kind person, this union of God and flesh. They saw the proof of it. Think about it this way. John ate meals with Jesus. He watched him eat. He saw him fall asleep in a boat as they were going across the Sea of Galilee. He saw him get tired and weary by the side and sit by a well as they were traveling through Samaria. He saw those things You know what he also saw? He saw the transfiguration, where Jesus' glory that was being concealed was exposed so that they could see who he is. They were able to see him do miracles where here's this person on the Sabbath day, and he heals this person. They saw him say things like, Your sins, which are many, are forgiven. And hearing people say nobody can forgive sin but God. He says, I'm the Lord of the Sabbath. They saw all those things. What is that telling you? They understood the limits of humanity and the glories of deity. And John says, we beheld this. In 1 John chapter 1, what does he say? We have actually fellowship with him, and we want you to experience this same fellowship. So you can have fullness of joy. What's the point? The apostles were eyewitnesses to this reality. Their function was to testify as authorized witnesses to the reality and the significance of the incarnation. They were eyewitnesses of the miracle. We beheld his glory. The glories of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. So who is Jesus? He's God in flesh. The eternal God who made everything, took on full humanity, and he did this so that, well, we're going to answer that in just a minute. Second question: What did he come to do? He came to establish the right for people to be called God's children. Now nobody living has the right. To say, I'm a child of God and I am accepted of God in anything they've done for God. Why is that Because the Bible says that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. The wages of sin is death. Every single one of us is, as the Bible says, as an unclean thing. All of our righteousness is as filthy rags. We are all sinful people. And what did Jesus come to do? He came to establish the right for people who are sinners, for people who deserve God's judgment, to be called his children. People who the Bible describes as being at enmity with God, he can make them his children And he really states it in two ways in this verse. Notice in verse 12 he says, to them he gave the power, and that word power is something I'm going to have to explain in just a second. to become the sons of God. Later on he says that these are people who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God's. You say, what is John stating about Christ's purpose for coming? He's stating that Jesus came to establish the legal right For us to become God's children, and also the birthright to be called God's children. That word power has the idea of an authority in relationship to a realm. In fact, if we were to read the book of John, the way that John tends to use this term is he uses it in reference to legal right to a realm. And so when he says he gives them the power, he's not saying if you work really hard, then God's going to strengthen you so that ultimately you can earn your salvation. That's not what he's saying. Ephesians chapter 2, it says, it's by grace we're saved through fouls, not of ourselves. It's a gift from God, not of works, lest any man should boast. So when he uses that word power, he's not using the word power here. Obviously, it's a Greek term, not an English term here. He's not using in the sense of the strength to get something you want. He's using it in the sense of the right to be called something you're not. There's a big difference between those two things In other words, God can call you his child by legal right. Have you ever heard the word adoption used in the New Testament? It's used a lot. That term autopsyan is a legal term. Have you heard the term justification? The term justification is a legal term. When the Bible talks about our salvation, it often talks in terms of legal term. Why? Because God Purchase our redemption for us. But it also speaks in terms of birth. You know the story of Nicodemus? Nicodemus, unless a man is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Marvel not that I say unto you, you must be born again. Nicodemus says, how can this be? Can I enter again into my mother's womb? He says, What is born of the flesh is flesh, what is born of the spirit is spirit. I'm not talking about a physical birth that's already taken place. I'm talking about a spiritual birth. Have you ever heard the word regeneration used in the Bible? Why is that? Because the word regeneration is referring to birth. Spiritual birth. He says, These are people who were born not of blood, not of the will of the flesh, not of the will of man, but of God. Did you catch that? When we talk about our salvation, we are saved in legal terms and we are saved in birth terms. God pays a price so that we can be saved. God gives life to someone who's dead in trespasses and sins. You as he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. So the point of Jesus coming was to make us his children. By legal right and by birth. I'll put it like this. Christ came as the second Adam to reconcile us to God. First Corinthians 15, 21 and 22. Since by man, that is Adam came death. By man, that is Christ, came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. How did he do this? First Peter 3:18, Christ also suffered for sin, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit. 1 Corinthians 15, 3 and 4, Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. He was buried. He rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. How in the world can you be reconciled to God? Three concepts that you need to understand. The first is Christ. It identifies the person who is qualified to come and to die for our sins. Nobody else could have done this. I could not have died for my children. And redeem them to God. Why? Because I'm a sinner. We're on the same page. We're on the same level. I am a sinful man. They are sinful people as well. A sinful man cannot take on another sinful man's sin and die in the place of that. Only a righteous man can do this. That's why he says it is the just for the unjust. Christ is the only one qualified to do this, God in flesh. Secondly, we see the phrase, he died for our sins That word for means that there was some transaction that took place on the cross. He literally took the place of me and took the place of you. Our sin was laid on him, and through his death, our sin is removed. This is what he did for us, and it identifies the significance of this act. It's not just that he died, but that he died on the cross And it's not just that he died on the cross, but he shed his blood on that cross. And it's not just that he died on the cross and shed his blood on the cross, but he died on the as my sins were laid on his account and he was punished in my place. That's what he means when he says Christ died for our sins. But it's not just that he died for our sins, but that he rose again. This identifies the completion of his redemptive work. Christ is alive. and become the first fruits of them that slept. If Christ had not been risen, our faith would be in vain We would be yet in our sins, but now is Christ risen. So what did he come to do? He came to die and to rise so that we could be redeemed. I asked this question. Have you placed your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ? The one who died for your sins and rose from the dead? Emmanuel, God with us, have you done that? Because that leads us to our final question. How are we supposed to respond to these truths The answer is we must receive him by believing on his name. Verses 11 and 12. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. But As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. Two words, receive, believe. We are receiving him rather than rejecting him as the people did that he came to. We are receiving him because we have become convinced who he is and what he came to do. The difference between receiving and rejecting is I believe you're the Messiah. I believe you died for my sins. I believe you rose from the dead. I receive that information as true. Rejecting is I don't believe it. And I push it away. That's what he means by receive Believe on his name is stated both negatively and positively. It's turning from the idols of our heart that keep us from trusting in Christ alone, positively trusting in who he is and what he came to do. And when we read the book of John, the whole point of the book is to convince you to do that. It's to convince you to believe on his name. I take you back to that statement we read earlier this morning. In John 20, verses 30 and 31, he says, many other signs truly did Jesus. And the presence of his disciples that are not written in this book, but these are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you might have life. Through his name. Here's the simple question. Do you have that life? Have you been born again? Have you been forgiven? Have you been cleansed? Have you been declared righteous, justified? Do you have the legal right to be called God's child because you have placed your faith in the finished work of Christ? Those are the questions that I hope you don't leave this place unanswered. Could be that everyone in this room knows the Lord Jesus as their Savior. It could be that there are some that have not trusted Christ Today's the day you need to respond to that message. Now is the time you need to respond to that message. As a man believes in his heart, he calls on the Lord to save him. And that's what you need to do this morning. You need to believe in your heart that in fact this person, the Lord Jesus Christ, who's God in flesh, this person, Jesus Christ, came and died for your sins, he rose from the dead, and you believe it, and there's no other way you can be saved but through him and you trust in what he's done. How do I summarize this? It's very simple. The eternal God, who created everything, took on human flesh to save those who believe on his name. Have you believed on his name? If you have, you're saved. If you haven't, what's stopping you from turning to Christ and trusting in his finished work? This record of who he is is true and we must accept it. What he did is true and we must accept it. Since this is true, we need to rest in his finished work. Fact is, those who know the Lord Jesus as your Savior, you don't need to trust him again. You need to celebrate the miracle of the incarnation. When we celebrate this season, it's not about gifts and it's not about Christmas traditions in the Western world. It's about Christ. It's about who he is. It's about what he came to do. Let's celebrate God's mercy and grace that moved him to provide redemption for us through Christ. Let's bow for prayer. With every head bowed and every eye closed, before I close in prayer, I'm going to ask one simple question. Is there someone here this morning that would say Joel, I do not know for certain that if I died today, I'd spend eternity with the Lord. And I need to talk to somebody about this. I think I need to trust Christ. I'm not sure that I know how to do that. Would you pray for me? I'm not going to ask you to stand up. I'm not going to make any point of who you are. Except for the fact that I want to make sure I connect with you and speak with you about this issue. Is there anyone that would raise your hand and say, that's me, Pastor? I need to have a conversation with you about this issue. Anybody at all? Anybody at all? You say, well, I'm not raising my hand, but I need to talk to you. No problem. Then please come speak with me immediately after the service. Such an important issue. There's nothing more important in all the world than that you know for certain when you die, you're going to be with the Lord. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for this text. Thank you for these glorious truths. I pray that during this season we would remember why Christ came, who Christ is. And that we would be very diligent about proclaiming this message to those who desperately need to hear it so they can be saved from their sins and have eternity with you. Father, take the word and use it in our hearts this morning, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.