Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church this morning. Hope that you're having a wonderful weekend. Uh looking forward to our service. If you are visiting with us today for the first time or the first time Time in a long time. Please take a moment to fill out a visitor card, and if you do that and put it in the box, we'll make sure that we reach out to you. Pastor Chris has some of our events coming up, and then we'll get our service started All right, good morning. I hope you had a chance to grab a bulletin because we got a busy summer starting up here soon. We got our teensing tonight. over at the Morse house. So teens be ready to go in the back after the evening service. They'll load up in the van and head over. And then our Ladies Books and Bite starts this week on May 25th. That'll be at 7 p. m. in the Fellowship Hall. And again, a point of contact for that is uh Ms. Mary Feather, so reach out to her if you have any questions or would like for more information. Then our father -son camp out is Friday to Saturday. That is an overnight thing. So guys, grab your sons. This is not just a teen event and it's not just a kid event. Guys, if you have a son bring them to the camp out and we're gonna be camping out here. Uh we'll be setting up the campfire. We'll be uh I assume there's gonna be food um and enjoying a great time of of fellowship. And then our uh anchored in the word teen study, that'll be on June 1st, is the next time teens you'll meet over at the Porsche 's house. And then our teen in Paranalympics is coming up on the 3rd, uh just in time for our promotion Sunday. So if you're moving into the youth group, this is your chance to initiate into the youth group. There will be water balloons, there will be eggs. involved. So and you get to good compete with your parents. So it's a good time. Please let us know if you plan on being there so we can plan accordingly. and uh get it get set up for a really great Saturday. And then our Two Tracker Awards is June 4th. So we're going to be practicing on Wednesday nights for that award. It'll be real quick. But it it's important to be uh on time. It's at 6. 45 on Wednesday night so that we can run through what we're doing for that. And with that, Pastor. I also want to mention that those who are teaching Sunday school this next quarter, which um that starts on the first Sunday in June, and those who are on the schedule for junior church, please Meet for a meeting back in the room where they have the junior church meeting. So we call it the double door room. We'll meet there for a brief meeting and talk a little bit about some of the expectations. for the next quarter. If you have your Bible, let's all turn together, please, to Ephesians chapter 2. And this will be our opening scripture this morning. Ephesians chapter 2, and we'll be reading verses 12 through 20 together. Here's what the scripture says. At that time ye were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise. having no hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off, are made nigh by the blood of Christ. For he is our peace, who hath made both one, and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us, having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even the law and the commandments contained in ordinances. For to make in himself of twain one new man, so making peace, that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross. And came and preached peace to those which were afar off, and to them that were nigh. For through him we both have access by one spirit unto the Father Now, therefore, you are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God, and are built upon the foundation of the apostles. And prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone. This morning the focus of our worship was really going to be on that last statement. We are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. We're going to look at how Christ ministered through his apostles, and this morning we are going to be looking at that ministry that continues through apostles. God's preserved word. So I really look forward to our time together. Let's bow for prayer. Ask the Lord to really work in our hearts this morning. Father, thank you so much for the opportunity to be gathered as your people. We recognize that our position has nothing to do with our righteousness. Has nothing to do with our works. It has everything to do with the work that was done by Christ on our behalf. We thank you that he suffered and bled and died so that our sins could be removed By the shedding of his blood on the cross. We thank you for his triumph as he rose from the dead and he conquered death and demonstrated his authority and that his sacrifice was acceptable. And that we can receive eternal life when He gives us this life through faith alone and His work. Thank you for His righteousness that gives us a righteous position. Father, I pray that this morning all that is done and all that is said would point our hearts to the finished work of Christ so that we might glory in him. I pray that this morning as we are assembled you would meet with us in a very special way. I pray that the Holy Spirit would work in our hearts through the preaching and teaching of your word. As we sing these hymns of the faith, our hearts think about the wonderful truths. That we'll express in song, we pray that you would be glorified and we would be edified. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Right, good morning, Acre Baptist Church and esteemed guests. Thank you for joining together with us in person and online. As we begin the morning's uh song service, I'm going to ask you to grab a handle and turn to page 188 or watch on the screen. Please stand with me And we're going to sing four verses of Jesus Shall Reign, the first, third, fourth, and the fifth. So sing out with us this morning. Make a joyful noise Stooty, sound the same as you stay on , don't do it, and then you can see that. Section Well Amen. Now we're going to turn to the back of the red book, page 530. Page 530 if you're following along in the book. And we're going to sing all four verses of Rescue the Perishing. I didn't really have a time to go to bed. No give me far now and race and more. And I come in for the carrying care for the darling. Please have his mercy all Jesus on the way. Amen. Still saying in the back of the hymnal, page five fifty, page five hundred and fifty. Channels only, all three verses. Amen. Please have a seat. Please. For the morning scripture reading, we're going to go to Luke. Luke chapter 9, and we're going to be reading the first nine verses. Luke 9, 1 through 9. Then the scripture says. Then he called his twelve disciples together and gave them power and authority over all devils and to cure diseases. And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick. And he said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neither staves, nor scrip, neither bread, neither money Neither have two coats apiece. And whatsoever house ye enter into, there abide, and thence depart And whosoever will not receive you, when ye go out of that city, shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them. And they departed and went through the towns, preaching the gospel and healing everywhere. Now Herod, the Tetrarch, heard of all that was done by him. And he was perplexed, because that it was said of some that John was risen from the dead, and of some that Elias had appeared, and of others that one of the old prophets was risen again. And Herod said , John have I beheaded, but who is this of whom I hear such things? And he desired to see him May the Lord add the blessings to the reading of His Word. And yes, All right, for the next couple songs will be in our blue book in front of you. Or follow along on the screen. We're going to go to page 65. For the first song. So keep your blue books handy. Page 65. God has spoken all three verses. Como se han dispositivado en nuestra facción, no hay que estar en la vida. Amen. Now we're going to turn to the back of the blue book, page one hundred and ninety-two. Follow along with us in the book or on the screen. Complete in thee, all four verses, stand with me on this song. And make it eye to God , I 'm going to I was telling that every when I said no please Be just me high blessing God And glory thy too shall be No wake in me if he wants applied And no good thing could be denied Say now my fortune Lord will be I asked I make it high salvation for my life. And your life I too shall be Peter will I I'm one thing to me, and I like friends, come. And maybe I thought he wants I God and God and God for thee, my God and God , I will tell me. Let's repeat the chorus, a cappella. Yeah, just get I don't want to, and take it on the salvation of I will have been more for me, I will hide , I too shall be. Amen. Please be seen. And praise it all to me and worth the I stand in his presence on me. I crown him with praise for the Who for this my inquiry who healed me from women who lives my I bought it like me on my be a yeah Who join me like a shadow when I bought a strain My body All in all, I stand in his presence of grace. And God and work out and pray, all day, all day long. Who hears me and my lonely bad who finds me where I find Who do not sat by my broken heart till I let him inspire Whose heart he could be honest with me for his role? And where he all in presence of merit and round For praying I dare with his friends and fail has run to the sun and brother for me to go. No, no, no. Okay, well our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back for their class. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to turn with me in your Bibles to Luke chapter 9 this morning. Luke chapter 9. And the passage that we will be looking at is a very important passage dealing with some very foundational matters related to our Christian faith. As we get into these topics, there's a lot that we need to consider, and there's a lot that we need to understand. In fact, one of the things that sometimes we need to ask ourselves is why is it that the central part of every single one of our worship services is not the music, it's the reading of Scripture and the preaching and teaching of God's word. You ask why is that the center? Is it because we just like preaching? Well the answer is because that is where the authority of God's word lies. The authority of God's word is what everything has to be built upon. When it comes to the songs that we sing, when it comes to the to the things that we think about in a worship service, it should always, always be connected back. to the authority of Scripture. And so the passage we're going to look at this morning is really going to show us where that authority lies. Luke chapter 9 And we'll read verses 1 through 10 together this morning. Here's what it says. Then he called his twelve disciples together. And gave them power and authority over all devils and to cure diseases. And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God and to heal the sick, and he said unto them, Take nothing for your journey. Neither stays nor script, neither bread, neither money, neither have two coats apiece. Whatsoever house you enter into, there abide and thence depart Whosoever will not receive you when you go out of that city, shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them. And they departed and went through the towns preaching the gospel and healing everywhere. Now Herod the Tetrarch heard of all that was done by him, and he was perplexed because that it was said of him that John was risen from the dead. And of some that Elias had appeared, and of others that one of the old prophets had risen again. And Herod said, John have I beheaded, but who is this? Of whom I hear such things. He desired to see him, and the apostles, when they were returned, told him all they had done, and he took them and went aside privately into a desert place belonging to the city called Besseidah. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us understand what is being witnessed in these verses and how it actually applies to us this morning. Our Father in Heaven, thank you for your word. I am so grateful that when we open up the Bible, we are reading not just Luke's words or Peter's words or Timothy's words or Paul's words. We're reading the Word of God. We are reading the inerrant scriptures. And when we come to these scriptures, we recognize that everything that we believe. And everything that we are to do as Christians ultimately is founded upon this inerrant record that is preserved for us so we have the opportunity to read this morning and look at. Father, I pray that as I open this text up and as we look at the concept of an apostle and what their function was, I pray that we would understand why the Word of God is so very, very important. That it would help build us in our thinking, and it would help us have a more thorough conviction that the scriptures must be our final authority. We ask all of it in Christ's name. Amen. I'm going to summarize the passage in front of us, and then I'd like us to look at three simple words. Don't worry, we're going to develop those three words to some extent this morning, but they're important as we come to this topic. of Christ's ministry through the apostles. Here's what Luke chapter 9 is all about. Luke 9 reveals the nature of the apostles' authority and mission So that we could appreciate this ministry and ultimately imitate the focus that is demonstrated in these verses and submit to Christ's ministry that He decided to do through these individuals. You might say, well, Peter is gone, and John is gone, and James is gone. What do these people have to do with us today? Well, while they are gone, what they have written is here. And what they have written bears the full authority of God because he spoke through them. And we're going to see that concept here in these verses. What God ultimately wants is to do is to be a people who understand this concept and we submit to Christ's authority that is mediated out through these individuals, the apostles. So there are three words that I want us to remember this morning. The first word is the word authority. Can you say that? Authority. Alright? The question of authority is something that we're going to dig into this morning. The second word is the word verification. Can you say that? Verification. So the first word is authority, and the second word is verification, and the third word we're going to focus on is the word focus Alright? So some people are laughing right now. But we're going to look at the authority of the apostles, the verification of their ministry, and then the focus of their ministry. And then we're going to ask the question, well, why does it matter to us 2,000 years later? It's actually an extremely important question. So with that in mind, I want to begin with this issue of authority. We see in verses 1 and 10 of chapter 9 the following statement. Then he called his twelve disciples together and gave them power and authority over all devils and to cure diseases. Now, here is my question. Are you an apostle? Are you one of these 12 disciples? The answer is, no, you are not. So he did not give you and he did not give me such authority, but he most certainly gave these twelve individuals Authority over devils and the ability to cure diseases. And then at the end in verse number 10 he says, And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all that they had done. Let me summarize it this way. Christ delegated authority to the apostles, and he worked through them in a very unique and foundational manner. Now, when we talk about the apostles in the book of Luke and the book of Acts 30 times, actually it's over 30 times. Luke records this group of people. And the word apostle simply means one who is sent out and given a mission. That is kind of the most general sense of the term. But in the New Testament, when he talks about The apostles, he's talking about a very particular group of people who've served in a very particular function. that we are still benefiting from today and we will see by the end of this time in the way in which we're doing that These apostles' ministries served a very unique and unrepeated function in church history. I want you to see this from a lot of different scriptures. The first one is Luke chapter 6 verse 13. It says this, and he called unto him his disciples. And of them he chose twelve, whom he called apostles. Did you catch that? So Jesus called lots and lots of people to come and to follow me, preach the gospel, and there were many, many people that followed him who were called disciples. But not all of those people were called apostles. From that group, he set aside twelve individuals, he names those people, and we follow the story of their ministry from that point, and he calls them apostles. In Acts chapter 1, we see that this is a group who had physically witnessed the undeniable proofs that Christ. rose bodily from the dead. Acts chapter 1, verse 1. Luke writes, the former treatise have I made O Theophilus of all that Jesus began both to do and to teach. Until the day in which he was taken up, after that through the Holy Ghost, he gave commandments unto the apostles, whom he had chosen. to whom also he showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs. In Acts chapter one, verse twenty-two, we see that there is a discussion about what to do with the missing apostle because Judas went out and he killed himself after he betrayed Christ and was broken over this. And in Acts chapter 1, verse 22, it says, beginning from the baptism of John Unto that same day, we need to have someone who will be ordained to be a witness with , us of his resurrection. So the apostles understood that they had a very unique ministry and that they could not choose anybody to fit into that function. But it had to be someone who was an eyewitness of the ministry of Christ, had heard his teaching, and also was going to be a first-hand eyewitness account of the resurrection of Christ. In Acts chapter 2, verses 41 through 43, we see that at Pentecost, after the many, many people are saved or converted, we see that the apostles serve in this function of authority within the church. It says it this way. Then those who gladly received the word were baptized, and the same day added unto them about three thousand souls. They continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine. And in fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayer. And fear came upon all them of every soul, and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles. So what we see is what early church life looked like. Ultimately there were these group of men, the apostles, who had authority. And the question we should ask ourselves is, is this an authority that they chose and seize for themselves? Are they self-appointed individuals? Are they people that just said, I have this mystical feeling, this calling that I'm supposed to be an apostle, and so I'm appointing myself as an apostle? Is that what these people were? The answer is no. These are people that were called by Christ and given this authority, and we see in Luke chapter 9, the kind of authority, the nature of the authority that they were given. Christ literally spoke directly to these people in a way that you and I do not receive direct revelation from God. We don't sit in our rooms and all of a sudden we get this impression, and God's talking to us. He's speaking to us. That's not the way that God communicates. But Jesus spoke to these people. Face to face, they saw him, they witnessed his ministry, and he tells us that he's going to use him in a very unique fashion. Listen to some of the things that Jesus said about these men, to these men before the cross. John 14, 26. He says, the comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things. Now who is the you talking to? Well, the apostles. He's going to teach you all things. He's going to bring all things to your remembrance. Whatsoever I have said unto you. He's going to remind you of those things. Question. Do you and I have the ability to do this? Did we sit and listen to what Jesus said and all of a sudden he brings things to our mind and reminds us what he said to us? Well the answer is no, we don't. Because we are not eyewitnesses. Our faith is built on the record of Scripture. And so in John 14, 26, he's predicting the fact that he's going to speak to these men, through these men, and they're going to serve a very unique function in church history. John 16, 13, another example. When he, the Spirit of truth, has come, he will guide you into all truth. Whatsoever he shall not speak, or he shall not speak of himself, whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak, and he will show you things to come. So he's talking about the fact that they're going to serve in a prophetic function. Probably the most prominent of these examples would be John when he writes the book of Revelation, but Peter In 2 Peter, he speaks of prophecy. We see several different passages in the New Testament that would fall into this category. Hebrews chapter 1, verse 1. It says, God, who at sundry times and in dice manners diverse manner spoke in times past unto the fathers by the prophets, has in these last days spoken unto us. By his son. And the writer of Hebrews is referring to himself as an apostle. Jesus talked to us, and he's left us a ministry. So the question we should ask ourselves is what is the ministry that he gives to these people? By the way, in Luke chapter 9, We see the beginning of this ministry, but not the culmination of this ministry, not the fullness of this ministry. In many ways, what we're seeing is the beginning, the tip of the iceberg, the start of this ministry. Well, their ministry was something that connected the function of the prophet in the Old Testament with their role as apostles in the New Testament, and they worked together to give us the foundation upon which our faith is built. That is what the scriptures ultimately are. Listen to some of these passages. 2 Peter 3. This epistle, beloved, I now write unto you, in both which I stir up your pure minds by remembrance. That you may be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets of the commandment of us the apostles of the Lord and Savior. Knowing this first that there shall come in the last day scoffers walking after their own lusts. Now, from this point in the book, Peter begins to set apart the distinction between those who are false teachers And those who embrace the truth. And do you know what the watershed is? Do you know what the line of demarcation between the false teacher and the true believer is? It's the scripture. It's the record that Peter and the other apostles are writing. In Ephesians 2 and 3 and 4, we see this interconnection It says in Ephesians chapter 2, it says that we are built upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone. This is an amazing statement. So Christ is the chief cornerstone, but it is through the prophets and through the apostles working hand in hand that we have this foundation of Christ built upon. What does he say? He's saying the way that you and I know Jesus is through the ministry of the prophets and the apostles of old. The prophets of the Old Testament proclaimed Christ's coming. And when Jesus came, we see the fulfillment of all these things, and what do we see? Their foundational aspect of their ministry is fulfilled in Christ and pointing to Christ. And then we see after the time of Christ, we see the apostles telling us the story of Christ, going back to the Old Testament, reminding us of statements. That were made by the prophets, pointing us back to Christ. And what do we see? The foundation is Christ through the apostles and the prophets. They are the ones who give us God's word. That's the sense. Ephesians chapter 3, verses 3 to 5, we see a similar statement. In other ages he was not made known unto the sons of men, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. Ephesians 4 11. He gave some prop apostles and some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and teachers for the perfecting of the saints. The reason I go into all this is to give you just a simple summary of this concept. The reason that the Word of God came to us was because God appointed men, prophets of old, apostles in the New Testament, and he spoke through these individuals. That's what he did. And so what we see is that their ministry continues, not in person, but through the preserved word of God. Turn with me for just a second to 2 Peter chapter 1. Because I want you to see the incredible statement that Peter makes before his death. That is so important to what we're looking at this morning, this issue of authority. Here's what he writes. I will endeavor that ye may be able after my decease to have these things always in remembrance. Isn't that an amazing statement? He says, we have not followed cunningly deviced fables when we made known unto you the power and the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. But were eyewitnesses of his majesty. Now, when Peter says we, who is he talking about? The apostles. When he says, We want to leave you a record so that when we're dead you can remember these things, what's he talking about? He's talking about the scriptures. He goes on to say that we were eyewitnesses, but we have a more sure word of prophecy. than even what we saw and remembered. Anybody getting to that stage where somebody says, Do you remember this? And you're like, uh Hey, it happens to me. Somebody'll say, hey Pastor, do you remember this? Hey Joel, do you remember this? And I'll be like Can you remind me again? Show me a picture, something to kind of jog the memory and then like, oh yeah, I remember that Even our recall is, well, it's quite fallible. But Peter says what we're leaving for you is not like that. He says no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. He's saying, and we're not just going off of our recall. We're not just giving you our spin on the facts. The prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. Do you see the word authority there? Do you see the concept of authority? The reason that we preach and teach the Word of God every time we're assembled is because this is God's word. This is the final authority. What I think doesn't matter. And frankly, what you think doesn't matter. What he said matters. And the the degree to which our thinking is conformed to what he said is the degree to which it actually matters. Such an important concept. And you and I are responsible to submit to the word of God. For instance, in 2 Timothy chapter 2. He says, the servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men, apt to teach. To teach what? Well, 2 Timothy 3. 16 tells us The scriptures which are given by inspiration of God, which are profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, righteousness. So that the man of God may be perfect. That's talking about maturity fully furnished unto all good works. 1 Timothy 1. 3, Paul says, I besought you to abide in Ephesus when I went to Macedonia, that you would charge some that they teach no other doctrine. Titus 2:1, speak the things which become sound doctrine. The word authority is important. We need to be a people who have a firm conviction that the word of God When it says things that I like, it is true. And when it says things that I don't like, it's true. When it says things that I fully understand, it is true. And when it says th Things that I don't fully understand it is true God's word judges us. We don't judge it. Very, very important. The second word I want us to notice is the word verification. Can you say that? Woo! I know people are still paying attention. This is good. So the first word is authority, and the second word is verification. And I'm not going to dig into this concept as much as I did the authority one, but in fact we could spend a tremendous amount of time developing this concept of verification. When someone says I'm an apostle in that first century period of time, there were marks that people in the church could observe that would validate that they were truly an apostle, or they would say, you're a spurious apostle, you're not truly an apostle. In verses 1 and 2, it says that he gave them power and authority over all devils and to cure diseases. And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God and to heal the sick. Now, you you may ask the question, why did Jesus perform miracles? And why did he give his apostles the ability to perform miracles? And some will say, well, because he doesn't like sickness. Well, he doesn't like sickness, okay, it's true. But the bottom line is that he didn't give them that authority simply because he wanted to heal everybody that lived in Israel Did every single lame person get healed during the life and ministry of Christ? The answer is no. Did every blind person receive sight during the life and ministry of Christ? The answer is no. Did every single leper get his leprosy removed during the time of Christ? The answer is no. But what he did is he performed miracles at key moments. So that his claim to be Messiah could be verified, could be validated. And when Jesus says, I've given this authority to my apostles , then that authority can be verified because they have the ability to do something that in their normal condition, apart from this delegated authority, they could not do such a thing. And so we saw examples of Jesus healing people. We saw examples of Jesus casting out demons, and we see his authority. Well, this is demonstrating that these individuals Bore that authority to the extent that it had been delegated to them. So Christ was empowering them to perform signs to validate his authority. John 20, 30 and 31. We know these verses. Many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you might have life through his name. Jesus performed miracles, and John recorded many of those events to convince us that in fact this is true. It was to verify his claim. We see that the apostles have the same sense. Acts chapter 2, 41. Then they that gladly received the word were baptized, fear came upon every soul, and many signs and wonders were done by the apostles. 2 Corinthians 12, 12, the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all patience and signs and wonders and mighty deeds. Well, someone might ask, well, Joel, if Jesus did this then, why doesn't he do it now? And the answer would come in a few ways. Number one, because these people are dead. And number two, their ministry is completed. It is not necessary to verify the gospel message or to verify scripture that's continuing to be written because it's not continuing to be written. In other words, what was given by Christ through these individuals has been verified in the first century, and really has been verified all throughout church history by the power of the scriptures that is demonstrated in the ability to bring people to conversion and ultimately to lead people to growth into Christ-likeness. The verification of the message has been repeated over and over and over and over again. But that leads me to something I'd like to say about us. We need to understand this concept of saving faith. We talk about faith. I think sometimes people get in their minds that faith is sort of like We kind of just compel people through the emotions so that they'll be willing to feel bad about their sin and they'll be willing to ask Jesus to save them, and we we appeal to the emotions. I think that's the way that people often present faith. Not non-intentionally, it's not their desire to do that, but that's really the way that they do that. Or sometimes people think of faith as kind of a leap into the dark. I hope this is true, so I'm just going to take my chances and see what happens. I want you to realize that's not the way that the scripture presents faith. Faith doesn't start with emotion. Faith starts with the mind. In other words, the scriptures are written in such a way that are to appeal to our reason and to say there's a compelling reason to believe these things. Yeah, when we talk about salvation, we say that we are to repent toward God and we are to put our faith in Christ. And repentance is primarily an issue of the mind, it's an issue of the thinking. Whenever Peter was preaching at Pentecost, did he just say, do you feel that Jesus is alive? Or did he say, Let me give you valid reasons to believe he's alive? And he lays out all of those reasons. And then he goes back to the Old Testament and he says, Do you remember where it says this in the prophet Isaiah? Do you remember where it says this in the prophet Micah? And do you remember where it says this? He goes to all these different places and he says It was stated hundreds and hundreds of years before the fact. History has demonstrated it's true, and I'm here to compel you to believe this is a reasonable argument to believe. Do you understand that? And so repentance is all about saying the way that we're thinking about God and the way that we think about our sin and the way that we think about ourselves, it's entirely wrong. And we need to see what the Bible says that we are sinners. We are condemned. Christ is God in flesh. He died for our sins. He rose from the dead. His righteousness is available. We can trust in him. And through preaching and reasoning and laying out the scripture, it compels us to believe. In other words, the choice to believe is one of conviction. I'm convinced. You say, well, could there ever still be a question? Well of course there could be a question. The fact is if you want to play this game where you have to break everything down to the inst degree, you will never get to the bottom of that in anything of life. But my question is this, is there not enough evidence in the scriptures just in the fulfillment of prophecies alone? Just in the way that you read the scriptures and it speaks so honestly and so transparently and so bluntly about the nature of our own souls And our sin and our conscience and our guilt. As we hear the scriptures, priests, as we read the scriptures, we know it's true. Why? Because it speaks so plainly about human nature. There's nothing you deal with in life that's that's that plain and straightforward. Anybody ever had a situation where you need to talk to somebody and you talk to them straight and you're convinced I gotta do this and you go and you have that conversation you kind of Yeah, go around and round and serve. Anybody ever done that? I have. I have. And you know you need to have the conversation And you have thought through every single detail of it, and you still tiptoe around and go around in circles and this and that. The Bible's not like that. It just speaks plainly. It just nails us right where we are. It tells us this is human nature. This is the nature of God. Here's what God did for you. Accept it. Believe it. Trust in it. That's the point. The point is that God has verified his word. And there is an unbelievably compelling case to say, you know what? What it says about me is true. What it says about him is true. And I'm going to trust in it. The third word is the word focus. So what was the first word? Anybody remember? Authority, yes, good. The second word was what? Verification. The third word is focus. The focus of the apostle's ministry. What were they ultimately compelled to do? Listen to what it says in verse 2. He sent them to preach the kingdom of God. To heal the sick. He said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neither staves, nor scripts, neither bread nor money, neither have two coats apiece. Whatsoever house you enter into, there abide, and thence depart. Whatsoever will will whosoever will not receive you, when you go out of that city, shake off the dust of your feet for a testimony against them. And they departed and went through the towns, preaching the gospel. and healing everywhere. So how would I summarize the focus of their ministry? Christ commanded them to preach the message of the gospel. And as they preach this message of the gospel to provide a verification that in fact this message is true. This is the message ultimately of Christ. And it has come from him through us to you. That's really what it ultimately was. He says, don't get distracted and don't get entangled. Take nothing for your journey, neither stave nor script, nor bread, nor money. Don't even bring two coats. Stay in people's houses and preach the message and then leave. Now, this is very different than what we see the same apostles doing just a little bit later when they're preaching the gospel to the uttermost sons of the world. They're going into cities, they're preaching in the synagogue, they're establishing local churches, the Apostle Paul stays in some of these churches for a year or more. Why the difference? Because it was a different season of God's work. And so their desire or their responsibility was simple. Preach the word, preach the gospel, don't get distracted, don't get entangled. Focus on preaching the gospel indiscriminately. Verse number six They departed and went through the towns preaching the gospel. And this message came with verification of their apostleship. So it leads me to a question. Why didn't Jesus say things like, well, why don't you preach the ethics of the kingdom? Why don't you preach the law of God? Why don't you preach that we need to overthrow Rome and we need to establish a kingdom of righteousness and tell them about all these things? Instead, he says, preach the gospel. Well, the answer is that that is the only thing that can change people from within. The gospel can do something that nothing else can do. You tell somebody, well, you know, you want to be a Christian, then you need to dress this way instead of that way, guess what? That doesn't change the fundamental issue that's going on in someone's heart. Oh, if you want to be a Christian, then you need to start giving this money. And they start giving that money, but that doesn't change the fundamental issue that's going on within the heart. Oh, you want to be a Christian then stop doing these things and start doing these things. And so they stop doing these things and they start doing these things. But internally there's nothing different in the heart. Guess what? It's like putting lipstick on a pig, right? That's what it is. Nothing's changed. But when you preach the gospel , And someone embraces the gospel and they place their faith in Christ, guess what does change? The thing that changes everything else. Second Corinthians 5. 17. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. New creatures think and act different. The change is not on the outside fundamentally, it's within. The external is simply it's a visible verification that by the way couldn't can can can be varying in its in its extent and can be imitated Ephesians 2, 1 to 5, you have he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past you walked according to the course of this world. We all had our conversation in times past. fulfilling the lust of the flesh and desires of the flesh in mind, and were by nature the children of wrath. So the question is, do you want to go to a person And tell them stop doing these things, but leave the state of their soul unchanged? I mean, really? What do you get? You either get a huge hypocrite Who ultimately becomes very self-righteous, at the end of it all, will stand before God and he'll say, Depart from me, I never knew you. They said, but Lord, Lord, we did all these things. And he says, it's not about what you did. It's about who you are in Christ. It's about what you did with what I did for you. But God who's rich in mercy, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ by grace you're saved. Ephesians 2. 10, we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. Do you want to see people's lives transformed? Don't preach morality. Preach gospel. Because the gospel changes people. Yes, when we're preaching the gospel, we tell them here's what God's law is. And here's how you fall short. But we don't say start cleaning your life up. We say turn to Christ. He paid it all. That's what we do. That is what changes people. Perhaps the most significant text in all scripture on this point is Romans 8. 3. Listen to what it says. What the law could not do, and that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin condemned sin in the flesh. That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. He says the carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to God's laws, neither indeed can be, so then that they are in the flesh cannot please God. Why is the gospel the heart and soul of the ministry? It's because Romans 8 is true. You cannot please God apart from the gospel. You cannot fulfill his will outside of the gospel. And I asked this question. Is it possible that there's somebody here this morning that, you know what, you have tried to clean your life up? And you've tried to be a different person. And you've tried to live like a Christian. But what's really going on inside is nothing more than pure hypocrisy. Because you do not have that new nature. You are not a new creature in Christ. Because you've never come face to face with a pure gospel that says it's Christ and Christ alone. He died for your sins. He rose from the dead. If you'll trust alone what he did, he'll make you a new creature in Christ. Regeneration isn't a work we do, it's a work God does The Spirit gives life to someone who's spiritually dead. It's all of his grace. And Romans 8 tells us why the gospel is the heart of it all. So it leads us to a final question. How do we apply such a passage? We're not apostles. We don't have the ability to heal the sick. We don't have the ability to cast out demons and do the things that they did. We all know that we're supposed to preach the gospel. We realize that that is what ultimately our society needs. So how do we apply such a passage? And I'll apply it this way with a few questions. The first is this. What is your ultimate authority? When it comes down to how you live your life, how you make choices What is the primary source of your authority upon which you choose in life? Well, I just do what I feel like doing. Can you trust your heart? I just do what other people tell me. Can you trust their heart? God's word is the inerrant and fallible standard. You will never find another place that speaks with such purity and clarity. Our lives must be built on the Word of God. Second question. Is it my internal impressions and feelings and thoughts or the inerrant word of God? I actually think a lot of Christians to be totally blunt about it. They say the Holy Spirit's guiding me. And if they could step back and analyze what they're saying, this is what they would actually see. My emotion says, do this The Word of God says do this, and I'm going to call my emotion the Holy Spirit. It 's true. God's word and the Spirit don't contradict. Well God said, He still says. And so it can't be our impressions and our feelings. It's got to be the word. 3. Am I molded into the image of my culture or into the image of my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? Charles Spurgeon gave an interesting analogy. He said, dead fish never swim against the stream. It's true. Why is that? Because they don't have the power to. They just move with the current. Whichever way it flows, that's where they go. But a fish that's alive goes where it wants to go. And if where he wants to go is up the stream, that's what it's going to do. And if what God tells us to do is against the grain and everybody in the room says, You're wrong, but God says it's right, then that's what we do. On Thursday, we had our first teen Bible study at our house. We're doing a couple of these over the summer. And I asked the question, how do you know it's true? Is it what everybody feels? Is it what everybody thinks? Do we do opinion polls? The answer is no. It's what's conformed to reality. God 's word is true, and everything else has the potential to be completely divergent from what is true. We have to keep our focus on the word. What defines our identity? What shapes our values? What drives our actions? What do we believe? What is our ultimate source of hope? It's got to be found in the Word of God. And so I want to leave you with these encouragements. We need to understand the foundation of our faith is in Christ's verified ministry through his apostles preserved for us in the scriptures. These scriptures must be the sole foundation of confidence, comfort, and authority. The gospel proclaimed must be our highest priority, starting with the preaching of the gospel to ourselves. Don't miss that. Every day I need to be reminded of what Christ has done for me. I need to be reminded of who I am in Christ. I need to be reminded that everything that I do needs to come out of the fact that I am united with Christ. I belong to Him, and so I need to think and act and live in conformity with my position. Preaching the gospel to our family. Preaching the gospel to our sphere of influence. And so I want to encourage you, let's be doers of the word, not just hearers this morning. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we think about this text. And what we ultimately see is that you appointed a group of men. Whom you sent out bearing your authority, who would be witnesses to the resurrection of Christ, who you would use to give us our New Testament. A message that is without error. It is preserved for us today. It is consistent with the words given through prophets of old The prophets and apostles give us Christ. And that is the foundation upon which our lives are built. May we be a people who understand these things and live in the light of them. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like you to turn with me to our closing hymn 537, Jesus Saves. And as you are turning there , If you've listened today and you say, you know what, you said a lot of things about foundation, you said a lot of things about the gospel. And there's some things that you said that frankly they are not what I've understood. I've always thought that salvation was something that I do for God. It's kind of like the reward I get at the end of my life if I've lived it well. You're saying it's a gift. It's not based on what I do for God, it's what He did for me. I never understood that. If you don't know for certain that you're saved, if you have any doubts at all, please reach out. Reach out when you walk through those doors standing and talk to your pastor. Send me an email. Reach out. I'd be very happy to sit down with the Bible and go through the scriptures. and show you what God has done for you and say this passage of scripture and this passage and this passage, they say, repent and believe in the gospel. Turn to Christ. Trust in what He's done for you. Let's stand together 537 and sing Jesus saves. We'll sing the first, the third, and the fourth verses together Everyone walked away, all the day of the world, Jesus , Jesus Into one star, in the head in the fire, in the same thing. Jesus , Jesus In the window I mean voice, in the day , you said, when a race money voice , in the day , is a good Aren't you thankful? Jesus saves. But Sheromese, I'd like to ask you to close us in prayer and uh hope that you'll be able to make it back tonight as we uh continue through our Old Testament passages. So please close us in prayer. Dear Holy Father, we just thank you, Lord, for this day. Thank you for the salvation that you've given us. And that we've received. Lord, I just want to uh thank you for the sermon we have today, our the study on uh uh authority, verification, and focus, and how it applied to the apostles as they went out and preached The gospel to those in need. Lord, let us do likewise. This thank you for all things in Jesus' name. Amen.