Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and excited about a new week of study. And if you joined us this past Sunday, we were in Luke chapter eight. So I'm going to ask you to take your Bible and we're going to turn together to Luke chapter eight. We're going to dig into verses 22 to 25, and what we're going to be looking at is Christ's power or his authority over nature. Let's go ahead and read the verses together. Here's what the text says. Now it came to pass on a certain day that he went into a ship with his disciples. He said unto them, Let us go over unto the other side of the lake. And they launched forth. As they sailed he fell asleep, and there came down a storm of wind on the lake, and they were filled with water, and were in jeopardy. And they came and they came to him and awoke him, saying, Master, Master, we perish. Then he arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and there was a calm. And he said unto them, Where is your faith? They being afraid wondered, saying one to another, What manner of man is this? For he commandeth even the winds and the water, and they obey him It's a great passage of scripture. We're very familiar with this passage of scripture. And there are three key truths that we're going to look at in this passage. We're going to take them one at a time. And uh Lord willing, this morning we're going to dig into the first of those three uh very important topics, and then as we get to the end of this, we're going to find some very practical things. And this will be a a very practical topic, I believe. And the first part of this study is going to be dealing with the person of Christ. So we're going to look back at verses 23 to 25 and notice what it says. It says, as they sailed, he fell asleep. That's a very important statement. It seems like it's not a big deal, but it is an important part of what we're going to talk about this morning. It says, there came down a storm of wind on the lake, and they were filled with water, and they were in jeopardy. So the people's lives were in danger. And they came and they awoke him. He didn't wake up on his own. He was calmly sleeping. He must have been exhausted physically. Very important detail. And then it says, they were afraid, or he arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and there was a calm. And then lastly it says, they were afraid, wondering, and saying one to another, What manner of man is this? For he commandeth even the winds and the water, and they obey him. Now, what these disciples witnessed on the the the Sea of Galilee that particular day is something that you and I uh would not be able to do ourselves. So if we were to walk out into the middle of a lightning storm, some some fierce storm, uh it could be on on the bay, it could be um on the ocean In Ocean City, if you went on vacation down maybe in Florida and it was a torrential downpour, you couldn't walk out into that storm and say, peace be still, and all of a sudden everything stops and everything just goes back to normal. You couldn't do that So when Jesus performs this miracle, they understand that it is validating something about who he is. And you'll notice it says, they said, What manner of man is this? They recognize it's communicating something about Christ person. And so what I want to do this morning is I want to dig into what it's communicating about Christ's person. The first thing I want to want to mention is kind of pre uh preparing us for this discussion. In the Old Testament, there are many, many messianic passages that talk about the person and the work of the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. One of those passages, the most, probably the most common, most familiar of all the passages is Isaiah 53. And we tend to focus in on the last portion or the bulk of that chapter where it talks about the substitutionary death of Christ and his propitiation, the satisfaction of God the Father's wrath when he's hanging on the cross. We focus in on that. And that really is the emphasis of the text. But the way that it starts out is an important part of the discussion we'll have this morning. Notice what it says in Isaiah 53, verse 1. And it says, Who has believed our report? And to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? He shall grow up before him as a tender plant and as a root out of a dry ground. He hath no form nor comeliness, and when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. I will summarize what these verses are saying with the simple statement, when Jesus came, people would not believe he was the Messiah. The average person looked at Jesus and they didn't see someone who appeared to have a whole lot of power and authority and someone who they wanted to follow. Now, if somebody listened to what he said, they would see the evidences of his authority. If they looked at the miracles he performed, they would look at the evidences, uh they would see evidences of his authority. But if they were to just look at his his physical demeanor and how he looked, the way it states is, there they will look at him as a tender plant or as a root out of a dry ground. They're saying, where is the potential here? It doesn't appear that there's any potential. You say, well why is that? The reason is because when people saw Jesus They were looking at a person who looked like an ordinary man. And that leads us into a very important question. Who is Jesus? What is his nature? And the answer to that question is found in Philippians chapter 2, verses 5 through 8. Here's what it says. He, referring to Jesus, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and he took upon himself the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of man. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Now we could spend a tremendous amount of time unpackaging Philippians chapter two. But I want to draw your attention to about three or four of the most significant statements that are made in these verses. The first statement is the statement being in the form of God. The second is he thought it not robbery to be equal with God. Those two statements are basically two ways of expressing that Jesus Christ is the eternal God in flesh. Okay? When you're looking at Jesus, you're looking at a person who possesses the full, inerrant, inherent nature of God because he is God. Okay? And we're not saying that he took on deity at a point in time. He is God and he has always been God. That is who he is. That is literally His essence. Christ is fully God. And so notice the way that he states it. Being in the form of God. Now, is this talking about something physical? The answer is of course not. He's talking about the essence, the nature of Jesus being divine. So he is God in his essence, or in his substance. The essence or substance of who he is is God. Who he's always been, who he always will be. There is no change in the divine nature of the person, second person of the Godhead, the Lord Jesus Christ. He has always been and always will be fully God. By the way, we see this in other passages of Scripture, Hebrews 1, verse 3. It says that He made the worlds, and He is the brightness of His glory, He is the express image of His person. That statement express image is referring to the essence of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is God. His nature is divine. That's what it's saying. Or Colossians chapter 1, verse 15. It says, he is the image of the invisible God. Now, there's a difference between saying someone is the image and someone is created in the image of God. Those two statements are very, very different. You and I are created in the image of God. We are not the image of God. Jesus is the image of God. The distinction is that Jesus has eternally always existed as God. You and I are created to reflect his nature in some certain ways in which it can be communicated. And so there's a distinction between you and I And the Lord Jesus Christ in this sense. We are created in God's image. He is the image of the invisible God. And then the third passage I'm going to mention is John chapter 1. Verse number one. This is the prologue to John's Gospel. And the prologue is basically setting the tone for the rest of the book. So basically John's going to say, this is who Jesus is. This is what he came to do. This is why it matters. Now let me prove it to you by telling you all these examples of conversations that Jesus had, miracles that he performed, the actions that he took, the things that were done to him all of those things are going to demonstrate that what I say at the beginning of this book, the prologue, in fact it is true. And it's true, so you need to believe it, and that by believing on it you'll have life through his name. So John 's writing this epistle as a very evangelistic book. This is the way he opens it. He says, in the beginning was the word. Okay, it didn't say in the beginning the word began. Okay? It says in the beginning was. That's telling us That the Lord Jesus Christ, the Word, is someone who predates the beginning of time. That means that he's outside of time and he's outside of space. He is the creator, not a created being. It's very, very important. So he says, in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. Now, you might be saying, how in the world can somebody be with God and also be God. How do you have uh those two things being true at the same time? Well, when he talks about him being with God , He's talking about a distinction between the different persons of the Godhead. So when we talk about the Son and we talk about the Spirit and we talk about the Father, There is a distinction on the person level. We could say the subsistence, what is under the essence of who he is. There is a uh there is a way in which there's a distinction. Okay, so when we talk about the father, he is distinct. functionally within the the the gospel story from the son and from the spirit. This is something that we've talked a lot about at other times. So the Father sends the Son and the Son is the savior of the world. The Father did not go to the cross. The Son went to the cross. The Son died for our sins. The Son rose from the dead. The Father poured out his wrath upon his son. The Holy Spirit regenerates us. The Holy Spirit is the one who gives us the word. The Holy Spirit is the one. who illumines the word as we read it. And so what you're seeing is that the Father, the Son, and the Spirit are of the same essence or they're of the same nature. They're all God, but there's a distinction on the person level. Father, Son, Spirit, distinct in person, but they are one in essence. And so that's what 1 John chapter 1 is talking about. And by the way, this is a very important distinction that's made. We don't have a gospel. without this distinction being made. We'll get into that that concept at another time. But we need to see very clearly stated in these verses that Jesus is God. And this particular passage of scripture is demonstrating in a visible way the deity of Christ, his authority over nature. And by the way His authority over nature is something that is ultimately connected back to the fact that he is the creator. By him the worlds were formed. And by him all things consist. They're held together. They are guided providentially by the hand of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so it's a very, very important distinction. The second statement that is important in this passage, Philippians chapter 2, is the statement, fought it not robbery to be equal with God? Now this is a statement that needs to be broken down a little bit to appreciate. I'll put it like this. A thief is someone who reaches out to take something that does not belong to them. Okay, so if I am taking something that belongs to me, I am not a thief. It is my right, it is my right to possess what I own. So If I buy a car or if I buy a house, a piece of property, and I decide that I'm going to paint the inside of the house and not ask any questions of one of my neighbors or I 'm I'm going to you know go and and and do some work on my car. I I have the right to do those things because I'm the owner of those things. They belong to me. But if I go to my neighbor's house and I decide to walk into their house and say, well I'd just like to take this or I'd like to take that, well that would be called theft. Because it doesn't belong to me. I don't have the right to possess those things. If my neighbor has something that I want and I go and take it by force, I am stealing something. Now, notice what it's saying. He thought it not robbery to be equal with God. A thief takes something that doesn't belong to them. A person that takes something that belongs to them is just they're just living with what they have. And so this is saying that the concept of equality with the other persons within the Godhead Was not something that Jesus needed to take by force. It's not something that he needed to steal. It's not something that he needed to seize. And the reason for that is because the divine nature is something that he has as who he is. So he's not saying, I want to be God, I'm going to go and take that. He is God, so there's nothing for him to steal. And so when we talk about his glory, when we talk about the essence of his person, who he is, Those things are all who he is. And so when we look at Satan, for instance, Satan says, I want to be like the Most High God So Satan w wants to take something that doesn't belong to him. When you and I decide we don't want to submit to God's authority, we want to be on the throne ourselves. Well what are we doing? We're taking a a a position, we're taking a role that doesn't belong to us. But when the scripture says that Jesus thought it not robbery to be equal with God, it's saying he had the absolute right to the glory because that's who he is. And so that's really the the sense of what's going on. I'm going to go ahead and stop there because I want us to look at the second half of this tomorrow morning. We're going to look at the fact that Jesus is not just God, he is fully God, but Jesus is also a man. and he is fully man. And by the way, we're going to see both aspects of who he is unpackaged in the text before us. So you might say, well, well Joel, what really is the primary takeaway in these verses? Well the primary takeaway is the uniqueness of the person of Christ. Fully God, fully human, in no way diminishing his human nature, and in no way diminishing his divine nature. His humanity and his deity are put together in the same person. Okay? And by the way, when we talk about his humanity There's a distinction between the d the humanity and the deity side of things. Jesus was not eternally a man. He is eternally God. But he took on flesh at a point in time. And we're going to see that coming out in the Philippians chapter 2 passage. And Lord willing we'll look at that tomorrow. But Christ is uniquely qualified to redeem us from our sins because he is God in flesh. Not just God, not just man, God in flesh. And by the way, Jesus is the center of the Redemptive story. I hope that this morning as you think about the things that we've talked about, that you will glory in your Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. He alone is worthy of our worship and our praise and our full, full glory. All right, hope that you have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, tomorrow we're to continue looking at part two of this topic, which I think will be very helpful. Have a blessed day. Bye now.