Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope that you're having a great morning and really looking forward to getting back into this passage. If you have a Bible, we're looking in Luke chapter 8 And we're reading verses twenty two to twenty five together. Here's what the scripture says. Now it came to pass on a certain day that he went into a ship with his disciples, and he said unto them, Let us go over unto the other side of the lake and they launched forth. And as they sailed, he fell asleep. And there came down a storm of wind on the lake, and they were filled with water, and were in jeopardy And they came to him and awoke him, saying, Master, Master, we perish. Then he arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and there was a calm. And he said unto them, Where is your faith? And they, being afraid, wondered, saying one to another, What manner of man is this? For he commandeth even the winds and the water, and they obey him. Now, over the last two mornings we've been talking about the identity of Christ, and this passage very clearly shows us both the full humanity of Christ in his weakness. He fell asleep, he slept through the storm. And then we see his full deity, his power, and his authority. And so this morning what I want us to do is I want us to focus in on this issue of his authority, his power. Another word we can use is the word sovereignty. When Jesus got up, he rebuked the winds and the waters, and immediately they stopped. That tells you something about his authority. And so when we talk about God, we would say it this way. God meticulously cares for his creation. That's what we're going to talk about this morning. And I know it's a very deep topic. I know that there's a lot that can be said. I'm not going to be able to answer all your questions, but I want to be very practical and very encouraging. and very helpful on this point. So I want to begin by looking at first of all this issue of God's meticulous care We say that God meticulously cares for his for his creation. I want you to notice there are a lot of scriptures that talk about this issue, but there are three passages that I want to draw your attention to this morning. The first one is the words of Nebuchadnezzar. In Daniel chapter 4, here's what it says. His dominion is an everlasting dominion. That word dominion means that it's his It's his his sovereignty, his sovereign rule. The realm that he is overseeing, that he controls, that he rules over. His dominion is an everlasting dominion. And his kingdom is from generation to generation. All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. He's not saying that they have no value. He's talking about their authority. He's saying there is no human authority that comes close to the authority of God. We all answer to him. And there and there's no generation that is going to outlive the next generation. And the next and the next and the next that's somehow going to rule longer than God Himself. God rules from generation to generation. God rules from everlasting to everlasting. Every human ruler who rises is going to fall under the jurisdiction of God. That's what he's saying. And then he says, all the inhabitants are repeated as nothing. He doeth according to his will in the armies of having amongst the inhabitants of the earth none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? He said, There's nobody that can stop God from accomplishing his purposes. That's power. That's authority. That's rule. In Colossians chapter 1, verses 16 and 17, it tells us why he has the right to do this. And then it tells us how he does it. He says By him, and it's specifically referring to the Lord Jesus here, by him were all things created that are in heaven and in earth. visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. This is why he has the right to rule. Because he is the creator. There would be no life without God creating life. There would be no power and strength if it wasn't for God sustaining that strength and giving that power or that authority. That's what he's saying. And then he goes on to say, he is before all things, and by him all things consist. And that last statement, by him all things consist, means that the reason that things continue to endure is because he personally a palse, he holds it all together. This tells us that God is actively working in his creation. He didn't just make it and design it and then walk away from it. He's personally actively upholding it. That's what he's saying. And then in Romans chapter 11 it says the following O the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. Who hath known the mind of the Lord or who hath been his counselor? What Paul is saying Is that when it comes to the way that God orchestrates and the way that God rules and the way that he guides and the way that he cares and where he intervenes and when where he allows and where he moves and where he We could say stirs up all of the decisions that God makes are according to his perfect infinite wisdom There's nobody that he takes counsel from. He has unlimited resources of wisdom. And the depth of that wisdom is one that you and I cannot fully comprehend. And we come nowhere 's near when it comes to capability. And what that tells us is that God isn't our peer. He doesn't answer to us. He's not obligated to give us answers to why he does things the way that he does. And we'll never be able to fully grasp what he does because it is far deeper than we can understand as mere mortals. That's what he's saying And then he says, of him and through him and to him are all things, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. What do these three passages tell us about God? They simply tell us he rules, he reigns, he is the ultimate king, and he guides his creation according to his perfect wisdom. And he is bound by his goodness. That's what these passages of Scripture tell us. But then that leads us to the question of, well, how does he do it? How does God actually do this? And this is actually a much more complicated question to answer than the first, that he actually is in charge. Because how he does it is in some ways a mystery. There are aspects to the way that God governs that are very naturally explainable. For instance, He created the world with this cosmic order. And that cosmic order is one of the ways that God governs his creation. In Genesis 1. 14 it says God said, let there be lights in the firmament in the heavens to divide the day from the night, let them be for signs, for seasons, for days, and for years. So how do we know what a day is? Well it's because when God created the world and God created the cosmos He created the world to turn on its axis, and the at the rate that the world turns on its axis in its relationship to the sun, we have a 24-hour period of time that goes by every single day, and that's how we I know what a day is. And when we talk about what a year is, well, the the earth is is revolving as it's rotating on its axis, it's revolving around the sun. And once it passes around the sun one time, it comes back to the same place in the sky where it was. Well, that's what a year is. Why do we have seasonal change? Well, it's because when the earth is rotating on its axis and revolving around the earth or around the sun. It's also at an angle and it's positioned in certain in such a way that we get this seasonal change. We have summer and winter and spring and fall. Obviously, if you're in a temperate climate, it's a little bit different in the tropics. But that seasonal change, all of those things are governed by natural laws that God created, that he established when he created the cosmos. That's God's providence, it's sovereignty, his rule. That's part of the way that he does this. When we think about biological order, why are there still people after thousands of years of human history where people have been born? And people have died. And now we still have people who are being born and they die. Or why do we still have animals? We have fish in the sea and we have birds in the sky and we have animals on this planet. Why is that Well, it's because of the biological words that God established. Genesis 122. He blessed them and said, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth In fact, Solomon talks about this in Ecclesiastes 1, verses 4-7. He says, One generation passeth away, another generation cometh, and the earth abideth forever. The sun ariseth, the sun goeth down, and hasteth to the place where it arose. The wind goeth toward the south, and turneth toward the north, it whirleth about its circuits. The rivers run into the sea, if the sea is not full, from the place from whence the river cometh Thither they return again. Why does the water fall out of the sky and run through the rivers into the ocean and then evaporate back up into the sky? And and we have this cycle. Why is that there? It's because God made it. I mean, think about the wisdom that created all these things, things that you and I haven't even fully figured out yet, okay? After after all these years of people studying the world that we live in and the skies, there are so many mysteries that we don't understand. The reason we don't understand them is because they're far greater than we can fully comprehend. All of these things point to the fact there's a creator, there's a designer. He established these natural laws. We learned these laws. We studied these laws. We discovered these laws. This is part of how God governs his world in his providence. But there's another side to this that is actually more complex. And more wondrous to consider than the cosmic order, the biological order, the natural order that we find in the world. And that is how God works in human interaction. This in fact is indeed a great mystery. That God works in the unseen, yet, we could say ordinary things, yet he does it actively, and he does it in ways that are quite profound. And sometimes as it's happening, we don't even understand that it's happening. We don't even recognize that it's happening. And then years later we look back and we see the hand of God. Think about some of these scriptures that talk about us. Genesis 50. We know this is the story of Joseph. And Joseph's brothers, out of pure hatred for him, they sold him as a slave to their cousins. And the question is, well, why didn't they just kill him? Or why did Joseph end up in Egypt and end up in the prison, but his life is preserved? And how is it that all these things played out the way that they did? Well, it's because God in his providence was guiding. Now, when I say God was guiding, we're not saying that God caused evil. Or that God made them sin. No, no, that's not what we're saying. Or that God put in their heart you should hate your brother. That's not what we're saying. God used what he permitted to accomplish good. That's what we're saying. That's what the Bible affirms. And this is how Joseph puts it. He puts it beautifully. Genesis 50, verse 20. As for you, you thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good. Here was your intention, here's what God permitted, and here's the reason God permitted it. To bring to pass as it is this day, to save much people. That is a great passage talking about The care, the meticulous care of God. He permits even evil because he has a good Purpose intent. And by the way, he is guiding it so that it only goes to certain limits. God didn't allow certain things to happen while he did allow others. That's God's providence. Or Ezra chapter 1, we talk about Cyrus. Why did Cyrus send the Jews back after they had been uprooted from their homeland? They had been brought to Babylon, now it's Persia. Why did he send them back to rebuild their city? And ultimately the walls and all those things. Why did he do that? Well, it's because God caused him to do it. You say, well, how did God cause him to do it? Well here's what it says. In the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, That the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia. And he said, he made a proclamation throughout all the kingdom. And put in writing, saying, Thus saith Cyrus, King of Persia, the Lord God of heaven hath given me all the kingdoms of earth, and hath charged me to build him an house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Why did he do it? Because God was working behind the scenes. Haggai chapter 1, verse verse 14. The people were there in Jerusalem, and instead of them rebuilding the temple, what are they doing? They're building their homes. And so God says this is wrong. You need to rebuild the temple. So how does God get it to happen? Well, he stirs up the hearts of the people. It says the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel. The son of Shahatiel, the governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua, the son of Josedek, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people, and they came and did work in the house of the Lord of hosts their God. What it's saying is that God sent them there because he stirred up someone's heart. When they were getting complacent, God stirred up a ruler. who was a a government official, he stirred up someone who was a spiritual advisor, the high priest, and he stirred up the people that they were motivated to do the work. Why did it get done? Because God, behind the scenes in ways that we cannot see, but are clearly stated in the scriptures, worked in people's hearts to motivate them to be willing to do the work in Jerusalem. There are so many scriptures that show us that God works actively, passively He stirs up the heart in unseen ways. He does this through what we call ordinary interaction, yet his hand's at work. Proverbs 16. 1, the preparations of the heart and man. And the answer of the tongue is from the Lord. Proverbs sixteen nine, a man's heart deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps. Proverbs sixteen thirty three, the lot is cast into the lap, the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. You say, Joel, what do I take away from this You take away comfort. You recognize that this creation, God governs it, and he does it according to wisdom And he does it out of goodness. And he does it with a purpose. The things that go on in the world Even when there is ill and evil intent are not going to thwart God's plans and God's purposes And God is even able to take those things that are very difficult and very frustrating and very painful and very discouraging And he can take them and he can use them to accomplish good in our lives. God can use them to us those things to drive us to himself, to mature us. to develop within us a compassion for others, to soften our hearts when we are hardened and calloused and proud, to drive us to Himself that we So that we can sho that he could show us that we need a savior. I'm a sinner, I need a savior. Sometimes God uses the most difficult of circumstances to do that. to build our character, to reveal how we've grown. There are endless ways that God takes difficulty and hardship and even evil and he uses it to accomplish good in our lives. What is the takeaway God personally and purposefully works in our lives for good. That's what it is. Romans chapter 8, verse 28. All things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. I asked you this question this morning. Is there something going on in your life that you say, you know what? That situation has kept God from being able to do what he wants to do in my life. If that's the way you're thinking, I'm going to tell you, that's not scriptural thinking. If there's a situation in your life that's very painful and very frustrating and it's hard for you to process, I'm not suggesting that that thing is not evil and that somehow it becomes good. I'm not suggesting that at all. But what I am suggesting is this. God is able to take that and he's able to use that to accomplish good in your life. He's able to do that. That should bring you comfort If there's a situation that you uh you you had something that you were longing to do, you desired to do, you thought, this is what I'm supposed to do, and God shuts that door. Recognize something. God has something different for you. He's going to redirect your life in a way that is ultimately going to cause him to have glory, and it's going to be for your good. And so in all these things we take great comfort in the fact that God governs this world according to his goodness, with purpose, and he does it personally. I don't know about you, but that really encourages me this morning. I hope that if this has been a challenge to you or an encouragement, that you will share that with somebody today If you think it can be a blessing and a help to some, share it with them so that God can use it in their life as well. Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to meet again and we're going to continue looking at a great passage of Scripture that demonstrates the identity of Christ. and his power is authority. Tomorrow, Lord we're Lord Lord willing, we're going to talk about how we're supposed to respond to all these things. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll meet again. Bye now.