Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and I hope you're having a wonderful week. And uh we've kind of really just been dealing with introductory thoughts the last two mornings. So this morning we're going to dig into the actual content of this passage and I hope that as we do that you'll see really how important it was that we set up this discussion by looking at some of the questions and how God answers prayer and and understanding this topic of suffering a little bit better, a little bit more biblically. And uh we're gonna see those truths um really come out in the text as we look at it. So if you have your Bible, let's look together at Luke chapter 8 and we're going to begin reading in verse 40. Here's what it says. And it came to pass that when Jesus was returned, the people gladly received him, for they were all waiting for him. And behold, there came a man named Jarus. And he was a ruler of the synagogue, and he fell down at Jesus' feet and besought him that he would come into his house. For he had only one daughter, about twelve years of age, and she lay a dying. But as he went, the people thronged him. Now we're going to deal with the entire content of this section, but I wanted to stop there just for sake of time. And I want to begin by looking at the chaos of this situation. And when I say chaos, we've got to recognize that when Jesus first came to this community some time before, the people were afraid of him. They were terrified. They didn't want him there. Because what we see in at the end of the section that we had just read last week, he takes a man who is possessed of demons And he he takes this man, he heals him, he makes him whole. The man is is released from that demonic oppression and possession. And he's clothed and in his right mind, he wants to follow Jesus. And Jesus tells him, No, you need to go back to your family and tell them what great things he's done for you. Well, when Jesus comes back, the people respond by by coming in massive droves and they want him to minister to them. And the reason is because they were a people who recognized not just what Jesus had done for the demoniac But they recognized who he was and what he could do for them. And so the the the gospel has made an advance into this Gentile community, primarily Gentile community, and it was a chaotic time. His ministry in the land of the Gatherings was messy. There were people everywhere. There was desperation. And you see this in verse 40. It says, When he came to pass Jesus returned and the people gladly received him. They were waiting for him. In verses 41 and 42, it says that there's a man named Jarius who comes. He's a ruler of the synagogue. He falls at Jesus' feet. He beseeches him that he would come into the house because he had one daughter, she's 12 years old, and she's dying. What do we see in these verses? We see people that are desperate. Now, you might say, well, hold on a second. You just mentioned that it was a Gentile community, and now we have the ruler of the synagogue coming. How does this all work out? Well just because it was a Gentile community doesn't mean it was only Gentiles who lived there. There were Jews. But I think it's fascinating that the first person Jesus comes in contact with, and the person who ultimately opens the door of this community, is not the ruler of the synagogue, Juris, but it's actually the demoniac. And I think that's significant because of the nature of the community that he's in. And it really shows you Christ's power and his compassion and his mercy as he works through the demoniac, not ultimately Jarius. But but notice the desperation of this man. He's a grown man, he's a ruler in the synagogue, and he comes to Jesus and he falls at his feet. He's desperate. He's hurting. He's grieving. He's afraid. He believes Jesus can help him. It says he besought him that he would come to the house. He's pleading with him. Jesus, please come. This is my only daughter. She's 12 years old. She's dying. She's going to die if you don't come. That's the sense of what's going on. Well the question is how did Jesus respond? Well in verse 42 it says that he went with the man, but the crowds thronged him. They were pressing on him. There were people all around him. They wanted access to Jesus. And in the midst of all of this chaos, there is a desperate woman who comes to Jesus and she doesn't speak with him. She just reaches out and she touches the hem of his garment because she believes that by doing that somehow She can be healed. Listen to what it says in verse 43. A woman having an issue of blood twelve years, which has spent all her living on physicians, neither could be healed of any, came behind him touched the border of his garments, and immediately her issue of blood was staunched. This woman was healed. Now what I'm trying to show you in these verses is the chaos of the moment. All these people pressing in on Jesus. And by the way, ministry is messy. If you want to see God working in people's lives, be prepared to rub shoulders with people who are hurting. who are desperate, whose lives are messy and going through difficulties. Christ was not afraid and he was not unwilling. He wasn't isolating himself. He walks into the midst. of all of this going on. But the second thing I want you to notice is not just the chaos of the moment, but the focused resolve of Christ to meet this man in his desperation. All of the noise and all of the needs and the aggressive behavior of the people, and the death of Jarius's daughter, which we will see in just a moment, it did not disrupt. God's ultimate purposes. He was focused and he was steadfast on helping this man. In verse 48 it says this Daughter, be of good comfort. Thy faith hath made thee whole. Go in peace. While he yet spake, there cometh one from the ruler of the synagogue's house, saying, Thy daughter is dead, trouble not the master. So Jesus is in the midst of this great group of people pressing on him. This woman has been healed, who touches the M of his garments. And when she does that, he has a conversation with her. And says, go in peace, your faith hath made you whole. And in the midst of all that, someone from the house comes to Jerusalem and says, You don't need to bring Jesus any further. The girl has died. I'm sorry. This is tragic, but it's over. There's nothing more that can be done. Now pause for a moment When that man said that, or whoever the person was that came out to see Jesus, did Jesus go, oh, my purpose is done. What am I going to do? I can't heal this woman because she has died and now it's over. Is that what Jesus did? Was he surprised? Was he caught off guard? Well the answer is it was none of those things. He knew exactly what was going to happen. In fact, when we see a parallel situation, we look at the story of Lazarus. Jesus literally waits for several days after Lazarus is sick and they have sent people to Jesus to say, Come and heal him, he's sick, your friend, the person you love. He purposefully waits so that he would die and he would be buried and he would be entombed for a period of time before he came. Why? Because he wasn't just going to heal a man who was sick. He was going to demonstrate his power over death by the resurrection of Lazarus. He did the exact same thing with this woman, Jerusal's daughter. Everything appeared to be lost, but Jesus was still in control. He still persisted in his purpose. And in verse 50 it says, when Jesus heard it, he answered and said, Fear not, believe only, she shall be made whole. Well, when they came to the house in verse fifty three it says that when Jesus said she's only sleeping, the people laughed him to scorn. knowing that she was dead. They mocked him. They didn't believe that he could actually raise her back to life. Now pause for a moment. If Jesus has the power to heal, doesn't he also have the power to raise from the dead? Well the answer is of course he does. And he's going to demonstrate that. But the way he's going to demonstrate that is very interesting in this text. When you consider what we just read last week and how he took this man who was possessed of demons and how he healed him, he did this work in privacy. And I think that this is an important detail for us to not miss when we talk about the story. Here's what it says. In verse 51, when he came into the house, he suffered no man to go in save Peter. and James and John, and the father and the mother that was with him. In verse fifty six it says he charged them that they should tell no man what had been done. Do you see the contrast between the demoniac And the raising of Jerusal's daughter. Jesus tells the family, don't tell anyone what's happened. But the demoniac he says, no, go back to your family. And tell them what great things you have done. I have done for you. The question is, well why? Why does he tell one person to broadcast this and the other person he says, don't say anything? It's because his motive was different. The motive, and by the way, when I say it was different, it wasn't entirely different on every single level. It was the mercy of God that takes the demoniac and the one who is possessed of demons and he heals him And it was his mercy and kindness and compassion and love that did the same thing for Jarius' daughter, that heals her or brings her back to life. But there was another dynamic to the demoniac. Jesus was not only doing this out of compassion and love and mercy and grace, but he was doing it because it was through this man he was going to reach the community. And by the way, you could even argue that it was through the demoniac that Jarius knows who Jesus is and asked him to come to his house. There's even a connection there. But the reason that Jesus goes into this man's house And tells everyone to leave, and he raises his daughter back to life with purely his kindness and his mercy and his love. You know what that shows us? It shows us his compassion Jesus did not heal and raise this woman back to life because he wanted to make a name for himself in that moment or because he was trying to give this evidence to all in the community of his power over life and death. That wasn't it It was compassion. It was the answer of prayer. And that ought to bring you comfort because that is the character of our Savior. You might say, well, Joel, what can we learn from it? Let me give you some simple thoughts in closing. Christ deliberately worked in this situation. He was deliberate And he was measured in how he dealt with every person in the story. And he's the same way with you and with me. He knows what's going on, he has his purposes. He is methodical. He is going to accomplish his purposes even as we vacillate and go up and down through the whole circumstance. The second one. Disruptions and setbacks do not matter to God. Now they matter to us. If we're trying to control a situation and we have a setback, we think it's all lost. It's all over. It's not the way it worked for Jesus The setback meant nothing. It did not disrupt his plans in any way. He is sovereign. He is solidly in control. And we can take great comfort in that. Third, his primary motive was compassion. I think I've already laid that out, and I think that it's very apparent in the text. He did this to answer the prayer of Jarius because he is a merciful God. And lastly, his mercy was the direct answer to Jarius's humble and passionate request. I don't want to give you the impression in these lessons that we should not ask for healing in situations. The reason we have a prayer list and we pray for those who are weak and those who are sick and those who are infirm is not just for them to have wisdom. and strength and grow uh mature maturity and and and and have a opportunity to to share and invest in other people. Those are part. But we also have them on our prayer list because we're praying that God will heal them And we absolutely should do that, but we should also recognize that that particular matter falls under the sovereign purposes of God. And sometimes it is his will to heal in that moment, and sometimes it is not. But we know that his will is always For us to draw on his grace and his strength. It is always for us to mature in our perspective. It is always for us to become more like Christ. It is always for us not to shrink back. and to hide in the shadows, but to engage with others and use that as an opportunity to minister to others. But We absolutely should pray. The reason that Jesus answered the prayer was his compassion, and it's because Jarius humbled himself and passionately said, God, have mercy on my daughter. I hope that this has been a challenge to you this morning. I love this passage. It is very encouraging. It is a great text to remind us of how God views us when we suffer. If this has been a blessing or an encouragement to you, please share that. And Lord willing, tomorrow we will continue with a kind of a synopsis of everything that we've talked about. Have a blessed day. Bye now.