Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church this morning, and I know it's not the loveliest weather outside, but I'm so glad that you've been able to join us this morning for our morning worship service. And before we start our service, I did want to have a moment of silent reflection. Twenty-one years ago today, our nation was ruthlessly attacked. September 11th. You probably remember where you were on that day, if you were old enough to remember at that time. Because it's something that really shaped the last 20 years of our lives as a nation and even for many of you as individuals. And we need to be sobered by what is going on in the world at all times. We should rest in the providence of God, his protection. We should be grateful for those who are willing to continually uh be at work in defense of our nation for our own security sake. And um we should also just rest in the fact that God is always at work. And we can trust him. So let's have a moment of silence, and then we will get into a couple of our events that are coming up. Let me remind you of a couple of things that we have going on this week. First of all, tonight we have a farewell fellowship for the Macaulay family. And we're also kind of blending that with our team's inspiration. So after the evening service, we'll go back to the fellowship hall and just have a time of fellowship together And also uh just uh let them know we're gonna be praying for them and we're gonna miss them. They're uh they've been a real blessing in the time they've been here. And um I'm just thankful for your family. So good to have the Harveys with us today. We miss you guys too. Several years ago they moved out west. Also, I want to remind you that there's a church startup in Baltimore, Baltimore Baptist, and yesterday several of us got to go into the city and uh give out invitations for uh their starting services tomorrow night. Uh we'll be taking a van up there. So if anyone's interested in going up to the city with us for that meeting, please let me know. We'll leave here probably around the 6. 15 time period, maybe a little earlier, but right in that time. Also on Tuesday night We'll be going to the Baltimore Rescue Mission. So again, let us know if you're planning to go to that. Also, we have a college and career activity on Friday. And we've been meeting here at the church. This week we will start meeting back at our family's house. So that's in Severn. The address will be in the church app. under the event. If you don't know, just reach out to us and we'll let you know where that is. But I'm looking forward to a great time. The weather's getting a little bit cooler and it'll be really good. We also have men's breakfast coming up on the 24th. And we've been doing our griddle night. Now we're going to do a breakfast. So mark that on your calendars guys. Please sign up for that if you can. That's always a really, really good time of fellowship, not just for our men, but also for our young men, our boys as well. If you could, let's uh turn in our Bibles to our opening scripture. Our opening scripture is Psalm 145. Psalm 145. Here's what the word of the Lord says. It says, I will extol thee, my God, O King. I will bless thy name forever and ever. Every day will I bless thee, I will praise thy name forever and ever. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. His greatness is unsearchable. One generation shall praise thy works to another and shall declare thy mighty acts. I will speak of the glorious honor of thy majesty, of thy wondrous works. Men shall speak of the might of thy terrible acts. I will declare thy greatness. They shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great goodness and shall sing of thy righteousness. The Lord is gracious. And full of compassion, slow to anger, and of great mercy. The Lord is good to all. His tender mercies are over all his works This morning we're going to focus on God's plans for his children, and we'll be talking a lot about our sanctification. We'll be talking a lot about how God matures us and grows us into Christ's likeness. And some of the implications of that. So I hope that this service will be very encouraging to you, helpful, challenging as well. Let's be all together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our service this morning. Father, we're so grateful that in the midst of all the troubles and turmoils of life, we can come to a place of rest. A place of encouragement, a place of strength. And that place is rooted firmly in you. Father, as we think about the events that happened 21 years ago, We're reminded of how frail we are, not just as individuals, but even as a nation. We recognize how dangerous the world is And we're reminded that it is your tender care and your compassion that preserves us and strengthens us as your people Father, as we open up the Word this morning, I pray you'd speak to our hearts in a very impactful way. Help us understand the weight and the significance of these truths Father, be with those in our midst who carry burdens. You know them. I pray that you will strengthen them, that they will see very clear evidences of your work in their lives. I thank you for those who are visiting with us this morning. May they be encouraged by the fellowship. And time and your word. Father, I pray that everything that's done this morning would bring honor to you and would strengthen your people. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you for joining us for worship here at Anchor Baptist Church. Please stand with me and open your hymn books To hymn number eighty one, a mighty fortress is our God. Hymn number eighty one will sing all four verses All my people are traveling by God never tell me. I love what we are, I 'm not going to prevent him for Still our ancient ball does seek to work us price and power grace and on Let 's go ahead on a lot of we and our straight hot When I thought I fell on our shoulders. That faster that makes me Christ is as met me more than. Promise to age the same, and we must let the And the war with devil, such as due us, we were not fear for God. The Press of Darkness Rhym Which runs on our For love is down and store One little word sat him That word above all earthly past No thank it The Biden, the spirit and the guitar went up Sidder. Life got I can break God this water life, the body make help. God 's birth bidness down , his kingdom forever Great singing. Let's turn over to hymn number 483. Like a river glorious. 483. We'll sing all three verses. Like a gloria is God 's perfect peace. Overall and tor, and it's bright and pretty Perfect Death and Flow. All of everything perfect yet deep away State of I 'm sorry, I drop only Binding as the farmers , pak me sadvan Never bong and fall, never straight on stand Not us up. Nada straight up can of reason. State upon falling blast by being as if Perfect peace advance, every joy or trial falling from upon. Trace upon our day off We may trust and For us to They who trust employ Find employee truth stay up On the common voice for lip , by the Amen. Please be seated as we turn over to hymn number five hundred seventy-seven. Be strong in the Lord. Five seventy-seven. We'll sing all three verses. Be strong in the morning. And we are gonna have your mighty dependent always a fame, mouth of wet wings and eat. No what the victor when you call his name. Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord. And be our God for rest, for he is your God. Peace wrong, peace wrong, peace wrong in the Lord. Let me join more than so far. Some dehonour the Lord has provided a place on defense and God we can trust and for him. He will be with you when battle, lighting your path to one boy, Christopher Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and be of good service for him. Your guide, be strong. Be strong, be strong in the Lord, and rejoice for the victory of yours. Be strong in the Lord and be of good progress, your mighty commander will be blessed the fall. Fear not the battle for the victory and always in He will prospect you wherever you go Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and be a God -current for yeah, your guide, be strong. Be strong, we strong in the Lord, and rejoice for the victory is all Great singing. Our scripture reading for this morning will be found in the Gospel of Luke chapter 6. Luke chapter 6, and we'll be reading verses 22 and 23. Luke chapter 6. Verses twenty-two and twenty-three. The scriptures say Blessed are ye when men shall hate you. And when they shall separate you from their company, and shall reproach you, and cast out your name as evil for the Son of Man's sake. Rejoice ye in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven, for in like manner did their fathers unto the prophets May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Alright, we're going to continue our singing. 478. 478. When peace like a remember contend, when storms like sleep fell on. It 's why I'm Pues muestro Enteras Enter España es como The el mundo. same as the try my first I'm sure that Christmas has recognized my face and have friends. Thank you for my soul if it 's w With my soul et moi , et moi le soir. My sense of the blessed area. But our through the cross and by belly no more Prêt, bah non, non, non, prenez. It is well with my soul. And Lord hates my day when my faith shall be spied, but I will back Rat us from the trump sal and the Lord said in the soul. Take it one of your way , my followers are With my soul it 's white , as well with my soul. Alright, our final song for this morning. Please stand with me and open your blue books to hymn number 93. Number 93 in the blue book, bow the knee. We'll sing both verses. Let's have the instruments drop on that last chorus What a prevalence to come into God's presence, just to linger with the one who set me free As I lift my eyes and see his awesome glory, I remember who he is and bow the knee. Bhavani, he is king of all the agent bhavani, God alone with God. See him by a letter of the father will be for him on a for him As you live to love and more, bow the knee. In his height, behold the power of creation With his voice he spoke and all things came to be. Yes, he hears a simple prayer I bring before him When I humbly seek his face and bow the king. Father me, bather me He is king of all the angels, father me. God alone on his son. See him by lifted up and bow the knee. Kneel before him, all of him As you learn to love him more by me. Amen. Great singing. Please be seated. I hope it's still cry nothing for just I did not trust God in this thing, but for me God is the same. One Christmas holiday brought nice hand, for other crown is sneaking sad, for other ground is sinking sad. When charging failed, it was we face our money in unchanging grace. God prize the solar brothers and all other clouds in thinking so all other clouds is seeking And he shall call it all this down, so they are in his foundation , right? And it 's one day for the time for the family if you Your church, you can be dismissed to the back to your class. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together back to the book of Luke. We're in Luke chapter 6, and we are looking at verses 22 and 23 this morning. Again, that's Luke chapter 6, verses 22 through 23. And I don't know if you got the sense of our service this morning, but the focus really is on God's care and God's protection and God's deliverance. And how when we recognize God's power and we recognize His rule over our lives, we can find tremendous comfort. And I think about that song that we sang that talks about uh having peace like a river in our soul. Think about that song. the the fact that uh we can rest in God's providence. That is really the sense of what I want us to see this morning. But as we do that, we need to think of it in the light of a very difficult passage of Scripture when it comes to what it's communicating. about what it's like to live in a fallen world, what it's like to be identified with Christ in a world where people despise him. That's really what the focus of our attention is this morning. So let's read again Luke chapter 6. And we're looking at verses 22 and 30, 23. Here's what it says. Blessed are ye when men shall hate you. When they shall separate you from their company, I shall reproach you and cast out your name as evil for the Son of Man's sake. Rejoice ye in that day, leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven. For in like manner did their fathers unto the prophets. Now when we read these verses, you might say, Pastor, I don't see really a whole lot of encouragement for me in these particular verses. This is kind of a nature, a negative passage of scripture. It's talking about People hating you and separating themselves from you, reproaching your name. And by the way, we are going to talk a little bit about what those things actually mean. of a world that is antagonistic towards the Christian worldview, but not just the Christian worldview, the Christian who holds the Christian worldview. But what's very in interesting about this passage is it doesn't just give you that negative side, but it says that a person who's experiencing this, and he's very specific about what the cause of this particular difficulty is, this person is not just going to be blessed, But the person already is blessed. And so we're going to talk about that this morning. To do that, what I'd like to do is begin with a kind of a summation of what these verses are saying. Christ is reminding us in these verses, and specifically his disciples. But their allegiance to him is going to cost them something in this life. It's going to set them at odds with people who despise him. That's a really important thing for the disciple of Christ to understand. He's not just saying these are people who hate you because you're a difficult person to interact with or because you're being provocative. The reason they hate you is because of your identity. And your identity is rooted in Christ. And it's not just rooted in Christ in the sense that that this is a positional truth, but we're actually seeing it play out in a person's life. It's shaping the way they think, it's shaping the way they talk, it's shaping the way that they react to people and sick situations, it shapes their values. All of those things are really rooted in the person's position in Christ. When the world hates Christ The world hates those who embrace who Christ is. And they embrace Christ's authority. And they embrace what Christ is doing in the world. So it's very important for us to understand this principle. The Christian life is a life that involves an element of resting. It also it has an element of of of enduring in it as well. And you say, Well, how does endurance and resting go together? Well They do because you're looking at different truths that come together in the way the believer experiences hardship, but also rests in Christ. So I want us to kind of analyze that together this morning. God wants us as his people to rejoice in our Christian identity, even when it costs us something. And most certainly It can, perhaps it actually has, or it actually is, or it's going to for you as an individual this morning. So in order for us to understand this concept, I want us to begin By examining the world's antagonism towards the Christian worldview. In fact, there are many, many scriptures that I could go to that communicate this concept The reality that the world hates God. You might say, well, the world doesn't hate God. The world might not know him and not appreciate him like we do, but the world hates God. Well, when I read these scriptures, I think you're going to see that the scripture couldn't be any clearer about the issue. The world actually hates God. For instance, in Psalm 2, it says this in verse number 1. Why do the heathen rage? And by the way, that that's an old word that's really saying the nations that don't know God. So from the perspective of the Jewish people, when this psalm was written, they're thinking, everybody that's outside of those who know God, these people rage. The people imagine a vain thing. That's a very descriptive term. This morning in our Sunday school time, we were working through what's going on in the heart of a person who is uh who is evil in what's going on in their heart and the way they express it. And one of the things that we saw about it is that this is a person who's continually plotting evil This is a person that can't even sleep at night because of all the plans and schemes that are going on in their heart. They they align themselves with people that can get involved in their their their their dealings of what they're going to do. He says that the heathen rage and they imagine a vain thing. He then says this. The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord. Did you see what he's saying? That means very powerful people, the most powerful people in all of the world In their hatred against God, they plan and they scheme and they work together for how they can resist his authority. And by the way, this isn't just describing a disposition. This is actually describing the way people live their lives, what they're actually trying to accomplish. Another example. John chapter 15 and verse 18, he says, If the world hate you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you, because they know not him that sent me. Now, these verses are describing a conversation that Jesus had with his disciples when he's preparing them for the reality he's about to go to the cross. He's trying to help them to understand that they're going to see a vicious evil antagonism from people in their city who are going to ultimately send Christ to the cross. And he's basically saying the kind of hatred that you're seeing in people toward me when I'm going to the cross, you need to recognize That exact same hatred is actually going to be channeled toward you when you're representing me to the world. That's a stunning thing to consider. His point is Christian, don't be shocked when there is an incredible animosity, not just toward your Savior, but toward what you represent in your identity with him. I want to go on to say something else. This animosity that the world has for God, for the gospel, and for God's people who are faithfully trying to walk in submission to his ways. It's irrational. Now I didn't say that it can't be explained. I'm going to show you it can be explained, but it doesn't make sense. And let me break it down to you this way: every single thing that the world really wants. It can be found ultimately in God, but they don't want it from Him. They don't want it through His means. Let me give you some examples of what I'm talking about. Do people want to be valued? Everybody wants to be valued. You want to be treated as someone who has value. In fact, a lot of the the frustrations and the struggles and the difficulties that go on on interpersonal relationships is people say, I'm not being valued. A wife says to her husband, I'm not being valued. A husband says to his wife, I'm not being valued. A kid says to their parent, I'm not being valued. It goes into so many different areas. The world wants to be valued But in the secular worldview, there is no basis for a person to have value. But there is in the Christian worldview. Because the scripture tells us in Genesis 2 that God formed man from the dust to the ground. He breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and he became a living soul. He was created in the image of God. Christ went to the cross for you and for me when we were rebels against him. You cannot have a greater value ascribed to a person than what the scripture gives them. And in the Christian worldview, what people want to be valued, it's found. But they want it in other places. People want to have a clear conscience. How many people have so many internal problems because their conscience is so troubled? They want to find a way to find rest in their soul and peace and satisfaction. You think about the woman at the well. Such a restless person. She wanted to find some satisfaction from all of her troubles. She found it in all the wrong places. Yet in 1 John chapter 1 it says, if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. The truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. So the believer who is a sinner can look at the cross of Christ and say, while I've sinned against the holy and righteous God. While my conscience is troubled in so many ways, while there's so much restlessness in my heart, I see the cross of Christ and it's paid in full. I look at the cross of Christ and I can have a clear conscience because Jesus paid for my sins. He's forgiven me. He's cleansed me. He accepts me on the basis of the work of Christ. I have clarity in my mind. I'm not saying every Christian has clarity in his mind, but every Christian can. Every Christian, God wants you to have it. What the world wants, the Christian worldview gives it to them. Yet a secular worldview doesn't give them that. What makes something actually wrong in the eyes of a secular person? This this uh this week I was reading an article. I was talking about a bill that's going on in the Senate. And the bill in the Senate is trying to codify on the federal level gay marriage. And this is the statement the article made. There are senators who are concerned that this bill is going to legalize polygamy. And I asked myself the question. Why do they care? What is the basis of the difference between polygamy and gay marriage? Because they're both a violation of God's design for marriage. So if you reject what God has created and the value that he's ascribed and the bounds that he's given to it, then nothing else is wrong, right? Everything is open for debate. The bottom line is what they're really saying is the conscience of our culture isn't willing to accept this yet, but we have no basis to exclude it. My point is simply this. The secular worldview gives us no basis for morality. No basis for values. It gives us no basis for a clear conscience. It gives us no basis for forgiveness and grace and mercy. If you reject what God gives in His Word, you have no basis for any of those things, while you may long for them. People want their work to have a lasting value. You know, it's so troubling as we live our lives, we look at 20 years, it's gone, and we go, Whew, what do I have to show for that period of time? Well imagine when we get to a stage in life we look back and go, I don't have another 20 years ahead of me. What do I have to look back over my entire life? I want something that was built that has real lasting value The world wants that. They want to build something that actually lasts. They want to build something that they can say that has real value to it. And I asked the question: what lasts in a world that's dying? What has real value unless it's described ascribed value by someone who is above it and beyond it? Yet in the Christian worldview we have a basis for our work actually mattering. First Corinthians chapter fifteen verse fifty-seven. Paul writes, Thanks be to God which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. He's talking about the cross, he's talking about the resurrection, and he says, if there's no resurrection Then we're a miserable people. We have absolutely nothing. But I have good news for you. There is a resurrection. And so there's value to what we're doing. And the application is, therefore, be steadfast and movable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. So as a believer, when I take my mind and I invest it in the advancement of the kingdom of God, and I take the skills and the strengths and all those things, and I invest them in noble, godly purposes, I'm actually being used by God to build something of value. It's an incredible thing to consider. The world wants that. The Christian worldview gives it. People want hope when they suffer. There's nothing more universal to humanity than the fact that we all suffer. It's just really not. We all suffer, we will suffer, we have suffered That's the way that a fallen world operates. And people want hope in the midst of that. And I asked the question: what hope do you give someone who believes they're just fairy dust? Who believes there's no eternity? Who believes that they're just another form of animal living in this world? What kind of hope do you give to them when they're suffering? Because all they have is the pain that they're experiencing in the moment. What redemptive encouragement can you give them? If you can think of one, tell me, because I don't know of any. I really don't This week I was having a conversation with a gentleman at one of the places where I'm a chaplain, one of the businesses. He's a believer He has a very close friend who passed away and he gave the eulogy. And as we were having this conversation, we were talking about this very concept. That it's because there's a gospel that though we sorrow, we do not sorrow as those without hope. And so in Romans chapter 8 he says, I reckon That the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. The encouragement is connected to the gospel. and the future glorification of God's people and our eternal blessings that are awaiting us as his people. People want second chances. One of the things that to me is so troubling about the secular worldview these days is that there's no hope of redemption for people. When you blow it as a goofy 18-year-old or 17-year-old or 22-year-old on social media, that post, that thread is going to follow you till the day you die. And when somebody wants to destroy you, they're gonna pull it up and they're gonna stick it in the face of everybody that has affirmed you in whatever you're doing, and they're gonna do everything in their power to destroy you. Am I correct about this? It's true. We are all sinful people and we all blow it at times. And I'm thankful for God's grace. I'm thankful for forgiveness. I'm thankful for the cross. In Ephesians chapter 2, it says, God who is rich in mercy for his great love wherewith he loved us even when we were dead in sins hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace you're saved. Hath raised us up together, made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. The heart of the gospel is we are sinners. We have absolutely no ability to establish a righteousness that God accepts. We are all living lives that are at enmity with God, and His incredible grace pursues us in our blindness. And pursues us in our deadness. He gives us a free gift that is entirely rooted in the work of the Lord Jesus. The world wants redemption, and I ask, what is the basis of your redemption? Without the cross, there is none. Lastly, people want to have good relationships. And I tell you that people fight and bicker and complain and there's contention all over the world, on every single level. And you know what the real hope is for people? is that the gospel changes them and the people that they're bickering and fighting and complaining with because that is the only basis for which they can have a thriving relationship. Colossians chapter 3 says, put on vows of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long suffering, forbearing one another, forgiving one another. As Christ forgave you, so do ye also. Let the peace of God rule in your hearts. Those verses tell us that relationships thrive where the gospel is elevated. Why do I say all this? I say this to say the fact that the world hates the Christian worldview is irrational. There's no reason That a person who's thinking clearly should hate such a good message. Such a good news, such a redemptive message. But I can explain to you why the world hates the good news. It's because we're all born with a bias against God by nature. Romans 8 says it this way: the carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. So that they that are in the flesh cannot please God I think when a lot of people read this verse, they try to kind of like clean it up a little bit. Like they just struggle a little bit. They try hard and sometimes they do it. It's clear. They cannot please God. Cannot please God. There's no hope. They're incapable of it. They cannot follow God's perfect righteous standards. They are not capable of it. Romans 1 chap verse 18 it says that men hold the truth in unrighteousness and that literally means that as the truth is before them, they take it and they press it down and they ignore it and they say, I don't want this. And they ask the question why? It's because of unrighteousness in the heart. The reason people take the truth and they press it and they push it away is because they have a hatred for what is true. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 3, it says we all had our conversation the way we lived in times past, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and we were by nature the children of wrath. By nature. We didn't learn how to be antagonistic toward God. We are antagonistic toward God It's an amazing concept. I'll put it like this. People want the things that God can give on their own terms. Without his authority, while people glory in their own righteousness, they fall miserably short of God's perfect standard. That's why the world hates God. Because while what he has to give is good, it's desirable, they have an internal bias against it. Anyone who has embraced the gospel and is being visibly changed by it is both attractive in one sense and offensive in another. There are people in the world who will look at how your life has been transformed by the gospel and they'll say, I wish I had that. I wish I had that comfort. I wish I had that that subtleness in my soul. I wish that my character had the same kind of character that you have. And then when you say, well, here is the this is the key to it all, they go, oh. I don't know about that. I heard a story of a of a friend who he was uh his friend was work a man in his church was working remotely. And on this thread, there was a lot of hatred being channeled towards Christians. In fact, uh in that particular group of these are all peers working together. an individual who loved dearly my friend's uh church member, this guy had been a mentor to him, he'd been an incredible encouragement to him. He's somebody that he really looked up to. In the thread he said, out of all the people I despise the most It's these evangelical Christians. And my pastor friend, and I, by the way, this is not to get into the whole conversation about evangelical Christians, alright? But this is what my friend said. His church member called me and said, what's going to happen when I tell this man I am a born-again Christian? What's going to happen? The point that I'm trying to make here, and I think the point that the scriptures make very clearly, is that as somebody is changed by the gospel , There is both an attractiveness that begins to develop, and there's also an animosity that's established by those who don't want it. While the world is living for the moment, Christians are living beyond the moment. While the world rejects Christ's authority, Christians are submitting to Christ's authority. While the world glories in their own righteousness, the Christian glories in the grace of God and the righteousness of Christ. That's the sense. I want to look at a second truth though. There are many rich blessings that we enjoy in our Christian identity. And this verse, or these two verses, are gonna draw our attention to some of those, not all of them, but many of them. Negatively, he states it this way. He says, blessed are you when men shall hit you, when they shall separate from you. from your c separate you from their company when you when they shall reproach you and cast out your name as evil for the son of man's sake. Now that's stated in an extremely negative way. He does say you're a blast But then he gives a bunch of negative things. The world hates you. It means that they have this utter disdain for you. Maybe one of the best examples of this is how the Apostle Paul thought about Christians before his conversion. He had an incredible disdain for these people. He wanted to stamp out everything that they represented. He says that they're going to separate themselves from you. They're actively working to exclude you It may be that you've heard a story, or maybe you're starting to get this sense that because people have discovered that I'm a Christian and I hold certain viewpoints. And I may not be antagonistic toward anybody about my viewpoint. I'm even kind of holding it to myself in some ways. I'm really, really gentle about this issue. I'm starting to get this sense That there's like this stuff building around me. And all of a sudden you start going, I've noticed that I'm not being treated the way I used to be treated by these people. He's talking about that. They reproach you, the ideas that they rail against you with vicious insults. Maybe one of the clearest ways that we will see this is if we were to get on social media. Social media is a really toxic location. But the fact is that if you kind of scroll through some of the posts of what people will say about certain viewpoints, you go, whoa. That is really, really hateful. There's an incredible animosity. And so when he talks about them reproaching the eyes, there's this railing with a viciousness. Against you because of your identity with Christ. It says they cast you out. The idea is they're actively working to destroy your reputation. Jesus is stating that there are people that this is their experience. Now, this may not right now be your experience. You might be starting to get the sense that it could become your experience. Maybe this has been your experience. But the reality is that many, many Christians throughout all of church history have experienced the hatred of the world, the world excluding them, reproaching them, casting them out. And it was not because they were hateful people. It's because of their allegiance to Christ, their submission to his authority. It's because they have a worldview that is shaped by the Bible. That's the negative side. On the positive side, he affirms something that is very, very sweet. He says, Rejoice ye in that day, leap for joy. Behold, your reward is great in heaven. For in like manner did their fathers unto the prophets. There are three things in these verses that he says that are extremely positive. They're extremely encouraging. First of all, he says that you are blessed. He doesn't say you're going to be blessed. He is going to make that statement. But he says, you are blessed now. He says, you have a great future reward. Behold, your reward is great in heaven. He's anticipating something to come He says you're identified with a great company in like manner did their fathers under the prophets. Sometimes it's very helpful for us to read church history. To read about what missionaries in the past experienced, what Christian teachers have experienced, what people living in times of persecution have experienced. And by the way, persecution is not just a Roman Empire time period where all that happened during the Middle Ages. That's something that's happened in every generation of Christianity. Some of the most vicious persecutions have taken place in the last 50 to 100 years. He says, you are blessed. You have a future reward. And you're identified with a long group of people that were identified with me and they suffered. That's the positive. So here's the question. What are the implications of what he's saying? Let me give you a few that I thought about as I reflected on this. The first is this We have both a present and eternal relationship with God. And that relationship is something that gives us a blessed and vibrant position. This relationship is fundamentally shaping us as people. When we talk about sanctification, God doesn't just say, I forgive you and I declare you righteous. He forgives us He declares us righteous. He separates us unto himself, and then he works from that moment to progressively grow us and mature us into sanctification. So the longer I live as a Christian, the more and more I begin to look like Christ. Not as Physical, okay? But his character, how he thinks, how he responded. Christ's likeness is the whole goal of sanctification. So if somebody has animosity towards me because of my identity with Christ, that means that there's evidence that I'm being changed into his image. You understand that? We aren't living in isolation. Throughout church history, there have been generations that have had the attitude Okay, the best way to serve and please God is to sort of like go live in a commune away from the world and all of its evil, and we'll just, you know, read the Bible, copy the scriptures Pray for endless hours. God created us to serve Him in this world. He gave us skills and gifts so that we can actually serve our neighbor. God wants us to actually rub shoulders with people around us who don't know him Who hate him, who reject him. If a person is experiencing this kind of hardship, he's in Christ, he's growing in Christ, and he's actually interacting with people So that they can see the evidence of that identity. Another aspect is that a person is enduring. So if someone's persecuting, that means rather than me just like caving in, I'm I'm actually standing strong. In fact, that is sometimes The issue that is the most enraging to the world is that the believer is living consistently with the worldview that they despise. And as it becomes more vicious, they become stronger. They can't make sense of that We're being sustained by both our present position and our future reward. Those are the implications that I think are built into this passage. So that leads me to a final thought. How do we apply the text? We don't invite people to persecute us, okay? Hey, I'm a Christian, come give me a hard time. No, no, no, no, no. That's not what he's suggesting. He's certainly not suggesting that we're supposed to look around and go, well, look at us. We're the righteous people and your guys are, you know, you're pagans. Your worldview is inconsistent. And all of a sudden we begin to become puffed up in pride and self-right. That's not the way that we should walk away from this passage. This passage is meant to encourage us when we do suffer. Not to encourage a self-righteous us versus them mindset, but to sustain us when we are burdened by the pressures that we experience in the world. I don't know about you, but there are times That I am content and I'm happy and I'm settled in my heart. And there are times that I'm fearful and I'm troubled and I'm discouraged and I'm weary and I get very negative and I say there's no future Anybody kind of like that? This passage is for us when we're like that. This passage is for us when we're like Elijah, and we say, nobody serves you but me. And God says Hold on a second. Let me kind of like tell you what's going on in this country. It's actually a lot of people who've never found the knee to bail. You just don't know them. You're forgetting about them We have no idea what this country will look like in fifty years. People lived before the Reformation that had no concept of how the gospel would transform Europe for hundreds of years and affect Western culture. They had no clue about that. People had no clue that the Iron Curtain was going to lift in 1986, okay? They weren't predicting that. I don't know, maybe some people were, but a lot worse. You don't know where you stand in church history This is to help the burdened and the weary and the discouraged and the frustrated and the fearful to recognize God has blessed them and he will bless them. It's to encourage us. It's to give us a soul-stabilizing encouragement of hope. There are times in the Christian experience when we need God to just come alongside of us. and remind us of truth in his word and strengthen us internally by his spirit. That's the point of this passage. So ask them questions. First of all, are you a Christian? I don't mean like a nominal cultural Christian, like, oh, I grew up in church. I got baptized when I was a little baby. Oh yeah, I have a Bible in my house. I'm asking, do you know the Lord personally? Have you placed your faith in the finished work of Christ, his righteousness? His death on the cross that paid the full penalty for your sins. He bore the wrath of God's justice against my sin. Have you placed your faith in the Lord Jesus alone? Resting in his resurrection. Is that relationship with God fundamentally shaping you as a person? If it's not, You have a couple of problems you need to consider. You need to ask the question, have I really understood the gospel? You ought to ask the question, why am I not growing in the Lord? Have you withdrawn unnecessarily from the world into isolation? Frankly, when the world gets tough, the monk's life actually is kind of appealing. I mean that's kind of like like what living off the grid? Like these people were the ultimate homesteaders, right? I mean like that's a very attractive lifestyle when the world's really getting hard on Christians. But God wants us to interact with people. He wants us to engage them in conversation. He wants our lives to be vulnerable before them to some level. He wants them to see the power of the gospel and how it shaped our thinking and shaped our worldview and changed us as a person. Why have we withdrawn if we have? How are we processing the antagonism around us? I think it's very easy for us to become very isolationist thinking when we are experiencing hardship, to be to basically feel like, woe is me, and I'm the only person that's standing for truth. The fact is, every believer living in a fallen world may very well experience this at some time. So here's some resolutions. First of all, what purpose is submit to God's transforming process? If you're saved, the Spirit of God is changing you progressively into the image of Christ. That is the primary work God is doing in you. Let's know the scriptures so that we can actually live in the light of them. You might say, let's know what we believe and why we believe it. And let's make sure that what we believe is biblical. We need to grow in our ability to articulate and to defend sound doctrine. We need to live lives that are consistent with The Christian worldview. We need to be courageous when the pressures around us become very vicious. We need to rejoice in God's goodness. We need to endure as seeing Him who is invisible. I am convinced that the generation of young people living today are going to be a lot more spiritually strong Those who are truly saved, those who are serious about serving God, they're gonna be stronger and more mature spiritually than their parents were. And I'll tell you why. Because they're gonna go through a process that's tougher than we did. I believe that. There are certain Christian viewpoints that we never felt compelled to articulate when we were kids. We didn't think it was necessary. Christian young people growing up today are going to become very skillful and very strong and very bold in their ability to articulate on these issues. When we look at church history, you can almost tell what was going on by what Christians debated and what Christians made statements about. And so whenever there was a controversy of some sort, people flushed it out and people articulated this issue so that the Christians of their day would say, here's the truth. We have issues like that today. We ought to give everything we can and prayer for this generation coming up, an investment of time and energy and instruction. of this group. We need to encourage them and come alongside of them because the truth is when it all flushes out, if we are not at the end of church history, this is the generation. That this country will be rebuilt on. I believe that. As all of these Chaotic viewpoints that we are living through right now, as they flush themselves out and what is true becomes clear again, the question is who will build a nation again? It will build a civilization again. It'll be the people that endured that process. So pray for your kids. Pray for your grandkids. Invest in them. We need to be a people who recognize the need to endure and the need to rest in God. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father in heaven, we are so grateful that when we have our greatest seasons Of discouragement and frustration. We are reminded that you're a sovereign God. You are a good God. Your wisdom is far beyond our limited and feeble comprehension. Father, help us to be a generation of believers who endure the challenges of living in the generation that we live in. Help us to be thoroughly biblical. Help us to be strong. Help us to be vibrant. Help us to rub shoulders with people who have completely different worldviews. And are even antagonistic and hateful towards the truth. Help us to invest in our children so that there is a generation that is strong and is vibrant And as these issues play out in our culture, these will be the future of the station. This will be the future of the church. Father, I pray for our kids. I pray for our teenagers. I pray for our young adults. Father, help us to take to heart these very, very powerful truths May you strengthen us as your people through the word this morning. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, if you could. I'd like to ask you to take out your hymn books and let's turn to our closing hymn, hymn number 99. Shelter in the time of storm, and he is Our shelter. And there are always storms. Can't predict them all. Thankfully, we don't encounter all the storms we think are coming. But when there is a storm, we rest in him. Let's stand together. Let's sing it out. 99, a shelter in the time of storm. We're going to sing all the verses, please. The Lord our rock, in him we hide A shelter in the time of storm Secure whatever he 'll be tied, a shelter in the time of storm. Oh Jesus is a rock in a weary land. A weary land, a weary land, oh Jesus is a rock in a weary land, a shelter in the Time of storm, a shade by day, defense by night, a shelter in the time of storm, no fears alarm, no bows of right. A shelter in the time of storm. Oh Jesus is the rock in a weary land. A weary land, a weary land. Oh Jesus is the rock in a weary land. We lack a shelter in the time of storm The raging storms around us be a shelter in the time of storm never leaves Oh Jesus is a rock in a weary land, a weary land, a weary land, oh Jesus. This is the rock in a weary land, a shelter in the time of storm on the wast, Oh rock, divine, oh refuge here, shelter in the time of storm. Thou our helper ever near, a shelter in the time of storm. Oh Jesus The rock in a weary land, a weary land, a weary land, Oh Jesus is the rock in a weary land, a shelter in the time of storm. Well, I hope that it's been an encouragement to be with God's people and that the scriptures have been uh carefully applied in this situation. I want to ask if uh Brother Marshall, if you can close us in prayer and remind you that tonight uh we have our farewell fellowship And I hope that you'll be able to make it for that. Also, don't forget Monday night and Tuesday night we have opportunities to go up into the city and to do ministry. So if you're interested in that, please reach out to me. I also want to mention that we're trying to get our choir and orchestra into kind of full swing now that we're in our stable busy uh uh school year time period so uh if you're not uh participating in those but you're interested in that uh reach out to me and um I can tell you how we can get uh involved in that And um I think that that would be a real blessing. I know we got several folks that um would like to do that. And uh a plug-in for the tenor section, we could use one or two. Uh so if you're a tenor Let me know. Uh but anyway, um hope that uh we might be able to get a couple folks up there uh who might be interested in that. Marshall, close us in prayer, please. Dear Lord, thank you for this wonderful day. Thank you for the blessing of this great church. Thank you for our our pastor and his family. And we'll just thank you. We just pray for all the members of this church that you would bless them in a mighty way. And we pray that we would remember that there is evil that exists in this world, and that we would remember the events of 9-11, those that lost their lives, and we're just thankful that you protect us. And we're thankful for all that you do, for your providence, and for your sovereignty. Be with us this day, Lord. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.