Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you had a great weekend, and if you were able to join us for our services, you know what passage of scripture we'll be dealing with this week. And so if you have your Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it. We're going to look at Luke chapter 8 together, and we're looking at verses 40 through 56, though, this morning. And the next couple of mornings, I'm only going to read the first couple of verses before we dig into the full content of the passage in front of us. But let's go ahead and look together at Luke chapter 8, verse 40. Here's what it says. And it came to pass that when Jesus was returned, the people gladly received him, for they were all waiting for him. And behold, there came a man named Jarius. And he was a ruler of the synagogue, and he fell down at Jesus' feet and besought him that he would not that he would come into his house, for he had one only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she lay a dying. But as he went The people thronged him. Now the passage that we will be dealing with throughout this week is the raising of Jarus' daughter. And we know that when we look at this passage of scripture that that ultimately Jesus is not going to heal her, he's actually going to raise her to life But what this begins to do when we read a passage like this is it brings up a question that uh we all deal with from time to time. And we we deal with it primarily not when we are healthy and strong and life is good and vibrant But we deal with it when we start having health issues. And that that's going to happen inevitably to all of us at some point. Our health will not be what it used to be. Our strength will begin to diminish, uh people that we love begin to decline. And when we see things like this, it it leads us to all kinds of questions. And so what I want to do this morning, and I also want to do this tomorrow morning, is I want to begin by talking about the importance of thinking biblically when it comes to this issue of suffering and how we pray when we're dealing uh with human suffering, particularly physical infirmities, those kinds of things, sickness. And then I want us to talk about God's mercy and how God views us in those situations. So I want to begin first of all by answering the question, how does God view me and how does God view you when we are suffering? And I think one of the first lies that we believe when we're going through a a period of intense suffering Maybe it's a chronic illness, maybe it's a diagnosis of some kind of illness that we would have never anticipated. Maybe it's somebody that we love very much. They're suffering. One of the first questions we start to to mull over in our minds is is God good and does God actually care about us? Does he love us? Is he merciful towards us? Sometimes what our mind will do is it'll go into this issue of what have I done to deserve this or to earn this. And I I I think it's important for us to recognize that when we talk about this issue, we need to start with God's attitude towards us. And there are lots of different, we could say, causes. And sometimes when we talk about the cause or the reason behind a thing, it's a lot more complicated than, oh, here's the simple answer for why God allowed this particular issue to happen. So let's start first of all with how God views us. How does God view us when we suffer? There are two words in the Bible that are important for us to remember. That's the word grace. and mercy. Now, obviously there's a lot more we could talk about, but there's a difference between grace and mercy. Grace is when God gives us undeserved favor And it's particularly given in terms of someone who's a sinner. So when God looks at us as a sinner and he sees our sin and he justifies us, he declares us righteous, he does it purely on the basis of his grace. He is giving us a righteous declaration that we do not deserve on the basis of not our righteousness, but Christ's righteousness. And so When we talk about grace, it falls into that category primarily. When we talk about mercy, mercy has the idea of how God views us in our sin and the suffering, the difficulties, the hardships that are associated with sin. One of the reasons God tells us not to sin isn't just because it's morally evil. But because it's personally destructive and we feel pain and we feel misery. Well when God looks at a person uh in this world who is suffering and it could be the result of sin or it could be the result of It's not necessarily a sin, but the fact that we're living in a fallen world, the attitude of compassion that he has towards us in our misery is what we call mercy. God looks at us with kindness. His heart is grieved. He actually wants us to be whole and he wants us to be in a strong position. And so he is compassionate towards us. That's what he's talking about. When God looks at you and he looks at me when we are suffering in life, whatever the reason for that suffering, he looks at us with compassion. Now there's a lot of scripture that talks about this issue. Let me give you some examples. Psalm 8615. He says, Thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion. and gracious, long-suffering, and plenteous in mercy and in truth. Turn unto me and have mercy upon me, give thy strength unto thy servant As the psalmist writes these words, he's reminding himself in his infirmity and weakness and suffering that God is a merciful God. He is gracious. He is long-suffering. That is how God views us when we are in infirm in moments of infirmity. And the reason that God deals so kindly with Jairus and his family is ultimately his mercy. The reason that he heals this woman who uh has an infirmity for twelve years and she touches the hem of Christ's garment. What is it ultimately? It's mercy. That's how God views us in our suffering Another example, Hebrews chapter two, verses seventeen and eighteen. He says, In all things it behooved him, that's Christ, to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the people, for in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, He is able to succor them that are tempted. That word succor means he comes alongside of them and he comforts them. He encourages them. And he's encouraging them on the basis of having gone through that himself. He can identify with their sufferings. The idea is that Jesus can identify with your suffering and my suffering because he in fact Suffered, and he is a faithful high priest. By the way, when Jesus suffered, he didn't suffer because he deserved it. He didn't suffer it because it was some punishment for his sin. This is a sinless God-in-flesh individual. He is righteous. He never broke God's law at any point for any reason. Jesus is the perfect example of someone who suffered and didn't deserve to suffer. And he did it in part so that he could identify with us. In part, not entire, but in part. Another passage, Hebrews chapter 4, verse 15. He says we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities But was tempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly before the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. You see again that word mercy. So when God looks at us in our affliction, in our suffering, he doesn't look at us with this arrogance or this callousness or this cold-heartedness. He looks at us with compassion. It actually moves him to be kind and compassionate toward us, even when sometimes the misery that we experience is a direct result. of our own poor choices. God is a merciful God. The second question I want to answer this morning is, well, why doesn't He always insulate us from suffering? and remove all of our pain. If he is a merciful God and he's gracious and he's kind and he is benevolent towards us and he loves us, well why doesn't he just protect us from all these things? Why doesn't he just insulate us from all those things Well, there are several things that we can say that biblically are taught. The first is this, God does not want you and I to become self-absorbed people. People who are arrogant, people who are entitled, people who feel that we are the center of the universe. The reason he doesn't want us to become that is because we are not. You and I are creatures. We live on this planet for a short period of time. Everything that we have is ultimately a gift of God's goodness. And we need to be reminded sometimes that we are not the center of the universe. We are a creature. We have limitations. We are dependent upon His grace and His mercy. And the only way that God can keep us thinking correctly about ourselves is he has to allow us to struggle and to suffer and experience the real limitations of living in a fallen world and being fallen creatures in that fallen world. Another reason He doesn't want us to live in an illusion that we are the center of the universe and that this universe doesn't need to be restored. This is a fallen world. The fact is that when Jesus or when when God told Adam and Eve, don't eat this fruit in the garden, and if you eat this fruit in the garden, you will die and you will have a knowledge of both good and evil. Well, he really meant it. That was actually going to take place. There were real-life consequences for the decision that Adam took had when he took that fruit and he ate it. That real life consequence didn't just affect him, it affected all the generations that flow from him. And so if God were to insulate us from all suffering and all pain and all misery and all temptations, then we would essentially be living in an illusion, believing somehow that this is not a fallen world. That the the the fall that we read about in Genesis, well it was it was just it was an idle threat. The fact is God has to allow us to experience the real life consequences of a real fallen world. A third reason Is that he knows exactly what we need, so that he continually turns us back to himself, so that he reminds us that we should love our future inheritance more than the brokenness of this fallen world. It's to shape our character, it's to build our strength, it's to shape our perspective, it's to mature us into Christ-likeness. Those are qualities that have tremendous value to God, and they should have tremendous value to us, but those qualities are not developed within us. without a process. And part of that process is you and I have to go through infirmities and weaknesses and difficulties and sufferings. That is a part of the process. And we'll we'll talk about this, Lord willing, tomorrow, a little bit about how God answers our prayer when we are in these moments of weakness. And one of the main ways that God answers our prayer is He answers our prayer by developing us in the way that he intended us to be developed through the tests that we actually are going through. But I want to remind you, God knows exactly what we need in order for that to be produced in us. I'll close with this final thought. God knows the perfect balance needed to produce in us what is most necessary. He is more concerned about your growth into Christ-likeness and my growth into Christ-likeness and our perspective And whether or not we are humble and dependent upon him or not, he is more concerned about those qualities than he is about our momentary ease and how we feel in the moment. He is most concerned about what is the long-term value of those qualities. And so that's one of the reasons that God allows us to suffer. This is a tough topic and we have to very gently approach the issue, but it is at the heart of our human experience And so I hope that that'll be a challenge and an encouragement to you this morning. God allows us to suffer, not because he is cold and calloused. but because he wants us to grow. He wants us to mature. He wants to press us to himself. And as he allows us to go through those things, he is not callous toward us. In fact, he has deep compassion and mercy toward us. May the Lord use this to be an encouragement to you this morning. Have a blessed rest of your day. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. By now