Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and uh excited about the topic that we're going to deal with this week. If you were with us on Sunday morning, then you've heard the sermon that we will be breaking down day by day. And so the passage that we're in is Luke chapter 8, verses 26 to 39. I'm not planning to read the whole section this morning because it's a bit lengthy. But I want us to get into the introduction to Christ's authority, his power over the kingdom of darkness. So Luke chapter 8, and we'll start in verse 26. Here's what it says. And they arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is over against Galilee. And when they went forth to land, there met him out of the city a certain man which had devils long time And wear no clothes, neither abode in any house, but in the tombs. When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God most high? I beseech thee, torment me not. For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man, for often time it had caught him. And he was kept bound with chains and in fetters, and he break the bands, and was driven of the devil into the wilderness. And Jesus asked him, saying, What is thy name? He said, Legion, because many devils were entered into him. Now the passage that we're going to be looking at this week is a passage that is both terrifying and comforting at the same time. And we really do have attention there. And I think as we begin to break down this topic and as we deal with the various points, you're going to see both the soberness that should come from it, the terror that's associated with this topic. But also the tremendous comfort to recognize that we serve a God who ultimately is in control, he's in charge, and as as vicious a foe as Satan is He is under God's authority, and so we're going to get into that topic uh throughout the week. So first of all, let me kind of summarize these verses that we're looking at I'll give you a couple of introductory thoughts to think about, and then I want us to talk about the reality of the kingdom of darkness and dig into this topic a little bit this morning. So first of all, the summary statement. The following passage reveals Christ's authority over the kingdom of darkness in the practical encounter he had with a demon-possessed man demonstrating That God permits evil with limitations ultimately to accomplish his good purposes. Now, when I when I make a statement like that, you're sitting there going, hold on a second. He permits evil and he accomplishes good through it. How does this all work out? Well, this passage of scripture is actually a tremendously practical explanation. of exactly what that statement is. And so that leads me to a couple of introductory questions. We as Christians are, we could say, living in a world where there is a bit of a dilemma. We see within this world the good design of God being reflected in the order that we see in creation. And at the same time We see evil and the terrible effects of corruption in the world. We see both of those things. They're obviously in the creation. And whenever we see this, it reminds us that there is this tension. This is a world that is both good And if you remember back to the Garden of Eden, when God tells Adam, there's a tree in this garden that I'm telling you do not eat the fruit of it. It's the tree of the knowledge of good evil and evil. Okay? At the time that that that Adam was created, Adam was only good. He didn't know evil This this was a category that was unknown to him. And the fact is, until Adam ate the fruit, that's the way it stayed. But when he ate that fruit, now we understand both good and evil. And that is the tension that we live in in a fallen world. We know that God is sovereign and we know that God governs His creation. The question that we ask ourselves Is he sovereign over the domain of evil, the kingdom of darkness? Does he have authority over that kingdom as well? And if he does, then how does he actually mediate that that rule over the kingdom of darkness? And what we're going to see is that Satan ultimately Is under God's authority. He didn't just do whatever he wants to do. He has limitations. God does permit him to do certain things that he desires to do. But God reigning continually. God, we could say limits him continually. And we're going to see all of that together. And so Another question I think sometimes people ask is, are are God and Satan essentially peers in strength and a knowledge and an ability? And what we're going to see in these scriptures is that in fact Satan is not God's peer. Satan is under his authority, and we will see that very well established in these verses. So first of all this morning let's talk about the reality of the kingdom of darkness. In order for us to look at that, let's read what it says in the text, notice a couple of those details, and then dig into a passage of scripture that I think will help us further understand what's going on. Here's what it says in verses twenty-six and twenty-seven and then gonna skip down to verse twenty-nine. It says they arrived at the country of the Gadderenes, which is over against Galilee. And when he went forth to land, there met him out of the city a certain man which had an evil which had devils long time. And they had often caught him and kept him bound with chains and in fetters. And he break the bands and was driven of the devil into the wilderness. It also says that this man wore no cl no clothes, he did not abide in a house, but in the tombs. So what this passage is telling us is that this man was not in his right mind, and he had this supernatural physical power, and he was unable to live with people in a house with his family because he was being controlled by devils. And that word devils is referring to angelic beings that are fallen creatures. They have rebelled against God's authority. Another word we might use is the word demon There is an unseen yet visibly active kingdom of darkness, and we see that it affected him in a tremendous way. It affected his his lack of clothing. It affected the fact he could break these bands. It affected him where he was driven. of the devil into the wilderness. So while you could not see those who possessed this man, you could see the evidence that in fact he was possessed by what he said. By what he did, by what he didn't do, there is an unseen yet visibly active kingdom of darkness. That's what we see in these verses. But there are lots and lots of other scriptures that deal with this topic. For instance, Perhaps one of the most well-known passages is Ephesians 6. And here's what it says in verse 10. It says, Put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take into you the whole armor of God that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day. Now Ephesians chapter 6 is clearly affirming. That there is a kingdom of darkness. But it's also affirming not just the existence or the reality of the kingdom of darkness, it's giving us some very important details about the nature of the kingdom of darkness. For instance It refers to a person called the devil. Who is the devil? Well, the devil is Satan, an angel who rebelled against God shortly after the creation and before the fall of Adam and Eve. And the scripture says a lot about this person, this angel named Lucifer, Satan the devil, he's referred to in lots of different ways. We talk about Satan and we talk about The devil, it's referring more to his nature than his name. But listen to what it says in Ezekiel chapter 28. It refers to some information about this person. He says, Thou hast been in Eden, the garden of God, every precious stone was thy covering. The workmanship of thy tablets and of thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that thou wast created. Fascinating statement. Satan is not appear to God. He is a creature. Just like you and I are creatures made by God for a distinct purpose, so was Satan, created by God as an angel, and in his original form he was serving and worshiping God like all the other angels were. But here's what it says. It says, Thou art the anointed cherub that covereth, and I have set thee so. Thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day which thou wast created. Till iniquity was found in thee. You know what this tells us? When God created Satan, he didn't create Satan evil, he created Satan as a creature that was good. But there was a day that Satan rebelled against God. In the same way , you and I were created with the ability to make moral choices and the responsibility to choose wisely. In the same way. All of the angels have that same capacity. Now there is a distinct difference on this in the fact that we can be redeemed, whereas the angels who have rejected cannot be redeemed. Christ did not uh take on uh the the the the the the f i he took on humanity, okay, God and flesh, but he didn't become an angel, God an angel, and go to the cross for the angels. It doesn't work that way. So Satan was good. And then he rebelled. That's what it tells us. Isaiah 14 gives us some more information. It says, How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning? Which did weaken the nations. Thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt thy throne above the stars of God, I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation of the size of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will be like the Most High. Well, what Isaiah 14 does is it gives us more information about that little statement in Ezekiel 28 where it says Till iniquity was found in thee. The iniquity was his pride. He wanted to be like God. He wanted to usurp God's authority. And you could even say, in a sense, that that's exactly what Adam and Eve wanted to do as well They wanted to be like God. They wanted to know good and they wanted to know evil. And so Satan is a real person, an angelic creature. that God created that rebelled against him who is God's vicious opponent. Satan hates God. And Satan hates those who are created in the image of God. And in 1 Peter 5, verse 80, he says, Be sober and be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he may devour. That is something that should sober every single one of us Satan hates God 's people. Satan hates those who were created in the image of God And he is working actively in the world today and has for all of human history since the fall to disrupt God's purposes. by the way, unsuccessfully disrupts God's purposes, ultimate, but that's exactly what he's done. And we also see that it's not just Satan when we talk about the kingdom of darkness. We're not just talking about Satan and that's the end of it. But it is a kingdom of darkness. Satan is one person, one creature who is a part of this kingdom. that he ultimately oversees. And so in the Ephesians 6 passage, he talks about principalities and powers and the rulers of the darkness of this world. What that tells you is that Satan administrates a well-organized kingdom that is filled with angels who have rebelled against him. In Revelation chapter 12, verse 9, it says, The great dragon was cast out, that old serpent called the devil and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world. He was cast out into the world. And his angels were cast out with him. When we talk about the kingdom of darkness, we're talking about Satan and all of those angels that rebelled with him And they form an actual empire of sorts. There is a structure. There is an authoritative structure. is a plan. There is activity. The scripture is full of examples that talk about the fact that Satan is organized in his approach to disrupting God's purposes in the world. And so when we talk about the devil tempted me, we're not saying that Satan individually tempts every single one of us. There is one Satan. But what we can say is that we are tempted through the workings of his kingdom, and his kingdom spreads down to all different angelic beings that have rejected God. Then we see another interesting statement. And there is the statement, spiritual wickedness in high places. Now that statement tells us the focus of the Kingdom of Darkness. The Kingdom of Darkness is actively influencing the most powerful people in the world today. Do you realize that? Do you realize that Satan and his forces are actively at work behind the scenes even within American government? Western governments, communist dictatorships, nations all over the world. Satan's kingdom, the kingdom of darkness, is at work to disrupt God's purposes by focusing in on those very powerful individuals. Satan works actively in the world today. Revelation 2, verse 13. He says, Thou dwellest even where Satan's seat is, and thou holdest fast to my name, and hast not denied my faith, even in those days where an Antipas was my faithful martyr who has slain among you where Satan dwelleth. Why did John emphasize you live where Satan dwells? And he talks about martyrs and people who hold fast to the truth where Satan dwells. Why does he do that? It's because the reason that there is such oppression and there is such persecution and even martyrdom at the time that he's writing is because Satan is actively at work. The kingdom of darkness is doing its work in the highest of places of government. That's what he's saying. Revelation 20, verses 7 through 8. He says, when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed out of his prison and shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog, so gather them together to battle, the number of whom is as the sands of the sea. He's talking about something that's going to happen at the end of the millennial reign of Christ So we have the tribulation period, we have sa Satan being bound for a thousand years, and at the end of the kingdom he is released so that he can do what he wants. And what does he do? He goes out and he deceives the nations. And massive groups of people follow his devices and they believe somehow they can rebel and be victorious against their King, the Lord Jesus Christ. What does that tell us about Satan? This is the way he works. It's the way he has worked. It's the way that he will work, and he is doing it even today. So the question is, what's the takeaway from this It's just an introduction. Well, the takeaway is that the kingdom of darkness is real. Satan is real. He has power. He has authority. We need to understand the extent to which this kingdom functions as much as is possible. And so we have to dig into the scriptures and see what it says about this issue. And I will also mention that as we understand how this kingdom is administrated and how it works and its strengths and its weaknesses and all those things, we need to ask the question, what tools has God provided for us so that we can engage with this kingdom and actually be victorious because we are responsible to do that. That's the focus of our study, not just this morning, but throughout the rest of the week. I hope that the things that we'll talk about will be very helpful to you There is a real kingdom of darkness, and uh it's affecting you and me on a daily basis. We need the Lord's strength to stand fast in the evil day. And so, Lord willing, that's what we will be able to do as we dig into the scriptures this week. If this has been a challenge to you, I hope that you will uh share that, perhaps share it with someone else who can be encouraged by these lessons this week. They will be very practical And I hope biblically sound and insightful. Have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow. Bye now