Well good morning. Welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and I hope that this week has been an encouraging and helpful week. What I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to focus in now on a continuation of that last thought. And that is that the disciples were unable to actually help this man and his son. And I want us to break that down a little bit and I want us to think about some of the practical implications. that are connected to that concept. So if you have your Bible, let's turn again to Luke chapter 9. We're looking at verses 35. 37 down to verse 45, and then we're going to focus in on the limitations, or we could even use the word failures of the disciples in this moment. Here's what it says. It came to pass that on the next day, when they were come down from the hill, much people met him. And behold a man of the company cried out, saying, Master, I beseech thee, look into my s look upon my son, he is mine only child. And lo a spirit taketh him and suddenly crieth out and it tareth, and he foameth again, and bruising him hardly departeth from him And I besought the disciples to cast him out, and they could not. Jesus answering said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you and suffer you? Bring thy son hither And as he was yet to come, the devil threw him down and tear him, and Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the child, and delivered him again to his father. And every one of them uh at all uh excuse me and while they wondered one at all one of every one of them at all the things which Jesus did, he said unto his disciples, Let these things sink down into your ears, for the Son of Man shall be delivered into the hands of men. I want to focus in on that little statement where he says that your disciples could not do this for us. What does that tell us? Well it tells us that the disciples had reached a point of limitation And in the parallel passages, basically Jesus indicates that the problem that the disciples had was that this case needed to be approached with prayer and fasting. In fact, really what it seems is that the disciples had a bit of a self-reliance as opposed to a reliance on God's power to accomplish what they were doing. But I want us to notice some of the previous ministry that the disciples had had that that make this admission a bit stunning. In Luke chapter 9, verses 1 and 2, it says Then Jesus called his disciples, twelve disciples, together, and he gave them power and authority over all devils and to cure diseases. And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God and to heal the sick. Now, we could conclude a couple of different things based on the fact that they had been given this authority and now they're in a situation that it appears that they don't have the power to cast out the demons. The first thing we could say is that Jesus was simply giving them that authority for a limited period of time. In other words, they had that authority during the ministry that he specifically sent them out on. But now they are no longer involved in that particular ministry, and so they no longer have that authority delegated to them that they once had. That is a very good possibility. Another possibility is that when the disciples went out on this initial journey and they experienced tremendous ministry successes, that that ministry success has essentially created a sense of pride, maybe even a sense of entitlement, a sense of self-reliance. And when the disciples are met with this particular situation, God did not allow them to have the authority or the power to be able to cast out this demon from this this young man because of their self-reliance and because of their pride and because they had become entitled in their mindset. And that seems actually like a really good possibility, primarily because in the text Jesus calls them a perverse and faithless generation. The idea is he's saying, the way that you're thinking is wrong. You are not trusting me And by the way, when he says perverse we know by the by the end of this text and where it goes that the disciples were extremely ambitious And they were fighting for authority and power and position. And so in many ways, it appears that what Jesus is doing is he's indicating that this is a reality check. To add on top of that, Peter, James, and John had just come down from the Mount of Transfiguration, and they had seen Jesus in all of his glory, and they had experienced this very high point. Now it does not appear that the disciples that were dealing with this case were Peter, James, and John. It appears that Peter, James, and John are coming with Jesus from the mount. and they're meeting this man and the disciples. So it doesn't appear that it's a result of that incident. But it's important for us to still recognize that the disciples of Christ had been given authority, delegated, they had experienced ministry. power and they had seen Jesus in all of his glory. Yet with all of those great opportunities and and those uh we could say objective realities that would be there to strengthen their position. What do we see? They failed. Verse number forty. I besought the disciples to cast him out, and they could not. Now, I want us to think about how this would parallel our own situations at times. There are times in our own lives That God allows us to go through hardship in ministry. And the fact is that when we have that hardship, we become discouraged and we become frustrated. Maybe even the ministry of raising our own children. We experience setbacks and frustrations and discouragements. And in those moments, you know what God does? He uses them to drive us to himself so that we depend on him. Sometimes we experience success. It seems like things are are working out well for us. It seems like things are falling into place. And what happens in those situations is that we we tend to become proud and self-reliant and entitled. And what does God have to do? Well, it has to allow us to experience hardships. Another thing that we sometimes see in life is that people kind of almost put religious leaders, pastors, missionaries, evangelists, put them on a pedestal, and it's as if they believe that that pastor has greater access to God than they do. And rather than them relying on the Lord, they kind of rely on the man who they feel stands between them and God. Now, these are all problems that we encounter in these areas. And so what this passage teaches us is several very simple principles. The first is this: pride and self-reliance are problematic. And they're going to leave us powerless when it comes to helping other people. That's what we see in the disciples. A second one is that God has to humble us and point us back to Himself when we become proud and self-reliant entitled And that's exactly what he does in these verses. He points them back to himself by them being unable to actually remedy the situation Another thing that we that we learn is that although God may use people, they should never replace Him And every single person has their limits. You know, every pastor has areas where they're strong and they have areas where they're weak. Every missionary has areas where they're strong and areas where they're weak. Every single one of us is going to encounter questions or going to encounter difficulties that we really do not have the knowledge base to address and we do not have the power to change a person. And in all of these situations, you know what they do? They point us back to God. And so I want to encourage you this morning, if you find yourself in a position maybe a little bit like the disciples Where you seem to be failing on the ministry side. It could be the ministry of marriage, the ministry of raising children, the ministry of pastoring a church, whatever it is. I want to encourage you, turn to God Repent of your self-righteousness and your pride. Repent of that self-reliance and say, God, I need you. God, I can't do this without you. I need you to work where I cannot. And we need to make sure that we do not become so discouraged when people fail us or when people fall short of having the knowledge or the tools to be able to help us. that that we don't get discouraged and we start recognizing, you know what, my ultimate reliance isn't my pastor. It isn't dad. It's God. And that's who I ultimately need to rely upon. So we learned those lessons from this text. I hope that this will be an encouragement, help to you this morning. And Lord willing, tomorrow we will look at this passage for a fourth time. And uh we're going to look at how Jesus remedies the situation. I think this is where the passage turns extremely positive, and I think it'll be an encouragement to you this this next morning. Have a good day.