Take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of Isaiah. And we are in Isaiah chapter 9 this morning. And uh throughout the rest of this Christmas season, all the messages that I'm going to be preaching are going to be on some sections, messianic passages in the book of Isaiah. And so I hope that as we look at these passages, Old Testament passages that were meant to predict the Lord Jesus Christ's coming and they really tell us a lot about the Lord Jesus Christ, who he is, what he came to do, and ultimately what he's going to accomplish or has accomplished. for us. These are some very rich passages of Scripture. So let's go ahead and read verses 9, or chapter 9, verses 6 and 7. We'll bow for prayer and then dig into this very, very important passage of Scripture. That emphasizes how Christ is our only hope. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, I thank you for your word. As we read it in just a few moments, I pray that you would speak to our hearts. Help us to think deeply about this text. I pray that as I preach this passage, that you would help me to communicate it effectively. Pray that your spirit would move in our midst, in our hearts. Be with all those who have joined us in the live stream today. I pray that you would help them to be uh be blessed by the text in front of us as well, not just we who are here. And I pray that as we leave this place and as we reflect on these truths, our heart would be drawn to the sufficiency of Christ and ultimately what he has come to accomplish. And what he will finish on that final day when he establishes his kingdom rule forever. And so may you work in our hearts in Christ's name. Amen. Isaiah 9. 6 says the following, for unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government, and peace there shall be no end. Upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth, even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts. Will perform this. What an amazing text of scripture. Before we start working our way through the content of these verses, I want you to imagine for just a moment. A day, not a day that we live in, but a day that will come, when there is no such thing as death anymore, no sickness. No poverty, no suffering, no more war, no more injustice. You say, well, I know that's not this day because I'm homesick today. Or I look at a lot of stuff that I see in the government, not just the governments around the world, but even in our own government, and I go, a lot of problems. I don't like what I see. If we go down into Baltimore City, we go to the Baltimore Rescue Mission on a weekly basis as a church staff, and then once a month we go down there and we preach a service, we see a lot of people who are suffering. Can you imagine a day where all of those things are no longer there. I'm not talking about something that's going to come through medical advancement, though I'm thankful for medical advancement. I'm not talking about something that's going to eliminate sickness and death. I'm not talking about an economic system that's going to remove the greed that's in the hearts of people or the laziness that's in the hearts of people or the theft that comes when people are greedy. Or a justice system that can ultimately eliminate crime. On this side of eternity, that is never going to happen. In fact, some people can't even get together as a family on Thanksgiving. without it being an absolute disaster because somebody's uncle or brother, somebody's going to come and just create chaos by making life difficult for the people there. The truth is, even on the interpersonal level, we're not able to accomplish this, let alone on a national level or on a state level or on an international level. And sadly, there are people that believe naively that society can somehow reform itself. But human effort and human wisdom is never going to remove the curse of sin. It's never going to remove that scourge of sin. It's never going to remove what's in the hearts of people. And that is ultimately why we see the world the way that it is. That kind of a world is impossible except for what we are reading in the verses in front of us. Because these verses tell us of a day When there is going to be a king who's a perfect king, who's going to be over a realm that's a perfect realm, and there's going to be no sickness, there's going to be no death, there's to be no cry. There's no gonna there's gonna be no injustice There's going to be perfect harmony in that kingdom. And that king is Christ. And these verses So let's dig into what the text in front of us has to say where we will find hope no matter the brokenness of who we are as people and the circumstances we may encounter. First thing I want you to notice from the text in front of us is that this verse starts in a very dark period in the history of Judah. In fact When we read the book of Isaiah, the book of Isaiah is a really heavy book. I've had people tell me, hey, I'm reading through the Old Testament, come to the book of Isaiah, and I'm like, whoa, that is a dark book That's a lot of difficulty, a lot of pain, and a lot of suffering. And it's true that Isaiah is a dark book, but what's also true, very interesting about this book, is that this is a book that has some of the most encouraging text in all of Scripture. So you have this darkness and you have this light side by side in the same book. And you say, why is that? Why is it that there's this vivid picture of the painful reality of living in a fallen world, yet there's hope, because that's how life is. This is a broken world. This is a fallen world. But we have a great savior. In fact, in the immediate context, go back to chapter 8. And we'll read in verses 13, and I'll kind of move my way through some of the highlights up to chapter 9, verse 1. Listen to what it says. It says, sanctify the Lord of hosts himself. Let him be your fear. Let him be your dread. He shall be for a sanctuary, but for a stone of stumbling and for a rock of offense. Many among them shall stumble and fall and be broken and be snared and be taken. They shall fret themselves and curse their king and their God and look upward. And they shall look upon unto the earth and behold trouble and darkness, dimness of anguish, and they shall be driven to darkness. You say, what a horrible scripture to read during the Christmas season. It's so nice outside. The sun is shining. It's uh reflecting off of the snow. It's a cold, crisp day. Why are we talking about darkness and dimness and anguish? Well, the reason for that is that was the state of these people. At the time that these verses were written. These were people that did not reverence their God. That's why he says, Sanctify the Lord of hosts. You just set him apart as the one who rules and reigns in your life because you don't do it. Let him be your fear and let him be your dread. People had no respect for God. They stumbled over him. He talks about This person being a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. And by the way, we see this vividly demonstrated when Christ was crucified. Because as Christ is crucified, here are all the rulers of the people at that time, and they're saying, they need to take him to the cross and kill him, and we don't care, even though we know he's innocent. They stumbled at him. He was an offense to them. This rebellion brought deep spiritual darkness. They will look onto the earth, behold trouble, darkness, dimness, anguish. Driven to darkness. Terrible. By the way, if you go back even further to appreciate the context, go to chapter one. And these are the verses that we read at the beginning. And it's really kind of interesting. When I was thinking about this sermon, I didn't think about the fact we might have snow on the ground. But these verses are really, really interesting verses when we think about what we see right outside these walls. And in Isaiah chapter 1 verse 2 it says, Hear, O heaven, and give here, O earth. The Lord hath spoken, hath nourished up children. They've rebelled against me. The ox knoweth his owner, the ass is master's crib, but Israel doth not know. My people do not consider Israel doth not know. Ah, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children that are corrupters, who have forsaken the Lord and provoked the Holy One of Israel into anger, they are gone backwards. Again, a very dark text. These people are described as rebellious children. I have nourished up children, and they've rebelled against me. If anyone in this room has raised a child and given to them everything that you humanly can to see them turn their back on you. Jesus, or God in the text is saying, that is what Israel was to me. I brought them out of nothing. I gave them everything. I gave them grace upon grace. I'm a father to these people and they reject me in rebellion. How shameful. He goes even further where he says they have less sense than an animal sitting in a stall. The ox knows his owner and his master is crib. Israel does not know. My people do not consider. You know it's so interesting if you have a cat or a dog and you walk into the kitchen or wherever you keep their dog food and you and you reach down in there and they hear that food, they come running, all right? You know what I'm talking about, especially if you have a cat. Dogs too. They hear that noise and they hear that food hitting their bowl and they come running because they know dinner's coming. He says, you guys don't even have that much sense. That's crazy to think about. This rebellion brought deep darkness. And their sin was offensive to God He says, Ah, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, they've forsaken the Lord, they've provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger Now, that's what we have described in the text in front of us, but sometimes it's helpful for us to actually know a little bit more about what's going on historically in these verses. The man who was on the throne at this time in Judah was a man named Ahaz. And we don't hear a lot of sermons on Ahaz because he was not a good guy. He was evil. He was spineless. In fact, there's a part of the story of his life where the northern tribes, because remember they're split as a nation, the northern tribes basically linked up with Syria, and the two of them came to Judah and they said, Ahaz, we want you to form a military alliance with us. Against the Assyrians who are in the north-north because we cannot stand against Assyria. But if we all come together as a league, we can fight against the Assyrians. And Ahaz said, not a chance. And it's not because he was principled, it's because he was afraid. He was spineless. So the reason that he enters, that he chooses not to enter into this uh allegiance with these group this these these two nations is because he did not want to face Assyrian wrath. And so God sends Isaiah to Ahaz in this moment where he is weak and vulnerable and he says tell Ahaz Do not enter into any league. Stand independent. And you know what he does? Instead of going into league with the North , Instead of going into league with Syria, he actually makes Judah a vassal state to the Assyrians and basically says, I'll be king under you and let you guys rule the way that you want to. You go. What? That's what he did. And because he enters into league with the Assyrians, he brought in tremendous compromises. The Assyrians came down there to Jerusalem and they they requested that he changed certain things in the temple. He actually brought in a new altar into the temple. He was very active in Baal worship. In fact the scriptures tell us he even offered his own son As a burnt offering to Baal as a form of idolatry. And so all of a sudden you sit there and you go, okay, when he talks about it being a rebellious nation, it being dim and dark and all those things, now I get it. Your king is afraid? Your king is involved in bail worship. Your king has sacrificed his own son. He's ignored the prophet's warnings. You can't get much worse than that, can you? So what does God say to these people? He describes hope. Isn't that amazing? When these people could have been ripped apart by God's justice. And by the way, they would face his justice. He gives them encouragement and hope. Listen to these verses. Verse number 18 of chapter 1, come now let us reason together, saith the Lord, though your sins be as scarlet , They shall be as white as snow, though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Now, when you look out in that snow, one of the things that's wonderful about fresh snow is it's it's just pure white. Now what's under it's not pure white, but it's pure white. And of course, once they plow the roads in it's pure brown, okay, and it's a mess and it's nasty But when you look at it across that snowy field or up in these trees and there's snow just hanging everywhere, it is so beautiful, it's so clean, it's so crisp. He says, your sin Is like a crimson stain. And I'm going to take that crimson stain and I'm going to remove it and I'm going to make you as clean as the driven snow. And I'm going to make you as clean as wool. And the question is, how does God do that? God doesn't abandon them. That's why he says, come, let us reason together. God literally goes to them. And by the way, grace always starts by God initiating first. We don't run to God, He runs to us. We run from God. He draws us to himself. We see that in these verses. Come, let us reason together. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be, and they are, though they be red like crimson. They will be white as snow. They will be as the wool. He confronts the problem and he gives them a promise. How does God do this? Now the text in front of us gives the answer. He promised to personally reverse Judah's misery by sending the Savior. Verses 2 through 7 of chapter 9 say the people that walked in darkness. have seen a great light. They that dwell in the land excuse me, they they that they that dwell in the land of the shadow of death upon them Half the light shined. Now we've been reading a lot of verses from Matthew and Luke about the Christmas story. Does that passage sound familiar to you? I hope it does. Because this passage is quoted in the Gospels when we talk about the announcing of the birth of Christ. The people who walked in darkness saw a great light. Those who dwelled in the shadow of death, upon them the light hath shined. He talks about their current misery of darkness. and death and then their future joy, seeing a great light, the light shining on them, having joy like those in the harvest. season and those who divide spoil at war, those who are broken and oppressed. He's going to take the rod and he's going to break it and he's going to remove the burden. That's a reversal. How does it happen? Unto us a child is born. Unto us a son is given. He doesn't say, I'm going to teach you how to do things a little bit better. I'm going to make you stronger. I'm going to give you the ability to clean yourself up. He doesn't do that. He says, I'm giving you a son. And his name is Emmanuel. God with us. Now listen to some of the statements that are made before the birth of Christ, about Christ's birth. And you will see the connection between these things. Luke chapter 1 verse 31. This is the angel to Mary. Listen to what he says to her. He says, Thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son and shalt call his name Jesus. He shall be great and shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David. He shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end. Amazing statement. Luke chapter 1, verse 68, Zechariah is talking about Jesus. He says, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel who hath visited and redeemed his people and raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of the servant David, as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets. Which have been since the world began, that he should save us from our enemies and from the hand of all those who hate us to perform the mercy promised to our fathers. To remember his holy covenant, the oath which he swore to our father Abraham, that he would grant unto us, that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemies might serve him without fear, in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life. This is one of the greatest passages in all of the early part of Luke that talks about just the miracle and the blessing of God in flesh coming so that we can be saved. And listen to what Zechariah says about John, his son, who's going to be the forerunner of the Messiah. Verse 76 of Luke 1. Thou child shalt be called the prophet of the highest. For thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins. through the tender mercies of our God, whereby the day spring on high hath visited us to give light to them that sit in darkness, and the shadow of death to guide our feet in the way of peace. That's exactly what we just read here in Isaiah chapter 9. Zecharias looks back over his history and he knows about that period and he said when God brought encouragement to the people and promised a savior He was talking about us today at this time. He was talking about this child that has been conceived in the womb of Mary. This child who my son John is going to go before is going to point people to him. He's the one who's talked about. So it moves us to a third thing. This reversal would establish a kingdom unlike any other in history. Look down in your Bibles at the way that he describes this kingdom and the way that he describes this king. He says, unto us a child is born, a son is given, the government shall be on his shoulders, and his name shall be called wonderful. counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end. What an amazing statement. Upon the throne of David, upon his kingdom to order and establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth even forever. I love this next statement. The zeal of the Lord of hosts for performance. God is passionate about doing what he says he's going to do. God is going to accomplish what he said. Now, what do we see in these verses? Well, we see a description of a perfect kingdom. It will be well ordered. It will have peace. It will be distinguished as a righteous kingdom, and it will never end. Don't you wish we had a government like that? Yeah, I do too. But guess what? If we had a government like that, then evil would be crushed. It really would. And it would not remove the fact that there's evil within all of our hearts. And so even though people may not break the law, they're going to have tensions amongst themselves because it's in the heart of all of us. But this kingdom will be different. All its citizens will be righteous. Its king will be righteous. It will be forever. It will be well-ordered. It will be peaceful. It's never going to end. Man, what an awesome day. That's what he's talking about. And then the king, notice how he describes him. He will be a perfect man. A child is born. We talk about Jesus. Jesus is God in flesh. God incarnate is the way that we describe it. That means that the eternal son comes and takes on human flesh at a point in time. And he does this to go to the cross. So that he will die for our sins, he will rise from the dead and we can be saved. He will be a perfect man. He will have an absolute rule. His government will be up will be upon his shoulders. He will govern according to infinite wisdom. He will be called the wonderful counselor. See, what does that mean? That means that everything he does is perfectly wise. He's not going to mess up and go, oops, made a mistake. Let me go correct that. That's not the way that this person will reign. He will be the eternal God in flesh, the mighty God. He will be a caring father, the everlasting father. By the way, when he uses that phrase everlasting father, he's not suggesting that somehow the son became the father or something like that. That's not what he's saying. The distinction of Father and Son and Spirit is eternally consistent, okay? But what we see here is a description of the way that he's going to reign and rule. You know, when you think about someone who has authority, and you think about a king, most people think of a king as someone who's uh very strong. Perhaps a bit tyrannical, likes to do things their own way, and they're not going to accept any rivals. And a lot of times when we think about a king, we don't think of someone who's benevolent. Someone who's kind, someone who's merciful, someone who's gracious, someone who loves the people that they are caring for. And so that's the way, that's why he describes him as everlasting Father, because he's emphasizing the fact that he has authority, but there is a relational quality here where there is a depth of love for those who are in this realm. And so when we think about God ruling, he loves his people. He loves us. His rule be unrivaled. He's the Prince of Peace. By the way, peace is established through strength, not weakness. And nobody's going to rival him because they will be condemned eternally. And only those who are part of this kingdom, those in this kingdom are people who are righteous in Christ. The reign never ends. Of the increase of his government, there will be no end. The fourth thing I want to want you to notice here is this. Judah's problem is a human problem. And this is something we have to be careful about when we read the Bible. It's so easy for us to read the Bible and think about everybody but ourselves. Pastors really can have a it's very difficult sometimes not to read the Bible and not be thinking, well, this would be a great sermon for somebody. How about this is what I need? This is what I need to hear. This is what we need to hear. It's very easy for us to look and go, I can't believe they were like that. I can't believe that they did that. And it's great that God dealt with them this way. And we stop thinking in terms of us And we. The problem that Judah had is a human problem. The resolution that Judah received is something that God's not just done for them, He's done for everyone. Notice their problem in God's grace. They were broken and they were stumbling in the darkness. Their sin separated them from God and they could do nothing to reverse that problem. But God promised to send a Savior to reverse their desperate situation. What about us? Ephesians 2, listen to what it says. We all had our conversation in times past, in the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind. And we were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. He goes on in verse number 12 of Ephesians 2, he says, we were strangers from the covenants. Had no hope, and we were without God in the world. Notice he says, we, not they, we. You know that Paul included himself there? Paul says, this isn't just you, Ephesian church, that's me, and that's all of us. Listen to what it says in chapter 2, verse 4 of Ephesians. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love. Wherewith he loved us. Even when we were dead in sins, he hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace we are saved. He hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ. For by grace are ye saved through faith. Not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. Not of works a city man should boast. Do you see this parallel? This is really awesome You have the nation of Israel that's in this time of darkness and brokenness. And from the lowest to the highest, the nation was thoroughly corrupt. And God exposes that and confronts that, but he says, there's hope. The hope is the Savior. And then we come to Ephesians chapter 2, and he says, You're just like that. We are children of wrath by nature. We break God's laws. We follow in the path of unrighteousness. We don't know the path of peace. We're estranged from God. Our sin separates us between, there's a separation between us and God. Our sin is like scarlets. And what does God do? By his grace, he sends his son. And his son comes. And he dies for our sins. And through his sacrifice, we are reconciled to God. Judah's comfort and ours is the same. It's not different. It's the same comfort. When he says of the increase of his government and peace there will be no end upon the throne of David to order and establish it with judgment and justice forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this, not just for them, for us too. Two wonderful promises. His government and peace will have no end, and the zeal of the Lord will perform them. This. Let me bring it to you in a very simple way, an application. When we look around this world, you know what we see a lot of pain and a lot of misery. Christmas can be a hard season for people. If you've lost a family member this year, this is going to be a hard season. If you're struggling with sickness and you remember what it was like to be strong and healthy and vibrant and now you're not. You knew what it was like to be able to do lots of things that you can't do anymore. This season is a reminder of what you couldn't can't do now, but you could do then Or maybe you have relationships that, frankly, have been absolutely fragmented, and it's not of your doing, and you can't do anything to resolve it, and you wish you could, but it's there. And this season sometimes drives home that very simple point. And then we think about our own sin. And when we sin, we don't feel good about it. We feel horrible. We feel miserable. We feel defiled. Why? Because we are. And so during the Christmas season, sometimes we feel the weight of our brokenness in a broken world. May we feel equally, and even more so, the weight of the grace of God. His grace is more abundant. There is no sin that you and I have ever committed that his grace cannot address There is no void in our heart. There's no separation we experience that will not one day be resolved in him. And I want you to remember what it says in 1 Thessalonians 5. He says, let us who are of the day be sober. Putting on a breastplate of faith and love, and for an helmet, the hope of salvation, God has not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, comfort yourselves and edify one another, even as you also do. Does this verse say that life's easy? No. You know what it does say? Comfort is found in him. Hope is found in him, and in the end, we'll experience everything these verses talk about. Or let me give you another one. This is how the Bible ends: Revelation 21. I saw a new heaven. And a new earth for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away. I John saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven. Prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. He will dwell with them, they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there will be no more death. Neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain. Why? Because the former things are passed away He that sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. Right. These words are true and faithful. Hey, folks, that's true. These verses remind us that all of our hope is bound up in the Lord Jesus. And so during this season, let's not forget who and what we have. How do you apply such a passage? Well, I'll start with this. History is super messy, and the times that we live in can be really overwhelming. I wish that wasn't the case, but it is. But there is hope no matter the brokenness of our lives and the circumstances we encounter. Christ is that hope. He only is that hope. He came in flesh and died for our sins. He rose triumphant from the dead. He secured in that triumph over sin and death eternity for you and me. He sits at the right hand of the Father and continually reminds us that he has done the work and we are accepted in him. He's coming again to establish the kingdom talked about in these verses. It's a promise. God won't lie. So I asked this question, is he your hope? I know that most everybody here is a part of this church. Because uh on a snowy day we don't get a lot of visitors. But just because you come to this church or just because you grew up in this church, doesn't mean you know the Lord is your Savior. Not trying to put in your head that you don't, but the question is, have you personally responded to this message? Have you placed your faith in Christ? Do you know for sure that your sins are forgiven and that you have eternity with Him because you have trusted in the finished work of Christ? If you haven't, then today's the day to do that. Turn to him. Trust in Christ. It's very simple. Repent. Believe. Depend on what he did for you. My last question is this, are you living with your feet firmly planted on these truths, these promises? That can never be broken. A lot of people are truly saved. They can explain the gospel. They can tell you when they trusted Christ, and they know that they are saved. But if you look at how they think, how they respond to the circumstances around them, what you will see is this. Not people firmly planted on these trees, but people that are easily shaken because They do not dwell where they stand. They don't live in the light of these truths. May God help us to do that. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us. To be encouraged by the text in front of us. Father, we are so grateful that when we read these verses that describe great darkness, they also describe great light. When they describe darkness and destruction, they also speak of an eternal kingdom. A kingdom of peace and righteousness. A kingdom that we will be a part of forever because of what Christ has done for us. If there's anyone here this morning, either on the live stream or in person, Let's never place their faith in Christ. I pray that this morning, these truths would come. They would understand them. They would respond to them. They would turn to you. They would trust in you. In Christ alone. And for all of us who may be shaken at times by circumstance, by our own failures, by the nastiness of this broken world, by our own limitations. I pray that in those moments of weakness we would turn our eyes to the cross of Christ and remember that He is our only hope and He is our sure foundation and may we be strengthened as we stand End upon his promises. We ask this in Christ's name, amen