So if you have a Bible, I want to invite you to take it and let's look together at Luke 5, 27 through 32. Let's go ahead and read it. It says, after these things he went forth and saw a publican named Levi. sitting at the receipt of custom, and he said unto him, Follow me. He left all, arose, and followed him And Levi made him a great feast in his own house, and there was a great company of publicans and others that sat down with them. And their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners? Jesus answering said unto them, They that are whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. When we look at this passage of Scripture, we're going to see that Christ came to save sinners. And so I want to give you a simple summary statement and then look at several key observations from this passage. that I think will be a real blessing to you. They were a blessing to me when I was thinking about it. The following section of Luke reminds us that Christ's ministry was to rescue sinners, not to flatter the self-righteous. Let's look at a couple of the key observations that we find in this passage. The first is that Christ called a tax collector to follow him And Luke 5. 27 it says, after these things he went forth and saw a publican named Levi sitting at the receipt of custom, and he said unto him, Follow me. Now when we think about a person who was a publican, I think it's hard for us to appreciate how significant it was that Christ would have followed this person. Now when we lived overseas in Ghana, people would send us packages And when we would receive those packages, we would go and we would meet someone called a customs agent. Basically what that agent would do is he would look at the items that were in the box that we had just received. He would determine the value of the items of the box, and then based on that, he would determine a tax that we were responsible to pay so that we could clear the item at customs and we could take it. Now we dealt with a lot of different customs agents. Some of the people that we dealt with were very friendly and some of them were not. Some of the people that we dealt with were very fair in how they would assess what we were supposed to pay Others would make us pay absorbent amounts of money, and the fact is that there was nothing we could do about it. Either we were gonna have to pay the tax and get our package or we would have to just leave it and it would be of no value to us because of how much they would charge for the taxes. Well I want you to think of of Levi being in a position like that. He has a lot of authority. He bears the authority of the Roman Empire. And he's not a Roman. He's a Jew. And so think about how much the people, the Jewish people that lived in that community would have despised Levi. We're going to find out later on in these verses that Levi was obviously an affluent man. He was wealthy. He invites Jesus to his house and he he he hosts this large feast and it almost seems like it's an impromptu event. You say, well, how is this man able to do that? Well, he obviously had a nice house, he had a lot of food, he had a lot of money, he had people that worked for him, servants. This was a man who was very affluent. It was significant that Christ would call this person because what it does is it tells us that Jesus didn't just come to save the poor, he came to save all people. He didn't just come to save people that would have been accepted and loved in the Jewish community, but he also came to save people who would have been scorned and hated. And this man Levi was one of those people. It really is hard for us to appreciate how significant and weighty this is. And it's obvious that Christ would have raised a lot of eyebrows by deciding to go and call this person. But this is the same Jesus who touched a man who had leprosy. He's the same person who would actually heal someone who was demon-possessed and was terrorizing the community So the Lord Jesus Christ was someone who would step outside of people's comfort zones and he would minister to whoever was available. The second observation that we have is that it's difficult to appreciate how significant it was, not just for Jesus to call this man Levi, but for Levi to leave everything and follow Christ. In verse 28 it says, He left all, and he rose up and he followed him. Now we know that some of the people that Jesus called to be his disciples left fishing nets. They left their businesses. They left their families. That seems to be extremely significant, that these men would would make such a great sacrifice. But here's the question, what do you think would have been harder? To leave a business catching fish and selling them in the market? Or to leave an operation where you worked for the Roman government, you had job security, you were connected to very influential, powerful, rich people, you had a beautiful home, you were able to Uh get a huge feast just like uh just like he did in these texts of scripture. Which do you think would have been more significant? Not only that, we know that Jesus' disciples, some of them were actually zealots who were people that would have despised Levi. And so he was being called to follow Jesus and to follow Jesus amongst peers, other disciples, who would have probably not liked him very much. Yet Levi is willing to leave this extravagant lifestyle, and he's willing to follow Jesus, not knowing where he's going to pillow his head at night, not knowing what is ahead of him, but he obeys because he understands who Jesus is. A third observation that we see is that Christ was willing to get personally involved in the lives of people who were great sinners because he cared about their souls. In verse 29 it says, Levi made a great feast in his own house, and notice the next phrase. There was a great company of publicans and others that sat down with them. Now, if we were to think about the Jewish people that Jesus was ministering to, and we were to think about how they viewed publicans, the question is, what would they have thought of Jesus with these people? They would have said, Jesus is eating with traitors. Jesus is eating with people who consort with Gentiles. Jesus is eating with people who are thieves who extort their own people. Jesus is eating with people who are great sinners. When Jesus chose to enter that man's house, And to sit down with all these other publicans, that would have been something that raised lots of eyebrows and might have even infuriated some of the very people that were following Christ. But we need to think about why Jesus went to eat with this man. Was it because Jesus wanted to indulge in their lifestyle? Was it because Jesus was trying to get some material benefit? Well the answer is of course not. The reason that Jesus went to eat with these people is because he loved their souls. Jesus cared about these people's souls. He wanted them to embrace the gospel that he was preaching all throughout Judea. And so Jesus was indiscriminate in the way that he preached the gospel. He preached the gospel to the Jew, he preached the gospel to the Gentile. He preached the gospel to those who were poor, and he preached the gospel to Those who are rich Jesus preached the gospel to those who were self-reliant and those who were very humble. The fact is that he spread the seed all around, and whoever would embrace it, he would say, Come and follow me. And so Jesus is eating with these people because he cares about their souls. And Jesus didn't care what the religious leaders around him were to think about what he was doing. A fourth observation that we see is that Christ's interaction with the religious elites revealed their hypocrisy and the nature of Christ's ministry. The fact is that the people who were the religious leaders of the day were not godly people as a general rule. There were some people who were looking for the Messiah. But as a general rule, most of those people were very self-righteous, were very proud, and really in the eyes of Christ were no different than the publicans. In verse 30 it says, their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners? Jesus answering said unto them, They that are whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. I came not to call the righteous. but sinners to repentance. That statement is really telling us why Jesus was eating with them. Because he came to call sinners to repentance. Jesus wanted to confront these people in their sinfulness. He wanted to expose them to the gospel of the kingdom, that he had come to die for their sins. that through him they could be reconciled to God. Jesus didn't come to indulge himself. He came to expose people to their sinfulness. so that they could receive spiritual cleansing and forgiveness. They could be reconciled to God. And we see that those who were around them who were self-righteous did not understand the nature of Christ's word. They didn't appreciate what Christ was doing. They didn't see themselves in need of Christ's ministry. And so that's why they condemned Jesus in the action that he was taking. This tells us that he came to save sinners. And so I want to remind you of that very important truth. The same Jesus that came to save those sinners came to save us, we who are sinners as well. And so when we think about the ministry of Christ, let's not forget Jesus didn't come to this world to take away people's problems and to remove all of their sicknesses and to make them financially prosperous. Jesus came to die for the sins of mankind. so that we could be forgiven and we could be cleansed and ultimately we could become God's children by faith alone in the gospel. I hope that this has been an encouragement to you. I love this passage of Scripture. It's really a wonderful passage to reflect on. There's so many things that we could think about when it comes to just the nature of Christ's ministry. how significant it was that he calls Levi, how significant it was that Levi was willing to forsake everything to follow him. It's a rich passage of Scripture. And I hope that it will minister to you this morning. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and I hope that you enjoy your day. Father, thank you so much for the opportunity to reflect on the ministry of Christ. He came to save sinners from their sins. I pray that we would have a Christ-like spirit when it comes to how we relate to other people. Help us to be compassionate towards the lost, recognizing that they need to come in contact with the gospel. so that their sins can be exposed, so that they can see what Jesus has done for them, and that they can humbly trust in the finished work of Christ for forgiveness and cleansing and salvation. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, I hope that you have a great rest of your day. If this has been a blessing to you, please share that and consider sharing that with a friend that may enjoy hearing this as well. Hope that you have a great day. Bye now.