Well good morning, like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And again, we're in Luke chapter eight. So if you have your Bible, let's all turn together, please And we're going to look at verses 40 down to verse 56 this week. But this morning we're going to focus in on the second part to what we started yesterday. And that is how do we deal with the questions related to suffering So I'm going to just read a little bit of a section here, but then we're going to dig into this issue of prayer and how God answers prayer when we're dealing with suffering. Here's the text. It says, Luke chapter 8, verse 40. And it came to pass that when Jesus was returned, the people gladly had received him, for they were all waiting for him, and behold, there was a certain man named Jarus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue. He fell down at Jesus' feet and besought him that he would come into his house. He had one only daughter about twelve years of age. She lay a dying, but as he went, the people thronged him. If you can remember back to yesterday, we talked about some questions about this issue of suffering and how God looks at us in our suffering. And the first thing we talked about is God's attitude towards us. God is merciful. He is very kind towards us when we are suffering. And we also saw some of the questions as to why he doesn't insulate us from um suffering. Why he allows us to experience pain. We talked about those details. Well this morning what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look at how we're supposed to respond to God in suffering. And ultimately that is we need to pray And when we pray, the question we should ask is, well, how does God answer our prayer? Is God obligated to do exactly what we expect of him? If we Uh if we demand enough, is he obligated to give us what we what we have uh pleaded with him for? Um is it almost as if God doesn't know what to do and Our prayer is kind of the determining factor and God has the power to do this and so if we pray then he goes ahead and he does it. Well really none of those are the correct way to look at this issue of prayer. We talk about prayer, what we need to recognize is that we are going to a God who doesn't learn anything, he doesn't need our perspective, he doesn't need us to tell him what we think. He knows our minds, he knows our thoughts, he has a purpose in mind. What prayer ultimately is, is about us orienting our heart properly toward God and expressing our dependence upon him. And recognizing that when God works on our behalf, in the way that He chooses to work on our behalf, it is ultimately a testimony to His goodness and His grace and His wisdom and His power, not ours. And so I want to get into some very specific areas that we can say, most certainly, these are areas that God answers when it comes to the issue of suffering. First of all, I want to give you two observations that are introductory. The first observation is that we need to recognize that any time a person is healed on this side of glorification That healing is always temporary. So does Jesus did Jesus heal people in in in in the uh time when he was doing his public ministry? Of course he did. And when I say he when I say it's temporary, I don't mean uh it was an illusion, like it appeared like he had healed somebody. Let's say a person has cancer and God heals them. It's not like They don't have cancer for a day, or their symptoms go away for a day or two, and then it's back two days later. No, he literally heals them, he restores them to good health. But that person ultimately was going to eventually die Every person that Jesus healed would would one day age and become old and they would eventually die. And so any kind any kind of healing that we experience on this side of glory is temporary. And we need to recognize that those temporary uh God is not obligated to uh to do exactly what we tell him to do. Sometimes It is not God's will to heal us temporarily in a particular situation. Give you an example of this, 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 8. Paul says, For this thing I besought the Lord thrice that it would depart from me. And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee. My strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I the grab glory in my infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities and reproaches and necessities and persecutions and distresses for Christ's sake For when I am weak, then am I strong. Now let's remember something. This is a category of God's response. So does God always respond by saying, No, it is not my will to heal in such a situation? The answer is no. We need to pray, and there are times that the reason that God heals Is that he does it through us coming to him in prayer. But that is not always the way that God responds. It is something he does when it is his will. A second observation, when God calls the believer home, that is the ultimate healing, entrance into glory. For instance, in 1 Corinthians 15, 54. When this corruptible shall have put on in corruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying which is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. So when I'm at I'm praying that God would heal someone, I need to recognize that sometimes the way that God heals is he temporarily heals them and then again one day they will get sick down the road and they will ultimately die. Or a person, God may choose to not heal them on this side of glorification. His healing is that they receive their glorified body for eternity. Those are two important observations for us to recognize on the front side of this issue. But then I'd like to get into some other practical issues. What are some specific things that God does do when it comes to this issue of suffering and prayer? The first thing I'll mention is that God gives us the grace to endure affliction. In fact, every single time we pray when we are in affliction, we should begin Not with God, heal me and take this away, though we should most certainly pray for that if that is our desire. But we should begin with, God give me the grace to endure this affliction as long as you permit it. The scripture is full of examples of God saying that He does this. In Second Corinthians twelve nine it says, My grace is sufficient. My strength is made perfect in weakness. Ephesians chapter 6 verse 10. Be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Philippians 4. 12. I know how to be abased and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Many of us are familiar with that verse. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. And the way that we tend to apply it is, well, I'm going to triumph in this situation, I'm I'm going to uh overcome this, God's going to take this away. And we almost look at it as our power to see the response that we or that we get, what we wanted to get. But what Paul is saying is sometimes I can do all things through Christ's strength and it's me as I'm healed. And sometimes it's I endure affliction. And I endure it for a long time. And I rely and I draw upon God's grace through that whole ordeal. And that's what he means by I can do all things through Christ who strengtheneth me. Another example. In 2 Timothy chapter 2, he says, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Any person that is afflicted should begin with saying, God, give me the grace to endure this affliction for the period of time that you assign me to walk through this difficulty. There's a second thing that we can absolutely pray when we are asking God for grace in a situation, and that is that he would use the affliction to shape us to become more like the Lord Jesus Christ. Psalm 119, 67 says this. Before I was afflicted, I went astray. But now, after affliction, have I kept thy word. Psalm one hundred nineteen, verse seven seventy one. It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn of thy statute. Psalm one nineteen seventy-five. I know, O Lord, that thy judgments are right and that thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me. Now we read these verses, we say, that's not what I want to pray for when I'm going through affliction. Well, would you like to pass through affliction and learn nothing through it? Would you like to pass through affliction and not have matured and grown if it was in fact the Lord's will for you to do that? And the answer is of course not. You want what God is allowing you to go through or what God has purposed to pass you through, you want it to accomplish the purpose for which God intended it. And so it's not just the grace to endure, but it's that through affliction we might grow and we might mature and we might be shaped more into the image of Christ. That moves us to a verb that he would use the affliction to mature us, to develop the strength and the maturity. You know, we could say that we love someone, but that love, if untested, has no depth to it. It has no maturity. We could say that a person is patient, but the fact is that that word means absolutely nothing without a test of the patience or the endurance of a person. And so God uses affliction to mature us and even to demonstrate the level of maturity that we have grown to. 2 Corinthians 12, 7. He says, lest I should be exalted above measure Through the abundance of the revelation, there was given me a thorn in the flesh. What's the point? God was trying to keep Paul humble. He was trying to mature him. Second Corinthians twelve nine. He says, My grace is sufficient for my strength is made perfect in weakness. That word perfect has the idea of a maturing, a developing of the person's character. James 1, 3 to 4. He says, The trying of your faith worketh patience. Let patience have her perfect. There's that word again about maturity. Perfect work that ye may be perfect and entire wanting nothing. Those verses are emphasizing the fact that God uses suffering and trials and difficulties and afflictions to mature us, to build us and strengthen us in the qualities that He is producing in us. It's all about maturity. And so anytime we go through suffering, we need to say, God, help me to draw on your grace. God, shape my perspective. God, mature me. The fourth thing I need to mention is God, this is an opportunity to demonstrate that you in fact love me and that you are compassionate. Think about the blind man. John chapter 9, verses 1 through 3. Jesus passed by and saw a blind man, blind from his birth, and his disciples asked him, Master, who did sin, this man or his parents? And Jesus said Neither. This man sinned not or his parents, but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. He's saying the reason that this man was born blind is ultimately to be a platform through which I will demonstrate my power and my compassion. Another example is Lazarus in John chapter 11. When Jesus heard it, he said This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God that a son of my man, a son of God might be glorified thereby. It says when Jesus therefore saw her weeping He wept with her, and he groaned in his spirit, and he was troubled, and they said, Behold, how he loved him. What do these situations show us about God? They show us his power, and they show us his compassion. God loves us and he wants to demonstrate his authority and his power. And he uses the temporary sufferings and the temporary trials in order to be the platform platform through which he does those things. I'll give you a fifth example. He provides opportunities for you and I to connect with others and to invest in them. God never intended for you and I to grow in isolation from other Christians. There's a reason that God ordained the family. There's a reason that God ordained the church. God wants us to grow in community. And and and one of the things that we are tempted to do when we suffer is that we like to hide and we like to withdraw to our corner and we like to isolate ourselves and And kind of drown ourselves in misery and have a pity party. And that is not the intention that God has for us when we suffer God wants us to draw on his grace, to have our perspective shape, to have our maturity develop and build up. He wants to demonstrate his mercy and his power, and he wants to build us so that through those circumstances, we're able to minister to others and help them grow and help them mature as well. One of the reasons that it is so necessary for us to come alongside other Christians who are suffering as they're suffering and to bear their burdens is so that as we bear their burdens, they're able to inject perspective into our lives. In fact, many times it is the sufferer, not the one who is going through life smoothly at the moment, that has perspective to share. And so in 2 Corinthians 1, verse 4, he says that he comforteth us in all our tribulations, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble. by the comfort wherewith we ourselves have been comforted of God. Folks, this is a huge topic. This is a heavy topic. It's a tough topic. But it is an essential, it is a vital topic for us to address as Christians. Why does God permit suffering? It's because we're in the midst of a process. And what God wants to produce in us comes through the process. It comes through the means of suffering and difficulty and trial. And so if God wants to produce those qualities in us, he must allow us to pass through the process. The long-term perspective and spiritual health of God's children Their long-term maturity and developing into Christ-likeness is more important to God than our short-term comforts and ease. I don't know about you, but that is a very important truth for us to reflect on this morning. It may be that right now you're going through a great season, everything is smooth, and I want to say praise the Lord for that But it may be that you're finding yourself in a great affliction, a great trial. This is biblical wisdom that you need to build your life on. And I pray that God will do that today. Have a blessed rest of your morning and Lord willing tomorrow, we will continue in our series by now