We turn with us to the book of Luke. And uh the passage that we're going to look at for a few minutes this morning is the passage that you just saw narrated. Now, it is true that in that narration There were some things that were added to just kind of draw you in to kind of understand a little bit of what would have been going on in the minds of these people, but what you may not realize is that a lot of the things that you heard were quoted directly from Scripture and it was to help us to understand exactly what was going on in the minds of these people that really points to the whole reason that Christ came. And so let's go ahead and read together Luke chapter 2. We're going to read verses 25 down to verse 33, and then we're going to look at these verses together this morning. Here's what God's Word says. And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. The same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel. The Holy Ghost is upon him. And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. He came by the Spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him after the custom of the law, then took he him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord. Now letest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word. For my eyes have seen thy salvation, which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light delight in the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which are spoken of him. Let's take a moment just to ask the Lord to help us to really think about. The content of these verses and what we have just seen this morning. Our Father, thank you for the Word of God. I thank you so much for the gift of Christ. God in flesh, Emmanuel, who came to take our sins upon himself, to die for those sins, to bear our guilt and our shame. And ultimately to provide through his sacrifice the one and only means through which we are reconciled to God. I thank you for the power that was demonstrated when he conquered death. and rose three days later triumphantly. And as we think about these verses and we think about the tremendous struggle and the confusion and the spiritual darkness. That the people that we just reflected on for the last few minutes lived through, and the light that came through Christ. I pray that you would help us to understand the beauty, the majesty, and ultimately that free gift of eternal life through Christ. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a very interesting one. In fact, one of the things that was interesting about watching that narration was how gripping it was. I don't know, maybe it didn't grip you the way that it gripped me, but as I was listening to these people talk about their life experience. It kind of draws you into thinking about the text of Scripture. And as you think about a woman like Anna, or you think about a man like Simeon, these are people who lived through some very, very dark times in history. I know we tend to think of our own times being the most difficult, the most dark, but the truth is that's just not the truth. The time that these people lived through was very, very difficult. But despite all of the confusion and all of The darkness of the time that these people live through, they trusted in a very simple message. And that's the first thing I want us to notice in verse 25. Notice the way that he puts it. He says Behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. The same man was just and devout. And he was waiting for the consolation of Israel. Now, just to kind of help you to think about the time that these people were living in, how old they were, we really don't know exactly how old Simeon was. But we have an idea of how old s Anna was because of the way that it describes uh her life. We know that these people lived through some very difficult times in history. In fact, if we were to kind of step back And ask ourselves what happened in the world, specifically in Judea, where these people lived during their lifetime. I just want you to know some of the things that they lived through. One of the first things that they lived through when they would have been young adults, so maybe people like in their twenties, they would have lived through watching their own nation fall under Roman rule. And we've heard about a man named Pompey the Great, who was a Roman general. And during that time period in their lives, he would have brought a a bloody battle to Jerusalem and the dynasty that was ruling over the people in Judea who were Jewish people were overthrown. In fact, the Romans treated them horrifically, lots and lots of bloodshed, and the Romans conquered Jerusalem and ended Judean self-government. It was a dark time for these people. And then when they would have gotten into their middle years, let's say in their fifties, these people would have lived through Roman or the Roman, well, he wasn't actually technically a Roman, but Herod the Great. became the king there in Jerusalem. And Herod the Great was known as a ruthless, tyrannical individual. In fact, we know from the story of Christ when he was born, and then the the Magi come from the east and they go to Jerusalem because they don't know where Christ has been born, and then ultimately they end up in Bethlehem. When Herod the Great realizes that there's someone being called a king, who's living there in Bethlehem. He says, I have to kill this person. And so what he does is he sends in his soldiers And from all the children about three years old and down, they annihilated every single Jewish boy living in Bethlehem. from that age down because he wanted to eliminate anyone who could potentially take his rule. Not a nice guy. And during that time period that these individuals would have been probably in their 50s, he began to build the temple there in Jerusalem, not to build it, but to renovate it. But this renovation was really more or less just his way of stamping, I own you, and this is kind of like his vanity project. I'm going to take the most sacred location in your entire region, and I'm going to turn it into my vanity project. That's what the temple was. And by the way, it would be in that building process for many, many, many decades before the time of Christ. And then after Christ's death and resurrection, that's what these people saw when they went into the temple. And then In the months leading up to the events that were described here, Caesar Augustus, the first Roman emperor, this is after Julius Caesar is killed, and the Republic falls. Caesar Augustus to establish his preeminence over Judea tells all the people in the region that they have an obligation to go back. to their towns of origin so that they can be registered and taxed and be reminded again that they are owned by Rome. That was what they lived through. Not nice. But there was also a lot of spiritual darkness. In fact, we know that for over 400 years leading up to these events, through the entire life of these individuals, there were no known prophets in Israel. So we think about Moses and we think about David and we think about Samuel and we think about Elisha and Elijah and Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel and you name all these prophets for over 400 years, it was complete silence. No prophecies in Israel. The priesthood had been corrupted. In fact, we know that for over a hundred years the priesthood was being governed by people that did not have the right according to the Levitical law to be in that role. And so the high priest, the the most influential religious leaders in the entire region were frauds. So when they go into that temple, there was a lot going on. And then their religion had been corrupted. The rabbis had basically added insurmountable unbiblical burdens on the people. It was a corrupt system. So they didn't have a legitimate king, they didn't have a legitimate priesthood, they didn't have a legitimate religious practice, and there was no prophecy in the land. That's What they lived through beyond their own personal issues that were described this morning. And despite all that darkness, they believed in a very simple promise. God 's going to send a redeemer. Here's what it says. This man Simeon was just and devout, and he was waiting for the consolation of Israel. That word just means that he was a believer who was just before God. The word that we use is justified. He was a believer. He was devout, that means he lived consistently with the position that he had as an Old Testament saint. So even though he was working in a temple where there was so much corruption, and even though the religious teachings of the day were not consistent with the scripture, This man was able to look through all the fog and all the darkness, and he was able to read in the scriptures that God is sending a Messiah and he was waiting for him. He was looking for him. He was trusting in him. And that's why it says he waited. for the consolation of Israel. Second thing I want you to notice in these verses is that their focus was on a very simple promise. Verse 26. It was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen What does it say in your Bibles? The Lord's Christ. Now that word Christ is the word Messiah. And so when the Bible uses that term the Christ or the Messiah, then what is understood is all of these prophetic teachings in the Old Testament that were pointing to the fact That God is going to send a Savior, the Redeemer. And that Savior is the Lord Jesus Christ. He's Emmanuel. He's going to be God with us. He's going to be born in Bethlehem of Judea. He is going to be born to a virgin. Her name is not stated in Isaiah, but Christ was miraculously conceived. He is God in flesh. And this Christ is going to ultimately die so that we can be redeemed to God. So when it talks about the Lord's Christ, it means he understood a Savior is coming. Zechariah, Simeon, Anna, all of those older individuals that are mentioned in Luke chapter 1 and Luke chapter 2, they talked a lot about what it meant. to be the Savior. For instance, they understood Luke 168, that God will come in flesh. He has visited and redeemed his people. Chapter 1 verse 72. He remembers his holy covenant. That means that this is God doing this because he has bound himself by his word. He has promised to send a savior, he's going to do it. We see in verses 74 and 75 of chapter 1 that sinners can be declared righteous before God because of what he's going to do for them. It says that these are people who will serve God without fear in holiness and in righteousness before Him. Now just pause and realize something. Nobody in this room deserves to stand before a holy God and say, I'm not guilty. None of us. I can't say that. You can't say that because we sin. Sin is a part of our nature. And sin is something that we express through the choices we make, the thoughts that we think, the attitudes that we have. Sin is something that is deeply ingrained in all of our hearts. It affects every aspect of who we are. And a holy righteous God doesn't just take our sin and go, ah, I don't see it, I'll ignore it. It doesn't work that way. But these verses say that these people will have the ability to serve God without fear in holiness and righteousness. And the question is, how can they do that? How is that even possible? Well, it's because salvation will come at a cost. And that's what verse 77 means when it says that this will come by the remission of their sins. That word remission has the idea that the sin will be removed. It will be washed away. It will be dealt with. And so the reason that Zacharias and Simeon and Anna were looking for the Messiah is because they knew that God had made a promise. That he would send a Redeemer. The Redeemer is God in flesh. He has bound himself to his word. He is going to be able to declare sinners. not guilty and righteous because that savior will deal with sin at the cross. That is what Christmas is all about. And they knew he would suffer and die. That's why Simeon said in verse 35, a sword will pierce through your soul, and the thoughts of many will be revealed. He is telling Mary, there's going to be a day that you will experience an inner insurmountable pain because what's in the heart of people will be expressed in what they do to that baby when he grows up to be a man. Simeon declared that prophetically. And verse 26, they knew he was coming, and it was very soon. It was revealed unto this man Simeon by the Holy Ghost that he would not see death. before you had seen the Lord's Christ. Third thing I want you to notice in these verses is that God mercifully guided these people to the Redeemer. This is a really important thing for us to not miss. If God provided salvation for people, but you didn't know about it, how would it help you? How would you know about it if God didn't make it clear to you? If God didn't send to you some way that you could know what God did for you. Every person that becomes a believer becomes a believer because God has in his mercy guided them to the truth. Some of you, it was you were born in a home where mom and dad taught you the word of God since you were a little kid. Maybe you grew up in this church, maybe you grew up in another church. Whatever the situation, you came in contact with the gospel because of mom and dad. Or maybe it was a coach, or maybe it was a teacher, or maybe it was a friend, or maybe it was somebody that worked with you And they took the Bible and they began talking to you about her, or maybe you just asked questions. They didn't initiate a conversation, but you know they're different in the way that they think about things. The way they process the world, you know that they believe the Bible is God's word, and there's a peace and there's a calm in their heart that you don't understand, it doesn't make any sense to you, and you can't make sense of it. God planted that person in your life or those people in your life or gave you access to that truth for a reason. It's called his mercy. And in these verses we see it. Verse 27. He came by the Spirit into the temple. By the way. God told him, go there at that time. But this man already believed. You know why he believed? Because he read the scripture And through the scripture, he came to understand God sending his Messiah. So he comes to understand, he believes, he's waiting, and the Spirit says, go to the temple today. And he didn't tell him why. Go to the temple. And so it says he came by the Spirit in the temple, and when the parents brought the child Jesus to do for him after the custom of the law, then took he him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now You can let your servant depart in peace according to thy word. My eyes have seen thy salvation. You know what? He held that little baby in his arms and he said, He's my savior. Now, just think about it. He hasn't saved yet. He's just a baby. But that day's coming. And so this man who is a very old man looks at that child and says, that's the one, that's the Messiah, that's the Savior, that's the one who redeem us from our sins. And he said, now I can die. Because what you promised has been fulfilled. You sent him like you said. And if you sent him like you said, he's going to finish what he came to do, and I can die in peace knowing that this will happen. The Holy Spirit revealed that he would see the Redeemer before his death. Verse 26, it was revealed by the Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. Verse 27, he was guided into the temple by the Spirit. He came by the Spirit into the temple. Verse 30, his words identified the Redeemer for anyone who was going to listen. Could you imagine being one of those people that day and you you you see this Couple coming and they're holding a baby and this elderly man picks this baby up and says, I can die in peace because I've seen your salvation. You'd go, Oh, what's going on here? Am I missing something? Does that old man have a problem? He doesn't know what's going on. The people knew Simeon and Anna. They knew they were devout people. They knew that these are people that had lived a life of faith and conviction. And so something was significant about what this man said. Anybody who had ears to hear could have understood who that baby was. And by the way, Joseph and Mary understood. How do we know that? Well, we know that because of how they responded when this man talks to them. But there's a fourth truth. That mercy extends to everybody. One of the things that's very interesting about scripture is we read the stories of people who lived a very long time ago. And we can go very interesting. There are lots of people that they read the Bible like a history book, but that's all it is to them. It's a book of philosophy. It's a book of poetry, it's a book of intrigue, but it's not the word of God that has any kind of bearing on their life today. Lots of people read the Bible that way. They love studying the theology because it's interesting, but they don't necessarily believe in it They're amazed about the accuracy and the precision of the Bible. They're amazed at how there is so much continuity with all these different human individuals over a very long period of time who wrote various books of the scriptures. They understand that the Bible claims to be God's word, but it's for other people, not for them. But I want to tell you, the Bible is not for just other people, it's for you. It wasn't just God's mercy on them. It's his mercy on everybody. Say how do you know that? Well, because of what it says in verse 31, it says This is the one which thou hast prepared before the face of all people. That's pretty interesting. He then says it's a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. Now for these people, there's like few categories in the world. There's the Jewish people who have the law and they have the covenants and they have the sacrificial system and they have all that. And then there's everybody else who doesn't know any of those things. He says this savior is for everybody. Everybody, no exceptions. This savi came for you. The savior came for me. Christ came to offer salvation to all before, listen to what it says in chapter 2, verses 31 and 32, when the angels declare uh when the angel are we see this in verse 31 and 32 he says it's before the face of all people these are the words of Simeon however if you go back to chapter 2 verse 10 and 11 When Christ's birth is announced by the angels, listen to what the angels say to the shepherds. It says, Fear not. Behold, I bring you good tidings. Probably another way to put that is, I bring you the gospel. That's really what it is. That's what the gospel is. It's the good news. I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. Unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. Folks, this story is not just about them. It's about us. You might be here this morning and you say, I'm not a Christian. I have no interest in being a Christian. It's all a fairy tale to me. Listen. One day you'll stand before God and you will remember the opportunities you were given. And it won't be a laughing matter on that day There might be someone who says, I'd love to become a Christian, but I don't think God would have me. A lot of people in history have felt that way. By the way. To understand your inadequacy and wonder if God would have you is not a bad thing, as long as it doesn't stop there. Because the truth is none of us, none of us have the right to stand before God in our own works and righteousness. The best we can give God is filthy rags. Our obedience to the law always falls short. The law is this mirror, this mirror that doesn't say, good job, buddy, you've earned your way. It's this mirror that says You fall short, you fail, you have no hope in yourself. But there is hope in Christ. And the fact is there are lots of people that feel I could never become a Christian because God would never have me. And this verse says, for all people, including you. Including me. It doesn't matter where you've been, what you've done, what you've said to God, what you've said about God, how you might have mocked him, how you might have doubted him. How you might have scorned what he says is right, you can come to God in repentance and believe in the gospel. And he will save you. You remember the thief on the cross? You do realize that he was mocking Christ before he said, hold on a second. We deserve to be here, but he doesn't. If you look carefully at the text, he wasn't nailed to the cross saying, I believe you, Jesus. He was nailed to the cross mocking Jesus. But something happened while he hung on that cross, and what he saw and what he heard took root in his heart. And he realized he is dying for me. And that man was saved that day. So the question is, how do you apply such a story? Well, the simple application is this salvation from sin is found in one person. It's Christ. It is possible for you to know right now that you have eternal life You say, are you sure about that? Sure. I wouldn't say it if I wasn't. And I wouldn't say it if I didn't have good grounds to say it. Based on the authority of Scripture, you can have an absolute confidence right now as you sit in this room that you have eternal life. You say, How I will get there. That confidence is not misplaced or presumptuous confidence. If I tell you I can bench 700 pounds, I'm lying to you. If I could tell you I used to bench press 700 pounds, I would also be lying to you. And if I tried, I would find out I can't. Okay. And there are people that can tell you I can do such and such, and they're delusional. I believe such and such, and you go, that's very interesting. Got nothing to say about that. Is that the way we should look at this statement? You can have absolute confidence today that when you leave this place you have eternal life? The answer is no. It's not presumption. It's not misplaced confidence. It's rooted in the promise of Scripture. Listen to what the Bible says in 1 John 5, verse 11. It says this: This is the record that God hath given us eternal life. This life is in his son. He that hath the Son hath life. These things I have written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye might know. That you have eternal life. That's a pretty awesome statement, isn't it? Let me break it down to you. Because Jesus took on human flesh for you. Because he went to the cross and died for you. Because he rose triumphant from the grave three days later for you. He offers you salvation if you will turn to him as a repentant sinner and place your faith in what Christ did for you. That's the gospel, folks. Salvation is in a person. Whoever has the Son has life. That's based on the promise of God. It's written down so that we would know it. It's not something we just feel in our hearts. Or something that we hope to be true. It's written down, and I say, based on what God said, I take it at Face value, I accept it, I rest in it, he promised I have eternal life. Do you have that confidence? Do you have the Son? Do you have eternal life? Have you placed your faith in the finished work of Christ? During this Christmas season, there is nothing more important. Than having that confidence. And if you are uncertain, and some of the things that have been said this morning are starting to make you think and don't leave here without coming and saying, hey, Joel, I need to talk to you. You said some things that are kind of astonishing, frankly. I don't understand them, but I want to understand them. You might be sitting here this morning and you say, I get it. But I've never taken action on what God has said. I've always resisted. I've always said no. I've always said later. I've always said eventually at some point down the road I will do that. And today I say, what is keeping you from responding now? Why not get this matter settled today? Why not place your faith in Christ? Become a new creature in him. Receive that gift of eternal life. Nothing more important in all the world than knowing for sure that you're saved. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Ask God to bless this time. Before we close in prayer, I have a simple question with heads bowed and eyes closed. Do you know the Lord is your Savior? Have you placed your faith in Christ's finished work? Do you have the confidence that in fact you have eternal life? If you do not have that confidence, I want to encourage you to let me know that. Not by coming forward, not by giving a speech, by simply raising your hand quietly. Hey, it's even dim, so I might not even see it, but I'll try. Do you know for sure you're saved? If today you say, I don't know that, Joel, I would like to get this matter settled today. Would you quietly raise up your hand? No one else is looking but me. Say, hey, I I'm uncertain about this. I need to trust Christ. I need to talk to you. Anybody at all like that? If you need to trust Christ, take care of it there in your seat. If you need to reach out and talk to someone, I'm available. I'd love to chat with you. Send me an email this week. I'll set up a time, chat with you over the phone, whatever is necessary. Answer your questions, point you to Christ. If you don't know the Lord as your Savior, today's the day you should respond to the gospel. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, I thank you so much for your word. It is It is a precious book because it communicates the darkness of humanity and the light of the gospel. It communicates your grace on undeserving sinners. It communicates your love. That is so great and so deep, we will never fully comprehend the depths of it. Father, it gives us right to stand in your presence. Through what Jesus has done for us. And I pray that today would be a day that you turn on the light for someone who has been sitting in darkness. That they will turn to you and place their faith in Christ. They will understand what it means to be born again , become a new creature in Him. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen