Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And we're back in Luke 4, and today we're looking at verses 38 to 41. So if you have a Bible. I'd like to encourage you to take it and let's look together at these verses, Luke 4, 38 to 41. The scriptures say, and he rose out and he arose out of the synagogue and entered into Simon's house. And Simon's wife's mother was taken with a great fever. They besought him for her. He stood over her and rebuked the fever, and it left her, and immediately she arose and ministered unto them. Now when the sun was setting, all they that had any sickness with diverse diseases brought them unto him. He laid his hands on every one of them and healed them The devils also came out of many crying out and saying, Thou art Christ the Son of God. He rebuked them, suffering, and suffered them not to speak, for they knew that he was the Christ. When it was day he departed and went into a desert place, and the people sought him and came unto him and stayed him, that he should not depart from them. Now when we come to this passage of Scripture, we we see lots of people that are in very difficult, desperate situations. And we really get the sense of that when we read these verses. We see people who are pursuing Christ, many coming to him. He goes to visit Simon Peter 's mother-in-law, and when he does that, they see that she's extremely sick. She has a grave fever. Well what does this tell us? This tells us that Christ came in contact with people who were in desperate situations. And what's interesting about the text in front of us is it shows us that when Christ met those people in desperate situations , He had the power or the authority to reverse the situations that they were encountering. He was able to actually deal with those situations. And so what it shows us is that Christ is sovereign even when people are in very difficult and desperate places And so let me remind you again of the summary statement that we looked at yesterday, because really today's passage and yesterday's passage are a part of the same section. But here's what we wrote down, shared yesterday. The following section of Luke's gospel gives a series of signs that were meant to validate Christ's ministry. The first of these miracles revealed his authority over the kingdom of Satan. The second of these miracles, which is what we're looking at today, shows his authority over people's desperate situations. particularly people who are very sick and they are infirms. So let's deal with this this topic for just a few minutes this morning, and I hope it'll be a practical encouragement to you. The first fact that we see this morning is that people that Christ healed dur that the people that Christ healed during this portion of his ministry were in a desperate place. Look down in verse 38. It says, Simon's wife's mother was taken with a great fever, and they besought him for her. You know, we think about what's going on right now with this pandemic. The fact is that what we're dealing with right now, which is affecting really the entire world, not just our nation or not just our local communities. But the fact is the kind of pandemic we're dealing with is not a new thing in human history. We think about 1918 when we had the Spanish flu and how that afflicted really more people than even what we're dealing with today. When we look at human history, we can find times where pandemics took cities and literally 35, 40, 50, even 60% of the people in those communities died from terrible, terrible illnesses. This woman, Simon Peter's mother-in-law, was in a very difficult situation. It just tells us that she had a very serious fever. But the people were concerned for her. It wasn't just like, you know, you wake up and it's 101 or 102. They literally think she's not going to survive. And so they besieged Christ on her behalf. In verse 38 it says, All they that had any sickness with diverse diseases brought them unto him, and laid his hands on every one of them and healed them. The idea is that there were people that were extremely sick. They'd had diseases, some of them for many, many years of life. And people who loved them and cared about them were so desperate. that they took their friends to Christ, saying, maybe he will heal them. In verse 41 it tells us that devils also came out of many. And so these are people whose lives were dominated and they were in bondage to Satan's power. He is controlling them. He's abusing them and misusing them. And so what we find is people who are in desperate situations. And there are really two areas that Christ demonstrates his authority in here. One is the common infirmities that affect everyone living in a fallen world. Sickness is something that we all experience from time to time And sometimes we get very sick, and we don't have the ability to even get over that apart from some serious intervention on God's part. Common infirmities. But then we also see the evil that's associated with Satan's kingdom Like yesterday when we talked about the person who was in the synagogue, who he cast demons out of, there were other people in similar situations, and he deals with them the same way. So it shows us that he has authority not only over Satan's kingdom, but over the common infirmities that plague everyone who lives in a fallen world. The second fact I want to share with you this morning is really an implication connected to this text. And we're going to go to another passage And that's Psalm 91. And I know that we're familiar with Psalm 91. It's a passage that I've preached on in our church. It's been quite a while now. But the truths that we find in that text, especially in the situations that we're dealing with right now in our nation, I think that they're very, very comforting. We see in that text that not only was God sovereign over the circumstances of the people he dealt with in Luke 4, but the fact is God is sovereign in our desperate situations as well. God is in control of what we're dealing with, not just what they dealt with. Listen to what it says in Psalm 91. It says, He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress. My God, in him will I trust. You know, when we read through the 91st Psalm, one of the things that we'll see is there are two kinds of difficulties that the psalmist talks about. He says that he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the noisome pestilence. In fact, we talked about this statement, noisome pestilence. and our family devotions one night. And the idea is this is a a terrible, a terrible plague that cannot be controlled by people. When he talks about the snare of the fowler, he's talking about a difficulty that is motivated by premeditated evil Like a person goes out and sets a trap for an animal to capture it, there are people who actually afflict other people through premeditated evil. And so he's talking about the kinds of afflictions that are inflicted on people purposefully by those who have evil intentions. And they've actually plotted and they've actually schemed and they've actually thought these things through And then the kind of difficulties that people can't control. You cannot control a plague or an illness. You can manage those things. You can try to respond to those things. But the fact is that you can't stop them. They're really under God's care and God's control. Only God can stop those kinds of things. They're not within our ability to control. The fact is there are people in this country that have worn a mask faithfully and consistently all throughout the time of the coronavirus, and they've still gotten coronavirus. There are people that haven't left their homes and basically people have gone and gotten their groceries for them and through some freak accident or circumstance they end up catching this virus The fact is, you and I cannot control some of these things. We can take preventative measures, but protection is of God. And so the psalmist talks about the fact that God delivers people From premeditated evil that's actually been plotted against them and difficulties that are completely outside of their control. Circumstanced, like a plague. He reminds us that even when we're fearful, God does take care of us. It says in the text that he will cover thee with his feathers. In Psalm 36, verse 7, he says, How excellent is your loving kindness, O God! Therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings. The idea is that God comforts and protects his children. It's like he shelters them like a mother hen shelters the chicks when danger comes around. And even when we go through times of doubt and fear, God is faithful. God doesn't protect us on the basis of how confident we are in Him. God protects us on the basis of His own goodness and His own willful choices. And so we're reminded of that in the 91st Psalm. It reminds us that God's word can comfort us when we're fearful. Later on in that verse, or in that psalm, he says, His truth shall be thy shield and thy buckler. In other words, a defense against the doubts and the fears and the terrors that encompass us when we are in times of desperation. God's word is what gives us hope and encouragement and strength. And it reminds us that God manages all of our circumstances, even those that are most terrifying. He says, A thousand shall fall at thy side, ten thousand at thy right hand, but it shall not come nigh thee. Only with thine eye shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked Now, I'm not 100% sure about this, but I think that the psalmist is referring to a time when God was judging the nation of Israel during the time of Korah's rebellion. And there were people that rebelled against God and against Moses ' authority and leadership, which ultimately was God delegating him that authority. And during that time period, God set a terrible plague amongst the nation of Israel. And what we see in those events is that God set a line of distinction between those who were a part of the rebellion And those who were faithful and trusted him. And those who were a part of that rebellion, they died at the hand of this terrible plague. And those who were not, God preserved their life God protected them. And the psalmist is basically reminding us that even when things are completely out of control and terrible things are going on around us, God is still sovereign. He still rules in those circumstances. The fact is that every person around you could fall to the side and God can protect you if that's what He's purposed to do. And so we have to learn to trust God in the midst of our most terrifying circumstances. And so when we look at Psalm 91, what we're reminded of is just like God was sovereign, and ruled and helped those people in their time of great desperation in Luke chapter 4 where Christ heals those who are infirm. He cast out demons from those who were oppressed by Satan. God is also sovereign when we are going through times of tremendous desperation. And I'm sure that today there are people that have a feeling of sense of a feeling and sense of desperation because of the kinds of things that you're dealing with. I want to remind you that God is still on his throne and he's still in control. And so you might ask, well, how can we practically apply what we're talking about this morning? What can we learn and glean from this? Let me share with you a couple things I jotted down as I was thinking about this today. The first is this God is actively involved in our lives even when we are in desperate places. God doesn't abandon us. He doesn't walk away from us. It's not as if He says, oh, well, in that situation, I have nothing to do with it. You're on your own. Tough luck. Just see what happens. God is still in control. He manages. He rules. He's sovereign He stops evil. He has the power to do it at any point. And he does it often. And in this particular situation, he he did that. He cast demons out of those who are demon-possessed. He healed those who were sick and infirmed with terrible afflictions. God stops evil. Not only does God stop evil, but God limits evil. He may choose for a season to allow us to experience the hardship because there are things he wants to teach us through it. There are lessons we have to learn about ourselves, about him, about the nature of the world we live in. It may be that God is judging evil. It may be that God's chastening. It may be that God is trying to refine us and purify us. But the reality is God can stop evil and God can limit evil. And God manages what goes on in the world, in our personal lives. It also reminds us that he turns evil circumstances into opportunities to display his goodness and his power and to teach us to trust him. And so even when difficult circumstances come our way, God has a purpose that he wants to use for good and why he allows things to fall as they do. I'm reminded of Romans 8. 28 that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. The fact is that our temporary pain is insignificant in light of the fact that God has real value he wants to accomplish in our spiritual growth into Christ-likeness. God wants us to mature. He wants us to grow. He wants us to set our eyes on eternity. He wants us to know him as he is. And sometimes God allows us to experience temporary, temporal pain, so that we can come to a place where we learn those lessons, and those processes are beginning to shape us and mold us into what God wants us to be. And lastly, I want to remind you of this. These people suffered for a season, but in the end, what were they? They were testimonies of God's grace and God's authority. When God allows us to suffer, in the end, he wants us to be a testimony of his grace, of his strengthening hand. Testimonies of how he's able to rescue and then to demonstrate his power and his authority in all circumstances. As we think about the passage in front of us, I hope that it'll encourage you today. I don't know how you feel about things going on in your life or what kind of things might be overwhelming you today. But I want to remind you that God is sovereign and he's on his throne and he's personally involved in working in our lives, even in our times. of tremendous desperation. Let's bow together for prayer. And if this has been an encouragement to you, I hope that you'll share that. Perhaps share it with a friend that needs that encouragement as well. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study this text of Scripture. A very simple but practical thought. I pray that you'd use it to encourage us today, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, I hope that you have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, tomorrow we will continue our study in Luke. Bye now.