Well good morning. It's good to see each of you this morning and I'm looking forward to a wonderful service. We are going to be uh having our our year twenty twenty Christmas program and there's a lot of work that's gone on to uh gone into this and I know that Our young people and those who are in our uh choir in the back have been working hard and so we are really excited about the opportunity to focus our attention on the most wonderful story in the world, and that is when God sent the Redeemer into the world. Because of our Christmas program, we're not going to go through our announcements as usual, but I want to encourage you to make sure that you get a copy of the bulletin and look through those items that are coming up. The only item that's really pressing is we have our Christmas Eve candlelight service that will be on the 24th and it will be at 7 p. m. And so I hope that you can make it to that. I know a lot of people have asked about with Ann Rindle County changing things We will be able to have our service as usual. And it's kind of interesting. They told us we could go to 33%. Where did they come up with that number? Well, I'll talk to you about it later if you're interested, but somebody gave feedback and asked them to go to a third instead of a quarter, and that's what they did. So Anyway, just thought that was interesting. But that should not affect our service. So I just want to encourage you to be out for that if you can be. Our opening scripture is Luke 1. 67 down to verse 79. So let's look together at our opening scripture. It says this. His father Zecharias was filled with the Holy Ghost and prophesied saying, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he hath visited and redeemed his people. And hath raised up an horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David, as he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began. That we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all that hate us, to perform the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant. The oath which he swear to our father Abraham, that he would grant unto us that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear, in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life. And thou children shall be called the prophet of the most highest, for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to repair his ways, to give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins. Through the tender mercies of our God, whereby the day spring from on high hath visited us, to give light to them that sit in darkness, and in the shadow of death to guide our feet into the way of peace. This morning, as we focus our attention on the birth of Christ and the events that surrounded that very special occasion in human history, let's express worship to God by glorying in the miracle of the incarnation. That God took on flesh so that we could ultimately be redeemed from our sins by his work on the cross. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, we are so humbled and grateful that we can gather before you this morning and we can express worship to you because of the work of Christ. That our worship is accepted by you, that we are accepted by you in Christ. We are forgiven. We are justified, declared righteous because Christ's righteousness has been imputed to us. We thank you that the wrath of God on our sin has been satisfied because Christ was nailed to that cross and took upon himself our sins. I pray that this morning as we sing these wonderful hymns of praise to you and as we listen to this wonderful story presented both through the scripture reading, through the presentation that's going on, and then the songs that we will sing, I pray that all these things would point honor and glory to you. Father, I pray that those who are joining us on the live stream would be blessed by this time of focus on you. I pray that if there's anyone that is here or that will join us on the live stream who doesn't know the Lord Jesus personally as his Savior. That today would be the day that you open their eyes to their need to repent, to turn to you humbly and to trust alone in what Jesus has done for them on the cross. I pray that people would be saved from their sins as a result of the things they will hear today. We ask for your blessing, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good morning everyone. As we begin our services this morning, let's take our handles. Please turn to page 194. Page 194, join with me and stand. Usui sing three verses of joy to the world Sing it out Joy to the world already let earthly save her king. Let everyone preparing removal and then nature again and nature again Croix, il le croit. No hard again, nor Please do a Everyone for as a love , for as that can , for our background. Amen. We'll turn the page over in the hymnal to page 196. Just one page over. Angels we have heard on high. I 've just heard of my sleeping heart. I now begin by joyous. And after this case , we're intuitive while your joy. Away from all, say the way that I flee , which was by God with. There we go the same way with the Amen. Please be seated. There is a learning in heartway down by ancient tree. And centuries of sorrow there is a earning In hearts that in my chart with high, and in my shape of the light. There is thy journey, thy hearning for the promise was the first born. There is no year before the eyes And by this horse in our bond to bring to us salvation Immanew Within our hearts are you live, within our hearts are you Здравствуйте And we shall be all who made within our fire. We did all our living, even With the idea I remember that The stone walls and houses of Bethlehem were already in shadows. The setting sun made our sheep look gold white. They bleeded, and a crisp wind blew up through a gap in the rocks. But it was not the wind that had me trembling. It was the narrow mist my Benjamin had had that morning. I know that shepherding can be hard and dangerous. Why, only last week a man died trying to hold off thieves. But I never get used to such things. My husband Jacob has clubbed many wild dogs away from the flock. But that morning Before I could stop him, my Benjamin ran at a jackal with a rod. I screamed. Jacob, he It's just a child. And you are his mother, and so you worry. But did not our father David say, The Lord is my shepherd? The shepherd of Israel will watch over us and our Benjamin. If you believe that, then you have nothing to fear. And this shepherd, the God of heaven, our father above, is the shepherd of all our lives. You know, Isaiah said that this shepherd would someday come to us to live among us, to bear our griefs and carry our sorrows How does it go? Behold, a virgin shall conceive and shall bring forth a son and shall call his name Emmanuel. Think of that, Rachel. God with us It comforted me that Jacob believed. If only I shared his faith. He once said what an honor it was to be a shepherd. An honor, I thought, to have people stare at us because we smell of sheep. To know that my husband was the son of a scholar, and yet he chose this. He said, Rachel, it is an honor to be in some small way like our Lord, our shepherd. I went into the tent to think. It seems so strange that one day Jacob would lay down his life to protect these sheep, and the next day sacrifice his favorite lamb for our sins Whenever he slit its throat, I looked away, ashamed that this innocent lamb must die because I have been fearful, disobedient, and faithless I didn't understand why it had to be this way. I tried to understand, but it was hard to think when I felt so tired. It had been a hard and wearisome day Perhaps if I lay down and rest a moment, but just for a moment. And make the shipers. Heaven for God and we don't for God Heaven and Heaven for God and we don't I must have fallen asleep, for I had the strangest dream. Opening my eyes, I saw light pouring in from every side of the tent, as though there was no tent at all. It couldn't be daybreak already, and surely not a daybreak of this world. Father, what What is it? Be still. And then I heard a great voice, like low thunder. Fear not. Fear not. Who is speaking? I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be For all people, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. Could this be the one that we waited for? The one that Jacob always said would come? You shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. No. The Messiah would not be announced to us poor people on a barren hillside No, this could not be the one that we've waited for. It had to just be a dream. We die and the continuity in the wake up and we love work Wake Up and the continuity in the wake up and we love. Tonight the more of all the world is born Oh now it's all for wake up and listen to the angels wake up and hear the voice wake up and listen to the angels. At once there were thousands of voices all around saying, Glory to God in the highest. And as quickly as that, the voices were gone, and night returned. And with it the quiet. A sheep bleeded and an owl called. Then Benjamin burst into the tent. Mom, Mom, did you see? Did you see the people of light? They were standing right in front of me. Come, we are to go and see. Come? No. Oh, fear not, my love. Come, let us now go even unto Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord has made known to us, that the Lord Himself has made known to us. His face was so full of wonder and joy. I at last took his hand. How could I refuse? My God and Lord King My God and George King Come on , hold on , pretty call game , we go Uh , let me ask you how can I Who are those shining people, Father? Why did they tell us? I did not trust him, for those were my questions as well. messengers from the God of our fathers. And he sends his messengers where he will. They came to us, as it was said, but thou Bethlehem Ephratha , Though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel, whose goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting. We were hurrying to Bethelham. I dreaded the small lights of the town getting closer Go. The Lord has pitched his tent with us this night. His name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Peace. In all my life, I had never known that word as anything but a word. There was too much to fear. Jackals, cold weather, night, losing Jacob or Benjamin, every day with its new dangers that I could not control I was more aware than ever of my worn clothes. If we were indeed going to see the King of Kings, we were poorly dressed and empty-handed. Had Jacob not held my hand, I would have turned back. Had I been the mother of a king, I would not want us coming to see my newborn. I did not know that on this night the Lord of all the earth had humbled himself to be as poor as we were. We were hurrying ever since we left the field, but once we found the stable, Jacob hesitated. Benjamin started forward. But Jacob caught his shoulder and with a look stopped his foot and tongue. Jacob looked at me, and with a stab in my chest I realized what he was thinking. No, not me, Jacob. Rachel, you're a mother. You should go first. See if we're welcome. Benjamin looked up at me with such hope. Then I had a stab in my chest. My heart ached. How could I say that I was afraid? That we were too poorly dressed. That it was Jacob who had wanted to come here and not me. Peace be unto you. Enter. Now I had only to go in. What a small thing it may seem to you. Finally, reluctantly, I took that step. In the low light, on a blanket over straw, sat a young woman with a baby in her arms. Behind her was the man who had spoken. To the side, a donkey raised its head. The air smelled the fresh hay and grain. It was warm in this place, and peaceful too. The woman smiled at me. Come in I carefully went a little closer. The woman leaned forward and placed her baby in the manger beside her. The baby was swaddled just as the angels said he would be. Father, look, the king is sleeping. I glanced at James. Jacob and was astonished to see tears in his eyes. I have waited so long for this night. How gracious is our God that He could allow me To see the one who would be wounded for our transgressions and bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. The quiet words went over me like thunder. My sins, hers, Jacob's. This Little lamb would become the one who would take the place of all our sacrifices, would take my sin on him as no lamb that Jacob had offered ever could. The one whose death would once and for all cover our sins. I understood. The shepherd was also our lamb. I looked back at the sleeping baby. It seemed that even in his swaddling clothes he ruled in peace. I do have a cement. All right, I'm nature, no prayer for our man , commit to Lord, Jesus laid down in sleep. Never get never less than As we walked back, without even trying to stop myself, I cried. What's wrong, Mom? I couldn't speak, but Jacob spoke for me. Nothing, son. Tonight, nothing in the world is wrong. Benjamin, the Lord God has sent his son to earth tonight, and he will take away our sins forever. How? Well, when he becomes a man, he will die for our sins. Kind of like the sheep that are uh like the lambs at our Passover sacrifices, but he will give his own life for our sins. And once he is the sacrifice for our sins, we will never have to pay for our sins again. The sun was rising when we returned. Our sheep were safe and content, grazing where we had left them. I looked back the way we had come. The light was just spilling over into the valley, and among the poppies, and among the rocks, the poppies were opening to the the sun. I looked toward Bethlehem, where I had seen the Christ, the Messiah. It was the first time I had not dreaded the beginning of day. The old fears were all gone. I had traded them inside that stable for everlasting peace. I don't understand how a God is so divine Could low worse himself to a life such as mine and consider. Citer me worth every minute of time to rescue a sinner like me. When I think of my Savior alone on the cross, I know without him that my life would be lost if he had not. I've been willing to suffer the cost to rescue a sinner like me. To rescue a sinner like me. Like me, Lord, to rescue a sinner like me. He abandoned his throne and his kingdom. Apart to rescue a sinner like me. My mind is so limited I cannot see the reason he died and arose just for me, so unworthy was I, yet he came with To rescue a sinner like me To rescue a sinner as worthless as I And give me all the reason to see it's so hard to believe but it happened to me hallelujah to Jesus my king I came to rescue a sinner like me in Lord, to rescue. A sinner like me, you abandoned your throne and your kingdom above. To rescue our sinner, like me. To ask you a Well I tell you, there's a lot of things that have gone wrong in 2020, but one of them wasn't that program. That was an incredible blessing, wasn't it? First of all, I want to say a big thank you to all those who took part in that uh that program today. That was very, very Christ-centered. It was very encouraging, and it was so clear in how it articulated the heart of the gospel. and how God sent his son into the world so that we could be redeemed from our sins. All of our children ages two to six can be dismissed to the back for junior church And the rest of you, I'd like you to take your Bibles and let's turn together to Luke chapter 1. And the passage we're looking at this morning is dealing with really some events that were on the front side of the birth of Christ. This is actually before Christ. is born. And this is really talking a lot about Zecharias and Zecharias who was the father of John the Baptist, the forerunner of the Messiah. I know I've said this before, but this is my absolute favorite part of the Christmas storyline. This is my favorite text because it talks so much in such a rich way, in such a powerful way. about the gospel and really what's the heart of the gospel message. So with that in mind, let's read the text and then we're going to look at these verses for just a few moments together and see what really is the heart of the gospel message. And really it's laid out here in this Christmas passage. Luke chapter 1, verse 67 says this. And his father Zecharias was filled with the Holy Ghost and prophesied saying. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel who hath visited, important word, and redeemed his people. And hath raised up an horn of salvation, another very important word, for us in the house of his servant David. As he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began, that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all that hate us. To perform the mercy promised to our fathers and to remember his holy covenant. The oath which he swear to our father Abraham. They would grant unto us that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemies might serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life. And thou child shalt be called the prophet of the highest, for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his way, to give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins. Through the tender mercies of our God, whereby the day spring from on high hath visited us, to give light to them that sit in darkness, and in the shadow of death to guide our feet into the way of peace. Now, really, there is so much that could be said about the statement that Zecharias is making in this passage, and this is a statement that really really is a prophetic utterance. It says that he spoke this by the Holy Spirit and he prophesied concerning his child who was going to be born and who is going to prepare the way for the Messiah. There's so many details that we could dig into, but what I'd really like to do this morning is just look at the highlights. What I think are really the most important things that are being communicated in these verses. And so there's just a handful of very simple truths that we're going to look at this morning that are really the heart of the gospel message. In fact, if we could summarize this passage, we would say really the point of the passage in front of us is to tell us what the heart of the gospel actually is. Now, when I use the term gospel, I want to ask the question: what do you think about? When we hear the term gospel, what goes through your mind? Well the word gospel simply means good news. And it's good news because every person, every one of us in this room, and really whoever's listening by the live stream, we all have a very serious problem And that problem we're going to talk about for a few moments this morning, but that problem is sin. There is no person in this room and there's no person listening on the live stream that is not affected by this issue of sin. And the fact is, because of our sin, we have a problem between us and God. The problem separates us from God. It doesn't just separate us from God, but it also demands that we are guilty legally before God. And we need to be punished because of our sin. Well, the fact is that what this passage tells us is that there is good news that God has done something for us. That can remove that sin debt, that can make us right with God, and that can remove the punishment, the penalty that we legally deserve for our sins. Let's move through this text and look at a couple of these very simple yet very important truths. The first truth is this. The gospel is about God pursuing Let me say that again. The gospel is about God pursuing people. I want you to realize that if God had just created the world and put Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden and said Don't eat the fruit, and if you do on that day you'll die. And he just left them to themselves. We would be in a horrible place as a group of people. But I want you to realize that God didn't do that. The very moment that Adam sinned, what we see in the garden is that the next statement is that God goes to Adam and he searches for him in the cool of the day. And as Adam is hiding there trying to cover himself because he's fearful and afraid of God, what does God do? God pursues Adam And he says, Adam, where are you? And when Adam is hiding, he says, Adam, what have you done? Why does God do that? It's because God pursues people. If anybody is going to have a relationship with God, if anybody's going to have their sins forgiven and they're going to be cleansed, And they're going to become God's child, it's because God initiates this incredible work on our behalf. Before we ever seek after God, He is pursuing us And not just pursuing us, but he's laying out a plan and accomplishing that plan so that it's possible for us to be forgiven and made his children. Notice what the text says Zechariah says, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, who hath what? He has visited his people In other words, God comes to man. Man's not going after God. It says that there's none who understands, and there's none who seeks after God. God pursues people who are cowering and hiding from him in unbelief because we are hiding in our sins. God pursues people. In fact, God loves his creation. One of the most wonderful things that we read about in the Bible is that in spite of our brokenness, in spite of our sin, in spite of what we really are fundamentally as people, God loves us. John 3, it says, God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. In other words, God loves us, and God gives, and God pursues, so that we can be redeemed to Him. In Romans chapter 5, it says, when we were without strength, Christ died for the ungodly. God commendeth his love toward us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. God pursues people. And God does this because he loves people and he wants us to know him and to walk with him and to be forgiven and to be his children. The second fact we're going to see in this passage is that the gospel is not just about God pursuing people, but it's about God pursuing people because we are in a terrible place. Sin 's devastating consequences are dominating us as people. In verse 68, it says that God has visited and he has redeemed his people. In other words, it's not just that God has taken action on our behalf, or that God has pursued us because He loves us, but He has done it to redeem us. When you redeem something, you are literally paying a price so that that becomes your possession. And so when the Bible talks about God visiting in us and redeeming us, He's emphasizing the fact that we are separated from God, and because we are separated from God and we are alienated from God, there's an incredible price that has to be paid in order for us to become God's possession. In order for us to become his children, in order for us to be reconciled to God. You'd say, well, Pastor, what is the debt? The cost, the payment that has to be paid so we can be redeemed to God. Well, this morning, as we were listening to this presentation, it actually told us. In fact, one of the things that was talked about was the fact that in the Jewish culture, they are required not once, but often, over and over again, repeatedly. Throughout times of the year when they had sinned. They were responsible to take an animal from their possessions. They were going to kill that animal. and it was going to shed its blood, they would actually put their hand on that animal confessing that they had sinned, and that animal would be consumed in fire and burnt up as an offering to God. You say, well, why did they do that? That's such a graphic, such a bloody, such an awful picture. The reason they did it is because God told them to do it. And the reason that God told them to do it was because it was teaching them something about sin. You know, sin's not just a mistake, folks. It's not just weakness. It is decisive rebellion against God the Creator. And when we sin against God the Creator, we have violated his laws And his laws demand a penalty. And the reality is that the penalty for sin, the Bible tells us, is death. Every time that animal was killed, and that animal shed its blood, and that animal was sacrificed to God. Those people who had sinned would smell the offering being burned, would see the blood being shed would see an animal whose life was taken away from it, and it was to remind them that their sin deserves death. And over and over and over again, they would see the wages of sin is death. But it wasn't just to teach them that the wages of sin is death, but it was also to illustrate that God was going to send a substitute for them. You know what's really interesting? We see this all throughout the Old Testament. We see God providing a lamb so that it would die, or a ram that would die in the place of Isaac on Mount Moriah We see the Passover lamb that shed its blood and it died, and the blood was applied to the doorpost so that the firstborn in Egypt would not have to die. Literally, because the blood was shed and the animal died. It died in the place as a substitute for the firstborn. And when we come to Isaiah 53, it talks about the Lamb of God. And it talks about how the Lord lays on that land the iniquity of us all. We'll talk about this in just a few moments. But the idea is this God has to make a way that our sin can be removed and we can be reconciled to God. And that's through the payment of a price. And that price is death. The third truth we see is that the gospel is about God fulfilling his word. It's kind of interesting in this example that we saw this morning. Obviously, this is a fictitious story. Well, part of it's fictitious. I mean, we don't know about Jacob and his wife and all these conversations they were having, but we know this. What we do know Is that there were people living in Israel at the time that the Messiah was born, and they were fully aware that God was going to send a redeemer. And not only were they fully aware, but they were anticipating it at the very time that it happens. It was laid out in the scriptures. You say, well, why is it that they were anticipating this? It was because they believed that God would honor his word. God made promises to Abraham. He made promises to Isaac, to Jacob, to David, to Moses, to the nation of Israel. He made promises to Adam and Eve in the garden. And God says, I'm going to send redemption. I'm going to send the Messiah. And the Messiah is going to die for the sins of people so that they can be redeemed to God. In other words, God's word is on the line. In verses 69 and 70 it says, He's raised up in horn of salvation to us, for us in the house of his servant David. As he spake, by the mouth of his holy prom prophets, which have been since the world began. In other words, when Zechariah speaks, he says, all of the prophets have told us that God was going to send redemption. That he was going to send a savior. And so they were anticipating that God would fulfill his word. The Genesis 3 passage, we talked about it just a few weeks ago. The first mention of the gospel, where he says the seed of the woman would crush the serpent's head. We think about the Passover lamb. We think about the story of Abraham and Isaac on Mount Moriah. All of those things are pictures and pointing to the fact that God's going to send redemption. But there is no Old Testament text that is more clear and is more definitive about what God was promising than Isaiah 53. In Isaiah 53, it tells us that God is going to send a redeemer. Let me hit some of the highlights that we find in Isaiah 53. The first is in verse 4, it says this, surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. You say, well, who is he talking about when he says he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows? By the way, it's very interesting. We go to the book of Acts. We see that there was a man that Philip meets, an Ethiopian eunuch, and he asks the very question. Who is Isaiah talking about in this text? The one who is bearing our griefs and carrying our sorrows. Well, it's the Messiah. Notice that word bearing our griefs, carrying our sorrows. In other words, they weren't his griefs and his sorrows. They weren't his sins. They were your sins. My sins. Our sins. In other words, our sins were placed on this one, the Lord Jesus Christ. The punishment that we justly deserve for our sins, it's given to Christ. In verses 5 and 6, it says, He was wounded. For our transgressions, not his, ours. He was bruised for our iniquities, not his The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. Let me explain to you what he means by it. When he talks about chastisement, the idea is that there's a punishment that has to be meted out. And he says it's the chastisement of our peace. In other words, the reason why you and I have peace with God is because he was punished in our place. He was punished for our sins. And it says, with his stripes we are healed. Now he's not talking about a physical healing here, folks. He's talking about a soul that's broken. A soul that's separated from God. A soul that is in bondage to sin and corruption. It's being freed from the brokenness by the work of Christ on the cross. He says, All of us like sheep have gone astray and turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. Now, what's so interesting is when we read these verses, we read them as people who look back at an event in time and say, this is what Christ did. Do you understand that? In other words, when we see the phrase, he was wounded for our transgressions, we think of, well, he was wounded in the past. But when those who were reading this in the Old Testament read this, They're not reading as those who have seen it happen. They're reading as those who are anticipating it happen. In other words, they're saying he's going to do this. They were looking for that moment. But then what's I think the most interesting part of these verses is found in verse 11. God's justice is fully satisfied with the sufferings of Christ. He says in verse 11, He shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. That word satisfied is so interesting. The word is propitiation. I remember we lived in Ghana. We we worked with a fanti translation and I asked the the the man that I was working through with this, I said, can you tell me what that word means? And he told me, he said, I don't think it's the right word. I said, well explain to me what it means. He said, well it's the idea of you have somebody who is angry And they're very angry, and somebody comes and they bring them a gift, and now their anger is no more there. It's like they're appeasing their anger by giving them a gift. He said, There's no way that that could be a description of what God does. I said, that's exactly what it's saying. God 's anger is just. And it's focused on our sin. And the reality is that when Christ went to the cross, God's anger was removed. You know, in Romans chapter 8 it says, There's now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. Why does he say that? Now no condemnation. It's because before the cross, God had no choice but to pour out his wrath on us for our sin. But because of the cross, God is fully satisfied with the work of Christ. One of the reasons that salvation is entirely by God's work and not by our work is because if we say that salvation is in any part by our own work, what we're essentially saying is this the cross wasn't enough. In fact, it's interesting. Paul even makes this argument. He says, if you can be justified by the law, then Christ died in vain. That's the way he puts it. It says it's as if you're saying by doing what I do, I can be accepted by God, then what Christ did doesn't matter. Or it's important, but it's not everything. Yet the text is so clear. He's going to look on the agony of his son, hang on the cross, and he's going to be satisfied. There's no more wrath to pour out, he has paid it in full. And then he says, By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. That word justifies a very important word. The idea is that God declares us righteous. It's a legal term. When God looks at you and when God looks at me, he doesn't see us as sinners who have violated his law, but he sees us as people who are not guilty and righteous before him, but it's because of Christ. It's not because of us. It's because of what he did. It's not because of what we do. In other words, if you want to see the gospel in the Old Testament, you go to Isaiah 53 and you see that we are sinners, that our sin is a huge offense to God. That it's impossible for us to remove the sin debt ourselves, but that God literally goes to the cross on our behalf. The Lord Jesus Christ dies on the cross. He bears our sins. He's punished in our place. God the Father is satisfied and we can be declared righteous because of what he did. That's the gospel. And it's all about God fulfilling his word. It's about him doing what he said he would do. The last truth we'll see is that the gospel is about God enabling people to fulfill their original purpose. You realize that if you're an unbeliever and you have rejected God's offer of salvation, while you're created in God's image and while he gives you many things to enjoy in this life, you're not fulfilling the purpose he designed for you? It's true. God sent his son so that what had been lost could be restored. And when God sent his son so that what was lost could be restored, it can only be restored through him and through what he did on the cross. In verse 74 and 75 it says it was that we would that he would grant unto us that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemies might serve him without fear in holiness and in righteousness before him all the days of our life. The fact is that you and I can stand in God's presence, be viewed as holy and righteous and just, and we can serve Him without fear because of the cross. If there was no cross, you couldn't do that. In fact, in Romans chapter 2, it says that our hardened and impenitent heart is treasuring up wrath. Whereby God is going to demonstrate His justice and His wrath on the final day. In other words, if we reject the gospel And if we try to do it our own way and we say, I don't want to listen to what God says, I'm going to come on my own terms, or I'm going to ignore this story altogether. , We are literally building up God's wrath that will be poured out on us on the final day. Yet because of the cross, we can completely escape the wrath of God. There's no more to pour out on his children. It's all been poured out on the cross. We can be viewed as holy, though we're not. We can be viewed as righteous, though we're not, because we are in him. That's what the gospel's all about. So I want to ask you a very simple question this morning. Do you have the confidence before God? That all of these wonderful blessings that Christ provided for you, forgiveness, cleansing, declared righteous, made God's child. Being able to serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness. Do you know for certain, for certain, that you have been saved and those are true about you? You might say, I don't know. I don't know if I'm saved. I don't know if I have eternal life. I don't know if I'm forgiven. I don't know if I'm cle I don't know if I've been declared righteous by God. If you don't know, then you need to know And you need to know today. And you shouldn't let this sit on the side and say, well, I'll take care of this down the road. You need to deal with this today. In fact, God has brought you to this very moment for this very reason that you can know for certain when you die you're going to heaven. God wants you to have that confidence. He wants you to have that assurance. He wants you to be forgiven and cleansed and made his child. And so the question is: how can that happen? Here's the answer. In John 1, it tells us. It says that he was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own receives him not. But As many as received him, to them he gave the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name, which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God This verse, this passage tells us how we can be safe from our sins and we can have absolute confidence that when we die, we're going to heaven to be with God. The answer is we have to receive him rather than reject him. Notice what it says. It says as many as received him Now I want you to think about this for a moment. In the verse he says , He came into his own and his own did not receive him. And you say, why didn't they receive him? Because they didn't believe he was who he said he was. They didn't believe that he was the Messiah. They didn't believe that he came to die. They didn't believe he was God in flesh. They didn't believe that was the only way. They didn't believe he was the way, the truth, and the life, and no man comes to the Father but by him. And so instead of receiving him by faith Believing that he was, who he said that he was, they said, No, we don't receive him. , We reject him. You have to receive Christ. You have to accept his offer of salvation by faith alone and what he's done for you. And when you do this, God makes you accept it. It says to them he gave the power to become the sons of God. Now listen carefully. When he says the power, he's not saying, I'm making you strong enough to earn your salvation. That's not what he's saying He's talking about someone being legally qualified to be called a child of God. That's what he means. It means it's about authority It's about whether or not a person has the right to be called God's child or not. If you haven't accepted the Son, you don't have the right to be called a child of God. If you've embraced the Son, you've done what is necessary to be called God's child. And so literally, God makes us accepted when we receive his son. And he makes it very clear that receiving the Son is a faith issue. He says it's even to them that believe on his name. The difference between you accepting Christ and rejecting Christ comes down to really one fundamental issue. Do you believe or do you reject? Do you believe or do you reject? Do I believe he's the Son of God? Do I believe he died for my sins? Do I believe that there's no other way I can be saved except through him? If I believe it, then I trust in it. If I don't believe it, then I reject it. It's an issue of faith. It's a matter of the heart. It's what you do with those truths about God. And he says, when they believe, they are born of God. Literally, God gives you new life in Christ. Faith and new life go hand in hand. hand. I want to ask you this question. Have you trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior? I know 2020 has been a pretty rough year for a lot of people. It's been a tough year. But the truth is, here we are in December. We didn't get to come here for Easter Sunday. Everybody that is here today was not here on Easter Sunday. This is a really big holiday when it comes to Christian observance, Christmas and Easter. In spite of all the challenges of this year, God has allowed us to meet together and to be confronted with these truths. And it is possible, it is very possible. That today in our congregation or out there listening through Facebook or YouTube or on Sermon Audio, there is a person or there are people who need to call on the Lord in faith and trust in the Son. It's very possible. Might be a lot of people, I don't know. I don't know who all is listening and who's coming in contact with this message. But I ask you today, do you know for certain when you die you go to heaven? Because if you don't, today is the day you can trust Christ as your Savior. You can call on the Lord and receive him personally as your Savior. Trust on Him for what He's done for you. I'd like to ask you to bow your head and close your eyes for just a moment. I want to ask just a really simple question. Is there anybody here this morning that would say, Pastor? I don't know for certain that I'm saved. I'm not certain that I've trusted Christ as my Savior. And I really need to do that. I'm not going to call you out by name. I'm not going to make any point to point you out. But I'd just like to see, is there anybody here this morning that say, Pastor, that's me? I don't know for certain. And I'm saved. I'd be glad to talk to you so that you can show me from the Bible how I could be saved. Anyone like that, just quietly and quickly raise up your hand. I'll give you just a moment. I see that. Anyone? Else? Anyone else that say, Pastor, I don't know for certain that I'm saved and I need to deal with this issue? If you don't know for certain that you're saved, I want to sit down with you and go through the Bible and explain to you how you can be saved, okay? So I'll connect with you and we'll do that. If there's anybody that's joined us on the live stream, you say, Pastor, I'm not physically here right now, but I need to reach out to you. I want to encourage you, go to our church website, go to staff, click on the email. My email is on there. Send me an email. If you're watching on Facebook, send a Facebook message to the church. I check those Facebook messages, and I'd be glad to connect with you. And we can meet in person or virtually, and we can go through the gospel. And show you how to be saved. The most important decision you will ever make in your life is what you will do with the gospel. There is nothing in life that is more heavy and more weighty. Than where you spend eternity. Let's be out together for prayer. And thank God for this wonderful, wonderful story of redemption, the gospel. Father, thank you for the opportunity this morning. To be ministered through to through song, through this presentation we had. Thank you for the opportunity to open the Bible and see for ourselves About the heart of the gospel. I thank you that today there are people that have acknowledged they need to be saved. And you know their hearts, you know their struggles. You know where their heart is stuck and what they understand and what they don't. But I pray that today you would give them the understanding through the presenting of the scriptures. Give them the understanding that they need to trust Christ. And pray that today their hearts would be softened by the work of the Spirit. They would turn to you in repentance and faith and be saved. I pray that we would not leave this place without being truly overwhelmed by how great your salvation is. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, the song we're going to sing in our closing is hymn 202, Good Christian Men Rejoice. By the way, good Christian women, you can rejoice too. We can all children, we can all rejoice. And this is a wonderful song because it calls us to rejoice in light of the gospel. We have been reminded of the weight of the gospel, and now let's sing about how glorious and how blessed this message is. So let's all stand together. Hymn 202, good Christian men rejoice. I need a a hymn book here. All right, let's sing it out. One and three. The Christians can rejoice with heart and soul and joy. If we need to what we say, Jesus Christ is born today. Often asked me for him thou and me and in the nature now. Christ is born today. Christ is going to be on the third. Good Christian Henry Joys with heart and soul and voice. Now we need not give the free. Christ was born to see, called you one and called you all you came is everlasting one. Christ is one to stay. What a wonderful blessing to reflect on. Hope that you'll be able to make it back tonight. And I also want to remind you that Wednesday, if we have uh five inches of snow or more, we will cancel midweek service. Um I know that our kids um have the Christmas um market on Wednesday and so if for some reason we're not able to do the Christmas market, we're gonna do it the following Sunday night So uh on Sunday night rather than um the kids being in here, we're gonna have them do truth trackers. So I'm just giving you a heads up. I really cannot predict the weather. I don't know anybody these days that seems to be able to predict the weather But there is a chance that we have a significant snow this week. Or that people in the west of us get a significant snow this week. But I'll be keeping an eye on that and we will communicate that to you all. Uh with that also I want to encourage you, please uh invite people to our Christmas Eve candlelight service. And that is always a highlight of the year. It's a wonderful time. We're gonna be reading scripture, we're going to be having uh a challenge, we're going to be having uh special music, and uh it's just gonna be a really good time. So If you can come to that and if you can invite people, I hope that you'll do that. If you can't join us physically, I hope that you'll be able to join us online. But I'm not encouraging you to do that. I think being here uh would be um just a lot less distracting and more of a blessing. So if you can do that, I hope that you'll be able to do that. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and uh share all Do you mind uh closing us in prayer? You're gonna have to come up here though. Oh no, well you could you could pray from there if you'd like. It's up to you. Can you project Go ahead, you can project well right, I believe you. All right, go ahead, Joe. Lord is praise you for the beautiful scene and our wonderful program asked that you'd be with us in the afternoon and uh walk over to guide us. Lord is praise for all things Wheels that we have , you can call shirt and work with you.