Let's all turn together to the book of Luke, and we are in Luke chapter 20 this morning. And some of you might be saying, hold on a second, I thought we finished the book of Luke. And what we did as we were working our way through the book of Luke is we took a pause when we came to uh the week of the crucifixion and the resurrection, and we moved into the passages that are dealing with the crucifixion, the the resurrection, the triumphal entry. all of those passages and then we kind of finish out the book of Luke and now we're going to go back and we're going to look at some of the interaction between the triumphal entry and then ultimately the cross. And so we are still going to be in the book of Luke. for a little bit longer. And I hope that as we dig into these truths, you'll find them to be very, very helpful to understanding what Christ was doing for us. and ultimately the clash that was taking place between him and the religious leaders. This morning the focus of this text will be on Christ's authority and the gospel that he preached. So let's go ahead and we'll read the text again, and then we'll kind of pick up on some background information to help us to understand where we've been and where we're going and why we are there. It says the following, and it came to pass that one of those days as he taught the people in the temple and preached the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes came upon him with the elders, and spake unto him, saying, Tell us. By what authority doest thou these things? Or who is he that gave thee this authority? He answered and said unto them, I will also ask you one thing, and answer me. The baptism of John, was it from heaven or of men? And they reason with themselves, saying, If we shall say from heaven, he will say, Why then believed ye not him? But, and if we say of men, all the people will stone us. For they be persuaded that John was a prophet. They answered, and they could not tell whence it was. Jesus said unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we dig into this passage, I pray that the Spirit of God would take the truths of Scripture. As they are laid before us, I pray that He would take the truth and press it on our hearts. Father, help us to understand what is going on in the passage in front of us and help us to understand what is at the heart of the contention between Christ and these men Help us to understand how Christ dealt with them, why he dealt with them in such a way. And then help us to translate that into understanding how you deal with us. And how we are to understand this entire interaction and how we're to respond to it in basic application obedience. So I pray this morning you would speak through your word. I pray that you would empower me to preach it very clearly, that the Spirit of God would do his work in us that only he can do. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I would summarize the passage in the following statement. Christ's primary contention with the religious leader centered on his inherent right to teach and act as if He is the Son, or He is God in flesh. Now when I use the term inherent right, what I'm saying is Jesus is God in flesh, therefore he absolutely has the right to teach as he did, and he has the right to ask act as if he did. And by the way, this is what really qualifies him to do what he did on our behalf on the cross. And so as we dig into this passage of Scripture, we will see that God's desire for us is to see Christ's true identity and then to embrace Him and what He has done to redeem us to the Father. So we want to begin by first of all looking at some background information because we really have not been in this text of Scripture for about a month. And so we want to kind of remind ourselves again what is going on in the text in front of us. This is the final week of Christ's pre-passion ministry. What do we mean by that is his passion being he goes to the cross, he dies for our sins, and he rises from the dead. This is what takes place during that final week, the culmination of everything that Jesus has taught, all of those interactions, and ultimately what he has come to do. He has repeatedly emphasized, and this is quoted several times both in Matthew and in Luke, that he has come to die on the cross. This is absolutely necessary. This is not something that is avoidable. It's not just that he dies, but he dies on the cross, and he dies in fact in the way that he will die. And in Matthew chapter 16, verse 21, it says this From that time forward began Jesus to show his disciples how he, the next word is important, must Go into Jerusalem, and he must suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes. He must be killed and be raised again the third day. This is not avoidable. In Luke 9, verse 22, it says, the Son of Man must suffer many things. and be rejected of the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be slain and be raised the third day. And then in Luke 17, verse 25, it says, first must he suffer many things and be rejected of this generation. And so as Jesus is going up to up to Jerusalem, and if you remember back, This actually is narrated all the way back to Luke chapter 9. This entire section from Luke 9 to Luke 20, Christ is bearing the weight. of what he's about to go and to do. And this comes out often in his interaction with the disciples and with the crowds. And in fact it's now coming to a head. Second thing I want to mention here is that the triumphal entry just two days later was significant in a lot of ways. It was significant because it was the culmination of prophecy. John 12, 15 says The king cometh, thy king cometh sitting on an ass's colt, and these things understood not his disciples at the first, but When Jesus was glorified, I love the statement, then they remembered that these things were written of him and that they had done these things to him. So what's amazing about the disciples is that as they are living through the triumphal entry and Christ is riding on this donkey into Jerusalem, they don't understand the significance of it. But after the fact, after they reflect back on those truths from Scripture, and they've seen the whole picture, it makes sense. They remember what was written of him and what was done to him. And so there is a prophetic significance, but there's also a symbolic And I kind of mentioned this several weeks ago when we were dealing with the triumphal entry. I mentioned in 1 Kings chapter 1 when Solomon was crowned king. He came down from the Mount of Olives. He went down through the Kidron Valley. He goes up to the location of the Gihon Springs, and there he is crowned as the king in the stead of David. And interestingly, he rides into Jerusalem on the back of a donkey, just like Christ did. And then we also see this example, how there's significance to it, when we look at the story of Jehu in 2 Kings chapter 9. And as second king in second Kings chapter nine it says, Thus saith the Lord, I have anointed thee king over Israel. And they hasted and took every man his car garment, they put it under him on the top of the stairs. They blew the trumpet, saying, Jehu is the king, and he enters into Jerusalem. And so as Jesus is coming down from the Mount of Olives, down into the Kidron Valley, up into Jerusalem, riding on this donkey, the people are throwing down their clothes and they're yelling, Save us now. This is very symbolic. But it was also very explosive. What I mean by explosive is there is a building tension between Christ and the leaders in Jerusalem. It's really going to come to a head in this passage, and then it's going to come to a head even fuller with him being crucified. But in Luke chapter 19 Verse 39 to 40 it says, Some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples, and he said unto them, I tell you, if these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out. He says, if I didn't tell them, if I told them to stop , the very rocks would proclaim my glories. Pretty amazing statement. And so you can see this is a big deal. There's a lot coming to a head. We also see that this is the culmination of Christ's confrontation with the religious leaders. In fact, the day after what the text that we're reading here is more than likely when Judas goes and covenants with the religious leaders to ultimately turn over Christ to them, where they're going to turn him over to the Romans and ultimately he's going to be crucified. In verse 1 it says, On one of those days as he taught the people in the temple and preached the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes came unto him with the elders. And then in Luke 22, it talks about how Judas covenants with them and is prepared to deliver Jesus over to them. So all of this is going on in the background of the text that we are reading this morning. So the first thing I want to show you from the text is this. Christ's primary contention with these men centered on authority. Look down your Bibles at verse number two. It says, and this is a question, tell us, by what authority doest thou these things? Or who is he that gave thee this authority? Now what was the immediate catalyst for that question? That was very pointed, and there was a big time reason for it. Well, if we go back one chapter to chapter 19, verse 46. We see that Jesus throws out the money changers in the temple. By the way, this is not the first time that he did it. He actually did this at the beginning of his ministry. And when Jesus comes into the temple, he makes the following statement. It is written, my house is the house of prayer, but you have made it a den of thieves. My house That's pretty interesting, isn't it? He's not saying the house that you're supposed to oversee leaders, which they were, my house. That's very personal. They understand what he's saying. He is claiming that the temple is his. This is claiming an inherent authority. That no person humanly speaking should have claimed unless it is true they are Messiah, God, and flesh. The authority that is mentioned in this passage of Scripture has the idea of right, not strength or enabling. In fact, when we look at the Greek term that's used here, sometimes the term has the idea of a strengthening. This is right. Authority. Do you have the right to do what you've done? Not the power, not the strength. Do you have the invested authority? Do you think who do you think you are? That's basically what they're saying. Who do you claim to represent? That's what they're saying. It's like if somebody came into your house and did something that was not authorized by you and you said, what right do you have to do what you just did? Who said you could do that? This is my house, not your house. You can't do that. That's what they're saying to Jesus. How do you have the right to say and do what you have done? And there's a great irony in what these men were saying The irony is that they themselves did not have the authority to govern the temple as they did. And the reason for that actually goes back to some history that I'm just going to very briefly highlight. If we go back to the book of Numbers, we know that the priesthood was dedicated to a particular family. The high priest had to be of the lineage In fact, it's not just to the lineage of Aaron, but through a particular son to the lineage of Aaron. We know this because in Numbers chapter 18 it says Thou and thy sons with thee shall keep your priest offer office for everything of the altar, and within the veil, and he shall serve. I have given your priest offering office unto you as a service of gift. The stranger that cometh nigh, listen to the statement, shall be put to death. That's a stunning statement In other words, if somebody claimed to be the high priest and they did not have the authorization under the Mosaic law, that was supposed to be a death sentence. That's a very serious matter. Interestingly, if we go forward hundreds and hundreds of years from Numbers chapter 18, but we go back hundreds and hundreds of years from Luke chapter 20 We see the nation of Israel coming back from exile, and they've been in Persia. And one of the things that the people were concerned about when they came back from exile is whether or not people could prove that they were of the lineage of the priesthood. The reason for that is if they could not prove this, then they would have no right to serve in a Levitical capacity, and especially not in the capacity of high priest. In fact, in Ezra chapter 2, verse 62, it says this, These saw the register among those who are reckoned by genealogy, but they were not found, therefore were they as polluted, put from the priesthood. What's really amazing is that in our minds, this is so foreign, but what it shows you is that someone could not function in this capacity. unless they were qualified to function in this capacity. That was not just for those in the time of numbers when Aaron is alive and he is given the priesthood, and then his son and his son 's son and his son's son all the way down, but even when they're coming back from exile and they have literally been uprooted from their homeland, and we're talking about several generations have passed They are still expected to be able to demonstrate that they are of the lineage of the priesthood to function in such a capacity. So what was the current situation? It's very interesting. Because in John chapter 11, there's a fascinating statement that's made. It says, if we let him thus alone, this is the chief priests who are reasoning amongst themselves, if we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him. And this is the next statement that is very important. And the Romans shall come and take away both our place and our nation. And one of them, named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said unto them, It is expedient for us that one should die for the people and that the whole nation perish not. Now, why did Caiaphas and Annas say the things that they did? It's because they were not appointed to this place in the right way. In fact, for over the last 50 plus years, the person serving as the high priest that was functioning in the temple had no right. Had no right to be in that capacity. Because they were politically appointed by Rome. They were not following the Levitical instructions regarding the priesthood. And so I find that to be extremely significant because here are people who are demanding of Christ our Savior, what right do you have to say and do what you have done? And who has given you this authority? And Christ is looking at them going, perhaps you should ask yourself the same question. But that's not what he did. It's also important for us to recognize that Christ's authority is something that is highlighted over and over again in the book of Luke. I'm going to give you a couple of examples Luke 432, they were astonished at his doctrine, for his word was with power. And interestingly, that word power in the Greek text is the term used to describe authority. Luke 4. 36. What a word is this. With authority and with power, he commandeth the unclean spirits. And they come out of him. They are marveling that the demons tremble in the in the in the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ. He commands them to go out, and they have no choice. They are to submit to his authority. Luke 5, 24, that you might know that the Son of Man has power on earth to forgive sins, he said unto the sick of the palsy, I say unto you, Arise, take up thy couch. and go unto thine house. Interestingly, he is emphasizing the right to forgive and the authority to heal. Those are authorities that are only of God. And then in Luke chapter 12, verse 5, he says, Fear him which hath not fear him which after he hath killed hath power or authority. to cast into hell. And so all of these verses emphasize something. Christ has the authority as God in flesh. to say what he says and to do what he does. Second truth is that he focused the exchange with a probing question. And I find this very intriguing. In verse 3 it says I will also ask you one thing. And then notice what he says next. Answer me. Answer me. Jesus is not going to answer their question until they have answered his question. It's a very interesting approach. And the question is, why did he do that? It's because he's focusing his attention on what is the ultimate crux of the contention. And that is who has the right to do and to say what they do and they say. Here is the question, verse 4. The baptism of John, was it from heaven or of men? Now the question is, why did Jesus ask that question? Well, it was to demonstrate that these men were actively, rebelliously, with open eyes, rejecting what the Scripture witnessed about Jesus. For instance, in Isaiah 40, verse 3, it says, the voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, prepare ye the way of the Lord. By the way, if you look down in your Bibles, it's all cast. That means, prepare the way of Yahweh. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Interestingly, that is clearly a statement of John the Baptist. So when John the Baptist comes and Jesus says, who is the one who ultimately gives us this baptism, the baptism of John, they've got to come and come to terms with the fact that this is the one who is foretold in Isaiah chapter 40. He is the one who was preparing the way for the Lord, who is making straight a path for our God. Obviously, the baptism of John comes from God and goes all the way back to Isaiah who hundreds and hundreds of years ago had predicted what was going to take place They could look at the preaching of John. Matthew 3, 2, repent. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. John 1. 23, I am the voice in the wilderness crying, make straight the way of our Lord, as the prophet Isaiah spoke. John 1. 26, I baptize with water, but there is one standing. I love the statement. Among you who ye know not, he it is who is coming after me, preferred before me, whose shoe latchet I am not worthy to unloose. Not only was John the fulfillment of the Old Testament promise, but he spoke very plainly about it. And then John proclaims very clearly in John 1. 29. John seeth Jesus coming unto him and saith, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. Now what's he saying? I am the one talked about in Isaiah 40. This is the one who has come to redeem people from their sins. In Luke chapter 3, verse 22, it says, The Holy Ghost descended in bodily shape like a dove upon him. A voice came down from heaven which said, Thou art my beloved Son, in thee I am well pleased. What's the point? All of these are witnesses, testimonies to the fact that Christ has the right to say what he says and to do what he's done. And here is the culmination of all of it. John 8, 24. If you believe not that I am He, you will die in your sins. So Jesus is making it very clear, I am God in flesh. John knew it, Isaiah knew it. And John proclaimed it very clearly. And you know it too. That leads us to a third truth, and that is this: their unbelief was rooted in rebellion, not ignorance. I think when the Bible uses the term unbelief, it tends to, I don't know if I'd say exclusive because I haven't looked at every single example, but I would go on a limb to say it may very well be exclusively. Unbelief is spoken in terms of disobedience and rebellion. And the reason for that is because when the Bible presents unbelief, it presents it as here are the facts. The authority of the scriptures is right before you, and you say no. That's the way that the scriptures speak of unbelief. And in verse number five, it says, they reasoned with themselves. And they answered that they could not tell. Now let's stop and let's pause to think about what's going on in front of us. These men were not ignorant men. They handled the scriptures more than you and I do. They memorized more scripture than you and I have memorized. They debated more scripture than you and I have debated. These are people who knew what the book says. They had more access to truth than the people that were their peers. Why? Because they were scribes, they were Pharisees, they were of the priesthood, these are the religious leaders, these are the people who know the scriptures. They knew all the details from Christ's ministry. These things were not hidden from them. They watched him as an opponent. They watched him as one who was just waiting for an opportunity to pounce on him and to find issue with him and to call him out and to make him look bad. That was the way these people responded to Christ. They knew their own spurious claim to the priesthood. In fact, we even see the evidence of this when we go to that passage where Caiaphas says, we don't want them to take our place. From we don't want the Romans to take our place. They knew the history. They knew the book of Numbers. They knew the book of Leviticus. They knew these things. They chose to harden themselves against the realities that they knew to be true in the scripture. What also amazes me, this is a group of people who internally were very divided. Pharisees did not believe what Sadducees believed. Essenes did not believe what these other people believed. But they had one thing in common. It was not a common faith, it was a common animosity. They had a common enemy. Their enemy was Christ. And amazingly, because they had a common enemy, they were willing to lay aside their differences to preserve for the moment Their position, their authority, their clout, their opportunities. Notice their response in verse 5. They reasoned with themselves. And they said this can go one of two ways. Either one, if we say it's from heaven, then he will say, why did you not believe? In other words, if we say it's from God, then he's going to ask us, why are you rejecting the witness of the law? Why are you rejecting the witness of the prophets? Why are you rejecting John the Baptist? It's clear, you know this, why are you rejecting it? And they would be right. If that's how they answered, that's exactly what Christ would have done. Then why don't you believe them? Why don't you listen to them? Why don't you accept them? Why don't you submit to them? But option two is very intriguing too. If we say of men, then all the people will stone us. They are persuaded that John was a prophet. If we say he's from man, then we're going to lose our influence with the people, probably face their wrath, and an out-of-control mob is going to put us to death. So how do they answer? We don't know. Did they know? Of course they knew. In fact, if they were to have answered accurately, they would have said, we don't want to say, because we don't want to think about the implications of what we're saying. And I think that this is actually where a lot of people find themselves. Rather than facing the facts, the realities of Scripture, they say, I don't know, because I don't want to think about it. it. Do you realize that this is ultimately what keeps a lot of people from salvation? If if I have to come face to face with the fact I'm a sinner, I'm condemned. Christ is the only one that can save me from my sins. My righteousness doesn't cut it. My good deeds don't cut it. All the things that I can try to present to God, they don't cut it. I have to accept the fact that I'm a sinner who has no hope outside of Christ. I've got to humble myself in repentance and trust alone in somebody else and what they did for me. That is something a lot of people don't want to swallow. But is an absolute prerequisite to salvation. Unless you're poor in spirit, you won't enter the kingdom. You have to come to terms with the fact that your righteousness is a filthy rag. It doesn't cut it. And so with open eyes, these men rejected Christ. The heart of their response is this. Their response was not aligned with truth or connected to a love for God and His Word. Their understanding of Scripture had nothing to do with their response. What I mean is what they said is not what they knew. They refused to look at the facts objectively because their hearts were hardened to the truth. They refused to face themselves honestly. Their unbelief was filled with hypocrisy and rebellion. This amazes me. These are the same people that when it comes to the issue of Christ dying. They want to make sure that they don't go into the court of the Gentiles so that they're not unclean during the Passover. Here are people who are willing to murder an innocent man. With absolute hatred in their souls. They're willing to twist the truth. And there's a miscarriage of justice. They're willing to do all these things. Lie, manipulate. And what the what are they worried about? I don't want to be unclean during the Passover. What does it show you? Complete hypocrisy. Well the question is, how do we apply this? We see that the contention is the authority of Christ. We see how Christ goes to this issue, and we see that their unbelief Was really not something that was done in ignorance, but in fact they knew full well what was going on. How do we take this text and how do we apply it? There are four principles I want to mention very briefly that we need to accept. The first is this. You will not see what you don't want to see. It's true. You won't see what you don't want to see. The reason that they didn't see was not because the facts weren't there. It's because they didn't want to see it. They didn't want to consider implication. They didn't want to disrupt their position. They did not want to submit themselves to the one standing before them. The second thing is this. What you love will cloud or enhance your judgment. That is so true. You know the example in Matthew when Jesus is going through the Sermon on the Mount and he says, judge not so that you be not judged. Before you make a judgment, Remove the beam out of your eye so that you can see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye. It's a really interesting principle. And the principle is very simple. It says this. If you have something in your eye that is you're unwilling to address, well, that really is going to mean that you won't be able to help your brother. That's what it means. If I love what is evil, then I'm going to continue as I am. And think about Jesus in John chapter 3 when he's talking to Nicodemus. He said that the men will not come to the light. Why? Because they don't want their deeds to be exposed. And so it is that love for sin. And that unwillingness to see the truth clearly that keeps them from embracing what is right in front of them. And that's true for all of us. It's very easy to see it for them in this particular text of Scripture. It's very hard for us to see it in our own lives. But the principle stands. What you love will cloud or enhance your judgment. If you love God and his word is your delight, I'm telling you it's amazing the things that you'll begin to very clearly and easily see in the scriptures. And when there's a resistance to God and who he is and what he's done, guess what? You're going to read that book and you're going to see what you want to see, and you won't allow yourself to see what you don't want to see because what's going on in the heart affects our vision. Thirdly, a humble disposition toward God and His Word is a prerequisite to understanding Now the truth is we don't know what ended up happening with some of these people. We know that there were Pharisees who were converted after Pentecost. We know that the Apostle Paul was there consenting to the death of Stephen. It was literally under his authority and jurisdiction. And he becomes the greatest proponent of the gospel at the time in which he lived. So we don't know the whole story of these people, but what we do know is this. Humility of heart is a prerequisite to understanding the word. Until the Apostle Paul, who was Saul on the road to Damascus, was knocked off his horse, and he says, Lord, what will you have me to do? He wouldn't be able to see. right in front of them. The last thing I'll mention is just the grace of God that humbles our heart before it reveals the truth. If you have seen the gospel very clearly, you should not just thank God for what he did to bring salvation to you, but you should thank him for what he did to help you to see it. It's true. How can you call on him whom you've not heard? How can you hear without a preacher? How can they preach unless they are sent? Who sent them? God did. The reality is that any person who is a Christian is a Christian because the grace of God sought them. and drew them and humbled them and pointed them to the facts of the gospel. And so these four principles are so very important There is nothing more important than the gospel. I remind you that Christ came in the flesh to deal with our sin. John 1, the word was made flesh. Philippians 2, he made himself of no reputation. He humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. 1 John 3, he was manifested to take away our sins. He dealt with our sin in the flesh. 2 Corinthians 5. He made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. 1 Peter 3. 18, Christ once suffered for sin, the just for the unjust, to bring us to God. Galatians 3. 13, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. Isaiah 53, 5, he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. His soul was made an offering for sin. And he conquered death and the resurrection. Thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Folks, God had a plan and Christ came and did it. And if you have come to face the reality of the gospel and your sinfulness, and you're separated from God and what Christ has done for you, you can be redeemed to God. And you could be comforted by what the scripture says is true about all who are saved. You know what comfort you can walk out of here with? We are not redeemed with corruptible things, but we are now redeemed and forgiven through the precious blood of Christ. Ephesians 1. 7. We have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. We are now reconciled to God. 2 Corinthians 5. 18. God has reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. We are now at peace with God, Ephesians 2. 13, but now in Christ Jesus, you who sometime were made far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ, he is our peace. There's now no condemnation. Romans 8. 1, there's now no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. Ephesians 1. 6, he has made us accepted in the beloved. Romans 3, 8. 39, nothing can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. You know what's wonderful about these truths? Every one of those people who put in their lot to say, let's take him down. Every single one of those people who said, yeah, we know he's innocent, but he's got to die so we don't lose our position. Every single one of them had the opportunity. For those blended blessings that are ours in Christ to be applied to them. They all did. They all did. But they had a choice to make. And as Peter preached at Pentecost, you have killed the Lord of glory. Repent and be converted. It's pretty amazing. Might be someone here this morning that's never placed their faith in Christ. May you not leave this place without having come face to face with the gospel and repented and believed. And all of us who have trusted in Christ, what I said at the end of this, all of those things are true of us. Not because of what we've done for him, but because of what he's done for us. Aren't you thankful for that? Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, as we think about your word and as we ponder these truths , We are so grateful that Christ was manifest in the flesh to take away sins. He has redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. We are redeemed to you. We are free from guilt and condemnation. We are righteous in him, and nothing can take us out of the hand of our Father. May these precious truths bring us great comfort and delight And if someone here this morning does not know Christ as their Savior, may they turn humbly to you and receive that free gift of salvation that comes through his sacrifice alone. We ask it in Christ's name, amen.