Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church this morning. Hope that you had a good weekend and uh so thankful to be in the Lord's house if you're visiting with us today for the first time. or the first time in a long time, we hope that you will feel very warmly welcomed and that you will take a moment to fill out a connection card. And if you do that, just put it in the little box in the back and we'll make sure that we reach out to you in the next week or two. that we can find out how to be an encouragement to you. Brother Braxton has a couple of announcements and then Pastor Josh will open us with our scripture reading. Good morning. If you look in your bulletin, there's a lot of events coming up. I'm going to highlight a few. This Thursday, we have it anchored in the teen word study. Then we also have next Tuesday, the 8th, we're going to be at Baltimore Rescue Mission. So just encourage everyone to come out for that. Be a blessing to the homeless that are there, as well as the senior luncheon that following. I believe Thursday. Yeah, Thursday. Then August 13th. So it's a couple weeks from say there's going to be a parent meeting after the morning service, just having to help me get to know many of you guys but also just kind of explain what's coming up this upcoming year but with that hope to see you guys and um in a blessing this morning Our scripture reading this morning is found out of chapter five of the Revelation, starting with verse one. And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within, and on the backside, sealed with seven seals. And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, who is worthy to open the book and to loose the seals thereof. And no man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to look thereon. And I wept much Because no man was found worthy to open and to read the book, neither to look thereon. And one of the elders said unto me, Weep not. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed to open the book and to loose the seven seals thereof. And they sung a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain. And hast redeemed us to God by the blood of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation, and hast made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. And I beheld, and I heard a voice of many angels round about the throne, and the beasts and the elders And the number of them was 10,000 times 10,000, and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the lamb that was slain to receive power and riches. And wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them. Heard I saying, Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth on the throne, and unto the Lamb forever. And ever. And what a great passage for our theme of worship. Let's worship Christ in a manner worthy of his authority. Please let's bow our hearts in prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our service and to really just grip our hearts with the reality of the scriptures we just read. Father, we are so grateful that we can gather together as a body of believers. We recognize that apart from the work of Christ. Not one of us has a basis to stand in your presence, to come into the presence of the Father with these great requests. But because Christ went to that cross, because he shed his blood, because his righteousness has been imputed to us, we can stand in your presence as a redeemed people. And we can can we can proclaim your praises with a heart that is forgiven and cleansed and is accepted by you. And I pray that you will help us this morning to be gripped by these wonderful truths. Speak to our hearts through the Word of God. Pray for those who are not with us this morning, who have traveled, those who are sick. I pray that you will strengthen them physically. I pray that you will give them traveling mercies as we come through the end of the The summer. I pray that those who are able to join us in the live stream would be deeply encouraged by the ministry of the word this morning. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Well, good morning, Anchor Baptist Church and esteemed guests, as we getting started here I look out over the congregation and I'm going, wow, you don't look quite as wilty this morning as you might have been yesterday or Friday or Thursday. So The cool weather looks good on you. So we're going to start the morning's song service. We're going to turn to page 26 in the hymnal. What an incredible passage Pastor Josh just read. Oh. We're going to sing page 26, all four verses of Praise to the Lord Almighty, please stand with me as we offer up the Song of Praise and Thanksgiving. Men good singing. We're gonna turn to page thirty-eight. Page thirty-eight, all four verses of how great thou art. I speak of God , the Maria , God , I 'm gonna give you the. You understand? When the God will be not ready, when we are like , Well I 'm not wrong. I really pray every day , maybe I 'm gonna make my people. Arcapello, so Use it, sit down. When I come And take me all joy something And therefore name my father hungry now And me my door my God seated. Oh if you all could just stand up here and hear that. Wonderful. That just makes you wonder what the choir up in heaven is going to be like. Wow, folks, that was beautiful. Okay, page 14, page 14 Worthy of praise, amen. My father Amen and A D For our scripture reading for this morning, we go to chapter 9 in the book of Luke, chapter 9, and we're going to read verses 57 through 62 And the word of the Lord says, And it came to pass that, as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. And he said to another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. Jesus said unto him, Let the dead bury their dead, but go thou and preach the kingdom of God. And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house. And Jesus said unto him, No man, having put his hand to the plough and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. May the Lord bless the reading of his word. Shit. All right, now let's continue with the rest of the song service. And you're going to need a blue book or follow along on the screen with us, page 93. The first song Bow the Knee, page ninety-three Amen. Now we're going to turn to the back of the blue book, page 192. All the way to the back of 192 in the blue book. Complete in thee. Complete in thee. And we'll sing the last verse, a cappella. All right. All four verses. Please stand with me. Oh my gosh , I think I would have all me, and the word I too shall be Here are moments on our journey. Following my boy, my God illuminates every step we take. There are times when circumstances make perfect sense to us As we try to understand each movie when the God frozen, and our questions have no answers turned to him Love and eat, trust the heart of your father when the answer goes beyond what you can see Galony Lift or I for heaven and we need the one who will eternity and when you know There are days when cover us and the rain begins to fall, that cold and lonely wind moves easier. And there seems to be no reason for the suffering we feel. We are sad to meet him not so when not so forget it by faith. And not my heart and he trust the heart of your father when we had to go beyond What you can see Lift your eyes towards heaven and believe the one who holds eternity. In the present love, mother when we have to go beyond what you And we have the need with your eye for heaven and believe the one who won eternity. Thank you so much for that. Our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back. with some parental help. And the rest of you, uh, like to invite you to turn with me to the book of Luke. We're in Luke chapter 9. And uh Lord willing, this morning we're going to actually finish Not the book of Luke, but Luke chapter 9. And so, yes, I know some of you are laughing because this is Sermon 56, okay? But uh I hope that as we work our way through the book of Luke, you'll find that each of these passages of scripture that we are looking at, there is so much truth. for us to unpackage. And the fact is that I'm actually, from my perspective, moving fairly quickly through these passages because some of them could very easily be two, three, four messages depending on on the themes that we decide to digest in the text in front of us. Luke chapter 9, we're reading verses 57 through 62 together, and then we'll bow for a word of prayer. Here's what the scriptures say. And it came to pass that as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. And he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. Jesus said unto him, Let the dead bury their dead. But go thou and preach the kingdom of God. Another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house. Jesus said unto him, No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. Let's take a moment to bow and ask the Lord to help us to understand these very, very important truths that we find in this scripture. Father, I thank you so much for this very uh wonderful thing that we have had this morning in our worship. Focusing in. On the supremacy and the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that you help us this morning as we open up this text and as we dig into it. To understand the weight of the truths that will be laid before us. I pray that the Holy Spirit will take these truths and really drive them into our hearts. And Father, you know every single person, you know every care, you know every burden, you know every fear. You know what's going on in our hearts as we sit here this morning. And I pray that as the Word of God is opened, that the Holy Spirit will take the word and apply it very personally to our lives. I pray that we would be obedient to what the Word of God says in these scriptures, that we would be attentive to the Holy Spirit's promptings. And I pray that the word of God, as it is laid before us, would come with power and that it would be very effective in the way that it moves and works in our hearts. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen Amen. I'd like to summarize the text in front of us with the following very simple statement. When we face the reality of Christ's person and work, it should shape Every aspect of how we relate to Him. If you are a Christian, that means that you understand who Jesus is. That means you understand that when we take when we say Jesus of Nazareth, we are talking about the Son of God, the second person of the Trinity. We're talking about God in flesh. We're talking about someone who is all powerful, and someone who is all-knowing, and someone who is all-wise, and someone who is good in every single aspect of who he is. We're talking about the person who created the world and everything in it. The one who upholds all things by the word of his power. And as we opened up the service this morning, he is the one that when they said in heaven, who's worthy to open the book? Nobody in heaven was worthy to open the book, not one angel Not one saint of old. No one in heaven or in earth could open that book save the Lord Jesus Christ. And that book that he is talking about in the text and Revelation is the title deed to the universe There's only one person who has the right to say, I own this world and everything in it. It's Jesus Christ. And so if we understand who Jesus is. And we have truly turned to him, and we've placed our faith in the finished work of Christ. We've been forgiven of our sins, we've been cleansed, we've been declared righteous, we stand in the presence of a holy God in the righteousness of of Christ. If all that is true, we understand that every aspect of our life should be submitted to His rule. Now, it is not the submission of our life to his rule that makes us a Christian. It is the understanding of who he is that drives us to that point. And so that's really what the text is about this morning. It's about us understanding how knowing who Jesus is is to shape all of life. God wants us to understand who Christ is and he wants us to follow him as our highest priority. And so with that in mind, let's just quickly move our way through this text of Scripture and see what is before us. The first truth that we're going to notice this morning is found in verse 57. Here's what the text says. And it came to pass that as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. Now, when we read something like that, I ask the question. Who in their right minds would walk up to somebody and say, I'm going to follow you wherever you go? Like who would do something like that? Would you do that to a total stranger? Would you do that to a person that you trusted? But, well, you know them, they're not a perfect person. Would you do something like that? The answer is no. So in order for us to understand what is going on in this text, we have to ask the question beginning, why is it that this person was willing To follow Christ. Why was he willing to say, I will follow you wherever you go? And the answer is this: He understood who Jesus was. The first truth that we find in verse 57 is that we have to come face to face with the identity of Christ. There is a compelling reason, in fact, not just a reason, but compelling reasons, objective reasons to follow Christ. There is a context that leads up to this statement where a man says, I'm willing to follow you wherever you go. And the question is, well, what were some of those things? Well, when we read through the Gospels, what we see is example after example after example that is compelling us to believe on Christ. To come face to face with who he is. In fact, John tells us at the end of the book of John that these things were written so that we would believe that Jesus is the Christ. the Son of God, and that by believing on him we might have life through his name. John also at the end of his book says that if they were to have recorded all the things that Jesus had done. All the books in the world could not have contained the things that testified to Jesus' person and work. In other words, the things that we read in the Gospels, they're not all of the details. They're just the most prominent ones. that these apostles were being guided by the Holy Spirit to record for us. But I want to bring to your attention just two of the examples that we find in the Gospels. Two of endless numbers of examples. The first one is from the book of Luke. So turn with me for just a few moments to Luke chapter 4, verse 6. Now this is at the beginning of Christ's ministry. This is almost like we could say his inauguration of his ministry. It's his first saying, look, I am the Messiah. You need to listen to what I have to say. Listen to what it says in Luke chapter 4, verse 16. And Jesus came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up. And as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day. and stood up for to read. Now some of you may ask, well, why is it that the church functions the way that it does, where we have Scripture reading and we have preaching and we have singing. Why do we have those things in the worship service? Well, it's because we see the pattern in the New Testament itself. And the pattern of local church worship actually began in the synagogue where the Jewish people would assemble and they would read the Word of God. So men men from the congregation would come up and they would read. This is just a very common occurrence. So here is Jesus. He's 30 years old. He grew up in Nazareth. He wasn't born in Nazareth, but he grew up in Nazareth. And he is the one who on this day just happens to be called up to read the scriptures. And this is what it says. There was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Isaiah. Now get in your mind a picture. Here they bring this massive scroll out to Jesus and they roll it out before him and there he goes in the scroll not to the very beginning but he moves to a very specific portion of the book of Isaiah. By the way, this section is all the way in chapter 60. So it's not like he probably rolled this thing for a while to get to where he was. And everybody's going, what's what's Jesus? doing. It says, when he opened the book, he found the place where it was written, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Now when Jesus read that, the way he read it didn't read like, oh, he's reading what Isaiah said. It's as if he's saying it himself. He says, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me. He hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives. the recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised, to preach the acceptable year of the Lord's. He closed the book and gave it again to the minister and sat down And here's what it says. The eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him, and he began to say unto them , This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. Do you know what Jesus is saying? He's saying, I'm the Messiah. That's what he's saying. And do you know how they received what he said? Well, we can read it in verse 28. It says, Then all they in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath. They knew what Jesus was saying. They said, I don't believe that. We know you. You grew up here. We know Joseph. He's a carpenter. Who is this person? What is he he say? Jesus is saying I'm the Messiah. That's what he's saying. I'll give you another example from John chapter 8. So turn there for just a moment. John chapter 8 And we're just going to look at a couple of pieces of this, but if you want to understand the whole chapter, you really should read it in its entirety. It's really from John chapter 8 all the way to John chapter 10. You're going to see a lot of dialogue between Jesus and the religious leaders. But I want to hit some highlights so that you can capture just an appreciation of these events. Here's what it says in John 8. 24. It says, I said therefore unto you that ye shall die in your sins. For if ye believe not that I am he, and by the way, in your Bibles, that word he is italicized. Okay, that's not saying it shouldn't be there, but what it is saying is that in the Greek text the word I am he that word he is not in the text. It was included so that we would understand what he's saying. But if you were to look at it in the Greek text, it would say, ego a me. I am. You say, well, why does that matter? Well you'll you'll see why it matters in just a minute, because Jesus doesn't stop there. He says If ye believe not that I am He, ye shall die in your sins. Then they said unto him, Who art thou? Jesus said unto them, even the same that I said unto you from the beginning. Wait a minute, what's going on? Jesus is saying, I've told you who I am from the very beginning of my ministry, all the way back to what we just read in Luke chapter number four. In other words, over and over and over again, Jesus saying, I'm the Messiah, I'm the Messiah, I'm the Messiah. He says in all these different kinds of ways. They say, who are you saying that you are? In verse 40 it says this, now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth, which I've heard of God, this did not Abraham. Now I skipped a little portion of that, but they basically said We are of our father Abraham. We don't know where you're from. That's what they say. He continues on in verse 58. Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, before Abraham was, I am He also says in the same text, he says that Abraham rejoiced to see my day. You know what this tells us? Jesus is basically saying, Abraham believed the Messiah was coming. He didn't understand all the details as you have the opportunity to understand them, but he was looking for that day with anticipation when it says he believed God and it was counted on him for righteousness. Inside of that statement is the fact that he believes the Messiah will come one day. And Jesus says, that's me. But listen to what it says. Then took they up stones to cast out You know what it tells us? The disciples understood exactly what Jesus was saying. Now these are just two examples, but there's lots and lots of examples. But it's not just the things that Jesus said, it's also the miracles that he performed. In fact, his miracles were an inescapable witness to who he was. One example is in John 3 verse 2, where Nicodemus comes to Jesus, and notice the way he words this. He says, We know that thou art a teacher come from God, for no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. Now Nicodemus is expressing something. He's not expressing that all the people that sent him believe Jesus as Messiah. He is expressing that they know he's performing miracles. He is expressing that they know this is something that no normal person could do if God was not enabling them to do it. And so Nicodemus isn't saying, we are all believing in the Messiah. He's saying, we know there's something about you we can't explain. In other words, the miracles were this inescapable witness. Mark 2, verse 5 gives us an example of the kinds of things he says. Listen to this. When Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. But there were certain of the scribes sitting there and reasoning in their hearts, saying, Why does this man speak blasphemous? Blasphemies. Who can forgive sin but God only? Now, were they right about that? The answer is yes, they were right about that. Nobody can forgive sins but God. Okay? So it's almost like this. You may have done something wrong to a person and you ask them for their forgiveness and they tell you, I forgive you. Okay? Relationally, your relationship is kind of, it's okay. But they're telling you, I forgive you, doesn't change what happened between you and God. Do you understand what I'm saying? When Jesus says, I forgive your sin, he is speaking from the highest position, not as one peer to another. But as God to man. And they say, nobody can do this but God. They understand that correctly. He said unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? Whether is it easier to say to the sick of the palsy, thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, Arise and take up thy bed and walk? But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins. Arise, take up thy bed, go thy way into thy house. And immediately he arose and took up his bed and went forth before them all, insomuch that they were all amazed and glorified God. Now, just three examples. There's so many that I could go to. But what's the point? Jesus claimed I am Messiah. Jesus proved through his miracles, I am Messiah. But that's not the only way. He also proved it by the way that he preached and the way that he taught. Now, listen, when you come to our services and you listen to Pastor Joel preach or one of the other men preach, you do not hear somebody get up and just rattle off from their own head what they believe. You have a text that's laid before you. The text is read. We work our way through the text. We explain what the text says, and we apply on the basis of the text. Do you know what that tells you? That tells you that every single person, though we do it imperfectly, I'm sure, to the very best of our ability, we're uplifting this as the authority, not ourselves. That's a very important detail. We are not standing in the place of God before you, but we are inviting you, as we are one of you, to go and to look at the Word of God itself. And so even to the sense that if I were to say something that was inconsistent with the text, I hope that you will not embrace it. I hope that you would not believe it. Because the authority is not in this location or in this person, but in the scripture itself. But that is not the way that Jesus handled the scriptures. Listen to what it says in Matthew 7, verse 28. It came to pass when Jesus had ended these saying And he's talking about the Sermon on the Mount. Matthew 5, 6, and 7 is a Sermon on the Mount. It came to pass when Jesus ended these sayings, the people were astonished at his doctrine. For he taught them not as one having or he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes. Is that not an amazing statement? So the scribes read the word. Jesus said, You've heard it said of old, but I say to you In fact, six times in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus makes that statement. You know what he's doing? He's saying the way that the scribes and the Pharisees teach the Word of God is wrong. Their applications are wrong. The implications that they're driving to are wrong. I'm going to correct what they're saying. I'm not correcting the scriptures. I'm using the scriptures to correct their flawed interpretations. That's what Jesus is ultimately saying. What is he doing? He's saying, I'm the authority. He's saying they're not the authority. The scriptures are the authority, but I can interpret the scriptures as one who has given them. That's what He's saying. And they understood that. They understood that Jesus is not like the other scribes. He's not like the Pharisees. He's not like the other rabbis. He's unique because of his miracles. Because of the His claims, because of the way that he presents the Word of God. And so here's the conclusion. You can't be neutral about Christ. You can't sit here today and say, you know what? Jesus is a great guy, but I don't believe he's God in flesh. You say, well, why can't I say those two things? Because if you claim to be God and you're lying, then you're not a good person. You're an evil person. It's just the truth. If you claim to have this authority, but you don't have it, what are you? You're a dangerous person. If you tell the world that you have the ability To forgive sins but you do not have it, then you're a liar, you're a dangerous person, and you need to be called out So what that tells us is that when Jesus spoke and made such powerful claims and then backs them up by the way that he taught And the way that he conducted himself himself, you cannot escape this. You can't be neutral about this. You have to choose a side. You have to decide either I'm for him or I'm against him. I believe this is true or reject that this is true. And ultimately, you have to come to terms with the fact that Christ came for one purpose : that is to provide redemption, forgiveness of sins. So I asked the simple question: have you made your choice? Have you placed your faith in Christ? Is he your Savior depending on his work and his righteousness, his sacrifice, his resurrection, or not? The second truth we find in verse 58, here's what it says. Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. To put it very simply, we need to count the cost in order to follow Christ. In fact, Jesus talks about this in many other problem in many other places in Scripture. The problem with this man was not his willingness to follow Christ. Every person in this room should be willing to follow Christ. Unreservedly, wholeheartedly, all of us should be willing to do this. The problem is not his willingness to do it. It's not the conclusion that he came to. The problem is that he didn't consider the full implications of what he was doing. I'm sure no one in this room's ever made a decision without considered implication. Not true, okay? We've all done this. In fact, some of us might be paying off that that decision that we made a couple of years ago in the form of a car or whatever thing it was, okay? We didn't understand the full implications, we didn't consider the cost. We kind of jumped at it, we bought it, and now we're stuck with the consequences of such a decision. What does Jesus say? Good, you want to follow me, but do you understand what you're saying? That's what he's saying. There is no allegiance that can be higher than Christ. If we're going to follow him. In fact, this is a theme that we're going to see all throughout the rest of this passage of Scripture. Listen to what it says in Luke 14. Verse 26. Jesus says, If any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters, yea, even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. Whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Which of you intending to build a tower sitteth not down first and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it? You may say, hold on a second. Pastor Joel, are you telling me that I need to have animosity towards my wife? Is that what Jesus is saying? I need to have animosity towards my children? I need to have animosity towards my parents. That's not what he's saying. He's not saying, despise your parents, despise your spouse, despise your children. That's not what he's saying. He's saying when it comes to priority, guess what? Mom and dad are below God. That's what he's saying. Your wife is below God, your husband is below God. Your parents are below God. There is no such thing as an absolute human authority. There is none. There is always a higher authority. That is God Himself. In fact, when we become Christians in 1 Corinthians 6, verse 20, he says, Ye are bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. We are to be unreservedly fully given in submission to our Lord, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, some might say, well, that sounds a little bit scary. Well, if Jesus was evil, it would be scary. If Jesus was a ruthless tyrant who despised people, that would be scary. But if you know him, it is not scary. If in your mind it is scary to follow Christ, then I would submit to you: your view of him is deficient. It's deficient. Because he's all good. He's all knowing. He's all wise. He literally went to the cross to die for you. He has worked through the Word of God to bring you to understand your lost condition. He's done everything for you to be reconciled to God. That is the person we're talking about. talking about. When we talk about submission to Christ, we're not talking about submission to an evil tyrant. We're talking about a good God. One who is full of grace. One who is full of mercy. One who is compassionate. One who comes along and strengthens us in the midst of those things. I'm reminded of what Jesus says to the disciples in John chapter 6. It says that Jesus made some very difficult statements, and from that time forward, many of his disciples went back. And walked no more with him. Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will you go away? Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? For thou hast the words of eternal life. We believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. You know what that tells us? That tells us that Peter goes, There are things I don't understand. There are things that I struggle with, but this I know. I know who you are. And because I know who you are, I don't have any other options. I don't have any other places to go. I don't have any other places to turn. There is one Savior. There is one Lord. There is one God. We don't have other places to turn. There is a compelling reason to believe on Christ. And there are compelling reasons To submit to his rule in every area of our life. And there are reasons that we should submit to his authority. But we've got to consider the cost on the front side. Not to discourage us from doing it. But so that when we are in the midst of the struggles of life, which they will be here, they will come. And by the way, you don't submit to Christ, you're still going to struggle with life. That's the way life is This is a fallen world. Bad things happen. That's the way the world is. But you need to understand in the midst of the struggles that he is a good God. And you've counted the cost. Truth number three. Don't worry, there aren't ten. We're very close to the end. Truth number three. We cannot afford to delay this commitment. Verses 59 through 60 is a it's fascinating. Now all this happened in just a few moments. Jesus is walking, and one man comes up to him, he says, I'll follow you whithersoever thou goest. He says, well, are you sure about that? And then he sees another guy. He says, hey, come here. Hey, come and follow me. This is what it says. He said unto another, follow me. But He said, Lord, sufferer, allow me to first go and bury my father. Jesus said unto him, Let the dead bury their dead. Go thou and preach the kingdom of God. Now I know I know some of us in here this morning when we read that, we go, What? Let the dead dead people can't bury dead people. Well if you understand what he's saying, you'll understand it is possible. Because when he uses the term dead, he's not using the term dead in the sense of a dead person can bury a dead person, physical death, physical death. That's not what he's talking about. He's talking about people that are spiritually dead, they're not valuing the kingdom of God, and they have really one pursuit. You know what it is? What can I get in this world? Well, this is what the vast majority of people living in the world, if they do not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior, and a lot of Christians, just to be very frank with you, we live for what the world can give us. And I want you to understand that that really is at the heart of this particular statement. The second man did not come to Christ, Christ approached him. And when Christ called him, he should have immediately said, Sure, I will do it. We have examples of him calling the other apostles, for instance, in Matthew 4. Jesus is walking by the Sea of Galilee. He sees two brothers, Simon called Peter, Andrew his brother, casting their nets into the sea. They were fishermen, and he said unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. They straightway left their nests. The word straightway means immediately they left their stuff. And their dad's like, what are you guys doing? Immediately they left their nets and they followed him. Going on their way thence he saw another two brethren, James the son of Zebedee, John his brother, and a ship with Zebedee, their father, mending their nets, and he called them, and they immediately left the ship and their father and followed him. them. There was no there's no question like, well well what do you want us to do? Hey, can we go talk or talk to our dad and kind of work out an agreement, make sure that somebody can cover for us, maybe sell our part of the business so that that we can have the profits like There was no discussion. It was just, okay, that's what they did. They left everything to follow Christ. In fact, several of the disciples were fishermen from that region. So let's just say the fishing business lost some people, right? People who were partners, people who worked with their dad. There was a lot of money that was being made in that business. Not the nicest word, but they were sustaining their families by it. It. Straightway, immediately, they left. They didn't make excuses. But this man says, Lord, let me first. Let me first. Now, how old was the guy's dad? We have no idea. Was he in poor health near death? We have no idea. Why did he want to delay? We have no idea. But if we look at the context and we think about what is said in the rest of the passage. My conclusion is this. Jesus was not asking this man to ignore a legitimate obligation. But rather, he was saying, don't delay this to some time in the future. For instance, in Matthew or Mark chapter 7, verse 9, it says this. Jesus is speaking to the Pharisees. He says, ye reject the commandments of God that ye may keep your own traditions. Moses said, Honor thy father and thy mother, and whoso curseth father and mother, let him die to death. But ye say, if a man shall say to his father or mother, It is Corbin, that is to say, it is a gift. By whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me, he shall be free, and ye suffer him no more aught for his father or his mother, making the word of God of none effect through your tradition. Let me kind of explain what's going on. You have a person who's getting a little bit older. They're kind of getting to that point in life where they cannot do the things that they used to be able to do. Okay? And so you have a son or you have a daughter who has accumulated wealth, and they know that it is going to start costing them financially to take care of mom or dad. Some of you might even actually you understand this right now because you're kind of in this situation of life. It's costing your time, it's costing your money, your energies, all kinds of different things. And I'm not saying that in a flippant way at all. This is a hard reality that really many of us will face, maybe almost all of us will face at some point. And so the religious leader said, here's what you can do. You can shelter your funds from mom and dad by saying it's dedicated to God. That's pretty crazy, isn't it? Like I don't have to take care of mom and dad because financially I don't have the money to, because I've dedicated all those funds to God. And this is what they said. You're off the hook. You have to worry about it. There's a lot of people living today that I think they would love such a situation if they could do that. And this is what Jesus says. This is his assessment. He says The person who creates this kind of a tradition to excuse their biblical author responsibilities is a person who has used tradition to keep them from having to obey God. He said that's evil. That's wicked. That's basically just working around the system, trying to create a means to release yourself from your moral obligations. And by the way, we are all masters of coming up with interesting situations. And in my mind, that is exactly what this guy's doing. He is using I've got living parents as a way to keep him from following Christ. Because he says, I don't know when my dad's going to die, but when he does, guess what? There's stuff coming to me. But if I'm out of the picture, guess what? It's not coming to me anymore. In other words, he wanted to put off following Christ until some arbitrary, unspecified time in the future. He was using his father as a convenient excuse to veil his true motives. People do that. People are very good at that You be blown away by the kind of excuses that someone who handles uh delicate situations hears sometimes when people say, Well, I can't do that because of and you start you start going Man, I almost need a lawyer to figure out what you're saying. Is there like small print in the legal there so that we can understand why you feel like you're off the hook from just simply obeying God on a very simple but difficult matter? People are masters of using their circumstances to alleviate their conscience. And so the simple way to put it is Jesus is saying, I'm calling you now, and I expect you to drop what you do in the following. Let me ask this simple question. Is there somebody here that this morning the truth is that you are wrestling with God on a very particular issue? Maybe nobody in the room knows about it but you and God. And the fact is, you tell him, well, when this happens, then I will do it. When this happens, then I'll do it. Jacob did this. You know the story of Jacob where uh we we he sees the ladder and God basically says he's going to bless him. And Jacob makes a deal with God, and this is what he says. I'm going to Laban's. I'm going to try to get away from my brother who wants to kill me. When I come back, if I survive, if you bring me back, guess what? I will make you my God. He made a deal with God. He said, if you do this, I will give you a tenth of all of all I possess. I'll pay my tithes because you're my God. This is what he's saying. And you know the story of Jacob wrestling with the Lord, the angel of the Lord that night? Do you know what he's doing? He's telling God, I made a commitment to you 50 years ago, or whatever it was. You better not let me down. If I survive tomorrow with Esau coming, you'll be my God So, what did Jacob do with all that time between Jacob's ladder and wrestling with the angel of the Lord that night? He wasted his life. He really did. Spiritually speaking, he wasted his life. Do you know his own wife stole idols from her father? When they were coming, why is that? Because she believed that those idols could protect her from her dad. That's really what it ultimately came down to. Jacob was really an idolater. His family was involved in idolatry. And the reason for that is because he said: down the road, when the time is right, that's when I'll do this. We will not escape real consequence if we take such a mindset. Finally, is this we cannot allow the fear of man to influence our decisions. And verses 61 and 62, here's what it says. Another also said, Lord, I'll follow thee, but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house. Jesus said unto him, No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. Simply put, we are commanded by God to prioritize our families, but that priority still falls under the authority of Christ. For instance, we're commanded by God to honor mom and dad, to obey mom and dad. To love our wife, to submit to your husband, to bring your children up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. These are biblical commands. But we are to do these things as in obedience to Christ's authority. And I would say that our tendency really, as individualistic Americans, we are all individualistic, we are more likely to neglect family than to overly prioritize them. Now I'm not saying that we don't fall into that category. We can. But we probab I probably deal with more people who I've got to say, you know, you probably shouldn't take that job because that job is going to give you more money, but it's going to take you away from your family. And because it takes you away from your family, guess what? Your kids aren't going to be raised by you, Dad, and your wife the way that they should. You're not going to be able to be in church faithful. You're you're moving to a place where you don't have a local church, you don't have church family that you're going to be close to. You're making a decision that you will likely regret because you've prioritized something other than what God says. That's the kind of conversation we generally have. But that's not the only way the conversation can go. You can also have a conversation like, I know your mom and dad don't like this, but God's word is very clear. This is morally wrong. They expect you to do something that God forbids. You can't do that. We can also have conversations like that as well. And so that is really what Jesus is addressing: that this man's decision is in some way contingent on the response of family. And it really could be an overly positive response or an overly negative response. It really could go either way. But there is a potential pitfall. Let me first. Our family cannot take priority over God and His Word. We should prioritize them because they are gifts from Him, but we should prioritize them in accordance with the instructions of Scripture. And we should prioritize them with a desire to see his glory in our homes, not simply our temporal prosperity. Our families should not be a factor in our allegiance to Christ Let me say it again. Our families should not be a factor in our allegiance to Christ. If God wants you to be a preacher, young man. But God's not directing you into the ministry, then you need to just do what God wants you to do. That's a simple thing Now, a lot of people are like, you can do anything you want, but don't be a missionary over in such and such a part of the world. Like, that's the way we tend to think as parents. But what if God is directing a young person into such a thing? Should they listen to mom and dad over God? The answer is no. They should not. Or you could have someone who's pushing you in a positive direction. Do this, do this, do this. And the truth is, you're not doing it by conviction at all. You're simply doing it because it's easier to just go along with what you're being told. But one day. One day, the truth will be revealed. This is the way that it goes. In other words, we should not give the impression of a commitment to Christ for the approval of family. Nor should we hold back from absolute allegiance to Christ to maintain approval from family. Do you see how this can go either way? So you say, well, then why should I follow Christ? Because it's the right thing to do. It's because of who he is. In other words, Jesus is saying, don't put your hand to the plow and say, Well, mom and dad, is it okay? Can I do this? Can I do this? Can I do this? Keep pushing me, keep pushing me. Okay, I'll keep doing this. Okay, I can't do this. That's not that's not the way we're supposed to follow the Lord. Or man, they they they're gonna make it really hard for me. I can't do this. I'll just I'll do this quietly behind the scenes. And I don't want them to know that I'm actually really serious about my commitment to Christ. That I've become a Christian, that I'm willing to get baptized. We'll do it in a quiet place. Nobody's going to know about this but me and just a couple of people. Do you see how it can go either way? The point is, a fear of man brings a snare, whether they're encouraging you to do the right thing and you're doing the right thing for the wrong reason. Or they're encouraging you to do the wrong thing, and you're doing the wrong thing because you don't want to face the pressure of family. Simply put, our allegiance to Christ has to be the highest priority. We need to serve Christ by conviction. Not mom and dad said don't, so I can't. Mom and said that dad said do, so I have to. We do it by conviction. Say, well, Pastor, how do you apply these truths? Let me give you some simple thoughts to think about as we close. The first is this : it's a question: Have you faced the reality of Christ's identity? Do you understand who he is? Do you understand what he did for you? Do you understand there's no other way that you can stand righteous in the presence of a holy God? Apart from the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ and his impeded righteousness. There's no way. If you've never faced the reality of Christ's identity, I encourage you this morning, turn to Christ. Are you trusting in his person and redemptive work? The second question I have is this. Have you considered the practical, personal, daily implication of Christ's authority? in your life. The truth is that Christ's authority isn't just about being in church on Sunday. That's part of it. But it's not the only reason. It's not the only area. Christ's authority is about how I treat my wife, how I treat my kids. It's the first thing I do in the morning. It's the last thing I do before I go to bed. It's about the way I conduct my business. It's the way that I that I manage people. It's the way that I that I relate to an employer. It's the way that I treat my neighbors. The fact is that submission to Christ encompasses every area of life. It encompasses all my thoughts, it encompasses my affections, all of my actions, all of my relationships. Commitment to Christ has to encompass. encompass every aspect of who I am as a person. Three, am I unreservedly committed to submitting to his rightful authority in every area? You might say, well, that's a little scary. I don't know if I'm willing to do that. Then you need to ask, do you know him? Do you know him? Have you created pragmatic excuses to veil an unwillingness to follow him immediately? To me, this is a very tough question. They're talking about pride in Sunday school. And it's really easy for us to see pride when we're saying, okay, this person has a very condescending attitude towards this person. This person is mistreating this person because of pride. But it's a little bit harder for us to see pride when it's just about, well, God, you didn't allow me to get this promotion, and I believe that I'm entitled to it. I might not say a word about it, but in my heart, I'm not too happy about it. God, I'm entitled to a much smoother path in life than I have. Things didn't work out the way that I anticipated. And all of a sudden we we don't trust God, we're angry at Him, we respond in a way that is what? It is it is revealing. That we actually are proud in our hearts? Are we willing to allow the fear of man to push us into a just disingenuous commitment to Christ? The truth is that peer pressure is something that goes two ways. I have learned this. It tends to go the wrong way, okay? You know, everybody's in a certain environment and somebody's saying, hey, let's do this, let's do this. this do this and you know it's wrong and you don't want to do it but you get pressured to do it. We we know pre-pressure in that context, but what about when it's really easy to do right? A lot of our young people when they go to Christian college. Everybody's having their devotions. Everybody's taking notes in chapel. Everybody's talking about their prayer journals. It's really easy to do that, but here's the question: when they're all gone, do you still have a prayer journal? Do you still listen to the preaching of the word? Do you still take notes? Are you still spending time with the Lord? Or were you basically going along to get along? We should ask this question. Are we allowing the fear of man to hold us back from an unreserved commitment to Christ? It's very simple. We need God to help us see Christ as He is. And we need to follow him as our highest priority. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I think about the text in front of us. It is a very challenging scripture if we think about it honestly. Yet, Father, we struggle with this because we don't know you as we should. And so I pray that you'd help us to be a people who get in the Word and we see the goodness of the Lord and the wisdom of the Lord and the kindness and the mercy of the Lord. Lord and the justice and the righteousness of the Lord and the holiness of the Lord. And as we see you displayed in all your glory, we would recognize we have no choice. But to unreservedly and wholeheartedly, daily submit ourselves to you. Help us to be a people who live consistent with that wonderful position that we enjoy in Christ. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to ask you to turn with me to hymn 156 I probably sing this one too much, but I truly love it. And I think that it's a great place for us to end our service this morning. The song is How Can It Be? God would love a soul like us. Let's stand together. We'll sing all three verses. And if there's somebody that doesn't know the Lord is their Savior, I want to encourage you before you leave here, please stop by and say, Pastor, I need to talk to you. Be glad to sit down, take a Bible, show you how you can be saved. Let's say it together. 156. How can it be? I know we're going to be able to do it. I threw all the rooms and all, so you know I slottering what for me and read. It's a good song. I'd like to ask if uh John Lynn could come, close us in prayer, and uh hope that you have a great afternoon and Hopefully we'll see many of you back tonight. And uh if you don't know the Lord is your Savior, please don't hesitate to reach out. I'd love to sit down and show you from the Bible the simple salvation message. Go ahead, John. Dear Jesus, I thank you for this day. I pray that as we all go out of here today, that we Are not just hearers of the word, but also doers only, that we follow God and that we do it for the right reasons. I pray that we would have a safe rest of the day and honor and serve you throughout this week. Amen.