Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And if you joined us this past Sunday, you'll know that we were in Luke chapter 9. So I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles. And we're going to turn together to this passage and we're going to begin working our way through this passage and some important foundational material as we think about the role, the function of an apostle, the office. And then their focus in ministry. Luke chapter 9, verse number 1. Here's what it says. Then he called the twelve disciples together. And gave them power and authority over all devils and to cure diseases. And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God and to heal the sick And he said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neither staves nor script, neither bread, neither money, neither have two coats apiece. Whatsoever house ye enter into there abide, and thence depart Whosoever will not receive you, when ye go out of the city, shake off the very dust from your feet, for a testimony against them. And they departed and went through the towns, preaching the gospel and healing the sick everywhere. And here the Tetrarch heard of all that had been done by him. He was perplexed, because it had been said of some that John was risen from the dead. Or of some that Elias had appeared, of others that one of the old prophets was risen again. And Herod said, John I've beheaded, but who is this? and whom I hear of of whom I hear such things. He desired to see him, and the apostles, when they returned, told him all that they had done, and he took them and went aside privately into a desert place belonging to the city called Besseda. Love this text of scripture, and there's a word that we find in this passage that is important for us to really flush out and to dig into, and that is the word apostle. In fact, it says at the end of this verse number ten, the apostles, when they were returned, told him all that had done Now, this week there are three words that I want us to think about in terms of the role and the function and the office of the apostle. The first word is the word authority. The second word is the word verification. And then the third word is the word focus. This morning we're going to start looking at this issue of authority. We're actually going to break this down into several parts so that we can really understand this, I hope, very thoroughly, because it's such a foundational concept. So let's first of all talk about the uniqueness of the apostles' ministry. What we can say about this text is that the the things that we are observing are unique and this is an unrepeated function uh in in church history. So we don't see, you know, two hundred years later the same kind of thing, or four hundred years later, or a thousand years later, or in our modern day We do not see the role and the office of the apostle functioning like it is in this particular text. And also, what we see in these verses Are really the beginning of what would be their apostolic ministry, a ministry that will be the focus of the Book of Acts and When Luke writes about the apostle's ministry, he uses the term apostle over and over and over again. In fact, I believe it's over thirty times in Luke and Acts, which are like a two-part sequel of the story of the the the the foundation of the church and the establishment of the church and the advance of the church, this concept of the apostle is talked about a lot. So what I want to do for this first study is I want to talk about the fact that this is a unique and unrepeated function in church history. Let me turn to a couple of passages of Scripture and show you the uniqueness of this apostolic office. The first thing I want you to notice is in Luke chapter 6, verse 13. And that is that Christ personally called each of his disciples, and from that group of disciples, he separates out a group that are called apostles. So not all of those who followed Christ who are called disciples are called apostles. He narrows it down. to a group of twelve. Here's what it says in Luke six thirteen. He called unto him his disciples. And then it says from them he chose twelve, whom also he named Apostles. And that word apostle means people who are sent or who are commissioned with some kind of authority. and some kind of message. And so that word apostle is used all throughout the New Testament, and when it's used in the New Testament, it's talking almost entirely almost exclusively of this office. There are a few examples of it not referring to the office, but this is a foundational matter. A second passage I want to draw your attention to is in Acts chapter 1. This group was a group of people who had physically witnessed the undeniable proofs of Christ's bodily resurrection. Now, this this point is very important because what it tells you is that no one living today or no one living even a hundred years from those events could be could be appropriately called an apostle in the sense in which the word is being used in these verses. Notice what it says in Acts chapter one, verse one. It says, The former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began, both to do and to teach, until the day which he was taken up. After that, through the Holy Ghost had given commandment unto the apostles whom he had chosen, to whom also he showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs. Another example of this issue of the apostles being eyewitnesses of the resurrection is in 1 Corinthians 15. He says he was seen of all the apostles. And then the Apostle Paul says, and last of all He was seen of me as one born out of due time. So there are a lot of passages in the New Testament that talk about the apostles being physical eyewitnesses and physically called by Christ to this office. In in Acts chapter one, verse twenty two, when they are looking for someone to replace Judas who had be who had betrayed Christ and then goes out and he kills himself, They basically said, we know that Christ called twelve apostles. There's supposed to be twelve apostles. So who is going to be that twelfth apostle? And notice what the criteria was that they talked about. In Acts 1. 22, it says, beginning from the baptism of John unto the same day That he was taken from us, must one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection And some might say, well, Paul wasn't one who witnessed the resurrection, and he didn't win it, witness the ministry of Christ. But technically he did Not as one who was a part of those original disciples. He was antagonistic to the gospel, but Christ physically calls him on the road to Damascus, and clearly he was taught by the Lord. for a period of time before he went into this apostolic ministry role. And so even the Apostle Paul, who was unique and different than the original twelve, is still viewed as an apostle. And there were others that we don't necessarily know their names, but someone like Barnabas was probably considered an apostle as well. So those who are close associates, John Mark is an example of someone who wasn't one of the original twelve apostles, but he would have been viewed in the other church as an apostle. So we see that they're called by Christ, they physically witnessed these undeniable proofs of the resurrection, and the church understood this, and the apostles amongst themselves understood this. And then there's also another side to this. The church, understanding who these people are, called, commissioned, sent out by Christ, they recognize that they bear authority that has been given to them by Christ. It is an apostolic authority that I don't have as a pastor. No other pastor has. No one living today has such apostolic authority. The closest thing we have The applic apostolic authority is, in fact, the Scriptures. And I will dig into that on another day, not this morning, but I'll dig into that. And so we see evidence of this in Acts chapter 2, verses 41 through 43. Here's what it says Then they that gladly received the word, this is at Pentecost, were baptized. So they heard the gospel preached, they recognized Jesus as the Messiah. He died for our sins. He rose from the dead. We believe this message. We're not just intellectually responding, but from the heart, we are repenting toward God. Placing our faith in the finished work of Christ, and we want to publicly testify to the fact that we believe in the gospel, we're trusting in Christ and in Christ alone. And so it says, That same day there were added unto them, that is the apostles and the other disciples, those who were believers, this is the very first church, the church at Jerusalem, there were added to them about 3,000 souls. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and in breaking of bread and prayer. Fear came upon every soul, and many signs and wonders were done by the apostles. This is a fascinating passage because what it shows you is that the apostles were the first leaders of the church at Jerusalem. Not only that they were the leaders, but they had an apostolic authority. The people were submitting to the apostles' doctrine. And it wasn't just that, oh, Peter has this uh inherent or inherent authority, but it's that Peter has been delegated with an authority from Christ, and so that authority we submit to as Peter being an instrument, or as John being an instrument. any of the apostles would have fallen into the same category. And then they're they're performing signs and wonders, miracles that are providing a verification for the fact that they have this office and they have this authority delegated to them. by Christ. So, as you can see, this is something that is not repeated at other points in church history. You could take the early church fathers, you could take uh the Puritans, you could take the Reformers. You could take someone like a Charles Spurgeon, a Martin Louis Jones, they would have never, ever said we have apostolic authority. They would always have said we preach from the apostolic authority of Scripture, which is ultimately Christ's authority through his apostles, and it is preserved for us in the Scriptures. And so We see this concept. I'm going to stop there this morning and not dig more into this today, but Lord willing tomorrow I want us to further develop this concept of the uniqueness of the authority that was given to the apostles. But before we we we close out for the morning, I want to ask this question. Is this authority still active today? And the answer is, not physically, but through the word. And we're going to talk about this again at another time. But whenever you open up your Bible, you are reading, Thus saith the Lord. The words of Christ, God's word, the Spirit of God moved holy men to write these things. And they were preserved for us. And so whenever we stand up and we proclaim the word of God, and what we're saying is consistent with the scripture, what are we doing? We are actually submitting to Christ's authority. Through prophets of old or through apostles, we are proclaiming God's authoritative word. And so I hope this morning that you've spent some time in the Word. I hope that You go back and maybe review the notes of the Sunday message and think about those things and internalize those things and ask the Lord to help you to apply those things and live in the lights of those things. Hope that you have a wonderful morning. I'm looking forward to the rest of our study. If this has been a challenge to you, please share that with someone else. If you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out. And I hope that you have a blessed rest of your day. Bye now.