Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And I hope that you enjoyed our study yesterday. We are looking at Luke chapter 9, verses 57 through 62, and the topic that we're addressing is how understanding Christ's identity will shape our relationship to Him. And so yesterday we talked about the fact that there was a person who came to Christ. And he said, I will follow you wherever you're going. And we talked about why this person would have been so willing to follow Christ. And it's because of this compelling case. for Christ's identity. What we're going to do this morning is we're going to look at how Jesus responded to the man. So with that in mind, let's read the text again and then we're going to zero in on verse 58. Here's what it says. And it came to pass that as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, birds of the air have nests. But the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. He said unto another, follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. Jesus said unto him, let the dead bury their dead. Go thou, preach the kingdom of God Another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home in my house. Jesus said unto him, No man having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God. Now yesterday we saw that this man came to Jesus uninvited, not that Jesus would not have wanted him to follow him. But he comes to Jesus and he says, I'll follow you where the wherever you go. The question is, how does Jesus respond to him? Well, if if we were to anticipate how we think Jesus would respond to him , we'd probably get something like this. Well that's great. Come on, let's go. But that's not the way that Jesus responded. Now Jesus' response was not done this way because he didn't want the man to follow him It 's because he wanted the man to think clearly about the decision that he was making. He wanted him to count the cost or consider the implications for what he was saying he was going to do. And so in verse 58 he says, Sir, foxes have holes, birds have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. The problem was not the man's willingness. His willingness was a good thing. The problem was that he was not fully considering the implications of following Christ. He was not considering the fact that it was going to cost him dearly potentially. He had absolutely no idea what was going to come after that commitment to follow Christ. And if you think about the disciples who followed Christ, when they started following him, they had absolutely no idea that he was going to go to the cross and die and that they were going to be scattered. and that he would be in the grave for three days and they would be fearful for their lives. They didn't understand all those things. They understood he was the Messiah, but they were still fuzzy on a lot of the details. Well Jesus is telling this man, look You need to realize what you are signing up for. Another way to put this is that Jesus wanted this man to understand that to follow Christ means your highest allegiance. has to be to Christ and not any other person. In Luke chapter 14, verse 26, we see Jesus uses the same concept when he says the following. He says, if any man will come after me, And hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren, he cannot be my disciple. Whosoever does not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. For which of you intending to build a tower sitteth not down first, and counteth the cost whether he has sufficient to finish it. Now, Jesus is not saying that he wants people to hate their family. He's not saying that you should literally despise your parents. I mean, that's not the point. The point is about who has the highest allegiance. If there's a conflict between mom and God's will and dad and God's word, what the scripture says, well, I have to submit my ultimate allegiance to the authority of the scriptures, the authority of Christ. not the authority of dad or mom or some other person. That's the point. The point is that we actually lose our identity in Christ when we place our faith in him 1 Corinthians 6. 20, he says, that you are bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's So when a person becomes a Christian, every single aspect of their life comes under the authority of Christ. Being a Christian isn't just about a compartment of our lives. Being a Christian is supposed to encompass every part of our being. And so you say, well, Joel, what's the conclusion of the matter? How do we respond to such a thing? Well I love what he says in John chapter 6, verse 66, because this helps us to appreciate the application. says from that day forward many of his disciples went back and walked out with him. Then said Jesus unto the twelve, here's the key. Will you also go away? And Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life And we believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. What's Peter saying? Jesus, there's nowhere else for us to go. There aren't other messiahs. There aren't other saviors. You are the one and the only savior. You are the one and only way that we can be forgiven of our sins and cleanse and stand righteous before the Father. Peter understands that I've got to submit to you because you are the highest authority. His understanding of Christ's identity. caused him to count the cost and be willing to do whatever it was that Christ called him to do. So I would conclude this way. There are compelling reasons to believe that Jesus is the Christ. And these compelling reasons are not only there to compel us to believe on Christ, but they're also compelling reasons for us to submit to his rule in every area of our life. Because if he has the authority over life and death, and he is the creator and sustainer of life, and he is the source of all righteousness and truth. Then it would make logical sense that I need to submit to his authority when it comes to how it has bearing on my life And so we must submit to his authority unreservedly. And when we do this, we need to recognize that there may very well be some degree of cost associated with it. And we must take the time on the front side to say, God, I am all in. I know who Jesus is. I know what he's done for me. I've placed my faith in him. There is no other person that I can come to. There is no other place to look to. He is the highest authority. And so I will submit to the very best of my ability. to his authority, understanding who he is. That is really the great takeaway of this passage of scripture. Let's count the cost. Let's recognize who Jesus is and let's be unreservedly committed to doing what he calls us to do. If this has been a challenge to you this morning, please take a moment. to share that. Share with someone else who can be encouraged by it. Share some feedback. And I hope that you have a blessed morning. Lord willing tomorrow we'll continue our series. Bye now.