Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. We're in Luke chapter 9 this morning and we will be there all week. And the topic that we're addressing this week is the same topic that we addressed in our Sunday morning service, and that is how Christ shows his mercy in our most desperate situations. Luke chapter nine is where we are this morning, let's re read verses thirty-seven to forty-five. It says and it came to pass that on the next day When they were come down from the hill, much people met him. And behold a man of the company cried out, saying, Master, I beseech thee, look upon my son, for he is my only son. And Low's spirit taketh him, and suddenly crieth out, and teareth him, that he foameth again, and bruising him hardly departeth from him. And I besought thy disciples to cast him out, and they could not And Jesus answering said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you and suffer you? Bring thy son hither. As he was yet a coming, the devil threw him down and tear him. And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit and healed the child and delivered him again to his father. And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God. While they were wondering, every one of them, which Jesus did, he said to his disciples, let these sayings sink down into your ears, for the Son of Man shall be delivered into the hands of men This passage of scripture is full of all kinds of fascinating details. And it's going to show us a lot of things that we need to dig into and think about. What we're focusing in on is a very heavy problem that this young boy, this young man, experienced And in order for us to appreciate what's going on in these verses, I think it's important for us to understand the connection that there is between both the immaterial and the material part of us. Or we could say that what goes on between our body, our physical, and our soul and our spirit, the immaterial side of us. And so in order to do that, I think it's important for us to think about some of the contemporary issues that are going on in America today. And to kind of give you a little bit of what I'm getting into, I came across a fascinating article the other day in USA Today. Now, USA Today is not necessarily a newspaper that I'd recommend, but this article was extremely insightful and it was fascinating. And this is what the title of the article says. Living on a Prayer, how attending Worship Can Improve Your Physical and Mental Health. Now the reason that this article was written was because people have observed that the United States of America is a country that has a in an explosion, an epidemic of what we could say are mental health issues. And by the way, we're not just talking about mental health issues, we're also talking about physical health issues. And what this particular article does is it addresses the fact that if you dig into the data, you will notice That this epidemic of physical and mental health problems is somehow correlated with the decline of Christianity and religious practice. in America. I want to read to you what the article says. This is what it says. An epidemic of loneliness and a lack of community have contributed to a rapid rise in deaths of despair from suicide and substitute. Since abuse, belonging to a faith organization can foster the sense of community that is missing in so many people's lives. Most studies have shown that religious involvement and spirituality are associated with better health outcomes, including greater longevity, coping skills. and health-related quality of life, even during terminal illness, and less anxiety, depression, and suicide. Now, what's fascinating about this article is that they link to several different Uh scientific studies that were done that are are bearing out what they're saying. Now the purpose of this particular article is not necessarily to present biblical Christianity. It's simply to say that religious people who actually practice their faith Seem to have better mental and physical health than their counterparts who are purely secular and do not attend religious services or people who claim to be religious, but are actually disconnected from a church body. And what the article is ultimately saying is that there is this connection between the spiritual, the mental And the physical. Now, without them getting into the Bible and getting into what the scripture teaches, a biblical worldview, about the nature of humanity, what they're doing is they're observing what is clearly true, that we are both spiritual mental and physical. We are not machines who just run without this. We're not we're not computers. We're not machines. We are persons. And that's that concept of being a person, humanity, is something that we need to understand. In fact, in the secular worldview There is really no basis for this. And so I want to take a few moments to kind of observe this because it does have bearing on what we're going to see play out in the text that we're looking at this week. So first of all, the human condition. We have physical bodies. We have a moral consciousness. You could say that we are moral creatures. That's part of what it means to be created in the image of God. And we're rational. It doesn't mean we're all equally smart. It just means that we have the ability to reason. So because we have a physical body and because we are morally aware And because we have the ability to think, there are certain things that follow that kind of disposition that people have. And really what it ultimately boils down to is that there is this inseparable relationship between our bodies, our minds, and our spirit. And this has bearing on the kinds of issues that we deal with in life. Physical issues affect our mental state. Our mental state affects our physical health. If a person is not in a healthy place spiritually, it's going to affect their thinking, which will ultimately affect their bodies. And so the idea is that if you neglect the physical, your body, or the mental, your mind or the spiritual, you're playing to relate to God, if you neglect one of those areas, or if you address a problem and you don't address the totality of the problem, you will not really resolve the matter And this is one of the things that causes, we could say, the secular counseling environment to fall short. It's because people are not being addressed with the body, the moral awareness, their ability to communicate with God, spiritual out spirituality, and their rationality. Instead it's focused on just the body or just the mind, ignoring the Spirit. We see this inseparable connection in a lot of scriptures. For instance, in Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse 5, it says, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and soul. and might. And what's interesting about that statement is he's talking about the entirety of the person. Our loving God is something we express with the way that we think, with our emotions with this concept of worship and with how we use our bodies. There is a connection between the body, the mind, and the spirit. Or in 1 Thessalonians 5. 2 , excuse, 5. 23, he says For verily the God for the very God of peace sanctify you wholly, and I pray God your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ In other words, when the Apostle Paul was concerned about these people's growth in the Christ's likeness, he wasn't just concerned about how their How their bodies performed, what they did, okay? Not just their actions, or not just their physical demeanor. He wasn't just concerned about how they thought. He was concerned about the way they used their bodies. He was concerned about the way that they thought, and he was concerned about their spiritual health. In other words, there is a connection between these three aspects of who we are as a person. And then Matthew 15, 18, we see the same connection as well. He says, those things which proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart. That is what defiles the man. In other words, Jesus is making this connection between what's going on inside my mind, my heart, my will, my desires. our spiritual ability to have spiritual health, communication with God, and our physical bodies, what we do as a result. He makes this connection. So the point is that when we talk about humanity, we are not machines who just do things. We're not computers who just compute things. We're living souls. Body, soul, and spirit. And this affects the kinds of struggles that we have For instance, a person's physical health or physical constitution can drive their thinking and their emotions in an either very positive way or a very negative way. In other words, physical health Mental health, there's a connection. Our emotions can drive our thinking. A person can be driven by emotion and they can begin to think irrationally because They're being driven by emotion. You see, there is a connection between the the is the emotions and the thinking. Or our emotions can drive our physical health. You could have a person who is emotionally very depressed and they're very anxious and all of a sudden they begin to have health issues that are directly connected back to what's going on internally. You see the connection Our thinking and our emotions can be guided and stirred up by the Spirit of God working through the Word of God. When we talk about sanctification, what does God do? He takes the Word of God. He presses it upon our hearts so that it shapes our thinking, it begins to change our disposition, it begins to shape really what's going on inside of our heart. And a person who is spiritually growing is a person who is in a much better, healthier frame of thinking, frame of spirit, and by the way, it even has a positive effect on a person's health He says in the book of Proverbs, we know this passage, it says that a merry heart doeth good like a medicine, but a broken spirit drieth up the bones. What's the idea? The idea is our our thinking. And our spiritual condition can have a positive or a negative effect on even our physical health. Our thinking and our emotions can be guided and stirred up by Satan's influence as well. And by the way, that's what we're going to see in this passage of Scripture, that there is a demonic influence that is dominating, that is controlling this young man and because of that his physical well-being is conquered and is being controlled and being used by this demonic force, this demonic person, the the person's mental state and their emotional state are all being controlled by demonic influence. And so what we're seeing here is a person whose entire life is being dominated by evil. You say, well, well Joel, why are you taking the time to address this particular issue? The reason is because as we dig into the text, you're going to notice that Jesus does not just address the demon. He doesn't just address the physical. He doesn't just address the mental. He addresses all three. In other words, when Jesus helps this young man, he deals with him with every aspect of the young man's person. And I think that there's a lot we can learn from that here this week, and specifically this morning, as we prepare to look into these lessons. So here's my summary for our first day. We need to deal with matters and we need to address them at the heart issue, at the root issue, and we need to address them fully or entirely, so that it if and to the extent it affects our minds, we address that issue. To the effect that it that it affects our bodies, we address that issue. And to the effect that it addresses our spiritual health and well being. we address that issue. And all of that connects back to the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so this morning I want to leave you with that. I pray that this week as we get into this content, it will be tremendously Helpful and encouraging for you. Have a blessed morning by now.