Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And uh if you joined us yesterday You know that we were dealing with a very interesting passage of scripture. It's in Luke chapter 9. And we're looking at verses 37 through 45 together We dealt with some introductory material yesterday, and today what we'd like to do is we'd like to focus our attention in on the particular kind of trouble that this young man was experiencing when his father pleaded with Christ to intervene on his behalf and have mercy on him. Luke chapter 9, verse 37 is where we are, so let's read it together, please. It says, And it came to pass that on the next day, when they were come down from the hill, much people met him. And and behold, a man of the company cried out, saying, Master, I beseech thee, come unto my son, for he is my only child And the spirit taketh him and suddenly crieth out, and it teareth, and he foameth again, it bruises him, hardly departing from him. And I besought the disciples to cast him out, that they could not. Jesus answering said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you and suffer you? Bring me thy son hither And as he yet spake, as he was coming, the devil threw him down and teared him, and Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the child, and delivered him again to his father. And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God. But while they wondered every one at all the things that Jesus did, he said unto his disciples, Let these things sink down into your ears The Son of Man shall be delivered into the hands of men. Yesterday we talked about the fact that we as humans are not just robots and we're not just machines. We are bodies, soul, and spirit. And so when we talk about the kinds of problems and difficulties that we encounter in life, there is a connection between the physical troubles we experience the mental and emotional troubles that we experience and our spiritual health. There is this interconnection between those things. And so many times when we're dealing with issues in life, we have to recognize that sometimes One area has affected another area and we have to address both areas. But what I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to look at the tremendous desperation of this man and his son's situation. And I want us to notice the details and how they're described. And then I think there's some important things we need to take away from it. So first of all, let's notice what he says, verses 38 to 40. He says, a man of the company cried out. You see the passion and you see the earnestness and you see the fact that he feels overwhelmed. He cries out, Master. I beseech thee look upon my son, he is my only son, and though a spirit taketh him, and he suddenly crieth out, and it teareth him, and he foams again and bruises him hardly departing from him, and I besought the disciples to cast him out and they could not. What are some of the details that help us uh understand how desperate the situation was Well, I want to begin with saying this. The boy was physically sick. Now, he wasn't just physically sick. but he absolutely was physically sick. And we notice that because in a parallel passage of Scripture, Matthew chapter 17, he says this, Lord have mercy on my son, for he is a lunatic and sore vexed, and oftentimes he falleth into the fire and into the water, and I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not cure him Now interestingly, Matthew is focusing in primarily on this as a physical health problem. Now, that's not to say that Matthew doesn't realize that there is a spiritual dimension here, but he is emphasizing the physical. Ironically, Luke, who is a medical doctor, does not focus as much on the physical side as he does on the spiritual dynamic. that this boy is not just physically sick, but he's physically sick, and he is being controlled and dominated by a demon. And but but it's also interesting that when we're reading the book of Luke and the Luke account, he does mention that God heals the boy. And that word heal is always used in the New Testament, the Greek term that's underlying it, it's always used in connection to physical healing. So we see that the boy is physically sick. He has some kind of epileptic problem and he's acting uncontrollable and he has a physical problem The second thing that we notice here is that this is not a new condition. This isn't something that just recently happened. In fact, we we see that Jesus asked the Father, how long has this been going on? And he says He says, of a child, this has been taking place since he was a little boy. Now we don't know how old this young man was My guess, based on the way that he's referred to in the text, is that he's probably somebody who's like maybe 13, 14, 15 years old. He's probably like a junior high or a young high school age type boy. But he's someone who's had this problem for a while. The third thing I want you to notice is that this is a son who was the only child of the father, and so he was extremely dear to this man. He says in Matthew chapter verse 38 of the chapter, he says, Master, I beseech thee, look upon my son, mine only And by the way, the the Greek phrase underlying only son is the same word monogenes that we get only begotten. And that statement has the idea sometimes not just of an only child, but some Who's very dear to an individual. He's a special, he's a unique, he's a one-of-a-kind child. And so he's emphasizing the fact that he dearly loves this child And he's feeling the weight of watching his son suffer, the terror of being unable to help him. And let's be let's be honest, it may very well be that this young man is experiencing this problem because of something his father either e either introduced him to or something his father allowed him to get involved in. And so this is a terrifying situation for the father. He also, we also notice that this was more than just a physical affliction. There's a spiritual dynamic to this. In Luke 9. 39, he says, Lo, a spirit, and that word spirit is referring to a fallen angel or we would call a dem a demon. And so this fallen angel, this demon, has seized this child and he is dominating and controlling him. We would say that the child is demon possessed. He taketh him, he suddenly crieth out, he teareth him, he fometh again, he bruises him, and he hardly departs from him. This young man is afflicted all of the time. Physically and mentally and spiritually, this is a really serious problem There's even more to this, though. And that is that when this man comes to Jesus, he lays out the fact that he's had other people try to help him, and they've failed. In verse 40, he says, I besought the disciples to cast him out. They could not. By the way, let's remember, these are the same disciples that earlier in chapter 9 had been sent out by Jesus with the ability to perform the miracles of healing the sick and casting out demons from those who were oppressed by demonic opposition. So here are people that have been involved in the ministry of healing the sick and casting out demons, and this case is beyond them. They don't have the ability in that moment to address the issue properly. But the last thing that perhaps is the most intriguing of all is that this man's faith and confidence was shaken. And it was shaking because of the weight of the situation. In Mark chapter 9, verse 24, another parallel text, it says, Straightway the father of the child cried out and said with tears, Lord. I believe, help thou mine unbelief. Now this is a very familiar statement in the Bible. What it's basically saying is that the man believed that Jesus had the power to heal his son. He believed he was talking to the right person, but that faith was deeply shaken by the weight of this situation. And that faith was shaken with doubts. And the man questioned whether or not this was a case that Jesus either would address. Or had the ability to address. So what does all this communicate to us? Well, it tells us that this boy was in a desperate, desperate situation. And I want to remind you, as a takeaway from this, that we may be in a different series of circumstances, but we can find ourselves on the heart level in similar places to these people. We can be in a situation where we have a physical ailment, we have a spiritual struggle that we're dealing with. There is something that has weighed us down, and it's not a new thing. It's something that we've experienced year after year after year. We've gone to pastors, pastors' wives, we've gone to people that we respect and we love, and we've asked them if they can help us, and the truth is they've been unable to help us in our situation. And we look at God and we say, God, am I beyond help? Is it possible that you've just abandoned me or that this is too great for you? And we feel like this man fell. I want to tell you that this morning you may need to look into this text and say, you know, I identify with this person. And then I want you to see the rest of the text. Does Jesus kick him to the side? Does he ignore him? Does he say, I don't have time for you? No, that's not what Jesus does. We're going to see tomorrow the way that Jesus handles the situation. But I'm going to leave you with this this morning. It doesn't matter what situation you find yourself in, how desperate it may be, how painful it may be, how tiring it may be, God's still on his throne. He loves you. He hasn't abandoned you. And if you will turn to him, he can bring about the changes and the healing and the necessary work in your life to do what needs to be done. And so I want to leave you with that this morning. As we dig into this text throughout the rest of the week, let's remember how deep that the challenges were that this this family faced and how Jesus met those challenges, how he dealt with those challenges. He could do the exact same thing in your life. Have a blessed morning and Lord willing we'll talk again tomorrow. Bye now.