Well, we talked about the first principle. Jesus gave everything he had because he loved you. And if that were enough, and it is, to have an attitude of gratefulness toward him and a longingness to be like him because you realize that when you were justified and that penalty of sin was taken away. then you immediately are in the process of sanctification, separating yourself unto Christ and unto his mind. And then one day we're going to be like him. All the sin, all the temptation, gone. That'll be a wonderful day when we no longer have to worry about the temptations that drag us down. But Jesus Christ gave everything he had. And therefore we can say it's because he loved us. In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through him, here in his love. Not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the final payment, that propitiation for our sins. If you will please turn to chapter 13 of John , We gave an introduction. You're in Sunday school. We talked about the essence of what it means to be a servant in the morning service, the fact that Jesus Christ was a servant. And now we're going to talk about a great example of servanthood. And of course, that comes from none other than our Lord Jesus Christ. And so we get to John chapter 13. We'll begin reading, but just to set the picture, it was that night or that day when Jesus Christ wanted to eat the Passover meal with his disciples. He knew that actually the Passover meal reflected what was coming very, very soon. The Lamb of God was going to be slain. once and for all, for all sinners. So we see the disciples as they had come to Jerusalem walking up, probably on those paved streets, but There's no doubt where they came from. Then of course they were on the dusty roads. You know what happened with dusty roads? Of course, the animals traveled on there before them. So whatever was in the dust and on the dust that was on the feet. And we know that they were going to eat the Passover meals, so they trailed through the streets of Jerusalem. went up the stone steps to an extra room or an upper room. And when they walked in, they were greeted by no person that we know of. Arrangements had been made for the Passover meal to be there by the disciples, but in the corner was something that's always there, a stand. With a pitcher and a towel and a basin of water. Now we know what that was for, because we know that the least servant The lowest servant on the totem pole, so to speak, was going to be there to wash the feet, because that was the custom. That was what was done, and it was quite purposeful, too. So we pick up our story as the disciples come in, and I wonder, no, I don't wonder, and according to Luke chapter 22, guess what they were discussing? Another argument, who is the greatest? And so here they come into the Passover meal with that on their lips. Which means that knowing what was going on in the disciples, then what they would be looking for is to get as close as they could to the honored guest. Jesus Christ, I guess I would say, is the honored guest and the leader at the meal, so they were trying to box each other out. I don't know if you ever boxed out. it means you're playing basketball or soccer or hockey. Whatever it is you you put yourself between You and that person that's trying to get the puck or the ball or whatever, and you do a pretty good job But I'm sometimes I know we box out with buggies at Walmart, things like that. You know, you just you don't want to make people obvious that you're going for it, but you You just kind of look the other way. Oh, did I get in the way? Look here. I'm first. How about that? But you know, it happens from time to time. But the disciples were probably kind of making it not obvious, but trying to get as close as they could to Jesus Christ. Christ had a much different idea of why this particular occasion was so important. So let's read the scriptures here, beginning in verse 1. Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come, that he should depart out of this world and unto the Father Having loved his own, which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. Now this was an introduction from John. He's known as the Apostle of Love, is he not? This apostle of love was reflecting on all that Jesus Christ had done, looking back on it as he wrote it, but then it was a looking forward to, and he is going to Highlight for us that Jesus Christ is going to do something that's going to indicate his love for his disciples You and I read the story ahead, so we know he's going to wash filthy feet. Wash dirty feet as the lowest servant would. And it says that by this they're going to know that he loves them, but not only that, he's going to keep on loving them all the way to the end. Because at the end of this road is his death, which was has to be, in order to be our substitute And our example, then Jesus Christ is going to teach us how to love. You know, there's no way you can separate. love from this sacrifice of being a servant. No way you can separate it. No way you would want to. Let me tell you something on the authority of the eternal God. If you're in Christ, he will love you all the way to the end. You can be assured that God's love is plenty strong enough to protect your loved ones who have trusted Christ. We know where they are. Having loved his own, he loved them to the very end. Verse 2, and supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him. Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he was come from God and went to God. That is a fascinating verse because it sets up everything else. What would you do if you knew you had all the power in the universe in your hands? What would you accomplish? What would you wish for? What would you want? What would you make happen if you had all the power? Remember, Jesus Christ, when he went to the cross, was not in his weakest state spiritually. He was doing the will of his Father. So therefore, we're not talking about weakness, but even then he was 100% God as well as 100% man Let me ask you a question. Could he have called 10,000 angels to destroy the whole Roman Empire, bring him to their needs, and set him free? He sure could have. But what did he do? We know by that song he died alone for you and me. But Jesus knowing these things and knowing He was just about, he had come from God, he was about ready to go back to God, and he had all power in his hands. What did he do? He riseth from supper, and laid aside his garments, that outer-flowing robe, and took a towel and girded himself He took a towel, wrapped it around him, leaving plenty of towel in front for the job that was coming. After that he poureth water into a basin, and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with a towel wherewith he was girded. What do you do when you got power? What do you do when you have position? What do you do when you have possessions? Well, according to Jesus Christ, you go find somebody with dirty feet And you wash the feet. You go find somebody with needs and you run to meet the need. You have a little time, use the time. You have a little resource? Use the resource. That's what Jesus Christ did when he was in the position of power. You know what's striking about that? It's surprising when someone who could be the ruler over you instead uses his power for the purpose of serving you. It's an amazing thing. I've seen it happen many times. The person I most would like to honor beats me to the punch and ends up serving me. And sometimes it's like, oh, I missed a chance, but I sure learned a lesson about their life. You see, that's why dads, why husbands serve wives. Because even though there's a position there, What do you do when people are looking at your position? You lay aside your garment, you pick up a towel, and you find the dirty feet. You wash the dirty feet. The same thing's true with mom and dad and children. We serve them in different ways. Sometimes we serve them and love them with discipline. Because that is the needed thing. But sometimes we kind of sneak one on them and do something that's surprising and unexpected and they can't pay back. Because it's good for children to see mom and dad, when they have the power, use the power to serve. If you're in school, same thing is true. You've got an opportunity to have someone as an underclassman, some of you young people here. What do you do when you've got the power of position in the school? Well, you find somebody who's an outcast, someone that nobody pays attention to, and you find some way to honor them and love them and show them Jesus Christ because this is what Christ did when he had the power He laid aside his outer garment. He knelt at the feet. Now that is a picture, guys. It's a picture. I would have liked to have been there to have seen it But can you imagine the chagrin of those disciples when Christ maybe knelt by that straw mat? They knew exactly what was going to happen And apparently several of the disciples took it. In other words, they knew there's no way to get out of it. Jesus Christ was determined. He was dressed like a servant. And so he kneels at their feet and washes those filthy feet that had been marred by all the travel on the roads. And he's taking that towel and he's beginning to afterwards, after he soaks those feet, after he kind of sprinkles all that on them and gets it worked up with his hands and then cleans the feet and then dries them with a towel. Can you imagine as a disciple? You walked right by that stand with a towel, pitcher, and basin in a hurry to get where you wanted to go. And as they got there, now Jesus Christ, having seen them all go right by, is now washing their feet. Oh, that must have been a picture Well, he got some pushback from one disciple. Who is that? Of course. Of course. Peter says, You're not going to wash my feet. You remember the last time he said something like that, Christ said, Get thee behind me, Satan. not calling him Satan as much as saying Satan is using you to try to deflect me from the thing that I'm doing that God wants me to do So this time he sticks his foot in his mouth and he says, You're not going to wash me. And the Lord says, if I don't wash you, you don't have a part with me. And he said, Well then wash me all over. Another wrong thing, because Christ is talking about, I've already bathed you all over. But as you walk through this world, there's going to be collection of sin and debris that you've got to get taken care of. So here's Peter again. Finally he uh he gets it right He lets Christ wash his feet. But we've got to remember there's another person present. There's 12 people in their disciples, so who else is getting his feet washed? Judas. Yeah, Christ takes the same care, knowing everything about Judas. He kneels by him. What must have gone through Judas' mind? Because he knew exactly what he was going to do. And Christ lovingly, knowingly, washes his feet. Well, there's so many lessons on that. It's hard to really grasp it But here's the lesson, and that is at whatever point you have power or resource or time or anything, then you stop Using that position of power to get. You use that power to give. You don't hoard the power and use it over, over and upon people. You use that power to give them a surprising demonstration of what Jesus Christ has done in your life. What if we could get that mindset where we could let everything be done with lowliness of mind. And we use lowliness of mind because we treat other people even better than ourselves. Until we're the least important person in the room. Do you realize that Jesus Christ at that moment was acting like the least important person in the room by washing those dirty feet? Well, later in verse 12 So after he had washed their feet and had taken his garments and was set down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you? Ye call me Master and Lord? You say, Well, for so I am. If I then your Lord and Master have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash one another's feet Well, is this another ordinance? Pastor, we need to put that down and have foot washings at least every month or so. Well why why not? I mean there are some There's some denominations that actually practice foot washing and and certainly it's a very it it's a great reminder, it does humble us But this was the only place where it was mentioned in Scripture, not verified, not spoken of in any other time and way. But to us, it doesn't need to necessarily be demonstrated. It needs to be taken into our lives and understood that this is the attitude that we have. When we see people that we're going to lay aside our garments, we're going to pick up our towel. We're going to wash some dirty feet. Well, if you call me Lord and Master, If I, your Lord and Master, have wash your feet, you ought also to wash one another's feet, for I have given you an example that you should do as I have done to you. Verily, verily, I say unto you, the servant is not greater than this Lord, neither he that sent greater than he that sent him. If ye know these things, happier ye if ye do them. You know, the one reason we can say that if I decide not to be a good servant, if I see what Jesus Christ emphasized, I hear what he had to say, for the Son of Man has not come to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. Jesus Christ came for two reasons, to minister and to give. To minister and to give. If we can look that in the eye. We have to some way decide that what Jesus said, if he said, if you I, your Lord and Master, have done this to you You ought to do this for other people. The only way we can get out of this one is to say there's something about me that's more important than Jesus Christ. And I don't know about you. I don't think we're ready to go there. I think we know what Christ is telling us here. Is that we go in this day and time, we go through life with an others-mindedness. Jesus Christ first, of course. Others, very, very important to him and so very important to us. And ourselves, what can we say about ourselves? Well just remember, if you're Christ's servant, he'll take care of you No matter how much you give, no matter how much you go and help, no matter how many ways that you are willingly on those errands that God has to demonstrate his love to other people, if you go. As his servant, then he's going to take care of you. And happier ye if you know these things. I talked about this morning about you never I've never seen an unhappy servant. There is always room at the bottom. You can always find some dirty feet to wash There will never be a bored servant. There will never be an unhappy servant because after all is said and done, you know that the satisfaction is, I am Trailing and tracking the mind of my Savior, Jesus Christ. We have some little sayings around the wilds because we've been teaching this for years. Lay aside your crown. Pick up a towel. Wash dirty feet. And it's very true, you all want to hear, well done, thou good and faithful servant. Well, we have a guy in our town that sells a lot of toys. He's got a toy store on Main Street, a booming business over the internet. His name is, well, his story is O. P. Taylor's, which that ought to tell you something. But O. P. Taylor's John Taylor is the one who runs it. And he's the one that wears a little beanie that has a little helicopter on it. Wears it everywhere he goes. He's about my age. So that kind of puts it in the territory there. Uh for those of you who know Willie, Willie wears one every summer in in fun time. We always go to O. P. Taylor's and get a stock of them because he always ends up losing them. So we have this little beanie with a helicopter blade on on the top there, and we walk around, but John Taylor Right by his cash register, and he's a very wealthy man, he has this little saying that you've heard, it's been a bumper sticker, the man who dies with the most toys wins. So we just kind of flipped that one around. I told John about it. I said, John, got it a little bit wrong. I'll have to explain the story. But it's the man or woman that dies with the dirtiest towel. That's the one that wins. I don't think the Lord will necessarily say, Hi, Ken, welcome. Let me see your towel. Let me see how many people you were not the head over, but you were at their feet. You were not the one that used position to get what you wanted But you used your position to surprisingly and unexpectedly show the love of God to other people. Now look in your life, Who are the ones you regularly run come in contact with? For a lot of you, of course, it's going to be family. But think about work associates. Have they ever seen a public demonstration? Of the love of God in the form of a kindness in a court of something that's unexpected, undeserved, and they can't even pay you back for it. What would it be like to attach such an act to the fact that I am God's child? And I want to tell you and express to you that God loves you. Jesus Christ gave all for you. And he loves you. And that's what we are as Christians. Well, John Taylor and all of his dice with the most toys wins. We know it's not true. You can collect anything and everything in this life. But it's not going to be something that's going to last. I remember there was a some type of actress that lost all of her jewels in a robbery. While she was out and away from her home. And for some reason there was an agent near her that really said something that made a lot of sense. He said, listen to me. Don't ever cry over something that can't cry over you. You and I are here to impact people for Christ. Not to collect things, not to be powerful, not to be strong. We are here to use what God gives us and places in our hand. To in some manner move to the need, meet the need, and give Jesus Christ the credit for having loved you to the end. And so that is the lesson of The washing of the feet. Laying aside your crown, picking up a towel, and washing dirty feet no matter where you find them. Now, most people don't have to go any farther than their home because there's a lot of dirty feet at home. And there's a lot of needs that you come in contact with, but beyond that, stretch yourself out a little. If we had time, I would let you kind of give me lessons on how can I wash dirty feet at church. What is it around this place that could be a manifestation of you humbling yourself, not getting at the head of people, but getting at the feet of people? What would it mean just in this congregation when a visitor comes in or comes into youth group? What does it mean to wash someone's dirty feet? There are a lot of jobs that impact a lot of people. What would it mean to go volunteer? There are people that need to be discipled. They need to know how to walk with Jesus Christ. And that might be when you go to Pastor and say, Pastor, I would like to get involved in discipling somebody for Christ. I want them to grow toward Christ-likeness. And even though I don't know all in the world, I know enough to help get them in the Word of God. And I would like to do that. There's a lot of dirty feet that need to be washed. Now, tomorrow night, we're going to begin putting some real practical things I trust in mind as we're going to go to another wonderful example In 1 Samuel chapter 25, we meet three characters, Nabal, Abigail, and David, who is prospective and going to be a king. I've entitled this Humility at the Speed of Life. Because for a Christian You don't have time, things are coming at you so fast, to decide if you're going to be proud or humble. You're going to do whatever is in your heart, and you're going to do it right then. We want to learn the lesson, especially Abigail and David, and how life comes at you fast, and so you better prepare your heart to be a servant in humility. On Tuesday night, we're going to take a whirlwind tour around 1 Corinthians 13 in your home. What it will mean to take 1 Corinthians 13 and apply it to your house, apply it to yourself. What would it look like if the love of Christ that follows his people even into the end, what's it going to look like in our home? And I look forward to seeing as many of you as can come. I realize life comes at you fast. And so if you can join us, wonderful. But it'll be humility on Monday night and biblical love, 1 Corinthians 13 on our Tuesday night. Okay? Let's bow in prayer. Dear Father, I don't know how many in here have at one point dedicated themselves to be your servants. Realize that it's it's pretty easy to go through life and not even think about core commands of Scripture. But we realize your love and the fact that you wanted to have that love demonstrated as servants do has been a core and a foundation of your teaching. I would ask, Lord, that if anybody here has in mind, I want to be like that, I want to be more tracking the mind of Jesus Christ. I want to have a practiced attitude toward considering other better than myself and looking on the interest of others and not always on myself. And I just pray and I ask, Lord, that you would give us servants in our home, servants in our churches, so that they might fulfill your course for them in this life, and that we would become more like Jesus Christ in the doing. For we pray in Christ's name. Amen.