Well good morning, like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And uh this morning we're doing kind of a bonus episode, but rather than The typical bonus episode where I like to go to our Wednesday evening series, I'd like to give you kind of a serp a sermon preview for a Sunday morning service. to kind of give you an opportunity to think about the passage that we're going to look at on Sunday, and I want you to just get some insight into the kinds of questions that I try to ask myself when I'm studying a passage of scripture. And my intention is twofold. One is to give you insight into how I think is helpful Bible interpretation, Bible study. And the second is to whet your appetite for what we're going to look at this Sunday. And the passage we're going to deal with is in fact a very practical passage. There are lots of rich truths that we're going to unpackage on Sunday. And I'm very excited about it and I want to kind of communicate that to you this morning. So the text that we're going to look at on Sunday is Luke chapter 8 verses 40 through 56. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to turn We're going to read this passage, and then I want to put in front of you some of the questions that uh I've been asking myself this week as I'm thinking about the passage, as I'm meditating on it, reflecting on it And then I want to give you some kind of preliminary conclusions that are going to give you a a little bit of a pre a preparation for what we're talking about. So Luke chapter 8, verse 40 says this. And it came to pass that when Jesus was returned, the people gladly received him, for they were all waiting for him. And behold there came a man named Jarus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue, and he fell down at Jesus' feet and besought him that he would come into his house. And he had only one daughter, about twelve years of age, and she lay a dying. But as he went the people thronged him. And a woman having an issue of blood twelve years, which had spent her her living upon physicians, neither could be healed of any. came behind him and touched the border of his garment, and immediately her issue of blood staunched. And Jesus said, Who touched me? When all denied, Peter and they that were with him said, Master, the multitudes throng thee, press thee, and sayest thou who touched me? Jesus said, Somebody hath touched me, for I perceive that virtue is gone out of me And when the woman saw that she was hid, she came trembling, and falling down before him, she declared unto him, before all the people, for what cause she had touched him. And how she was healed immediately, and he said unto her daughter, Be of good comfort, thy faith hath made thee whole, go in peace While he yet spake, there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogues, how saying to him, Thy daughter is dead, trouble not the master. But when Jesus heard it he answered, saying, Fear not, believe only, she shall be made whole And when they had come into the house he suffered no man to go in save Peter and James and John and the father and the mother of the maiden. And all wept and be bewailed her. But he said, Weep not, she is not dead, but sleepeth. And they laughed him to scorn, knowing that she was dead. And he put them all out and took her by the hand and called her, saying, Maid arise. And her spirit came again, and she arose straightway, and he commanded her them to give her meat. And her parents were astonished, but he charged them that they should tell no man what was done Now this passage of Scripture is full of all kinds of rich truths. And in addition to the rich truths that we find within the text itself, There are a lot of subplot questions that I think we'd ask ourselves. And really this passage of scripture deals a lot with the question of human suffering. and sickness and infirmity. And should we pray? And when we should pray, what should we expect? And how does God answer prayer when it comes to this issue of sickness? So that's where a lot of the questions lie that are that are a part of the passage in front of us. We see a woman who went to physician after physician after physician. None of them could help the help this woman. And then all she does is she touches the hem of Christ's garment and she's instantly healed. We see this girl, Jarius' daughter, who has been very sick and near to death. She's twelve years old Um she should be a strong young woman and instead she dies and then the people that are living in the house tell Jaris and Jesus Don't worry about it. She's she's dead. There's nothing that can be done. And Jesus says, No, I'm going to go to the house anyway. And so we see that Jesus heals not only heals, but he raises this girl back to life. So here are some of the important questions that that I've asked myself as I'm reading this passage of Scripture that I think are are important questions for us to ponder. And I'm giving these to you so that Perhaps you can think about them yourself as you think over the weekend in preparation for the Lord's Day on Sunday morning. First question What is God's attitude towards us when we suffer? I think a lot of what we see in this text of scripture is going to communicate Christ's attitude towards Gerrus, his daughter. the family, the disciples, the community, this woman who had an issue of blood for twelve years, we see the attitude of Christ come out. Why doesn't He always insulate us from suffering or remove our pain? This is a great question that we ask, and people say, well, if if Jesus has the power to heal, why didn't he heal everybody, everywhere, at every time? The fact is he did it. He did not raise every single person back to life during his earthly ministry. He did not heal every single person that lived in Judea. Judea or near Galilee or on the other side of the Sea of Galilee, he didn't do that. The question is, well, if he has the ability then then why doesn't he insulate us from these things? Why doesn't he remove all of our pain and all of our suffering? I think it's a valid question to consider. A third question. How does he answer our prayer when we cry out in our afflictions? Is there only one possible way that God can answer our prayer? If we demand healing, should we expect healing? It's a very fair question. Or are there other ways that God sometimes answers that prayer? We want to dig into that question. Why does he permit suffering? Does he have any kind of intention or purpose behind it? Because obviously he does allow suffering. If all healing is ultimately temporary, meaning that if God heals me today, I'm ultimately going to die at some point in the future, then what is the advantage of a temporary healing? It's a fair question, I think, to consider. There is a healing that isn't just temporary, it is forever, and that's what glorification is. Because of the gospel and because of the resurrection, there is an ultimate healing, and we can we can even look at that that issue as well What's the connection between Jarius' daughter and the demoniac? This is an interesting question that I ask myself because it appears in the text of Scripture that the the place where this man came from, the the region of the Gadarenes And the place where Jarius was the ruler of the synagogue was the same community. Interesting connection. What is that connection? Why did Christ tell the demoniac to go back to his family and tell them what great things the Lord had done for them, but then Jarius's family, he tells them Not to tell anybody about what's happened. And he literally puts everyone out of the house. And and there's no one to witness this miracle save the family. Why why did Jesus do that? What is the intention behind that? And I think that the answer that uh that I would give in that issue tells us a lot about the ultimate reason behind why Christ did this. And that was compassion, it was mercy, it was it was an answer to the feeble prayer of a hurting father The ultimate question that we ask ourselves is, what do these verses tell us about God? Before we rush to any kind of application That's what we need to answer. What does the text reveal us real reveal to us about the Lord Jesus Christ, God in flesh, and about God's ways in particular to this issue of sickness and infirmities and healing and prayer? So let me give you a couple of preliminary conclusions that kind of give you a little bit of a preview for where we're going to go in the message on Sunday. God's ways are not random. God is very, very, very purposeful in what he causes and what he allows and how he limits and how he moves. God is not just turning us loose to random chance. And we're going to see that laid out in this passage. A second thing is that he doesn't get off get caught off guard. When he was purposed to go to the house to heal this girl, and they came out of the house and said, sorry, she's already dead, it's not like Jesus said, Oh no, what do I do? My plan has been ruined He does not get caught off guard. He knows what's going to happen and he's purposed to do something, and his plan was not disrupted by the ill-fated timing of that whole set of events. The third, he is very compassionate towards us when we're hurting. There are going to be several clues in the text in front of us that Jesus is compassionate towards Jarius, towards the family, towards this girl. uh towards the demoniac. He is he is compassionate towards this woman who's had uh twelve years this issue of blood, his mercy and his compassion, they come out. They're rich in this text of scripture We see also his perfect priorities when he deals with us. He prioritizes things perfectly Our immediate pleasure or our immediate fees , the removal of pain and suffering, is not his highest priority. His highest priority is that our perspective will be sound and consistent with reality, and we will see him as he is, and we will mature and grow spiritually. And those are some things that are going to come out in the text. And lastly, We recognize the importance of when we go to the scriptures, making sure that we understand the text before we go to implication, application. That's where we're going this Sunday. I hope that you can join us. If you have another local church that you attend, I hope that you will be there this Sunday. And I hope that when we pick this up next week and we get into this passage of scripture and take it piece by piece, that you'll follow along with those different discussions that we have. I'm excited about Sunday. I'm looking forward to what the Lord will do through his word in our hearts. And I pray that that I will be able to communicate this with the clarity uh and the the consistency that that that this opportunity demands. Hope that you have a great rest of your week. Lord willing, we will meet again on Monday or I'll see you on Sunday. And have a blessed weekend. Share this if you think it'd be an encouragement to someone. Bye now.