And let's all turn together to the book of Isaiah. And we are in chapter 40 this morning, Isaiah chapter 40. And we're going to read the first 11 verses together. as we continue to reflect on how Christ is our one and only hope and how during this Christmas season we are drawn to think deeply about the Lord Jesus Christ and what he has done for us. Isaiah chapter 40, verse 1 says the following. Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God. Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem and cry unto her that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned, for she hath received with the Lord's hand double for all her sins. The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be exalted. Every mountain and hill shall be made low, the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough places plain, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed. All flesh shall see it together. For the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it, and the voice said, Cry, and he said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all the godliness thereof is as of the flower of the field. The grass withereth, the flower fadeth, because the Spirit of the Lord bloweth upon it. Surely the people is grass. The grass withereth, the flower fadeth. But the word of our God shall stand forever. O Zion, that bringeth good tidings, get thee up into the high mountains. O Jerusalem that bringeth good tidings, lift up thy voice with strength. Lift it up, be not afraid. Say unto the cities of Judah Behold your God. Behold, the Lord God will come with strong hand, and his arm shall rule for him. Behold, his reward is with him, and his work before him. He shall feed his flock like a shepherd. He shall gather the lambs with his arm, carry them in his bosom, and shall gently lead those that are with young. Let's bow together. Ask the Lord to really help us to appreciate the wonderful truths we find in these verses. Father, as we think about this text in front of us and we consider what was going on in the nation. What it predicted, and ultimately what it pointed to in the coming of Christ, I pray that our hearts would be deeply moved. That we would appreciate these truths in a way that perhaps we haven't before. That every believer in this room would recognize that the person who is described in these verses is the Good Shepherd. who laid his life down for us, his sheep, and who gently leads us and carries us in his arms. And those who may not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior, I pray that this morning as they consider these verses, They would come to a firm understanding of what Christ has done for them, how they can be reconciled to you through his sacrifice. And we ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a fascinating text. I have to say that when I read it, I uh I almost hear it in music because I think of Handel's Messiah, which I've listened to quite a bit over the last couple of weeks. Um I love this portion of scripture. But in order for you to really appreciate what's being said here, I think it's important before we dig into some of the details To order to understand where this passage sits and the entire flow of a book, the book of Isaiah. We know from last week we talked about this that the things of Isaiah are very heavy and very dark. But they're not all heavy and dark. In fact, we have these dark and heavy themes throughout the book of Isaiah, but we also have some of the most comforting, the most encouraging scriptures in all of the Bible. And what's fascinating about the way that the book of Isaiah is structured is that it really kind of falls into two main points. Now I know that there's some diversions along the way, but the first half of the book, verses or chapters one through thirty-nine, are primarily focused on God warning these people that because of their sin there was going to be great judgment. And God is a righteous judge and he must punish sin. He cannot ignore sin. It has to be dealt with. But then when we move to the second half of the book and we look at the themes of chapter 40 through verse through chapter 66, we see that this is an extremely encouraging series of themes. We hear a lot of things about God's grace, and how God's demonstrated that He has made promises, and there's a Messiah who's coming. And he is going to resolve this great conflict between man who is a sinner and God who is holy. What's so fascinating about this book is that between those two sections Is the text in front of us. In fact, if we look at the hard sayings of the first half of the book and the hopeful sayings of the end of the book, what do we find? We find these words in chapter 40, comfort, comfort ye my people. This passage is the hinge between those two great things. And so this morning, as we look at this passage, we're going to see that Christ is the only hope of comfort in a fallen world. And I hope that as we work our way through these verses, by the end you will say, if I haven't trusted Christ as my Savior, today's the day that I do it. And if I have, I'm going to think about him the way this text describes him. That shepherd, who is the good shepherd, who brings his sheep along and he leads them very tenderly. And he brings them up in his arms and he cares for them. That shepherd who laid his life down for his sheep. And that's how we have access. to God through that sacrifice. So with that in mind, let's dig our way piece by piece to the primary themes that we find in these verses. The first thing I want you to notice from the scripture is that troubled people need comfort. You know what trouble people need? Not somebody to take them and just crush them and grind them to powder. They need somebody who's going to come alongside of them and say, hey, there's hope. Not a false hope, a real hope. That's what people need when they're in trouble. And you know, sometimes they don't want to hear it. They're not ready for it. Or maybe they're not ready for where the true hope lies And you have to be patient with them and all of that. Notice what it says in verse number 6 of chapter 39. These are the verses right before we come to these verses that we read for our text. It says, Behold, the day comes that all that is in thine house, that which thy fathers have laid up in store until this day They shall be carried to Babylon. Nothing shall be left, saith the Lord. That sounds to me like someone who's in trouble. You say, well, what's going on there? How are those verses connected to the verse that we read at the beginning of our passage of scripture here in chapter 40 where it says, Comfort, comfort ye my people? Well, this is the bad news that shows you that these people needed comfort. And really this is a story of the history of a nation. A nation that foolishly disregarded many warnings from God From one generation to the next generation. Last week we talked about a man named Ahaz, who was a wicked and unprincipled king. I'm not going to rehash that, but if you remember back to last week, we talked about some of the things that this man was involved in The second thing we see is that after Ahaz, he had a father, or Ahaz had a son named Hezekiah, who we know as primarily a very good king. Throughout most of Hezekiah's reign, he was an excellent example of someone who turned a nation that was in rebellion against God back to the Lord. What's sad though about Hezekiah is that at the end of his life, he stumbled. In fact, the last 15 years of his life ended up to be the most devastating years of his life. Because before those years, Hezekiah was about to die. And he cried out to God and he basically said, God, have mercy on me. I've been a faithful man. I've been a godly man for Please give me more time. And God in his mercy and his grace said, I'm going to give you 15 more years. 15 years. But you know what he did with those 15 years? He departed from the Lord. The text that we just read is a description of how a delegation from Babylon came to the city and as Hezekiah welcomes these men, what he doesn't realize is he's welcoming a group that's eventually going to come back to that same city and they're going to wreak tremendous havoc on Jerusalem. What's interesting about those verses Is that as he welcomes these people in in his pride, he shows them all his riches and all of his wealth and all that he's accumulated. And the prophet comes to Hezekiah and he says, What have these men seen? And he says, They've seen everything. And he says, what they've seen one day will be gone. You say, that's pretty dark. And then at the end of his life, he fathered a son named Manasseh. Who was one of the wickedest kings in all of Judah. Listen to what it says in 2 Kings 21 as it describes this man. He was 12 years old when he began to reign. He reigned 55 years. Manasseh seduced them to do more evil than did the nations before the Lord that were destroyed before the children of Israel. Thus said the Lord God of Israel, Behold, I am bringing such evil upon Jerusalem and Judah that whosoever heareth of it, both his ears shall tingle. Because they have done this that was evil in my sight and provoked me to anger. Moreover, Manasseh shed innocent blood very much till he had filled Jerusalem from one end to the other. That is the reason that God speaks to these people and warns them you are going to face consequence. And that's because there's a very simple principle we see in the Bible. Choices have consequences. When you do a thing, you're going to eat the fruit of that thing Sin before a holy God should make people tremble. And what's sad is that people rarely think about how good God is and how forbearing He is. They often don't consider how hardened their hearts have become toward God who is kind to them. And when we live our lives, we don't think about the fact one day we answer to Him. And so several generations did that, and God warned them, one generation after another, don't do this, judgment is coming, and they rejected. But what do we see in the scriptures? We see that despite man's sin, God is a gracious God. And so I want to show you a second thing we find in this text, and that is in verses 1 through 5, and that is the beginning of the text that we read. There is hope for those who humble themselves. That's a wonderful truth that we find in the Word of God. Here's what he says in verse 1. He says, comfort, comfort my people, saith the Lord your God. Speak comfortably to Jerusalem and cry unto her that her warfare is accomplished, her iniquity is pardoned. The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. And then he goes on to say, the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh will see it The first thing we saw in those verses leading up to chapter 40 is the darkness of the consequences of sin. When we move into chapter 40, verses 1 through 5, we see that God presents a way of hope. You know why that is? It's because God's gracious. God is a merciful and kind God. God does not delight in the destruction of the wicked. God desires for all men to be saved and to come to a knowledge of the truth. He's not willing that any should perish, but that All should come to repentance. And so what does God do, the holy and righteous God? He extends grace upon grace upon grace to people. But there is a key here that's very important. That grace comes to those who humble themselves. James 4, 6, God resisteth the proud, yet he gives grace to the humble. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. Matthew 5, 4. Blessed are those who mourn, they shall be comforted. You know what these verses tell us? No matter where we've been, no matter how far we have gone and departed from the Lord, as he extends his hand of mercy and grace. As he calls out to us, if we will humble ourselves and we'll turn to him, there's hope. And that hope is not just, I hope so, that hope is a promise from God. The same God who judges sin aggressively pursues us to comfort us through Christ. I mentioned at the beginning of this message that the first 39 chapters of Isaiah are warnings to Judah. This passage connects the warning to the comfort. Isaiah is a perfect example of how the gospel should be preached. When you preach the gospel, you give people the bad news first so that they're ready to accept the good news. You don't just give them bad news and leave them there. That would be a horrible thing to do. You don't just give them good news and say, hey, take it if you want it. And they're like, I don't need that. You give them the bad news and then you give them the good news You teach the law, and you say the law says all have sins and come short of the glory of God The wages of sin is death. There's none righteous, no, not one. The law says that every mouth is stopped and all the world is guilty before God. And you say, What do I do? And then the gospel is preached and says, repent and believe. Look unto me and be saved all the ends of the earth. That's what the gospel is. Christ came and Christ died and he rose from the dead. And you who have sinned and are separated from God. can be reconciled to God through the death of his son. That is the pattern all throughout scripture. Bad news, good news, law, gospel, judgment, grace. But you don't have grace without Christ. And that's very important. Because at the center of chapter 40 and throughout the rest of of the book of Isaiah, Christ is the central figure of all of it. Do you know why that is? No comfort without him. No salvation without him. No restoration without him. No reconciliation without him. We are estranged from God saved through Christ and his sacrifice. And it's very interesting the promises that we find in these verses. The first promise is a promise that the judgment that he speaks of will one day end. Her iniquity is pardoned. You know what he's saying? There's gonna be a generation of people that are gonna experience the horrible things that are talked about here, but there's gonna be a day that it's over. And when it's over, it's done. And when it's done, there's still hope. That's what he's saying. God will send a prophet to prepare the humbled to receive their Redeemer. The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, prepare ye the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. We know that that was speaking of John the Baptist because when we read the gospel accounts, And Zecharias talks about this child that was going to be born, this child that was named John, he would be the one predicted in Isaiah 40. And what did we see that God's glory would be revealed in the Redeemer? The glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it. And you know what's amazing about the Bible? The Bible from Genesis to Revelation is all about how God extends grace to sinners. That's what the whole book's about. The whole book is about how we are estranged from God because of our sin. We are separated from Him. But God has made it possible for us to be reconciled to Him through Christ. Ephesians 2:4, God who is rich in mercy. For his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace we are saved, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ. So we've seen that sin has consequence. We've seen that there's grace for the humble. The third thing I want you to notice is that hope is found in a relationship with God through Christ. That hope does not come to us through any other mechanism, through any other means, through any other person. It doesn't come to us through the church. It doesn't come to us through some religious observance or practice. It doesn't come through a philosophy. It comes through a person. And that person is Christ. And that person did something for us so that we could be reconciled to God. And we see that in verse 1, and two little simple statements that are very easy to miss but are very important. The first statement is in verse 1. He says, comfort, what are the next two words? My people. You know what that tells you? Relationship. He says later, he says, comfort them, saith your God. You know what that tells you? Relationship Hope is found in relationship with God through Christ. Without Christ, no relationship to God. There is one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. We stand righteous, we stand forgiven, we stand cleansed, we stand accepted because of him alone. They were called his people. And I'll put it to you in the simplest terms I can think of. There's only two kinds of people in the world. And I'm not talking about men and women, though that's true. Okay? There's another category that's very important for us not to miss. Those who are in Adam and those who are in Christ. And you know, the Bible describes those two positions several different ways. To be an Adam is described in the following way: By man came death. By man came also the resurrection from the dead. As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Do you see the two positions? Either I'm dead in Adam or I'm alive in Christ. Pretty simple. John 5, 24. Those who are in Christ have passed from death into life. Verily, verily. Or that word means truly, and I mean truly, truly, truly, there's no way that this isn't true. That's what he's saying. I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation. Why? Because he has passed from death to life. It doesn't say he hopes to pass from death to life. He might not come into condemnation. He will pass from death to life. No. If he's heard the word, if he's believed on him that sent me, he has everlasting life. Right now. And he's not going to be judged. Why? Because he's passed from death into life. Do you see how he's making it so clear? There's two kinds of people in the world. In Adam, dead in sins. In Christ, alive and reconciled to God. These are a people who the Bible describes as no longer under condemnation. Romans 8:1, there is therefore now no condemnation To them which are in Christ Jesus. That word now is important. That word, therefore, is important. There's a basis for this position And the basis is everything that he said all the way up to that point in the book of Romans. It's all about Christ and what Christ has done for us. That no more condemnation has nothing to do with our ability to earn our way to God. It's about what he did for us. And these people are described as new creatures in him. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Let me ask you this question. Which position are you in right now? Are you in Adam? Are you in Christ? Have you passed from death unto life? Do you have eternal life? Is there now no condemnation because you're in him? You say, well, how does the position change? I don't want to be in Adam anymore, I want to be in Christ. Good question. The answer is by new birth. Listen to what it says in John chapter 3, verse 5. Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Do not marvel that I tell you you must be born again. You know what those verses tell you? You pass from death to life through new birth. Through being born of the Spirit. 1 Peter 1. 23 says, we are born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible seed. By the word of God which liveth and abideth forever. Interestingly, he quotes from the text right in front of us in those verses John 1 12, as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name, which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. The way that a person passes from death to life, from being in Adam to being in Christ, is by being born again by the Spirit of God. The way that a person is born again is by turning to Christ and placing their faith in the finished work of Christ alone. There's no other way. It's through him alone. And this change is made possible through what Christ has done for us. Interestingly, The most significant series of statements in the book of Isaiah about how this hope comes are found in Isaiah 53. If it's not for what Jesus does, what is described in those verses, we don't have this passing from death to life. We don't go from Being under judgment but now being alive in Christ. We don't have that. It has to come through Christ's sacrifice. And here's what he says That Jesus would bear our griefs and carry our sorrows. He would be wounded for our transgressions and bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace would fall upon him. The Lord would lay on him the iniquity of us all. His soul would become an offering for sin. He would justify many because he would bear their iniquities. So the whole reason that we can be born again And we can pass from death unto life. And we can go from being in Adam to being in Christ is because Jesus has made it possible through his sacrifice. And his resurrection. And we see these statements in the New Testament. Galatians 3, Christ redeemed us by becoming a curse for us. 1 Peter 3. 8, Christ once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God. 1 Peter 1. 18, we were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver and gold. From your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. These are wonderful truths. So there is hope for those who humble themselves because of what Christ has done for us. The fourth thing I want you to notice. Is that God in His mercy has sent people to herald and announce this good news? If it wasn't for God sending people to tell us what has happened, we wouldn't know. Isn't that an amazing thing to think about? We talked about this this morning in Romans chapter ten. He says, How can they believe on them whom they've not heard? How can they hear without a preacher? And how will a preacher come if he's not been sent? Pretty logical, right? Can't hear if nobody preaches it. If nobody sends somebody to preach it, I'm not going to hear it. And then he says this: But they have been sent. All throughout the world. This message has been proclaimed to the ends of the world. And you know, this passage of scripture emphasizes that very concept going all the way to the time when Jesus is born. Listen to what it says in verse number 3. This text speaks of sending a man, John the Baptist, to prepare the people for his coming. He is the voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, prepare ye the way of the Lord. Get ready. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. John would preach a message of repentance and faith. Turn from your sin, turn to the Redeemer, be saved. That's what he would do. And then to fill it out even further, we see that his preaching would put everyone on an equal footing. We all need this message. It's an interesting statement we read in four to five. Every valley will be exalted, every mountain and hill shall be made low, the crooked shall be made straight, the rough places plain, the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together. You say, what is he talking about? Have you ever seen them build a road in a hilly area? You got all these mountains and these valleys, and what do they do? They build a causeway in certain places. They blow out chunks of mountains in certain places So that as you drive, you're not just going straight up and straight down and all around. And they're making a straight path so you can drive down it. Some places they don't do as good a job as others. But what he's basically saying is this, when this Redeemer comes, somebody's going to need to blast the path so that people can come and meet him. Because there are all kinds of obstacles that stand between them and him. And that's what John the Baptist did. He preached to the religious and to the irreligious. He preached to the Jew and he preached to the Gentile. He preached to the rich and he preached to the poor. And they all needed the same message. Repent. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. There's someone coming who I'm not even worthy to unlatch his shoe. There he is, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. His preaching put everyone on an equal footing. And they needed that. Why does he say this? Because people need a preacher to tell them that there's a savior. And that's what God did. And his preaching bore the full authority of God. Verse number five, the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it. The voice said, cry, and he said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass. The godliness is as the flower of the fields. The grass withers and the flower fadeth because the spirit of the Lord bloweth on it. What's he saying there? You know what he's saying? We're all feeble people. The very best we have to give God shrivels in his presence. We're going to stand before our Maker and none of our goodness and none of our righteousness And none of our ability to keep the law, none of that is going to give us standing with Him. It's all going to burn away. Why? Because the only way we can have standing before this God is through the standing of our Savior. And that's what he's saying. He says, the grass withers and the flower fadeth, but the word of our God shall stand forever. And his preaching brings salvation, verses 9 through 11. Behold your God. Behold, the Lord God will come with a strong hand, and his arm shall rule for him, he shall feed his flock. Like a shepherd, gather the flocks like a shepherd, gather the lambs with his arm and carry them in his bosom, and gently lead those who are with young. You say, what's that saying? When Jesus came and he said that he was the good shepherd who gives his life for a sheep, you know what he was saying? Behold your God. That's me. That's what he was saying. When John the Baptist said, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world, you know what he was saying? Behold your God. And when Jesus was going to the cross, you know what he was doing? In his weakness and in his humiliation, he was coming with a strong hand and a mighty arm to establish redemption for us. And you know what I love about how this closes? He will feed us like a shepherd feeds his sheep. Carry us in his bosom like a shepherd carries a sheep. Gently lead us like a shepherd leads a sheep with little lambs. These are tender, tender descriptions of Christ. This is our God. This is our Savior. And He's going to come and establish, or He has come and established redemption. But that relationship gets even more personal and more intimate the more we get to know him. How do you apply this text? How do we take what we've heard this morning and how do we live right now, today, in the light of these truths? Well, we see a perfect parallel in Romans chapter 3. I want to speak to those who might not know the Lord Jesus as your Savior. I didn't ask, are you religious? I didn't ask if you care about God in the Bible. I asked, do you know the Lord as your Savior personally? Have you passed from death to life? Have you received salvation by placing your faith in Christ? The book of Romans gives us good news and bad news side by side. The bad news is this, there's none righteous, not even one. There's none That there we know that whatever the law saith, it saith to them that are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world guilty before God by the deeds of the law, no flesh is justified in his sight. That's bad news. Especially if you think that you go to heaven through keeping the law. But the good news is Romans 3. 21. But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested. The righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ, unto all and upon all them that believe, there is no difference. Have you placed your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ? Do you know for certain if today was your last day and you went to the presence of God that you would be accepted because you have placed your faith in Christ? If you don't have that assurance, today's the day you need to get that settled Don't push it off. Don't ignore it. Don't ask like it's just going to go away. It's there. Every time that question is raised, and every time your heart feels troubled by it. It's another example of God's mercy to say, now 's the day. Now's the time. Don't push this off. Turn to me. We all come into this world as troubled people who need a savior. We may not realize it, but it's true. When we encounter his law, the Spirit of God opens our eyes and we realize we have a huge problem. And if you read the Bible and it tells you you're guilty, then you get it. But there's good news. There's hope in Christ. He came and did everything necessary to reconcile us to God. He calls us to turn to him in repentance and trust in what Christ has done for us. And anybody in this room, anybody listening on the live stream, anybody who hears this message and says, I want to be saved, I believe it's Christ, so anybody can be saved. The only thing holding you back is your own pride, your own unbelief. Turn to him today. Resolve this issue. Settle it once and for all. And then I speak to those who know the Lord as your Savior. Do you realize how good a shepherd he is? Think about the way he's described. He's described as someone who leads his sheep. Someone who holds them in his bosom. I love that one. He tenderly leads those who are with young. You know what it's like to have a little baby in the house. Remember the first time I'm holding a baby. Joel, I was terrified. I was like, hold him, mom. Not I didn't love him or anything, but scared man. I'm gonna break this child. Yeah, be careful, right? And so here are these tender little lambs being led by their mother, and that shepherd is looking out for those sheep. That's what God's like with us. He is a compassionate shepherd. Is that how you see him? May God help us to have such a view of our great God. Let's bow together for prayer. With every head bowed and every eye closed before we sing our closing hymn and prepare for the baptism that's coming. Is there anybody here this morning that would say, Joel, I don't know the Lord is my Savior. I've never placed my faith in Christ. I've been troubled by this. Today I'm troubled by this. I want to get that settled today. Is that you? Don't sit there and push it off. Respond to the message. Is there anybody here that quietly raise your hand and say, that's me, Joel? I need to trust Christ. I'd like to speak with you you after the service or maybe I'll reach out to you during the week. I want to get this matter settled. Anybody like that? Give you just a moment. I can ask you to stand up and give a speech. Just want to know that you you need to speak with me. Anybody like that? Let's bow and ask the Lord to take these truths and really settle them in our hearts. Our Father, thank you for this wonderful passage that brings us comfort. A comfort that is rooted entirely in Christ. Help us to allow these truths to become solidly set in our hearts Both of what you have done for us so that we could be redeemed, and also how you care for us because of the relationship that you have established for us us. Help this to be a sweet time of reflection as we think on the implications of those truths. I thank you for these two that are coming to present themselves for baptism. I thank you that they place their faith in Christ. as children. They want to publicly give a testimony of that faith in Christ through this ordinance of baptism. And I pray that this would be a time of great encouragement for your people. We ask this in Christ's name, Amen.