Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our final Anchored in the Word for the Week. And this has been Vacation Bible School Week, Teen Rally Week. And I'm sure many of you are physically exhausted, mentally weary. But I'm so thankful for how the Lord has worked this week in our young people and the opportunities that we've been given uh to be able to minister to them. And I'm also excited about the text of scripture that we've looked at all week and I pray that as we come to our synopsis and the application today being Friday, that you will find this to have been a very practical passage of Scripture and that the truths that we are dealing with are things that you can begin applying and living in the light of right now. I'm going to go ahead and read the text one more time, Luke chapter 9, verses 37 to 45, and then I'd like us to try to put all these pieces together and then move into a final word of application. Here's what it says. And it came to pass that on the next day, when they were come down from the hill, much people met him. And behold a man of the company cried out, saying, Master, I beseech thee, look upon my son, for he is mine only child. And lo a spirit taketh him and suddenly crieth out, and teareth him, that he foameth again, and bruising him hardly departeth from him. And I besought thy disciples to cast him out, and they could not Jesus answering said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you and suffer you? Bring thy son hither. And as he was yet a coming, the devil threw him down and tear him. And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit. and healed the child, and delivered him again to his father. And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God. But while they wondered, every one of them at all the things which Jesus sa Jesus did, he said to his disciples Let these sayings sink down into your ears, for the Son of Man shall be delivered into the hands of men. Now as we've worked our way through this passage, we've looked at the nature of people being made in the image of God, body, soul, and spirit, and the interconnection between those pieces. We've seen the desperation of this young man situation, not just the young man. But his father's, his father was affected by this difficult situation as well. We've seen the limitations of the disciples and really their failure to help this man and his son. And we've seen Christ's response. What I'd like to do this morning is put it all together. And so I jotted down these things, and I hope that as we think about them together, they'll be a help to you. The first is this. There was only one place that these people could find the real help they needed. The apostles couldn't help them. The crowd couldn't help them. Only Jesus could help them. And so ultimately they end up speaking with him. And ultimately, he's the one who remedies the problem. Now, the disciples should have been able to help this man and his son, but they were unable. And the reason that they should have is because they had God working through them as apostles. The reason that they didn't is because though they had access to that enabling they were not living in the light of it. In a very similar way, we as Christians can live a victorious Christian life or a defeated Christian life. A person who lives a victorious Christian life is someone who's living in the light of the position that they have. A person who's living a defeated Christian life is someone who is not living in the light of what they have. They still possess these these tools, this enabling, but they're not seizing that enabling. And that is where the disciples found themselves. And that is sometimes where we find ourselves when we're ministering within our family or church context. We also see that Christ demonstrated his authority, but it was not without a reminder that the greatest need was not to be relieved from demonic oppression, or relieved from physical suffering, or relieved from guilt. In fear and anxiety because of what you're seeing go on with your own child, their greatest need is the cross. What Christ was going to accomplish on that cross. And so what we see is that Christ addressed the issue fully. There's an interesting passage that we will address some sometime down the road in Luke chapter 11, where Jesus refers to this issue of a partially addressing an issue and the danger of that. And this is what he says. Fascinating statement. He says, if I with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the kingdom of God is come unto you. He then goes on to say this. When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, if he saith, I will return unto my house whence I came out, when he cometh, the last state of that man is worse than the first. Now in the context, what Jesus is basically saying is that if you have the ability to cast a demon out of a person, but you don't address the root problems going on within that person, and there's not a replacement of evil with good Then one day the evil comes back. And when the evil comes back, it comes back with a vengeance. And the person's condition after the demon comes back is going to be far worse than before. In fact, Jesus even talks about so the apostles talk about false teachers. And what it basically says is if a person comes in contact with the truth and they're aware of the truth and they acknowledge the truth and then they turn against the truth, their condition will be far worse. as one who had contact, rejected, and is now living in the light of lies, than the person who had been ignorant all along. In other words, we've got to address an issue fully, and that's what Jesus did. You know, if someone has a deep and complicated spiritual problem There is no lasting help for that person if the issue is only addressed partially, on the symptom level, at the fruit level, rather than at the heart level We will ultimately harm the individual that we desire to help if we do things like show them their problem, but don't point them to the finished work of Christ. Or if we do things like give them a morality without the power of the gospel. Or if we spend the majority of our time addressing symptoms and fruits rather than the root causes. We actually harm the person in the long run rather than help them. If we enable them to excuse their sin and to dull their conscience, we may make them feel better for a short period of time, but in the end it's ultimately going to hurt them. If we provide mechanisms to remove the natural consequences of their sinful behavior, we ultimately will harm them in the long run, not help them. If we let people talk their way into feeling better without biblical solutions, then ultimately we don't help them. Now the reason I bring those things up is because those are ways that commonly within our culture, both religious and secular people fall short of fully addressing issues and helping people at the heart level. Jesus didn't do that. Jesus dealt with it at the heart level. So when it comes to dealing with our children, when it comes to pastors pastoring churches, When it comes to it trying to help a a believer who has become wayward or is struggling in an area, we can't just deal with superficial matters. We can't just deal with symptoms and fruits. We've got to deal with The heart. We've got to deal with the root. And that really is one of the greatest takeaways, I feel, of the passage in front of us. Christ dealt with this boy's greatest need fully. He cast out the demon that was afflicting him. He addressed his physical need by healing him. He returns him to his father. His faith has now been strengthened, and he's experienced God's grace and God's mercy. And he realizes he has another opportunity to invest in his child and work with his child. And he addresses their attention ultimately to mankind's greatest need, and that is the need for redemption that will be remedied in the cross. What is the point? Jesus dealt with it fully. And we need to follow his example. So you say, well, Pastor, what is the takeaway from the week? I give you three things to think about. First is this. We must learn from the disciples self-confidence and failure. We cannot minister to people effectively in our own strength, by our own power. We can only do it effectively by the power of the Spirit working through the Word when we walk in a way that is consistent with God's purposes. Second is this. We must learn from Christ's mercy toward both the Father and His uh when he sees them in His misery and His doubts. The fact is when we deal with people, we have to meet them where they are. There are times that people are falling short in many, many ways, and we've got to address them and show them grace and show them kindness and got to show them mercy. where they are. That is how Jesus dealt with this man. He saw the man's misery. He had compassion. He saw the man's doubts and he didn't hold him hostage. He extended grace and he gave in him an objective reason to be strengthened in his trust And we need to learn from the way that Christ dealt in mercy with this man. And the third thing I'm going to mention is this. We've got to learn from his approach to helping this young man. He didn't cut it short. He didn't deal with symptoms. He didn't just deal with the demonic oppression, just with the physical sickness. He dealt with every single aspect of the problem. He got to the source. He got to the root. He said, I'm going to address it so that it is really addressed. in the long term. And that's how we have to learn to address issues in life. I don't know about you, but this has been a great week. It's been a great week of study. It's been a great week of reflection. And the things that we have looked at from God's Word are extremely practical. We need them this week. And so this has been an encouragement to you. I hope that you'll share that Maybe with me, maybe with someone else. Share the video. Share these videos so that others can be benefited by them. And I look forward to, Lord willing, seeing many of you on Sunday. Looking forward to a great Lord's Day. Have a blessed weekend. Bye now.