Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And we are in Luke chapter 8 this morning, as we have been the last couple of days. And so if you have a Bible, I want to ask you to take it. Let's all turn together And look at this passage of scripture and uh really dig into some of the content here. Here's what it says. They arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is over against Galilee. And when he went forth to land there met him in the city a certain man which had devils long time, and wear no clothes, neither abode in any house, but in the tombs. When he saw Jesus he cried out and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou son of the most high? I beseech thee, torment me not. For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man, for oftentimes he had caught him, he was kept bound with chains and in fetters, and he broke the bands and was driven of the devil into the wilderness Jesus asked him saying, What is thy name? I'm going to stop there because we are going to work our way through this passage. And over the last two mornings, we have been talking about the strengths of the kingdom of darkness. and also their limits and the reality of the kingdom of darkness. So we've been talking about Satan and demons and their authority and their power. Well this morning what I want us to do is I want us to see all of those introductory thoughts that we talked about, all of those biblical teachings dealing with the kingdom of darkness. And I want us to see how Jesus engaged that kingdom of darkness in this particular passage. So, first of all, let's begin with the start of the story Jesus and his disciples met a man who was totally dominated and being destroyed by Satan's powerful influence. Now, when we say Satan, we're not saying that he was personally indwelt by Satan, but he was being influenced by the kingdom of darkness. He was indwelt by a host. of demons. And we see the way that that this man is described. It says that he uh was uh he had devils a long time. He wore no clothes. He abode not in a house but in the tombs. Oftentimes it had caught him and it kept him bound with chains and in fetters, and he break the bands and was driven of the devil So what we see is that this man was a person who had lost his natural inhibitions. He's walking around without clothes. He doesn't live with his family because no one would want to live with a person that was so terrifying. Um he was living amongst the tombs and it was almost as if he was allured by death and the realm of the dead He had a supernatural physical strength that was not typical for a man to be able to do the things that he could do And that that physical strength or power was coming from the demons that were possessing him. And he was ultimately living a shameful and a miserable isolated existence. And when we read this passage of scripture, I think more than terror, we should feel sadness and we should feel bad for this person. I mean, this was his life, and it was his life for a fairly long time. And when he meets Jesus, we see that immediately this man knows who Jesus is. Notice what it says in the text. It says when he saw Jesus. He cried out and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God, Most High? Now, it's important for us to notice that it's not the demons that are speaking to Jesus at that moment. Now that that will change later in the narrative, but it's the man. He says, what do you have to do with me? Not what do you have to do with us? This man is afraid of Jesus, and he's afraid of Jesus even though He understands who Jesus is. He understands Jesus' identity. He says, Thou son of God most high. Ultimately this information that he has is something that was being fed to him by those who possessed him. But but what I think is fascinating about this is that his confession of Jesus' identity In fact, it was actually more clear than most of the people that were following Jesus as disciples, the demons knew who Jesus was, and this man, because of his being dominated by these demons, that he also knew who Jesus was. We also can see that in addition to that, these demons understood their end, and they were afraid of Christ. It says, I beseech thee, torment me not For he, Jesus, had commanded the unclean spirits to come out of the man. So these demons who are possessing this man are ultimately influencing him to be afraid of Christ. And the reason that the demons are afraid of Christ is because they understand their ultimate end and they understand that they're under his authority and jurisdiction. And you might even say they're at Jesus' mercy, which amazingly, Christ shows mercy to these demons, which The scripture never tells us why, but it's a fascinating point for us to notice. And then we see that the demons plead with Christ. They petition him. that he would not send them into the abyss. It says they besought him that he would not command them to go into the deep. And there was there an herd of swine feeding on the mountains, and they besought him that he would suffer them or allow them to enter into them, and that's exactly what he did. So what we see is that the demons plead with Christ in the same way that you and I would plead with God when we are in a moment of crisis, we're feeling the weight of a situation. Amazingly, these demons know who Jesus is, they tremble in his presence, and they plead with him for mercy. Amazingly, they do that. And then we see the powerful transformation that takes place in this man's life after he is released from this domination of these demons. It says, then they went out to see what was done. and found the man out of whom the demons were departed sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind. You can see the incredible transformation that took place in this man's life. Here he is, a man who was crazed, a man who was running around without any clothes on. A man who could not be in the presence of other people without them being terrified of him. Here he is sitting at the feet of Jesus He has a clear mind. He's paying attention to what Jesus is saying. And what it shows you is the power of Christ, and ultimately it shows you that the reason this man was acting so wild and so crazy And so uncontrolled is because he was being dominated by spirits that were controlling him. What does this show us? Well, it shows us the power of Christ. It shows us his compassion for this man. But in my opinion, the thing that is the most significant about everything we will look at in this passage is the last little portion that we read about and verses 37 to 39, because this really is at the heart of what's going on. And by the way, this also is going to be a link into the next text, which is going to be about Jarius' uh daughter being raised to life. And uh that's that's going to be next week, Lord willing, we're going to get into that passage. But but notice the details in these verses. The first thing that I want you to notice is that when when the people in the community saw that Jesus had healed this man had released him from this demonic oppression and possession. Their response was not, thank you for healing this man and thank you for liberating this man. That was not the way they responded They were afraid, they were terrified, and they pleaded with Jesus, leave. It says in verse 37, then the whole multitude of the country of the gatherings round about besought him to depart from them for they were taken with great fear. Well we see that the demons were afraid of Jesus. We see that the man was afraid of Jesus. We see that The people that live in the community were afraid of Jesus, and out of all the characters in the story, the person that no one should have been afraid of was the Son of God He loved these people. He loved this man. He was going to liberate this man from this demonic oppression. These people should have been grateful for Jesus. They should have been excited. to see what he had done and said, stay with us and heal our sick and preach the good news of the kingdom. Tell us about your authority and tell us about your power and tell us about what you're here to do. That's what they should have done, but that's not what they did But then we see a second important detail. While the people were saying, go away, the man whom Jesus had healed Said, let me go with you. And we see this in verses 38 and 39. It says, Now the man out of whom the devils were departed besought him that he might be with him. But Jesus sent him away, saying, Return to thine own house and show how great things God hath done unto thee. Jesus said, I don't want you to come with me. I want you to go back to your family, go back to the community, and proclaim what I have done for you. And by the way, when we look at Jesus' ministry, some of his miracles that he performed were performed publicly and some were performed privately. And some he performed them and he said, go and tell people what I've done. And there were others where he said, Don't tell anyone. What we see in this passage is that Jesus did not just heal this man out of mercy, though he most certainly did heal this man out of mercy. He healed this man because this man was going to be a testimony to the power of Christ, his of ability to save and to rescue the the most broken and the most dominated people in society. And so Jesus sent him back to be a witness, a testimony to his power. And this is what we see in verse number 40. The next time Jesus comes to this community, his reception was completely different The people received him and they wanted to hear what he had to say, and it was because of the testimony of the demoniac who had been healed. Here's what it says in verse 40. And it came to pass that when Jesus was returned, the people came to pass gladly received him, for they were all waiting for him. What that shows us is not just Christ's power to rescue and deliver this demon-possessed man, but the power of the gospel to change communities. That's what Jesus did. He used the possession of this hurting man to draw complacent people, a primarily Gentile community, spiritually darkened. He used this man to bring them to himself. And by the way, the Bible is full of examples of God using the the most unlikely people, the woman at the well, the Samaritan woman. He used her to reach that community. This demoniac, he used this man to reach his community. A blind man. He used this man. to to to as an object lesson to the religious leaders that they were spiritually blind and they needed sight like this man's sight was restored. This is the way that Jesus works. Well you may say, well, Joel, what can we take away from the passage? Let me leave you with a couple of thoughts. The thing that really stands out to me is number one, God's compassion. His compassion for the man, his compassion for the people, and by the way, he even showed mercy. to the demons. Amazingly, he did that. God is good. He is kind. He is compassionate. He is merciful. He is a long-suffering God. The second is his authority or his power. Jesus had the ability to free this man from a host of demons that had tormented him for many, many years. The same power that can do that is the same power that raised himself from the dead, and the same power that can give you eternal life. God is a wonderful God of power, not just compassion, but of power. And then the third thing I want to mention is his willingness to reach the lowest and to minister through the lowest. There are people in society that say, you know what, God doesn't care about me, he could never use me, he has no purpose for me, and I want to remind you that God used that man. And if God uses that man, he can use you. And he can use me. In fact, God delights in using people who are willing to do what he says. even when the up on a paper the appearance is that they really don't have a lot to offer him. I don't know about you, but that encourages me this morning. I hope that you have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, we will conclude this passage of Scripture, and then I'm planning to do a bonus episode on Friday morning. And so if this has been a challenge to you, an encouragement, please share that. And share with others so that they can be encouraged by it as well. Have a blessed day by now