Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And if you were with us yesterday, you saw that we started a new discussion. And so we are in Luke chapter 8, looking at verses 26 through 39, and we are dealing with Christ's power or authority over the kingdom of darkness. And so we're going to continue that introductory thought and looking at the reality of the kingdom of darkness. And we're going to break that down a little bit further this morning. So if you have a Bible, let's all turn together again to Luke chapter 8, and we're going to begin in verse 26. Here's what the scripture says. And they arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is over against Galilee, and he went forth to land there, and there met him out of the city a certain man, which had devils long time. He wear no clothes, neither abode in any house, but in the tombs. When he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou son of God, most high? I beseech thee, torment me not, for he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man, for oftentimes he had caught him. And he was kept bound with chains and in fetters, and break the bands, and was driven of the devil into the wilderness. And Jesus asked him, saying, What is thy name? He said, Legion, because many devils were entered into him. If you can remember to yesterday's episode, We began with some introductory thoughts about the reality of the kingdom of darkness. And what we saw is that Satan is a real literal angel. He was created by God in perfection And at a point in time after the fall, or excuse me, after the creation and before the fall of man, Satan rebelled against God. And he rebelled against God in pride because he wanted to be like the Most High. And then he also was able to convince a host of angels. to follow him in this rebellion. Obviously not all of the angels rebelled against God, uh, but many did choose to do to rebel against God. And so what we had at that moment was an angelic host that is now evil and hits God and wants to disrupt and destroy his work. And so Satan focuses his attention on that one part of the creation that was created in the image of God. All of God's creatures were created for his glory. And and we're reflecting his goodness, but mankind, Adam and Eve, were created in the image of God. And so Satan goes to Adam and he goes to Eve and he ultimately um convinces Eve to eat that fruit and then she gives it to her husband and in rebellion and disobedience. Adam sinned against God. And if you remember back, it says that the last thing Satan told Eve was that you will become wise like God and you will know good and evil. And in fact, Adam and Eve both, when they ate that fruit, realized not only what good was, but what evil is. And so this morning what I want to do is I want to break down a little bit more about what the Bible says about Satan and his power and his authority and what he is able to do in the world. Now I want to do that because we need to be sobered by these biblical truths. But on the other side, I want us to see what the Bible says about his limitations. So we're going to look at it in two parts. First of all, the terrifying power of Satan. There are so many scriptures. that I could go to. But the one I want to focus my attention on is in Job chapter 1. Job chapter 1, we see a lot about what Satan is able to do. And so I'm going to pick up in verse 12. Here's what it says The Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power. Only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went from the presence of the Lord. And then after that moment, we're going to see several things that happened to Job. And those things that happened to Job are terrible things that happened to him. And what they do is they they reveal to us the kind of power that Satan has. Satan is not the creator, and Satan does not have the same level of authority that God himself has. But the kind of power that he has, in fact, it is very sobering. So let me go through these one by one. First of all, Satan has the ability to influence nature. Notice what it says in verse nineteen of Job one. He says, Behold, there came a great wind from the wilderness, and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young men, and they died. And he says, I only am escaped alone to tell thee. So why was the wind blowing the way that it did? What was the cause of it? Was it just a natural disaster? Did God cause it to happen? Well the answer is no. Satan actually was able to influence the very wind that brought death to Job's own children. Another example, he can touch someone's health, Job chapter 2, verse 7. So went Satan from the presence of the Lord and smote Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot unto the crown of his head. Satan can afflict people with physical illnesses. Now, that is not suggesting that every single physical illness that a person experiences is a direct result of Satan's afflictions, but what it does show us is that biblically there is a category in which that is the case. A third example, he has the ability to plant thoughts in people's minds, and that will ultimately lead to catastrophic outcomes. Now That is not to say that when Satan influences a person by planting a thought in their head, that they are forced to follow through with that thought. That temptation ultimately, if it is given into, is a result of that person's own choice. He can't say, Satan forced me to do this and I had no choice. But what it does show us is that Satan has the ability to even influence people 's thoughts. First Corinthians uh first Corinthians. First Chronicles, Corinthians. First Chronicles 21 verse 1 says Satan stood up against Israel. and provoked David to number Israel. Where did that idea come from? Came from Satan. Acts chapter 5, verse 3 says, Peter said to Ananias, Why has Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost? Where did the idea uh that Ananias had to lie to the people? in the church that he had sold his land for a certain amount and he gave it all to the church. Where did that idea come from? Well, Satan planted it in his in his head. Fourth example, he can literally possess an individual. When I say he, not just he, but demons can as well. This passage of scripture that we are reading this week is an example of that. Luke 22, 3 to 4. Then entered Satan into Judas named Iscaria. being the number of the twelve. And he went his way and communed with the chief priests and the captains how he might betray Jesus unto them. Why did Judas do this? Well he had contemplated the idea because Satan had planted the thought in his mind and he entertained that and he went down that road. But when it came down to Judas actually betraying Christ What we see in the text is that Judas was actually indwelt by Satan himself. Literally, Satan possessed Judas as he took this action. And that's it also what happened in this particular scripture, Luke chapter 8, that we're looking at, where here is the man who is possessed by devils and they are controlling him, controlling his thinking, controlling his physical abilities, controlling his inhibitions. This is a person who is being dominated by Satan himself. And so we see that this is a possibility. Even in Second Thessalonians chapter 2, where it talks about the tribulation period, it says, Then shall the wicked the wicked one be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth. and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming, even him whose coming is from the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders. And with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that are deceived. What does that show us? Satan is going to influence and possess an individual during the tribulation time period who's going to rise to tremendous power. He's going to deceive lots and lots of people. And Satan will be behind that. What does that tell us about him? He's a powerful creature. He's a terrifying creature. He can wreak tremendous havoc in the world. You and I shouldn't be flippant or arrogant about Satan and the kingdom of darkness. Yet there's another side to this picture that we find in the Bible. Whenever we look at a biblical truth like the kingdom of darkness and understanding it, we have to recognize that there is a balance that helps us to understand it appropriately. If all we do is see one side, we really do not see it clearly. And so while Satan has this tremendous power, this tremendous authority, he is a terrifying creature who hates God's people and wants to disrupt what's going on in the world. On the other side we see that Satan is entirely under the authority of God. Go back to Job chapter 1, verse 12, and notice what it says. The Lord said to Satan Behold, all that he has is in thy power only upon himself, put not forth thine hand. And you know what's amazing Satan didn't do it. Satan did not physically touch Job in any way in that initial moment. Now obviously there's another conversation, and God permits uh Satan to go and to affect Job personally with physical illness. But what we see is that Satan has to actually ask God for permission to touch Job By the way, when we look at this Luke 8 passage, we're going to see that these devils who are possessing this man and terrorizing him are pleading with Christ. to allow them to enter into a herd of pigs instead of being sent back to the abode where all the rest of the demons were in the underworld. What's the idea? Well the the idea is that Satan is under God's authority. He doesn't have the ability to just do anything that he wants to do. He is bound by the limits that God gives him And the limits that God gives him, he gives him for a reason. And the reason that he permits him to do certain things. He also does that for a reason as well. And he is under no obligation to tell us Why or why not on these issues? It is God's prerogative to manage Satan under his authority the way that he chooses to. But if if Satan was able to do anything that he wanted without limitations, I I cannot imagine what would happen in this world. God's limiting hand is what preserves his people and preserves his work. Let me give you some other examples though. Daniel chapter 4, verse 34. God's dominion is an everlasting dominion. His kingdom from generation to generation. He doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven. He's talking about and the angelic realm, and amongst the inhabitants of the earth none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? What does it tell you? That tells you that even angels, those who submit to God's authority, and those who are rebelling against God's authority, are under his authority. And if God says no, Satan has to stand still. He can't do anything. He is completely under the authority of God. I give you this illustration. You know what it's like when there's this ferocious dog running around in the yard and he's barking and he's Is he's looking like he's angry and he wants to get you, but he runs to this little line and he stops. And and you say, why does he keep stopping at that one location Well, it's because there's an invisible fence. He's got this little shock collar. And if he decides to try to cross that line, he gets shocked. And so the dog knows his limits and he doesn't push them. He is terrifying and he is ferocious on that side of the invisible fence, but once he reaches his limit, he stops. That's the way Satan is He cannot go beyond the bounds that God gives him. Colossians 1, 16 and 17. By him, it's God, Lord Jesus Christ. were all things created that are in heaven and earth. That is all humans, all animals, and all angelic creatures, including those who rebelled against him, Satan himself. Whether they are visible, the things you can see, or invisible, the creatures you cannot see, whether they be thrones or dominions, principalities or powers, all things were created by him and For him, and he is before all things. That statement by him For him, he's before all things. That that that that series of statements tells us a lot about Satan's under the authority of God. Just like you and I are under the authority of God, so is Satan. In fact, by the way, people can resist God's will in so many ways. We can We can choose to disregard God's commandments. And you know what? He permits us to do that. But he has limitations that he gives us. One day we're going to die and we're going to stand before him. Sometimes God brings situations into our lives. They knock us flat on our back. And they humble us and they show us our need to turn to Him and embrace the truth. God has all kinds of different means at His disposal. The same is true about Satan. I want to remind you. That Satan is just a creature. One day he is going to be conquered forever. And by the way, at the cross, his death blow was established. His fate was sealed When he died and rose from the dead, the Lord Jesus Christ demonstrated his authority and his power over Satan. And it's just a matter of time before the end is there for Satan. He's going to be banished. He's going to be judged eternally. Conquered. God is going to demonstrate his glory in his justice over Satan for all of eternity. I want to remind you Satan is a creature who is not omnipresent. He is not omniscient He is not omnipotent. He has limits in power. He has limits in knowledge. He has limits in his ability to be in places. Satan is on a chain. God gives him boundaries, and he can do absolutely nothing to cross those boundaries. As much as he may chafe and hate those boundaries, they are thereby God's all-powerful hand. So you say, well, well, Joel, what's the takeaway? Oh man, there's a lot we can take away from this. But let me share a couple of of them with you in closing. First of all, we need a balance as we engage this discussion. We need to be sobered by Satan's power and his hatred and his deceptive abilities. And on the other side, we need to be encouraged and strengthened. By God's authority over Satan. We should be wary of Satan's ways. We shouldn't minimize this teaching in any way Yet we should be driven to Christ. We should embrace these truths with gratitude and with an encouragement because we understand God's authority. We need to be comforted by God's ever-presence with his people. He is tenderly guiding us through all of these dis uh challenges that we encounter in life. So while Satan throws his darts, as he attacks his God's people, God tenderly cares for us. He strengthens us. He preserves us. He protects us. These are the ways that God works in our lives. I hope that that comforts you this morning. If this has been a challenge, an encouragement, please share that. And share it with a friend if you think it would be helpful to them. And Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue our study as we continue to dig into this topic. Now Christ power over the kingdom of darkness. Have a blessed day by now