Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome to Anchor Baptist Church. Hope that you've had a great weekend and we're looking forward to a wonderful Lord's Day. And uh if you're visiting with us today for the first time or for the first time in a long time, We'd like to warmly welcome you and I hope that today's service will be a great blessing to you. If you didn't receive a welcome packet, please make sure that you receive get one of those at the end of the service. from the welcome desk. And if you'd like us to connect with you, please fill out one of those connection cards. And what that is, is it's a way for us to reach out to you. And just find out how to be an encouragement to you, how to be a blessing, and please do that. Pastor Chris has a couple of announcements, and then I will open our service. Good morning. I hope you had a chance to look at the bulletin as we have a lot of things on the itinerary. And I just want to make note of a few things. We've got the Mothers of Littles uh meeting at 1030 on the 29th for activity, and then the ladies' Bible study will be uh on September 1st, which is Like not even two weeks from now. It's it's getting getting close. Um so the for the ladies' Bible study, the book is available in the bookstore for you to purchase. So stop by there. And then our teams will be going to uh get Air Trampoline Park on the second. Uh they're not excited at all for that. Um but I just wanted to uh make a correction there, the bulletin. It is from 6 to 9 p. m. So parents please make note of that. Um we'll be meeting here at 6 and trying to get there. by 6. 30. So if you're not able to get to the church in time, please try to meet us there. We'll plan to be there at 6. 30. Then we also have our senior luncheon coming up on the 15th. So, seniors, be thinking about the meal that you plan to bring. Make sure you bring enough to share with those who are in attendance. And then I also wanted to put it into the minds of our uh teens that we have our uh yearly visit to the Maryland Corn Maze coming up in October, and that's on the 8th. And I only mention it because this is a great event for our teams to invite some friends out. So if you have any in mind to that would like to go, you know, not get lost in a corn maze, hopefully, because we'll just leave you there. But if you have some friends who would like to come out, please invite them. And there's a sign-up sheet in the back for you to notate how many guests you plan to bring. With that, Pastor has uh just a few more nonsense before I get to that though. Two trackers, if you have not signed up for the year just yet, we'll be set up here after the morning service for you to finish registration. Pastor. Two more areas I want to mention. One is that on the 10th we have something called Gospel Days. You may say, what exactly is that? There's a church plant that's going to be starting up. It's called Baltimore Baptist. It's going to be starting up on September the 11th, so they'll have services on the 11th, 12th, and 13th. And on the 10th, they have a canvassing in the area A lot of you guys have gotten to meet Josh Zacharias. He's been staying here and he's been doing a lot of canvassing with that. And so uh we want to invite you to come out to that uh gospel days at 10 o'clock on uh September the 10th. If you can come, that would be great. Also, on that Monday night, I'm planning to go to visit for that service. So if anybody's interested in writing up maybe in the church fan, just reach out, let me know. And we want to be an encouragement to this church plant. Also, our college and career activity that we have on the 16th. We've been meeting at the church throughout the summer And uh this next one we will be back at our house, which is what we t uh typically do for our college and career. So um I'll try to continue to remind uh those that are uh coming to that study. that it will be at our house um on uh September the 16th. If you could please take out your Bibles and we're gonna turn to our opening scriptures and the first one is Jeremiah chapter 2 Jeremiah chapter 2, and we're looking at verses 11 through 13, and the second is from John chapter 4, verses 10 through 15. Here's what the scriptures say. Hath a nation changed their gods, which are yet no gods? My people have changed their glory for that which doth not profit. Be astonished, O ye heavens, at this. Be horribly afraid. Be ye very desolate, saith the Lord. For my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, have hewed them out cisterns, broken cisterns, that can hold no water. I think as we get into the service, you're going to understand the significance of this prophecy to the nation of Israel many, many, many years ago. The second scripture is John 4, verse 10. It says the following. If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is, that saith unto thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water. The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with. The well is deep. From whence then hast thou this living water? Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well and drank thereof himself? And his children and his cattle. Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again. But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water, that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw This morning, as we open up the scriptures, as we sing all these wonderful hymns of the faith, we're going to be reminded that our ultimate satisfaction, the only place we can find true satisfaction. is in the person of Christ and his work for us on the cross. And so that'll be the focus of our service this morning. Let's be all together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to help us to understand these truths this morning. Father, we are so deeply grateful. For the redemptive work of Christ. We're thankful that He went to the cross, that He died on that cross, that He shed His blood so that our sin debt could be fully paid. We thank you that his righteousness is available to whoever will place their faith in his finished work. And as your children, we glory in our position in Christ. We are so very richly blessed people. We're so very grateful people. I pray that this morning we would have a deeper and fuller, richer sense of how truly satisfying our Savior Christ is. As we sing these hymns, help us to think about these songs. As we read these scriptures, help us to dwell on them, and may they dwell in us richly. And I pray that you'll bless the preaching of your word We pray for those in our midst who carry burdens, you know them. I pray that you will strengthen them through this time together with your people. I pray for those who are sick Those who are in recovery from surgeries, those who are going through affliction personally, I pray that your hands would uphold them and strengthen them and that you would be very merciful to them in these moments of weakness. Bless us through your word today in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning. Thanks so much for joining with us here at Anchor Baptist Church for Worship. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number 165. Hymn number 165. The church is one foundation. We'll sing verses one, two, and five. That 's if one foundation is Jesus Christ alone. Ses are by what 's around. A word from that makes that before it 's where it Water and for her life it died from every nation yet one. That 's not a sales. One more, one fate, one bird, one in a sick blast. But it's one boldly food and two one bolts in Brandon with every grace and dude on a fort. Yet be on a union with God of Green One And we're sick with the middle with those rest. Forgive us right that way, like them , I mean, can only on my make well. And over to him number 177, 177, our great savior. Verses one, two, and five. Jesus. France may fail me. Melmi hero Jesus wants me by myself. Now receive him more than off in my time. He has practiced me forget. I am bed and in mine call but Amen. Amen. Great singing. Please be seated. But don't let off the gas on that singing. Great, great singing. 416 will be our next hymn. 416, my faith has found a resting place. We'll sing verses 1, 2, and 4. My faith has found a resting place, not in device nor great. I trust the ever living one. This looks for me shall be I need no water argument. I need no other It did not that she the side and that he died for me enough for me that she the save lived in. My fear and does a sinful soul, I come to him, he'll never catch me out. I need no other argument. I need no other clean It did not see the sight And then he died for me My heart is lean On the word, salvation word of God, salvation by my Savior's name, salvation through his blood. We know other arguments, I need no other three. It is he not that she the sight and that he died for me. Amen. Our scripture reading this morning will be found in the Gospel of Luke. The Gospel of Luke, chapter 6. A very simple but very profound scripture. Luke chapter 6, and we'll read verses 20 and 21. Luke chapter 6, verses 20 and 21. The scriptures say, and he lifted up his eyes on his disciples and said, Blessed be ye poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. Blessed are ye that hunger now, for ye shall be filled. Blessed are ye that weep now, for ye shall laugh. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. No, no, no, no. Amen. Thank you, Doris. We're going to continue our singing this morning. Hymn number 188. Jesus Shall Reign. Number 188, and we'll sing verses 1, 3, 4, and 5. Sing out this morning. Jesus thou brain whenever time does it touch that Kingdom spread from soul to sound so And went no more to himself and my I'm a friend that prime my sleep bur Firm saw with every morning sacred People and brown Twell on his bat, and that 's boy. And bring honor and glory to our king angel with them With songs again, and that repeat the life. Great singing. Please stand once more as we sing number sixty-five in the blue book. God has spoken. Number sixty-five. We'll sing all three verses. God has whispered through creation Making all women be avoid the Through the works we hear and see, Oh what power all what wisdom Some for kind of God that storm. God has wished but through creation He exists and maybe known, he exists, and maybe known God has spoken through the treasures , bringing out this sacred word, spirit bless of holy authors. As the quasat fetal, teaching us I've got saving five grands, don't have clock and burn the strips. Pointing us to Jesus Christ, pointing us to Jesus Christ , God has shouted through the Savior We just want a man, were made twice, twice for nature. One of us without our sin, see the fire later, seeing him is singing God, God has tried. God enter the Save Lord. Praise the living word of God. Praise the living word of God. Amen. Great singing. Please be seated. Truth , like of my soul, my joy There is the sun shine, there is the moonlight She is a shine freighter. She says Shines your angels You didn't say your sort of nation. Our children who are in junior church, that's uh up to age of seven, can be dismissed to the back. And the rest of you, I want to invite you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to Luke chapter 6. We're Luke chapter 6 this morning, and we are continuing the beginning of Luke's record of Jesus' teaching. And last week we looked at a passage that was a portion of the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus would have taught this in a lot of different contexts, and we're going to continue in that same theme. Luke chapter 6, and we're looking at verses 20 down to verse 21. Here's what the scriptures say. And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples and said, Blessed be ye poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. Blessed are ye that hunger now, for ye shall be filled. Blessed are ye that weep now, for ye shall laugh. When we read these verses, obviously we're looking at something that has a paradox element to it. In fact, uh, if you could sit in my uh McKean Sunday school class with the guys We actually discussed this very t uh issue this morning and the question was, are there contradictions in God's word? And the question was, what do we do with truths that when we look at them, at least on the surface level, they appear to be contradictory? I said, well, the way that we describe such a situation as something that's a paradox. A paradox means that there's not a conflict, but we do need an explanation. And so that's really what we're looking at this morning again. We're looking at a paradox in the teaching of Christ. So I'll give you this summary. Christ teaches the paradox that though there are people who are hungry and weep now, they are truly blessed. And here's the reason: because He is their ultimate satisfaction. In fact, if all that we had in this world was what this world gives us now, there's absolutely no way that you could say that a person who is hungry now is blessed. or a person who's weeping now is blessed. If it wasn't for eternity, if it wasn't for the gospel, then this would be an absolutely nonsensical statement that There are people who are blessed so they're hungry right now. And there are people who are blessed though they're suffering right now. There are people who are blessed though they're going through weeping and mourning and difficulty But there is a gospel. In fact, what's interesting about 1 Corinthians 15, this is one of the great points that the Apostle Paul makes. He says, if Christ is not risen from the dead then we are of all people most miserable. But now Christ is risen from the dead. And because he is risen from the dead, there's a whole nother side to this story. Well that's a lot of what is behind the statement that Jesus is making here. That though these people mourn today and though these people are hungry today, there is someone who satisfies them. It is God Himself. And this puts them in the category of blessed. God wants us to find out by experience that He is the only lasting source of satisfaction. That's what's really behind this text And so I'd like us to look at this particular truth this morning together. I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts that I think are also part of the background, helping us understand what's being communicated here. God wants all of us in this room to have a vibrant experiential walk with Him. God doesn't want us to just be a bunch of people that have knowledge in our heads. But there's no experiential side to this. You know, there is a difference between a person who lectures and that's all they've ever done their entire life and someone who has sat in a classroom and then has lived in the field. Do you understand what I'm saying? There's a big difference between explaining to someone how to do something on a car and actually doing it yourself, or explaining to someone how to do a very specialized task and doing it yourself. God wants us to be practitioners. He wants us to actually experience the Christian life, not just be able to tell people about it He wants us to be practical theologians, people that are experiencing a vibrant Christian walk. And this Christian walk isn't just some mystical experience where we're basically going off of our emotions and our imaginations. There is a substantive, objective side to the Christian life. It's not just purely emotional, but it's not detached from emotions. And that's a very important point for us to understand. We need to realize that what God wants us to do is he wants us to know him objectively, and then he wants us to take that objective knowledge of him and he wants us to understand it experientially. And so, in order for that to happen, there's a process that we have to go through. And we all go through this process. Let me give you exactly what I mean by this We need to know God as He actually is, not how we imagine Him to be. And so, because of that, our thinking has to be shaped by something that is objective. That's why the scriptures are so fundamentally important to the Christian life. The Christians are the objective explanation of God's nature. If we didn't have the scriptures, then what we'd be going off of was emotion We'd be going off of imagination, and that would be absolutely devastating. But God wants us to go from just knowledge on objective truth to experience. And the question is, how does he do this? Well, the Holy Spirit, who indwells us as believers, takes the Word of God, and as we go through our life experience in each of those situations, he takes the truth that we know about God And he begins to apply it and press it home. In fact, there really is even a sense that every time you sit in a service and you hear the preaching of the Word of God It's the difference between hearing the scripture read and the Holy Spirit pressing on your heart the significance and the practical implication of those truths. There's something very precious, something very sweet about the preached word of God. As I'm laying out a portion of Scripture and as I'm explaining it to you, there are lots of different things going on in your personal lives. And all of a sudden that principle gets applied very uniquely and specifically in a person's life over here And it's the same principle. It applies in their life in that context. And somebody over here is in a totally different circumstance. The same principle is applying uniquely in their circumstance. You say, well, how does this work? The Holy Spirit takes the objective truth and he presses it on our hearts. He awakens our understanding. He presses the significance of these truths so that it becomes a part of us. It fundamentally shapes us and changes us. God 's spirit and God's word, they don't contradict one another. He is the source of the scriptures. He knows how to appropriately apply the scriptures to our lives. So what we see is that God takes his written word and he personally applies it in our lives. He stirs up our affections. He strengthens us in our faith. He shapes us more and more into the image of Christ. This is the experiential side of the Christian life. Well, I think that this is a very important part of understanding what Jesus is saying in these verses. Because what Jesus is going to show us in these verses is that hunger And sorrow are sometimes a very important part of helping us to appreciate experientially the truth that we know in our heads Let me give you some examples of what I mean by that. Psalm 34, verses 4 to 10. Here's what it says. David says, I sought the Lord and he heard me. That's an experiential side to the walk. He delivered me from all of my fears. That is experiential. He says this poor man cried. The Lord heard him, and he saved him out of all of his troubles. That's experiential. He says, taste and see that the Lord is good. Taste is experiential. Seeing is experiential. Do you understand what I'm saying? Saying that God is good is in the head. Tasting and seeing that he's good is experiential. He wants both He says the young lions lack and suffer, the young lions do lack and suffer hunger, but they that seek the Lord shall not want or lack any good thing. Second Corinthians three eighteen, he says, that we all with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. The reason I bring these up is to simply say this. God has tools that instruct our minds. That's his word. And God has tools that take what we know in our mind, objectively true from the Word, and to experientially press it upon us. That's the Holy Spirit working through the Word in our life experiences. So the question is, what are the tools that God has to use in our life experience? And the answer is, everything Do you catch that? What are the tools that God has to use at His disposal to take the objective truth of Scripture and to practically apply it in an experiential way in our lives? And the answer is everything we go through in life. You say, well, I can understand the good stuff, but what about the bad stuff? That's a great question. That's a very tough question. But what I have for you is good news that God tells us the answer to that question. So the first thing I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to clear up what may be a potentially possible misunderstanding in verse 21. Let me read it to you again and kind of work our way through the explanation of what he's saying and also what he's not saying. Verse number 21. He says, Blessed are ye that hunger now, for ye shall be filled. Blessed are ye that weep now, for ye shall laugh. Now we talked about this last week. We said that the word blessed is a word that really is rooted in an Old Testament concept. We looked at a whole lot of different scriptures last week, and those scriptures were all connected to the fact that a person is blessed. On the basis of their connection to God Himself. The fact that they are redeemed, the fact that God is working personally in their lives, the fact that they're growing into Christ's likeness, that word blessed. Connects all the way back to the fact that this person has a real vibrant walk with God. In other words, this is transcendent of circumstance. This is transcendent of the stuff that we hold in our hands. It's found exclusively in the Lord. And as we go through our Christian life, one of the things that we experience is that God doesn't insulate us from the temporary hungers and the pains of life. Every person, whether they walk with the Lord or don't walk with the Lord, they're going to experience hardship in this life. God doesn't promise to keep us from all difficulty now. He promises us to redeem us from this fallen world and to give us a future hope of glory. Those two things are very, very different. But what we also see in the scripture is though we still deal with struggles and trials on this side, God gives us strength and he gives us encouragement and he says, I'm going to show you there's actually value even on the struggle side of what you experience. We need to understand that there's a certain essential part to growing into Christ's likeness that involves the hard things of life. You know, we can say that God is merciful, but if you're never in a situation where you need his mercy, then there's no way that you would appreciate the fact that he's merciful. Or we can say that God is rich in grace, but if we're not in a position of desperation and need and we have nothing to give to God and we have to cling entirely to his goodness that's undeserved to us Well then we can't appreciate his grace. Or we say that God is love, and if we were just perfect individuals that never had problems and there were no warts and worries and all those things then the love of God, we wouldn't see it and appreciate it for what it actually is. We say that God strengthens his people, he delivers individuals. That doesn't really matter if there's no need to be delivered and there's no need to be strengthened. So what that tells us is that we have to be allowed to be in circumstances where we need deliverance. where we need to be saved, where we need his grace, where we need his mercy, where we need his strength. And what that means is difficulty. That's what it means. We are truly blessed when we come to realize He is our ultimate and only satisfaction and comfort And that's not the way most people live their lives. In fact, that's not the way a lot of Christians live their lives. That's not the way I've lived throughout a lot of my life, just being totally honest. But that's where God wants us to be. This is a common problem to all of people is that we tend to look for satisfaction and comfort and strength in the wrong places. And where we go gives us a temporary fix, but it's not ultimate. It's not ultimately satisfying. And there are a couple of examples I want to give you. The first is what we read to open our service, Jeremiah 2. 13. He says, my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken. Listen carefully. Me, the fountain. of living waters and have hewed out for themselves cisterns, broken cisterns that hold no water. God's contention with the nation of Israel is that he has provided himself to be their ultimate satisfaction and the source, the giver and sustainer of life, and they rejected him and they replaced him with something that was broken. That's what he says. This is exactly what was going on with the woman at the well in John chapter 4. We read this earlier too. He says, whoever drinks of this water, the physical water, they're going to thirst again. Whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. The water that I shall give to him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life There's actually a connection between what Jeremiah is writing to the nation of Israel and what Jesus says to this woman several hundreds of years later The connection is Jesus is the source and the sustainer of life, and there's no other And the problem is the nation of Israel wasn't going to to God, nor was this woman, the woman at the well. So let me give you some clarifications. First of all, it doesn't teach that somehow evil becomes good. The Bible never teaches that something that is fundamentally evil becomes magically good. The Bible's not suggesting that something that is harsh Stops being harsh. It's not what he's saying. So when he talks about a person being hungry, it's not like, well, hungry actually isn't hungry, or weeping and mourning isn't actually weeping and mourning. No, he's saying, you're hungry, but I'm going to fill you. And you're weeping, but I'm going to comfort you. That doesn't change the quality of what caused you to be hungry or change the quality of what caused you to suffer and to be weary. It simply says God's able to do something greater than the hardship you're experiencing. I think that's very important. In other words, it teaches us not to have this calloused attitude towards suffering. In fact, even as God permits us to suffer He's not permitting it with some glee in his heart. God is compassionate. God is very hesitant even to be harsh with those who deserve it. God is so compassionate and patient. I go back to what Jonah said as he's watching, God spared Nineveh, and he says, I knew that you're a merciful and long-suffering God, and that's why I refuse to go to Nineveh. I can't get past that He's basically saying, I didn't want to go there because I didn't want to risk that you might show compassion to these evil people. God is so hesitant and slow to wrath. He's a lot slower than we realize. And by the way, we would learn a lot by becoming more like Christ, more like the righteous God Himself when it comes to our own dealings with other people. The focus here is not on the virtue of the instrument that God uses, but rather his power and his skill that accomplishes good through what is at his disposal. And that's different. So when you're going through hardships, God doesn't say, Oh, that hardship doesn't matter. And that hardship's insignificant. He says, That is terrible, and that is harsh, but let me strengthen you through it. Those are different. It's like when Jesus goes to Lazarus' grave, and all these people are weeping, and he wept with them, though he knew he was going to raise Lazarus from the dead. And the people said, Behold, how he loved this man. I mean that's incredible. He didn't go, guys, please stop your crying. I'm about to raise this man to life. He wept with them. To me that's absolutely stunning. He knew exactly what he was gonna do. What does that do? It shows you evil doesn't just become good. But God works in spite of it. God is able to use even those hard and difficult and flawed moments to accomplish things that are good Notice he's focusing on the result. He says that you shall be filled. He says that you shall laugh. Or for instance in James chapter 1, he says, My brethren, count all joy when you fall into diverse temptation. Knowing this, the trying of your faith worketh, it's producing patience. The point is that He's emphasizing that we can rejoice not because of what we're in, but because of what he's going to do in spite of what we're in. There's a big difference. Or even in Romans chapter 8, verse 28, he says, we know that all things work together for good. To them who love God, to them are the called according to his purpose. Again, we see result. The focus isn't on the goodness of the tool, but the goodness of the result God is accomplishing. In other words, we step back and we go, God, this is a mess, but you're able to take good out of it. And that's a huge comfort to us, isn't it? You know, suffering is universal. The unbeliever doesn't have that confidence. They can't cling to the purpose of God. They don't believe in him. They're not his children. They don't have these comforts. That he's producing patience in them. They don't have that, but we as Christians do. And we need to go back to that. Second thing I'll mention is this: he's not teaching that all suffering accomplishes good. This is very important for us to understand. There are some very narrow qualifications that are mentioned in this text And in the other text that I mentioned, for instance, he says, Blessed are ye that hunger now. It's not a universal everybody that's hungry, they're blessed. He's not saying that. Or ye that weep now, he's not saying all who weep. He's very specific. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. In Matthew 5, 6, the parallel concept, he's qualifying this statement. Or in James 1, 2, and 3, he says, My brethren, he's talking to the Christian. Or in James chapter 1, verse 4, he says, Let patience have her perfect work or I've got to submit to God in this process. I've got to actually allow Him to shape me through it. Or in Romans 8. 28 it says to them who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. He's talking about the believer and he's connecting the goodness of what God is going to accomplish back to the fact that They're in Christ and they're growing into Christ's likeness, and he's emphasizing the importance of the gospel in that. There's qualification. I think we need to notice that The second thing I'd like us to see this morning is a few specific ways that God uses suffering for our good. Now please understand when I'm saying this, I'm not suggesting suffering is good. Like all of a sudden it's changed or some injustice that a person does all of a sudden becomes good. I'm not suggesting that at all. What I'm saying is that's what God has to use in the lives of people, and he chooses to use it to accomplish goods. It's like a person who is doing a project and they have flawed instruments, but they say, you know what? I'm skilled enough I can use the flaws anyway. I can use them to accomplish what I want to accomplish. I remember when I was a carpenter, I guess it's I don't know, been like twenty years ago now when I was in school, and I remember that one of my jobs was supposed to go through um all of the two by fours And he basically said if it has a bow, then you want to put it in this pile. And if it has a crown, you're going to put it in this pile. And I was like, well, why does that matter? He's like Well they're flawed, but we can use the bow in this area of the construction and we can use the crown in this area, but we can't mix them. I was like, oh really? So my job was to kind of like separate it Well he didn't say, well, I'm only going to use the perfect pieces because I'm building the perfect house. He says I'm going to use the flawed pieces in the right place. Kind of an interesting concept, isn't it? So let me give you a couple of examples. This is not all-encompassing. There's a lot A lot more that I could go to. Let me give you a few examples. The first one I want you to go to is Psalm 119, verse 71. God uses difficulty to drive us to Himself. And when a person's not a Christian and life is going very well for them, guess what? They don't feel like they need God. When a person's life is running smoothly, they're not saying, oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusts in him. He says, I don't need to trust God. I'm good right now. When a person is persisting in rebellion and sin and they're hurting themselves and all the people around them until God allows them to experience consequence for their action, they think they're good. This is what the psalmist says. He says, it's good for me that I have been afflicted, so that I might learn thy statutes. And just say it's good for me that I've been afflicted because affliction's good. What do they say? Pain is weakness leaving the body. I remember when I was in wrestling, they were like beat that into our heads and and you know blood makes the mat shine my coach used to say that and a cauliflower ear is like you know the wrestler's real trophy because you carry throughout all of life Craziest. What in the world? Some of the goofy stuff that a coach might say. He's not saying affliction's good. He's saying it's good that I've been afflicted because As a result, I went to your word. And I have learned your statutes. There's a difference. James 1, 2 to 5. He says, My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this at the trying of your faith worketh patience. Let patience have her perfect work that ye may be perfect and entire wanting nothing The simplest way to put it is that God uses all kinds of different difficulties in our lives Painful circumstances in our lives to develop matured godly virtue. I said this yesterday in our men's meeting. I said there's a difference between walking in the spirit and being spiritually matured. You could have a person that's just trusted Christ, and they are so excited about their walk with the Lord, and they're reading their Bible, and they're learning all kinds of exciting things, but they've only been saved for two days. They're not spiritually matured, but they can be truly walking with the Lord. You might have a person who's who's been a believer for 40 years And they have so much biblical knowledge, and they've developed in so many areas spiritually, and in a situation they're walking in the flesh, though they're a spiritually matured person. Folks, spiritual maturity is something that comes to a process, a rigorous process. We don't pick the process, we submit to God in the process, and that's the point that He's making. The third passage I want to mention is Romans chapter 8, verses 18 and 19. He says that I reckon. The idea is I'm making a calculation, okay? I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creature waits for the manifestation of the sons of God. Now, how many of you like salt? Well you probably should ask me in what context? Okay. Do you like salt on a cut? Do you like to just eat salt for the salt's sake? Or do you like salt to be in your food at right proportion so it draws out the flavor? There's a big difference, is there not? Well, the the nature of salt when it's in your food is to draw out the savor of the food. I'm one of those people I can eat whatever's in front of me, generally speaking. But when it's salted just right and it's flavored just right, really draws out those flavors. Well, when it comes to our Christian experience, one of the ways that God gives us a deeper appreciation for the future glory that we will enjoy is He allows us to walk through the hardships of life. What's very intriguing to me to think about is that when I'm in glory, I'm going to not only see God as He is in glory. But I'm going to see him as he is in glory in the backdrop of the life that I lived before I was saved and before I entered into glory. And all of a sudden, all of those valleys and hardships and the difficulties, I'm going to be able to look back at those things, and it's going to give me a deeper appreciation for what I have at that moment. He's saying the sufferings are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed. He's actually drawing the contrast between the two. If life was without sin and life was without sorrow, then what would be the point of glory? This would be glory, but it's not. And so God allows us. To go through hardships to stir up a deeper appreciation for the weight of our future glory. Another example, Romans 8. 28, we just read it. He says, All things work together for good to them that love God, to them are the called according to his purpose, whom he did foreknow he did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. And the question is, how are we conformed to the image of his son? We're being shaped through the circumstances of life. Do you see what these verses are telling us? God is using everything to accomplish something good. I'll even give you another example, James five. He says, Take my brethren the prophets for an example of suffering, affliction, and patience. We count them happy, which endured. We've heard of the patience of Job and seen the end of the Lord. The Lord is very pitiful and tender of mercy. And that word pitiful doesn't mean like he's pitiful to behold, but the idea is he is full of pity and compassion towards people. How do we understand that? How do we understand that experientially? It's when we go through hardship and we go through suffering and we go through difficulty and then God comes alongside of us. And in the most compassionate way possible, he gives us this greater appreciation for that compassion. The last one I'll mention is 2 Corinthians 1, verse 3. He says, Blessed be the God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, the God of all comfort, who comforteth us in all our tribulations. that we may be able to comfort them which are in trouble. By the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. The last example I want to give you is that God uses our difficulties to give us the tools to be the tools he uses to help others. Now I I can't tell you how how sweet it is to be able to come alongside of someone who is going through hardship and knowing that because of what God's taught you you are able to strengthen them. And when I say strengthen them, I don't mean that you're the source of the strength, but you get to have a front row seat in how God uses you in that process. That doesn't happen unless you've gone through a process before. This is one of the great values of the the the the local church being not just like kids, teenagers, college and career age, young adults with families you know, seniors, it's all of us together because what happens is at every single stage in life we're learning different things and we're able to help others who are going through those seasons of life That's going on in the local church. So very, very important. The idea is that God uses difficulty to accomplish good. I don't know what you're going through right now in your life. I mean, maybe I do, maybe I don't. But the truth is within this congregation, with us on the live stream, there's definitely going to be people that are carrying burdens internally that are extremely heavy. And it is very easy for us, in fact it's extremely natural for us to really focus in on the wrongness. That's probably a wrong way of using the English language. The wrongness , the painfulness of that particular incident or situation that we're dealing with. That's very common. Very common. To put it in a deather category, it'd be like someone who needs surgery in an area. And when they go to get the surgery, they say, I can't go into this surgery because I don't want to feel that knife. I don't want my body being opened up in this room with surgeons working on it for several hours. They say, I'm not going to submit to that process. And they say, well You submit to the process, or you stay as you are, and your problem gets worse. And so by the person saying, you know, it's not about the cut that I'm going to feel, Or that time being under the lamps and all the work that's going on on me, it's about what's going to happen when it's over. I'm willing to accept that so that I can get to the recovery stage. So I can see the improvements that I need. I'm going to trust the surgeons that though they're inflicting pain, and though I'm going to go through a series where I'm off my feet and I can't do the things that I normally do. When it's all done because of the skill, I'm going to be okay. I'm going to recover There is no surgeon that has the skill of our Savior. And let's be honest. Most surgeons, when they go into that room, if they've done this hundreds and hundreds of times, they're not thinking of your name, they're not thinking of your kids. or your grandkids or your friends or your church family, they're thinking about the job in front of them. God isn't like that. He knows the very hairs of your head. He knows everything about you. He created you. He redeemed your soul. The idea is that there is an extremely personal Warmth of God towards us when we are in such circumstances. And so when we look at these verses, what we're ultimately seeing is that Jesus is saying, there is a kind of suffering That while the suffering itself is bad, you are blessed because of how it drives you to God and what he does in your life. So I want to be very practical about this. I want us to end on a practical note. How do we apply such a text of scripture? Let me give you a couple of thoughts that I hope will encourage you this morning. The first one is this. Living in a fallen world is painful and inescapably full of emptiness. So my question is this Why not embrace the only thing that can give you hope? I don't know if that makes sense or not. It is difficult for everybody You know, when we're young and we're healthy and when we're strong and life is going well, we kind of fail to appreciate the fact that we don't stay that way. One of the unique things for me as a pastor is I am constantly visiting, calling, interacting with people who are a lot older than me, a lot less healthy than I am. And I see what they're going through. And you know what it does? In the back of my mind, it reminds me, Joel, someday somebody's going to be visiting you in the hospital. Someday somebody's going to be praying with you. And sometimes when we're young we don't have that sense. But it's going to happen. It's going to happen to all of us. And so my question is, why would we reject the only thing that gives us hope? The only thing that gives us purpose. The second thing I'll mention is this. These verses don't minimize real pain and frustration. If anything, what they do is they say, you should be really thankful that there's a God who, in spite of what's there, can do something good with it. He is the master surgeon. He is the perfect coach, the perfect mentor, but he's far more than that Those analogies fall so far short of what he is in our lives. He is the master, discipler of people to himself. He's inviting us into communion with him. He's saying, I want to reveal to you who I am, not just in the word, but taking the word so that you understand it experientially. That's what he's saying. It comforts us through the promise that He uses everything we experience as His children to accomplish good in our lives. If God didn't say it, I don't know if I'd believe it. But he did say it, and it's true. And walking by faith sometimes is saying, I believe it and I'm going to live in the light of it, even though at the moment I'm not seeing it. And what's great is many times after the fact God gives us a little bit of clarity so that we see He's right. But this is one of those truths that's sometimes very hard to accept when we're in the midst of circumstance. Only Christ through the gospel can do this. If it wasn't for the cross, and if it wasn't for the resurrection, and if it wasn't For God's work on our behalf, we wouldn't have this hope. We wouldn't be able to claim these truths. Unbelievers get their best life now Don't miss that. For the Christian, this is just a foretaste of glory divine. I think of what Fannie Crosby says. She says that she's going to know him by the print of the nails in his hands. She said it because she was blind. She knew in glory she was going to see her Savior face to face. She'd never seen anybody face to face. The fact is that the unbelieving world doesn't have this hope. All they've got is the money they can accumulate. Is the clout they can get, is the power they can get in this world. All of that is emptiness and light of eternity. It is nothing. It gives us nothing. It leaves us with nothing. God wastes nothing we face. He uses our pains, our failures, our weaknesses, even Satan's most vicious attacks to accomplish his good. Now that might be a little hard for you to feel like I can believe that, but that's what the scripture teaches. God uses everything. And I want to give you one closing illustration of this concept, because I think it is one of the most pronounced in all the scriptures, and that is the life of Joseph and Joseph. Genesis 50. Listen to this passage of scripture. I won't dig into it very deeply. I will simply mention it and emphasize his perspective because he really communicates what I think we all need to embrace this morning. When Joseph's father had died, his brothers were convinced that Joseph was going to take revenge on them because that's what most people do. When the restraint's gone, then you find out what's really there. And so his brothers come begging to him and they say, Joseph, please have mercy on us. He said, they said, Behold, we are thy servants. And Joseph said unto them, fear not, for am I in the place of God. But as for you , kiss thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good to bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. Now, therefore, fear ye not, I will nourish you and your little ones. And he comforted them, and he spake kindly unto them. You know what's great about this scripture? This scripture says, Your intent was my destruction. That's evil. God allowed it because he knew he could use it for good. Now if God couldn't have used it for good, he would have stopped you. But he didn't. God's intent in allowing you to exercise your will in rebellion to him and injustice to me, God meant it too good to save much people alive. That's powerful. It's absolutely stunning. And folks, that's exactly what the text is talking about here What Joseph understood without all the Bible that you and I have here, I'd say without any Bible. Okay? Because Moses lived after Joseph. He had no scriptures. He understood. What we need to live in the light of. God allowed it for a purpose that was different from those who did it, and his purpose was good. And I can be comforted by that reality. Folks, God wants us to find by experience that He is the only source of lasting satisfaction. And that's why He allows us to mourn now. To hunger now, so that he can bring us joy in himself. So that he can nourish us in himself God wants us to know by experience that He is the only source of satisfaction. Is He your satisfaction? I'd like you to bow your heads and close your eyes. We'll close in prayer. If you don't know the Lord as your Savior, I want to encourage you, please don't leave here without reaching out and saying, Pastor, I I need To know how to be saved. I want God to be able to take everything in my life and use it for good. Because I go through a lot of hurt and pain and sorrow, and I need that. I need that comfort. The comfort is only in Christ. Be glad to take a Bible and walk you through the scriptures so you can walk out of this place. Having that firm conviction on the authority of Scripture that you are his child. He's working in your life. Christian, this morning I'm sure we needed to be reminded of this. I needed to be reminded of it as I was studying it. You needed to be reminded of it as you were hearing it, and perhaps we need to remind others by sharing it. We need these truths to be richly dwelling in our hearts. Let's bow for prayer, and then uh brother Tory is going to come lease in a few songs as we prepare for a baptism this morning. Morning. Our Father, we thank you so much for the Word. These scriptures are truly a paradox. But as we dig into the concepts of how you work in this world, all of a sudden we see that there are some very rich and beautiful truths laying before us. Help us to take up these truths. Help us to rejoice in you and in your goodness. You are a wonderful, wonderful God. Thank you for your redemptive work on our behalf For sending your son that he might die in our place, for bringing the knowledge of the truth to our hearts, for impressing these truths upon us, that we might turn to you in faith and trust in the gospel. And then reminding us through the word of the redemptive purpose of all things in our lives. May you richly bless your word this morning and apply it deeply to our hearts in Christ's name. Amen.