Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to a very special Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Today is our 100th episode from season two And so this is kind of a milestone, and I hope that this sermon preview will be interesting and encouraging to you The passage that I'm planning to look at on Sunday is Luke chapter 9 verses 1 through 9. So if you have your Bible, I want to ask you to turn there. We're going to read this this text and then I want to talk about a couple of the questions that I'm asking myself as I think about this passage of scripture. I'm also going to talk about some of the implications that flow out of it and Uh kind of the direction of where the sermon will be going on Sunday as we think about some New Testament implications. So let's go ahead and turn to Luke chapter 9, verses 1 through 9, and here's what it says. Then he called his twelve disciples together and gave them power and authority over all devils and to cure diseases. And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God and to heal the sick. And he said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neither staves, nor script, neither bread, neither money, neither have two coats apiece. Whatsoever house ye enter into, there abide and thence depart. Whosoever will not receive you when you go into that city, shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them And they departed and went through the towns, preaching the gospel and healing everywhere. Now Herod the Tetrarch heard of all that was done by him. He was perplexed, because that it was said of some that John was risen from the dead, and of some that Elias has appeared, and of others that one of the old prophets has risen again And Herod said, John I've beheaded, but who is this? Of whom I hear such things? He desired to see him There's so many questions that pop into my mind as I read this passage of scripture, but let me share with you the ones that I really want to zero in on and I want to encourage you to think about those because they're really at the heart of a proper interpretation of this passage. The first question is this. Who are the people that Jesus is giving this authority to? And if you look in the text, he says his twelve disciples. By the way, what we're going to witness in these verses is Jesus giving them authority for a season that really prefigures an authority that they will have after his death. resurrection and ascension. And so he is really showing you what their apostolic ministry was going to be like. This was going to be an announcement of the kingdom coming. Whereas their future ministry would be one of recognizing that Christ has established the basis for people to enter into the kingdom and they're going to proclaim that it is finished. He has died, he has risen, he has ascended, he is coming again. That's what it's all about. A second question. What was their primary responsibility? The primary responsibility was not to heal the sick and to cast out demons. They had the authority to do those things. But those were serving a subservient purpose to what was the focus. The focus of the ministry was that of preaching the gospel of the kingdom. The kingdom of God is at hand. Christ has come to establish his kingdom. And it appears That at this particular moment the apostles did not fully understand the implications of what they were saying, but in fact they were announcing that the kingdom was coming. A third question. What was the nature of their ministry? We kind of get a sense from this that because they took almost nothing, no money, didn't bring an extra change of clothes, they were going with the barest of basics that the nature of their ministry was a transient ministry. They were not going to go into a city, plant themselves there for years and years to come. They were simply coming to announce something is about to happen. Now, you might say, well, is that the way that Christ expects us to do ministry today? Well, maybe just pause and ask yourself that question and think about it. I'm going to submit to you that it's not the the itinerant ministry that we see of these people is not typical. In fact, even when they go into their apostolic ministry after the death, burial, and resurrection, and the ascension They're going to have itinerant ministries, but their itinerant ministries are going to be less itinerant than what we see here. Even the Apostle Paul spent large amounts of time in some of the cities where he was preaching and establishing churches. Next question. How were they to handle places where they were not welcomed? Well it says they were supposed to shake the dust off of their feet, basically saying, you have had opportunity to hear the truth, you've rejected the truth, and now you will face God's judgment. That's what they were saying. Next, how did the pagan rulers around them respond to the ministry? The fact is what was going on was not a secret in the Roman world There were people in high places that were discussing the nature of what was going on. They're saying, who's going around? Who has given these people this authority? How are they able to do things that are not Typical, not normal. What is this gospel that they're preaching? Those pagan rulers, though they did not in embrace the gospel They were curious. They wondered what was going on. In fact, it even says Herod wanted to meet Jesus face to face so that he could ask him questions and figure out who he was and what he was going to do. So the question is, how will we apply this passage? Well, before we can move to application, we have to understand what's going on. We have to understand the implications of those things to the contemporary audience, and from that we pull out the timeless truths And we see how they're applied in we could say the New Testament era, or we could say the the church age time period, the time in which we are living today. So let me give you a couple of things to chew on before Sunday. One is we need to recognize the authenticity of Christ ministry through the Apostles He authenticated their ministry through signs and wonders. And by the way, those things continued even after the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, throughout their entire apostolic ministry, before the scriptures were completed. A second thing, we need to recognize the focus of Christ's ministry. Though he gave the apostles the ap the power and the authority, To heal the sick and to perform miracles, to exercise demons, that does not mean that that was their focus. It was subservient to the preaching of the gospel. Number three When we see these things, it should cause us to have personal confidence and the authenticity of the message that we've embraced. Sometimes people ask me, well, Joel, how do you know that the Christian message is the true message? Maybe somebody else has gotten it right. Maybe I'm only a Christian because I grew up in a Christian home. This is all I've ever been exposed to. Well I say to them, the Christian message is authenticated in a unique way that is completely, entirely different than these other faith-based systems. And we see the authenticity of the gospel. Packaged in a passage like this one. Number four, we see the need to keep our focus and stay motivated. We should be focused on what God uses to transform people, and that is the gospel. It is through the foolishness of preaching the gospel that God brings people to faith. He brings them to forgiveness, a righteous declaration, not guilty, justified. And he gives them an eternally secured position. I believe that when we get into this passage of scripture, you will see the parallels between where we will focus in our application. And that is in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, and what Paul has to say about the ministry of reconciliation. I hope that these truths And these questions and the things that we've talked about will give you something to chew on as you prepare your heart to focus your attention on the preaching of Luke chapter 9, verses 1 to 9. Hope that you have a wonderful, wonderful weekend. Hundredth episode. I'm excited to have reached that milestone. Look forward to just continuing on in our studies. Have a blessed weekend. Bye now.