Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope this has been a good week for you. Hope that the things that we've been addressing have been helpful. And I think out of all the things that we've looked at, what we're going to look at today perhaps will be the most positive to this point in the week. And what we're going to do is we're going to look at how Christ responds to all these people in this situation. And I always marvel at the ways of Christ. He knows when to rebuke, he knows when to show mercy and kindness. Uh he knows when to expect someone to respond a certain way, and when he really just works in spite of the way that they have handled a situation. And this passage of scripture really gives us some great insights into the ways of our Lord, the Lord Jesus Christ. So if you could let's turn back in our Bibles to Luke chapter nine. We're looking at verses thirty seven to forty five again. And we're going to look at how Christ Christ responded in this situation. Here's what it says. And it came to pass on the next day when they were come down from the hill, much people met him And behold a man of the company cried out, saying, Master, I beseech thee, look upon my son, for he is my only child and lo a spirit taketh him, and suddenly crieth out, and it teareth him, and he foameth again, and bruising him hardly departeth from him. And I besought thy disciples to cast him out. They could not. Jesus answering said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you and suffer you? Bring thy son hither. And as he was yet a coming, the disciples threw him down and tear him. Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit and healed the child and delivered him again to his father. And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God. But while they wondered every one at all the things that Jesus did, he said unto his disciples, Let these sayings seek down into your ears, for the Son of Man shall be delivered into the hands of men. Now We've seen the way that the disciples responded in their limitations. We've seen the desperation of this man's situation. And we've talked a lot about the fact that we are not just mindless robots, we are not machines, we are body, soul, and spirit. And there is this interconnection between All three aspects of our person, who we are. And whenever we encounter challenges, there is this interconnection between our body, our soul, and our spirit. And so we've talked a lot about that this week. What I'd like us to do now is notice how Jesus responds. Now, the first thing that I want us to notice is that when Jesus gets into this situation, he's going to rebuke and he's going to be, I guess you could say, he's going to act a bit dismayed at the way that the disciples handle the situation. Look down at what he says in verse 41. He says, O faithless and perverse generation. How long shall I be with you and suffer you? Now Jesus is showing frustration with the disciples because of their inability to do what the man had asked them to do. It is also possible that Jesus is venting a little bit about his frustration, that he is communicating his frustration. about this man's lack of confidence. It's possible that he's referring to the entire group of people around him, or that it's really a combination of all those things. Now it was not sinful for Jesus to lament something that should have been apparent. The disciples had the ability to address this issue. The problem is that they were not thinking correctly. They were faithless, and we could say that their values were wrong. In many ways, that's why I believe that it's likely that it was pride that was at the heart of this and self-reliance that was at the heart. of their inability to do that. They had experienced triumph in ministry, and now they're trying to do it in their own strength. And Jesus says, you can't do it in your own strength. You've got to do it By my power and through the Spirit's work. That's what he's saying. The second thing though that we're going to notice is that Jesus, in the midst of this frustration and dismay Shows great compassion and mercy. He says to the man, Bring thy son hither. Now, the man we know from another text of scripture says to the Lord, I believe, but you need to help my unbelief. He's saying I have doubts. He's saying I'm anxious. He's saying I'm fearful. He's saying I'm questioning whether or not you're going to do this. Or maybe that you can do this So he has a divided heart. Well Jesus doesn't rebuke him and say, I'm not going to help you. You get your faith in in order and then, well then maybe I'll help you. I can only do this if you have the faith that you need to have. That's not what Jesus does. Jesus says, just bring your son. He recognizes that this man needs to see him work even though he has his doubts. And by the way, God does this with us so much. So many times when we are stumbling and we're fearful, we're anxious, we're discouraged, what does he do? He works in spite of the fact that we're not in a good place. That is grace. That is mercy. That is compassion. That's the ways of the Lord. But then I want us to move from the dismay and the rebuke and the compassion to the deliverance. Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit. Now, the starting point of this young man's problems was not a physical thing. Now, the physical thing needed to be addressed. But it was primarily a spiritual matter. He was being bound and he was being dominated and he was being controlled by a demon. And so he had to address the spiritual issue first, and that's very important. Before he goes to these other issues, he starts with priority Address the spiritual affliction. But he doesn't stop with just the spiritual matter He doesn't cast the demon out and then leave him in a physically weakened state where he is being physically afflicted, but not spiritually afflicted. Because the next thing that we see is it says He healed the child. And that word healed is a word that is exclusively used in the New Testament, not for a spiritual healing, but for a physical healing. And it's significant that Luke would use this term because Luke is a doctor, and Luke understands the body and how the body works So the priority was the spiritual need, but that wasn't the stopping point. He dealt with the spiritual need, and he dealt with the physical need. But then we see a third aspect of this And that is that he delivered him again to his father. Now, we have no idea as to what the causes were that brought this young man when he was just a boy to be afflicted by demonic opposition and oppression. We don't know how he was opened up to these things or how he became influenced by these things But he was living in the house of his father, we would have to assume. And so it means that his father in some way was deficient in allowing his son to be exposed to things and interact with things that he should have never allowed him to be exposed to or or or been influenced by. But Jesus doesn't look at his father and say, How dare you let your son in and involve himself in such things and you're the reason that this happened. No, that's not the way Jesus dealt with that. Jesus doesn't get all up in his face about his doubts. Jesus gives him another chance. Jesus extends grace to him. He gives the boy to the father. And what he's doing is he's giving the boy to the father when the father's faith has been strengthened. He has just seen something objective that's giving him hope and giving him encouragement and has shown him where the true power lies to be able to overcome these issues. It's in Christ So you see that he he addresses the spiritual issue, he addresses the physical issue, and he gives the man a second chance with his son, now with a strengthened faith. He's addressing this man's confidence. The last thing that he mentions is extremely important and is not just a side issue, but it is directly connected to these issues. And that is that he reminds these people of his ultimate purpose. It says he said to his disciples, let these sayings sink down into your ears. The Son of Man shall be delivered into the hands of man. What is Jesus talking about? He's talking about the crucifixion. Well, the fact is that if Jesus doesn't go to the cross, then the spiritual deliverance that this young man is experiencing is temporary. And the physical healing that he's experiencing is short-sighted. And him giving him back to his father is not going to, in the end, be successful. The cross is at the center of all of these things. And so we recognize that it is the gospel where our greatest problems are both lying and dealt with. our our inability to uh to to heal ourselves and save ourselves and make ourselves righteous, it is all dealt with By the gospel of Jesus Christ. So, what does this show us? Well, this shows us that what Jesus does is he deals with him fully He deals with the entirety of the situation. He deals with the spiritual bondage. He deals with the physical infirmities. He deals with the challenges that are going on with at home. And he talks about the gospel. And you say, well, Joel, what do we take away from this? Well, what we take away from this is that that is how Jesus deals with us, and this is how we need to deal with others. It amazes me. Jesus didn't ignore this man or refuse to help him. He met him where he was. God does this with us. He didn't cut him short in the way that he handled this this young man. He didn't just deliver him from the demonic oppression and leave him He didn't just heal him physically and leave him. He didn't just give him back to his father and say, Well, temporarily he's okay. He delivers him from the bondage of the demon. He heals him physically, he gives him back to his father, he reminds them all. of the coming redemptive work of Christ. In other words, he addresses the entirety of the problem. And this is how we must address issues. At the heart At the root, body, soul, spirit, we need to address the entirety of the person when we're dealing with issues. And that's what Jesus did. And so he shows mercy, and he ultimately points them to the cross. And so I want to leave that with leave you with those things this morning. Let's follow the pattern of Christ when it comes to how we deal with people. Let's address the entirety of the situation. Let's be gracious. And merciful with people, meeting them where they are, because that's indeed how God deals with us. And let's always point them back to the cross of Christ. That is the greatest need that any person has. Hope that this encourages you this morning. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, tomorrow we will close out our week with the conclusion of this passage of scripture by now