Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you had a good weekend in Monday morning and looking forward to Just a wonderful time studying an important passage of Scripture. If you could take your Bibles, let's go to Luke chapter 5, and we're looking at verses 1 through 11 today. Luke 5, 1 through 11. Here's what the scripture says And it came to pass that as the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God, he stood by the lake of Gennesaret, saw two ships standing by the lake, but the fishermen were gone out of them, and were washing their nets. He entered into one of the ships, which was Simon's, and prayed him that he would thrust him out a little into the from the land, and sat down and taught the people out of the ship. Now, when he had left speaking, he said to Simon, Launch out into the deep, let down your nets for a drought. Simon answering said unto him, Master, we've twiled all the night. have taken nothing. Nevertheless, at thy word I will let down the net. When they had done this, they enclosed a great multitude of fishes and their nets break. And they beckoned unto their partners, which were on the other which were in the other ship, that they should come and help them. And they came and filled both the ships, so that they began to sink. When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' feet, saying, Depart from me. I am a sinful man, O Lord. For he was astonished at all that were with him, at the draught of the fish that they had taken. And so was also James and John, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not, from henceforth thou shalt catch men. When they had brought the ship to land, they forsook all and followed him. When we come to this passage of Scripture, we're going to talk about the importance of Christian discipleship. When we talk about discipleship, it's a very important topic. And in this particular passage, we're going to see that Christ is calling a certain group of men to be his disciples. And for them that meant that they would leave everything that they had known and everything that had been a part of their lives. and their networks, their business partnerships, and they were gonna follow Christ. And not just they were gonna follow Christ at this point in their lives. But literally they would follow him the rest of their lives and then they would be his representatives to the other uttermost parts of the world. And so when we talk about Christian discipleship, we need to recognize what we mean by Christian discipleship in a general sense. And then what it meant in a particular sense for these men that Jesus was calling to be his disciples and then later apostles So let me begin with a summary statement of these verses, and then I want you to notice some really interesting and important details about what led these men to be willing to follow Christ. First of all, a summary statement Christ's person, work, and message compel us to forsake empty lives dominated by worldly pursuits to follow him in discipleship And for John, or excuse me, for Peter and the sons of Zebedee, that's what they were doing. They were forsaking empty lives dominated by worldly pursuits to follow Christ as his disciples The first thing I'd like us to see from the passage in front of us is found in verses 1 and 3. Discipleship begins with hearing God's word. It says, and it came to pass, as the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God, he stood by the Lake of Gennesaret, and that's basically the Sea of Galilee. and saw two ships standing by the lake, but the fishermen were gone out of them, and were washing their nets, and he entered into the ship of Simon, and prayed him that he would thrust him out a little from the land. He sat down and taught the people out of his ship Now when I think about these verses, first of all, there's a reason that the people were pressing on Christ. The fact is that he was starting to be known in that region. He had performed miracles. We saw that he's healed people He's cast out demons. We know that when he went into the synagogue in Nazareth, he goes to a specific place in Isaiah, and he says, Today this has been fulfilled in your midst. We know that John the Baptist has been preaching along the Jordan River. Repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And he's pointed people to Jesus and said, This is the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sins of the world. So the fact is that Jesus' ministry was becoming known, and Jesus is doing what he has been doing for now a little period of time. He's preaching the gospel of the kingdom. What I think is very interesting is that the fishermen were not listening to Jesus preach. They were washing their nets. Their boats were sitting idly. They were not a part of that multitude. They were aware that Jesus was there. Obviously, you couldn't miss the fact that this huge number of people are listening to this man, but they're doing their own thing. But it's very interesting that Jesus goes specifically to the boat of Simon. And he goes to Simon and he says, can you let me sit in your boat? and push out so that the people can hear me and I can have space for them all to be able to hear. That was a very deliberate decision on Jesus' part. He was going to call Simon. He was going to call all these men. But it doesn't appear that Simon was actually putting himself in the place to actually get that calling. He is doing his own thing. But what we see is that Peter at the end of the story is willing to follow Christ. And it started with him hearing the message, the message that was being preached. Now we don't know the exact details about what Christ was preaching, but what we do know, based on the things that we find in other passages, is that his message would have been very similar to that of John the Baptist. He was calling out the sins of the people. He was telling them to live in the light of the Mosaic covenant. He was telling them to prepare for the Messiah. And in fact, he indeed is the Messiah. And so as Peter is hearing this, he is a captive audience. He's sitting in a boat next to Jesus. And so while he was not one of the people that was in the multitude, Now he's in a first-hand position, sitting there at the feet of Jesus in his boat, listening to him preach about the kingdom. You can only imagine what was going on in Peter's mind as he's listening to Jesus preach on sin and repentance and God's kingdom. Obviously, this man Peter would have been under deep conviction, and by the end of the story, we'll see that he is under deep conviction. And this is one of the prerequisites to being a disciple of Christ. The second fact that we find is that hearing God's word needs to be coupled with a conviction of who Christ is Discipleship has to start with conversion. And conversion begins with a person recognizing their sinfulness. The Lord Jesus Christ has died for the sins and risen from the dead. And so you can't follow Christ if you're not a new creature in Christ. Discipleship and following Christ is something that comes with salvation. So you have to be a Christian, you have to be a believer, you have to be that new creature in order to actually follow Christ. Well, what we're going to see in these verses. is that Peter was in a position to follow Jesus because he understood who Christ was and he became convinced of who Christ was. It says, now when he left speaking, verse 4, he said unto Simon, Launch out into the deep, let down your nets for draw. Simon answering said unto him, Master, We've told all night and have taken nothing. Nevertheless, at thy word I will let down the nets And when they had done this they enclosed a great multitude of fishes, and the nets broke, and they beckoned unto their partners that were in the other ship, that they should come and help them. And they came and filled both the ships, and they began to sink When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down astonished at all that were with him, at the draught of the fishes which were taken. Now, I want you to notice two interesting details here. The first one is that Peter recognized Christ's authority. The only reason that he took the boat out and he put down the nets was because Christ told him to do it. He says, Master, we've toiled, nevertheless, at thy word will let down the net. The second thing that stands out to me is it says that he fell down at Jesus' feet and he said, Depart from me. I am a sinful man. The idea is that this man, Peter, understood two things about Christ. One, he understood that Christ is the Messiah. Two, he understood that he is in the presence of the Messiah who knows him. And he knows that he's a sinful man. That tells us that Peter was thinking about what Jesus was preaching. He was internalizing it, he was personalizing what Jesus was preaching. And so when we talk about salvation, a person recognizes their sin, they recognize who Jesus is, they repent and they trust Christ, they depend on his finished work on Calvary's cross. We could say that Peter became an Old Testament saint by recognizing his sinful condition and acknowledging that Jesus is the Messiah, who is the only hope that he has. of being reconciled to God. That's essentially what we see here. Peter acknowledging his sin and Peter acknowledging who the Lord Jesus Christ is. And so it tells us a little bit about Christ's ministry and how it affected Peter. It brought conviction of sin, and it brought a conviction that Jesus is the Messiah. And this miraculous event that Peter and the other fishermen are recognizing firsthand is something that really confirmed in their minds and convinced them that indeed Jesus is the Messiah. The third fact that we find is that a correct understanding of God's word and of Christ's person is going to leave us humbled. It's really expressed in this one simple statement that Peter makes as he's on his knees before Christ. He says, I am a sinful man, O Lord. He recognizes that he's broken. That he's unworthy, that he's sinful, and he has absolutely no right to be in the presence of the Messiah. And this is a very important point for us to not forget or to not ignore. Discipleship is not about what we can do for God, as much as it is a humble response. of an unworthy obligation to follow Christ because of his lordship and his position, because of his authority. Peter didn't say, I'm going to follow you because you're getting a good deal. He says, I'm going to follow you because you're the Lord. I'm going to follow you because I understand who you are. I don't deserve this. I don't know if you can even use me in a mighty way. All I know is that I have an obligation because of your authority. To follow you. And so we talk about discipleship. Discipleship is not about me saying, you know, God, I want you to do amazing things through my life, and I've got all these talents and abilities, and I don't want to waste them. I want you to use them Discipleship is about saying, you know what, I am unworthy, I am undone, I am a sinner, I don't know if you can use me But I know that you are God and I need to submit to you. And so whatever you choose to do through me and in me, I'm open. I want you to use me the way that you see fit, even though I'm unworthy. And even though you're not getting a good deal. I mean, that's really the spirit that Peter has in this moment. We see tremendous humility. And we don't see Peter stepping forward and saying, you know, I could preach at Pentecost someday, though he does. We see him saying, I don't have the right to be in your presence. And so discipleship really is a humble response that a young Christian has when they recognize their sinfulness, they recognize Christ's authority, and they recognize, I have nowhere else to go. I need to submit to you because you have the words of life. That's the attitude that Peter's having in this text. The fourth thing that we're going to see in this passage is that discipleship calls us to forsake empty lives empty lives to pursue service in Christ's kingdom. We see this in verses ten and eleven. It says, Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not. From henceforth thou shalt catch men. And when they had brought their ships to land, they forsook all and followed him. I want you to think about this. Christ both called Peter and he comforted him at the same time. Peter has been listening to Christ's message. He's been overcome by guilt. By a conviction of his sin. He's just been convinced who Jesus is by the miracle that he's seen, and he's coupling that with what he's heard him preach. And by the way, he would have known who Christ was. Lots and lots of people at this time understood who Jesus was. So we see this coupling of conviction of sin and a conviction of the person of Christ. He believes Jesus is the Messiah. And so what does Jesus do? He calls him to follow him. He says, I'm the Lord, follow me. But he also says, I want to encourage you. The end of the story is that I'm going to use you in a special way. And so he actually had to encourage Peter because Peter was so humbled by the position that he had before Christ. He knew it was in Peter's heart. He knew all of the limitations that Peter possessed. Yet in this infant stage of faith, he recognizes that Peter is the one he wants to call to follow him. And that's a wonderful thought to consider. Third thing I'll mention here is that that Peter was he was really forsaking a huge boost in his business. I mean you want to think about this is his livelihood. Two boats full to such an extent that they were beginning to sink. That's a lot of fish. The fact is that Peter was in a place where he should have said, man, my business has the potential to boom. If he had any debts to pay off, he could pay them off. If he wanted to go and build a new house and sell all this fish and live a little bit better off than he was before, he had the opportunity. The fact is that Peter has had this stunning reversal of the challenges of being a businessman in the ancient world. He has all this to sell. And what does he do? He recognizes that this is of little value. The kingdom is far more important. And so he forsakes a huge boost of business. His identity in the community as a businessman. We tend to think of fishermen as well these are the ignorant people of society. No, this guy was a businessman. Okay? He was probably a shrewd businessman at that It was hard work. It wasn't the most glamorous of work. But the fact is that he was a businessman. He made money. And he had business associates. People knew him and they respected him in the community. The fact is, he's forsaking all that to follow Jesus. And he has no idea what lies ahead of him. He's forsaking his family. He's forsaking his closest friends. He has no idea the hardships that will befall him. But what does Peter do? He says, you know what? What the world has to offer does not come even close. It's not even comparable to the value of the kingdom and serving the Lord Jesus Christ. And so that's what he does. And the fact is he wanted to live a life dedicated to the kingdom of God. That's what discipleship is. Folks, discipleship starts with understanding who we are. Sinners who are broken and undone, who have no hope of salvation. Turning to Him, trusting in what He did for us on the cross. And then with that knowledge of our sinfulness and our brokenness, And that knowledge of who Jesus is, that he is the Lord, what do we do? The first thing you want to do is submit to him because we recognize who he is. We recognize that there is no other place to turn. The most valuable thing in all of the world is what has eternal significance. And that's really what discipleship is. It is the natural outflowing of infinite faith in Christ. A couple of thoughts that jotted down today as I was reflecting on this. The first is this discipleship was not just a call to people. But that doesn't mean that we're called to be apostles. It doesn't mean that we're going to forsake the family business necessarily. And we're going to follow Jesus in an itinerant ministry for three and a half years. What it does mean is that we submit all of the details of our lives to the Lordship of Christ. Dad, as a husband, as a pastor The future partnerships that you're going to enter into, the fact is that everything in my life need to be needs to be submitted to the Lordship of Jesus Christ. And so he doesn't just call the disciples to be followers of Christ. He calls you and me as well. Discipleship begins with a recognition of Christ's authority. a conviction of who he is, a recognition of our brokenness, and an acknowledgement of our sin. And this humble recognition of Christ's right to demand unreserved service is what compels us to follow Him in every detail of our lives. Discipleship is that immediate and most natural response that validates genuine faith in Christ and a brokenness over sin. Do you want to know if somebody has really trusted Christ as their Savior? You know what you'll see in them? A desire to follow Christ In other words, a desire to follow Christ is not how we get saved. It's how people know we're saved. A person who acknowledges their brokenness and their sin and the authority of Christ and what he's done for them on the cross. It's a person that wants to follow him. It's a person that wants to serve him. And the fact is that we get lured away by the things of this world so easily, we get so distracted from that immediate desire that we have when we trust Christ. to follow Him. Discipleship is simply a life committed to following Christ as Lord and Master. It shapes, it governs every aspect of our lives. And I want to ask you a question this morning. Are you a disciple of Christ? If you've trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, then that means that you are in a position where you are expected by God to follow Him, to serve Him, to submit to His ways. The fact is that if you're a new creature in Christ and you have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, you acknowledge his authority and you acknowledge your brokenness and your sinfulness, you're going to want to follow Christ. I want to ask you, has that immediate desire to follow Christ begun over time to get distracted by the cares of life? Have you drifted back into the former complacency that you had before you became a Christian? I want to encourage you this morning, be a committed passionate follower of Christ. If Peter could leave everything to follow Jesus, then we need to do the same as well. Whatever that is that God's calling us to forsake in the following of him. However, that means that our lives have to be reshaped and reoriented in how we look at the cares of life. So I hope that this has been a challenge to you this morning. Hope that you have a great rest of your morning. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to reflect on discipleship. Help each person that hears this to have a firm conviction that you are the Lord and you have the right the absolute right to demand our absolute submission to your ways. Help us to submit ourselves to you and in and to enjoy the beautiful benefits of a life that is lived In obedience to your ways. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, I hope that you have a great rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll continue our study tomorrow. Bye now.