Father, thank you again for this Sunday school hour. Help us to have minds that are ready to hear the truth. Help us to think clearly through the passage in front of us, the implications of it. Help us to think practically where we take truth and we apply it in our lives. Father, help us to trust you. Help us to be firmly convinced of the need to obey you fully. And I pray that you help us to be people who contribute to a healthy, peaceful environment in the places that you've put us. In our homes, in the church, in our workplaces. Help us to be peacemakers. Help us to be godly. Help us to be selfless. Help us to be Christ-centered. Help us to trust And your providential work in our lives. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, if you have your Bibles, I'll ask you to turn to Matthew 18. And Tori 's out of town this morning. So he asked me to fill in for him and when I saw the topic I thought, uh, I'm glad I'm doing that. Not that I not that I don't have confidence in Tory handling it, okay? But I think that that this is really more of Something you probably want a pastor to deal with, and that is you know ha this issue of church discipline. Uh church discipline is something that in some churches it's anathema. They would never practice church discipline They don't have any intention to. They think it's cruel and unusual. There are some churches that use church discipline as a tool to get rid of anybody that disagrees with leadership And so it's a sword and uh those who have authority in the church they use that uh as a weapon Uh there are some folks that use church discipline as a means of revenge. Um the truth is that that's not what Christ teaches And that's not what Paul is uh teaching the church to do. Church discipline really is, we could say, peacemaking on the church level And so basically the principles that are going to be established by Christ in Matthew 18 are general principles for how we deal with conflicts with people. And let's remember that when Christ makes these statements, while the church, while the word ekklesia is used, the Greek term, the concept of church as we know it in the New Testament was not a concept during the life, the ministry of Christ. It was something that was being anticipated. But they were under the Old Testament, the Old Covenant system And so when he uses the term ecclesia, he's not using it in the technical church sense like we would think, but he's talking about a community of people It could be the synagogue, it could be a family, it's a gathering where there is a mutual connection, there is a sense of authority, there is a community. And so it's actually kind of a general instruction. What we're going to see is that Paul applies that in the church context. So jumping ahead of myself, just a hair. Not that I'd ever do that, right? And um let's go ahead and let's read together Matthew 18, verses 15 to 20. And then I want to read the first section, or not section, but the first little statement. that Ken Sandy makes in chapter nine, which is titled Taking One or Two Others Along, because I think it's really appropriate. And I also want to Refer to what he says at the end of this chapter. The rest of the time is really going to be spent in the Bible. We're not some of Ken Sandy's thoughts uh are going to come out in what I'm saying, but we're looking really exclusively at the text that's in front of us. So Matthew 18, 15 says this. Moreover If thy brother shall trespass against thee, go tell him his fault between thee and him alone. If he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. But if he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. And if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it to the church And if he neglect to hear the church, let him be unto thee, as an easy man and a publican. Verily I say unto you, whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, whatsoever you shall loose on earth shall be loose in heaven. Again I say unto you, and if two of you shall agree on earth as touching anything that they shall ask it, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven. For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them. This is what Ken Sandy writes in his book at the opening of the chapter. The Bible encourages Christians to make every effort to resolve their differences as personally as possible. If we draw on God's grace and follow the principles He's given to us in Scripture We can resolve most, notice most, it doesn't say all, uh, most conflicts on our own. But sometimes we need help. As we saw in chapter seven, there are situations where it is best to have someone else act as an intermediary before we ever try to talk with another person. In other cases If we're not able to resolve our differences in private, we may need to ask one or more respected friends, church leaders, or other godly and unbiased individuals To help us be reconciled. Jesus himself sets forth the framework for seeking help from others to resolve the conflict. And so what Ken Sandy is basically saying is In the real world, people who are sinners are going to have conflict. And when you're in a context where the people that are there are saved and they love Christ , you generally can resolve most of the differences that you have. What will happen is both sides will realize that there is a contri uh they are contributing to that conflict in some way And rattle them down focusing on the part the other person is playing in the conflict. They are willing To humble themselves, to let God be the judge of that other individual, and they take personal responsibility for what they've done where they are in that conflict. And as they address their aspect of it and they're willing to deal with that, what will often happen is the other person does the same thing. Because you know when somebody comes to you and they're really humble about where they've done wrong You know, you might be angry at them, but generally speaking, you start feeling guilty about where you contributed. And you know what happens? It gets resolved. Now I wish it always was that way, but it's not. You know, there are times that both individuals, though they are saved and they love Christ They're both hard-headed and at least in that particular area they have a blind spot. They will not address it And it has to be dealt with because it's risen to a posi a place where it's really affecting their walk with the Lord, it's affecting the people around them, and it's it's causing problems in the place of the other, it could be their family or the church. And so basically what he's saying is, while ideally you deal with stuff one-on-one that doesn't always get the job done. Sometimes you have to bring other people into that discussion. And when you bring those other people into the discussion, there's a very careful way that you do it. You have to be cautious that you're not doing it to try to put leverage to get your way in an argument. And this is what often happens. Someone will use that second or third person to be the leverage to get that person to bend and do what they want. And so he's basically saying that those people are to come Hear the case and what's interesting it says if they neglect to hear them, it didn't say you It says them. The fact is that when you get to this level of an argument and you bring other people in, they actually are supposed to talk to you too. Not just the other person. They're supposed to be unbiased and say, here's where you've done wrong and here's where you've done wrong. You might have been the one who asked them to come. And you're like If that's a little bit personal like that. Doesn't matter. That's why you brought them in. They're not emotionally affected by this like you are. They don't have the blind spot. And so that's what basically saying. Jesus is instructing that that needs to take place. So what we're going to do today is we're going to talk about that particular matter. We're going to look at the text We look at a lot of text. I hope to answer some of your questions, but I know I won't answer all. And um I I'm here to entertain your questions. And I still may not be able to answer them all, but we're going to try to get into it and be practical. And also sometimes these questions You just need to ask them privately. And y you know, in a in a church setting, um family setting, sometimes, you know, yep, two people they have a conflict with one another They're sitting in the same room and you know the one person raises their hand and asks a question and everybody's like, oh you know. So you know be mindful of that. Um and I wouldn't expect anybody to do that, but the truth is that I've been in settings where that's happened. Okay. And uh so, you know, some questions you might just want to table it and ask it privately. Um sometimes, you know, because of the nature of it personal, you don't want to deal with it. So you know, in this setting. So I I want you to keep that in in mind. When we approach this, this is a delicate matter, but it's extremely important. And the fact is that if we are peacemakers and we resolve things biblically, we are able to eliminate huge amounts of strain on whatever the environment is where that is. You know, it's interesting, the scripture says, if you cast out a scorner, contention ceases. The idea is when you have a person who's being divisive or a group of people who are being divisive and either they resolve it and the division's gone where they don't resolve it and they're actually removed from that particular group of people. It just it brings calm and it brings peace. And I remember we dealt with a situation when we were in Ghana in our church. It was fairly early in our church and and we had a situation that was very difficult and I remember that once we went through this process of church discipline that you cannot imagine how the church became like it was peaceful. It was I don't know how I describe it. It's like it went from tremendous tension And fear and everybody was on pins and heels to just, it was calm, it was peaceable. And the truth is that that happens in our family, that happens in the workforce, it happens in a lot of areas. We have to learn how to address these situations biblically. So truth one, this is a basic approach to conflict resolution in many contexts, not just the church. And I kind of alluded to that already, but here's what we have. While the word church is used here, it should be understood in a general sense because we're looking at an Old Testament example. I don't know if you understand what I'm saying, but the fact is the word ekklesia is not only used in the New Testament to talk about a church in the local sense. It's not only used that. I remember there's an example in the book of Acts where it talks about a mob, and it says the eklesia was about to tear Paul apart, okay? Now, that wasn't a church. That was a group of people that were gathered together that were angry at Paul. And so we see that example in the Greek Language, that word ecclesia is used in a lot of different contexts. So when Christ used the term and when it's referred to here in Matthew, it's not necessarily referring to exclusively a local church, but it's a body of people, a group of people. And we know for certain that it's applied to the church because Paul does that quite a bit in 1 Corinthians. Also, we see that Paul applies it Ultimately at Corinth. And I did want to mention that there are a few limitations to where you can do this. So let's say you have a conflict with someone who is not a part of your local church. Okay? Yeah, that that happens a lot of times. Let's say that, you know, you have a guy who comes and he does work for you. He's a Christian and you have a problem between, you know, the work that he did or he has a problem with you about how the payment came and you have this conflict and you're not able to resolve it. Well the truth is that you're not a part of the same local church. It's going to be really hard for you To deal with that in this church because he's not a part of it. You go to deal with it in his church. Well, you're not a part of his church. There's a little bit of a difficulty there. So how do you do that? So there's a basic series of principles, and you may take what the scripture says about how to handle it in a local assembly where you're both part of that same church, and you may in a general way try to apply it, but you may have some limits to that. Well you have a person who's an unbeliever. They don't have the same point of authority that you have. So you still can go to them one-on-one and try to help them. you the two of you to to resolve that conflict and maybe you're not able to and then you go beyond that and you you know you bring a couple people you work with to go and talk to them. Like you can go through that process to some extent You can try to apply the principle, but there's a limitation to that. They're not a Christian. They're not a part of your local church and those kinds of things. In the family context, it's interesting. Again, we're overseas. Each family was was sort of like it was um I don't know if a clan or how you'd want to, you know, call it, but basically like the family would meet together as a group and the older men, like the uncles, the grandfathers, people would get together and if there was a conflict in the family. They would actually bring two people together and they would sit them down and they would hear out the case and they would deal with it. Like Probably nobody in this room has ever had that happen in your family. Yet there were times that as a pastor I got called to family disputes to sit in on A group of family elders talk about an issue between two family members to deal with. What's interesting is that in some ways they were applying the principles that are established here, but there were limits to them. Okay? So I just want to make that point that we have the church context where it's very clear cut, but then I think you can take this into some other areas. You can try to apply it in principle as well. Okay? Any question there? Truth two. There are some basic considerations that we need to understand before we move into the process. Let me talk through a couple of these. Consideration one is this. This action is only to be taken up on serious matters like a feud that is dispute that is disrupting the unity of a family or church, or a sin that is serious enough To bring a person's personal testimony into question, reproach in the name of Christ in the church. What I'm trying to say is that not every offense that you deal with rises to the level of needing to take two or three people to to deal with it. And the truth is that sometimes We get to the place where we feel that we have to address and personally deal with every single conflict that ever comes into our lives. We get to the place where we can drive ourselves crazy and the people around us because sometimes the people look at you and go, I think that's one you just need to And love, just let it go. Leave it alone. It's not a serious enough matter that it's disrupting the unity of your family. It's not a it's not really disrupting the unity of the church. It's not bringing their salvation into question. Yes, they're wrong, or yes, this person is wrong, but it doesn't rise to that level. You know, one of the reasons that you go to other people Is that sometimes when they hear your situation, they can tell you, I don't think it rises to that level. Okay? So that's really important. And that's a consideration that we need to consider. We have examples in the New Testament of areas that were in that realm of church discipline where there were people that had to address other people in the church who had a problem. And I'm going to mention three. The first example is the feud between Jodius and Syntache in Philippians 4, 1-3. So here's two ladies, and we don't have any indication that they were like involved with like drunkenness or they were involved in, you know, theft. or that they had done something scandalous. What we know is that they had a contentious spirit between them. And it was serious enough That when Paul writes the church at Philippi, he brings it up in the letter. I mean that's like you're in church listening to the letter Paul read And he calls you out by name. That's the level it rose to. Okay. That's really significant if you think about it. I mean Wow, that's not only did he call you out by name, but he called you out by name, and then the letter was given to lots of other churches, and here we are 2,000 years later, and we're reading about So God the first example is there was a feud. Now I don't think this is a small thing. This is a big deal. And he says I beseech Jodius and Seneca that they be of the same mind in the Lord, and I entreat thee, true Yoke fellow, help those women which labored with me in the gospel with Clement also with other and with other my fellow laborers who stands from the Book of Life. That really is an example of Matthew 18 in application. Those two women were not able to resolve their conflict on the personal level. The one-on-one. It had risen to a point where everybody in the church knew about it. Paul knows about it while he's in prison, okay And he's burdened about it, and so he's calling a person and some other individuals who are going to help this guy to sit down with them and try to be peacemakers. Now, I don't think many pastors would have called that church discipline. I guess I would call it a application of Matthew 18. That's really what it is. But it's kind of in that realm, a very serious internal feud. Second example is the unrepentant sexual immorality of the guy in uh 1 Corinthians 5, 1 to 13. Now I'm not going to read the whole section here, but basically it says it's reported commonly That there is fornication among you, and such fornication as is not so much named among the Gentiles that one should have his father's wife, and ye are puffed up and have not rather mourned. That you have done this deed that he might be taken from among you. I mean, basically, it's not that there's this accusation. I think something may have happened It's reported commonly. Everybody knows about it. And everybody's sticking their head in the sand. And to some extent in pride and arrogance, they just say, we're not going to deal with this. And it's interesting Some of the commentators think that part of the reason might be that the guy had some some means, some power, some money, and they're like, we don't want to deal with this, we don't want to touch this And sometimes people who are influential, you know, they get a pass because people don't want to deal with that. Yes, right here. Go ahead. Uh uh. Okay. Not worth it. Not worth it. Okay. Not worth it. Okay. I think it 's not just people it it can be a whole established anal. An established mentality? Yeah, an established He has his attorney design mind for himself. Got it. Fair enough. Yeah. Establishment. There you go. So the point here Is that we have a very specific issue that's mentioned. And what's what's interesting is later on in the passage he says Have I not written unto you not to keep company with any man that is called a brother, who be a fornicator, and that that's sexual immorality, and by the way, that is a that is a general term. So it can refer to any kind of sexual immorality. Okay, it's not just the guy's, you know, involved with his girlfriend and the guy's cheating on his wife. It it really goes into any form of Sexual immorality. He says covetous, an idolater, a railer. The idea is someone who's um constantly uh creating contention where they are. They're you know railing means that you're attacking people. Uh a drunkard, an extortioner, a thief. He says, with such a one no not to ease. For what have I to do to judge them also that are without? Do ye not judge them that are within? He says this, but them that are without God judge it, therefore put away from among yourselves that wicked person. I'm mentioning that for a reason. He he mentions some very specific things. Okay? He mentions sexual morality, he mentions idolatry, he mentions drunkenness, he mentions extortion Why does he mention those things? Because those are things that are serious enough that they bring into question that person 's Position before God. Now this doesn't mean that a believer is incapable of doing those things. Certainly not when we look at David. But the idea is that when a person is doing those things openly, it's known Unrepentant, there's no reason for that person to have any confidence that they're Christian. Okay? He mentions those things. You know what's interesting is in chapter 6 he gives a second uh example in the text. And that's using the legal system to attack other Christians. He says this in chapter six, verse five. I speak to your shame. Brother goeth to law with brother. And that before the unbelievers. Now therefore there is utterly a fault among you because you go to law one with another. Why do you not rather take wrong? Why do you not rather suffer yourself to be defrauded? Yea, you do wrong and defraud that your brother uh might be known. Do you not know that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? And listen to what he says. Do not be deceived. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminates, nor abusers of themselves with mankind. Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. That list By the way, is not something a lot of churches today are really going to read that list and say, if you are doing these things, you should have no confidence that you're a Christian. That you're going to be in heaven. The fact is, if you can involve yourself in things and this is your identity, you should doubt that you're saved because there's nothing that would indicate that you are. That's what she's saying. Okay? Now, is that list really any different than the list he mentions in 1 Corinthians 5? It's not. There's a reason for that. Because in 1 Corinthians 5, he's basically saying you have this brother. Or a a professing brother who's claiming I'm a Christian and he's involved in things that I've told you if someone claims to be a Christian and they're doing those things, you don't associate them within the local church. You don't affirm that they're saved. You don't allow them to be involved in church life like voting privileges, coming to the Lord's table. Teaching, being involved in service. You don't allow them to be involved in those things because what you're doing is affirming a position that they can be openly involved in things that contradict their position And they're in good standing, and he says, you can't do that. What's interesting is that in 1 Corinthians chapter 6 He mentions those exact same things saying those individuals will not inherit eternal life. Cut and dry. I mean, you know, some people say, well, you know I'm just telling you what it says. This is what's interesting, he says. And such were some of you But you're washed and sanctified and justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. Now all those sins that he mentions And people would give you the impression today that some of the things mentioned on that list. I mean, he mentions homosexuality A feminine, okay? We're talking about a biological man who wants to be a woman. I mean, a first generator, okay? I'm just being honest about that He's saying that if that's your identity, you cannot be in the kingdom of God. It's that simple He's not saying you get saved by stopping those things. He's saying that that identity is inconsistent with the position in Christ. However, he says you all, many of you used to be that way. What? Yes. So there are people in the church who used to be involved in all those things he mentions. When they got saved, they took a new identity. Now that doesn't mean that they stopped struggling with sin, okay? If someone was a drunkard before their conversion, uh they walk by a bar and they're probably tempted to walk in there, just to be real honest, okay? If someone was involved in homosexuality before their conversion I'm sure they still struggle with same-sex attraction. Okay? I'm not saying that every person would be in that category, but there certainly would be people like that. Okay? The truth is that if a guy was addicted to pornography before he got saved, I guarantee you he needs to have some legitimate, strong accountability after he's saved in that area because he still struggles in those areas. The bottom line is that we're talking about a change of identity. So when we have a person in the church who is involved in these kinds of things, and it's known , And they're unrepentant about it. This is my identity. I don't care. This is where I'm at. The fact is that we cannot, we cannot affirm that that person is child of God. Now that person should be involved in the work and life of the church, the words table, church business, teaching, service. It says we're to treat them as an unbeliever. Now, if you have an unbelieving neighbor, I hope you don't hate them. I hope you love them. I hope you care about their soul. I hope that you do interact with them and desire to see them saved. But that you don't affirm that they're saved just because you like you know you love them and they're your neighbor. The fact is you view them as someone who needs Christ in the gospel And so it is possible for a person who's been a part of the church, comes to this particular situation And they walk away or they have to leave, depending on the nature of how it unfolds, that we relate to them as someone who we believe needs Christ and needs salvation. And they may really wrestle with that concept. They may be people that say, I can be a Christian and embrace this particular, you call it a sinful life, so I say it's okay, it's no problem. That's just how I am, that's what I do I say the scripture doesn't allow you to to affirm these two things. And so, while I love you, I want to see you be converted And that's a really uh dicey situation to be in. But that's really what the consideration is That not every action is brought to this level of church discipline, but some are, and really it comes down to is there feud that's causing contention Is there sin that brings the person standing before God into question? Because we're talking about the very issues that are here. Could you please comment on the tension that is created in two there's two sides, excuse of gender, and confusion. Okay. On one hand, if we if we um tell our kids it's okay, you know you you have to figure out what you are, you know. And you you create that confusion with that. You're more inclined to On the other hand, if you flip out when they mention anything about oh that that person was attractive, you flip out, that may actually drive down also towards that. So there's two extremes that you gotta come into balance, right? Yeah. Yeah, the bottom line is that We have to begin talking to our kids when they're little about these kind of uh issues. And I think maybe one of the things that is most helpful is that if the family has healthy male and female roles. Like dad is really he is he's being a godly man and he's assuming that role the way that he should and the wife She's assuming her role in a godly way. There's a really good pattern for your kids to see. Like they assume that's just how it is, you know. And the truth is that When they start asking questions like, you know, I think the neighbor down the street, their family's different. There's two daddies in that house, but there's two mommies here. You know, this kid at school, like The name was Sarah, now they want to be called John and like I don't understand that, you know. Like well you gotta talk to 'em about it. You know, what does it mean to be a man? What is it you know, what does it mean to be male? What does it mean to be a female? And is that just how I feel or is that what actually I am biologically? And does God actually have a reason for me being male or female? And how does that fit in society and the family and the church and all those kinds of things? Like you're able to get into some of those things where you present what God's plan is, I mean, in the beginning God made male and female. And he did it on purpose for a reason. He created marriage. He said it's not good for the man to be alone. I'll make him a helpmate And so what's interesting is that when we dig into the scriptures, we understand that God's design has purpose. And I think that's really where we should try to focus our attention is we teach kids the purpose for God's plan and they go, huh, that makes sense. That's the way it's supposed to be. And all of a sudden they start realizing that any deviation from that is um is undermining the goodness of God's purpose. It's It's perverse. That means it's twisted. It's not it's not straightforward. It's not what God created it to be. You know, God's good gifts get perverted. by men. I know it's a delicate issue. I know it's something that um it's a hot rod issue, like hot hot button issue in our society today. But what's really interesting is I I was reflecting on this. The feminist agenda of the 60s, 70s doesn't like the transgender movement at all. So like like look at Bruce Jenner Jen Jenner when he was um competing in the Olympics. Look at the times that he produced in competition. And imagine if he would have And those days decide I want to be a woman and compete as a woman. Can you imagine the incredible uproar? It's the truth, uh you know honestly. And actually, you know, the the idea that men and women are the same, when you take it into areas like athletics And then you apply this transgender position, it's very obvious that's not true at all. That's not true at all. And those who are pressing for women's sports Who are pushing for equality are now going, huh, I think we've gone a little too far here. I mean that's really what's going on. So I mean the biblical position is very consistent It's really laughed at, but what's funny is as time goes on, people end up coming back. They won't call it the biblical position, but they'll come back to that because there's a consistency. That's how it actually is And so we'll go through a phase of 20 or 30 years where people embrace as a culture total nonsense and then they start realizing the implications are really bad And some people start crying foul. That's what happens. Pin drop. Crickets. Yes. former student of my kindergarten student who has transitioned to being a boy. Yes. And I'm friends with a parent on Facebook and she did reach out to me. The child had already decided to do this and is now fully living as a boy How do you what do you tell appearance that I I I struggle with this because a person living can Well what let me put it this way, Doris. I don't think the conflicts will end when they transition. Yeah. It won't end. I agree with that. There's a psychological conflict that's gonna go on in that person's mind the rest of their life. And it's not about society The fact is that it really comes down to an inability for someone to embrace God's design. Uh that's really what I think it comes down to. And when people have put in the minds of very young people, um, that though you're biologically a a man, you're really a female living in a a boy's you know, a girl living in a boy's body or a boy living in a girl's body. I think that they've done tremendous damage to the that that young person. And, you know, I don't think you have to bully that child. I don't think for that child to have internal conflict. They have it then and it will not end. It's it's like there are some times that we think changing our location changing our job, changing whatever it is, is going to change internal conflict. It's a temporary change. But once that becomes the new normal The internal conflict and the root of those things continues. And so I don't think it will change that. That kid is as the kid grows up, it's not like they're gonna stop having internal conflict It won't happen. It's very sad. And I think that's why so many um people that are struggled in that area wind up committing suicide. It's just it's just never resolve well the the truth is that we can we can try to resolve problems a lot of different ways. One way we can try to resolve it is to change our circumstances to accommodate what we think will make us happy. So we buy a new house, go to a different school, live in a neighborhood, get a different job, go to a different church, somebody divorces their wife and marries a new one And you know what often happens is that they are temporarily happy and they feel like I finally figured it out, but then after a little bit of time The root cause of that struggle has not left. It hasn't been addressed at all. And so it starts to come right back. And now there's tremendous amount of confusion and it's a very vicious uh cycle that that people live in. And so we have to get down to root questions like why is there a problem there. Like what is the lie that somebody has grabbed? Like, if you're biologically a man, that is what you are. Like That's true. But does it mean that you could not potentially have temptation and very like same-size attraction? Okay. Uh doesn't I mean There are some people they struggle to tell the truth and they lie constantly. There's some people that they they pick up a beer one time and you know the next thing you know they're an alcoholic. You have you have somebody that ends up becoming a drug addict. You have people that struggle with chronic depression. Like we all in our makeup have certain tendencies that we press to work. And we can be so strong in certain areas and then and then that that that fatal area just tends to get us. And um And I think that this is an example of that. And people in our society, they don't want to admit that. And I I'm telling you, twenty years from now, uh, they're gonna be psychologists who are gonna say they were wrong I believe that. I really do. Maybe you think I'm crazy. I really do believe that. I think it's gonna come full circle, and they're gonna have a real mess on their hands They're not going to say it's because we embrace biblical standards at all, not that at all. But you know what's true is true. And eventually people are going to come to wrestle with that and they're going to say, no, that's true I I really think that that's the case. You know how you how you relate to people in those situations is a very complex question. And the truth is that I think you need to have compassion. I mean to have this condescending and arrogant attitude towards people in that situation, um, I think is really wrong. And um I think we need to have compassion. The truth is that there are people who are going through that right now that 20 years from now might be sitting in a church saves and singing the same hymns that we are because there are Christians who when things got very dark came alongside of them. and pointing them to Christ. And they have a very confusing set of ethical decisions they have to make as they look at themselves and what they're doing and where they are. But God can rescue people, um, save their souls in those situations. So we have to we have to relate to people in love and um You know, we shouldn't be surprised where sin can go. I mean, we we we hold a biblical theology, we understand that we're sinners, we're depraved, we know that we all have inclination towards certain sinful practices. You know, if if my area of of tremendous struggle I know it's strong, like who am I to think that every single person has the same exact sinful tendencies? No, they don't And why would I be shocked when someone has the same kind of tremendous bondage in an area that's different than mine? Um I have to I have to recognize that. And we have to look at it theologically Any other questions? Ah, church discipline. I I I tell you there are people who will not talk about these issues. They are afraid They're being bullied into a corner, but they know that that where this is going in our society is really it's it's devastating. We have a cultural decay in very high proportion because of these kinds of issues. We won't be a strong society when those uh kinds of ideas become mainstream Family, God gives it because it's good. And children will grow up in the most healthy way possible. And they got mom and dad who are doing what God designed them to do. And if you want to look at statistics, prison statistics, you'd be shocked how high the statistics are, how many people in prison today didn't have a bad in their life. Like just that one little thing. Um Okay. Consideration two The purpose of this process is to limit the extent of sin as it impacts the church and the individual. The reason that we have a process in Matthew 18 is the reason that Jesus says, go to your brother alone. He wants to keep the effect, the damaging effect of sin as limited as possible. So if I got a problem with you and I go to the church immediately, I've infected everybody. Everybody now knows this problem, they've taken aside, they have an opinion. I have immediately taken something that is contained and I've spread it to lots of people. But when I do what is biblical and I go to you and I address it with you and I try to resolve it with you, it doesn't go beyond us. Doesn't affect the whole church, doesn't affect the whole fantasy. And that's really what he's trying to say. You want to resolve contentious matters. One-on-one as often as possible because you don't want to drag other people into it. When you want to restore, you don't want to bring lots of people into it You don't try to get ahead of the story and tell everybody what you think. If restoration is your desire, you want the two of you to deal with it one-on-one. If revenge is the desire, you want to get it out of the story. You want to shape the narrative. You want to tell people what they should think about this person and why. And you're going to give the details that are most helpful to your situation. And so what is the purpose of this? It's to limit the extent of sins impacted on the church and the individual. Three. The purpose of the process is to bring restoration, not to punish or get even with someone with whom we're in conflict. Remember one time I was dealing with a situation, guy comes to me and he's like He's like, I just want to say something to the church after the morning service. Is that okay? And I was like, well what would you like to say? Oh, nothing important. Then you don't need to say anything to the church, right? Well, just you know, give me a little bit of the gist of what you're thinking. And I was like, uh no, you're not gonna say that to the church. But we can call that person, we can have a conversation together. I was like, What? Well, you know, that's the mentality we can get where I'm going to come and I'm gonna, you know, I'm gonna punish you That's not what this is all about. This is restorative. And if it's done right, there will be people who are involved in tremendously gre grave sins, disruptive and destructive things, who 'll be humbled by God and be brought back into that congregation and will have peace and harmony. You say, I've never seen it happen. Well it's because a lot of people don't do this the right way. It's the bottom line. If you haven't seen it, it's because you haven't seen it done right. Okay? Somebody made this comment to me one time. I've never seen anybody do this, right? I said, you know what? And we're in Ghana and we saw it happen We saw individual who we had to deal with and six, eight months later, they came back to us and they sat down with our Men who had confronted this person and they apologized and said I want to make it right, restoration. It's an amazing thing. So it can happen. It can happen And I think I learned a few things from the first time I did that. That may have helped that a little bit to be a little bit more biblical and and and done correctly. Yes, go ahead. I would say that it's done properly and a lot of times you don't understand. Good point. Great point. If it's done properly, you you hopefully won't see it get to the church very often. Okay? Can happen, but hopefully it doesn't as often Consideration four. You need to approach spirit-filled, unbiased individuals in the process. We talk about Matthew 7, 1 to 5. This is a very interesting passage. He says, one of the most, you know. Well known verses in all of you know America, judge not lest ye be judged. Judge not lest ye be judged. For not er for with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged, and with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. And why beholdest thou the moat that is in my brother's eye, but considereth not the beam that's in thine own eye. Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, let me pull the mood out of thy eye, and behold a beam is in thine own eye. Thou hypocrite. Here's the key. First Cast out the beam in thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the moat in thy brother's eye. This is really what Jesus is saying When you handle a conflict, you have to be unbiased. Being unbiased means you're introspective first In other words, you have a conflict and somebody says, I'd like you to help me figure out how to do this. And you have the same problem that they have. And you've not addressed it. Guess what? When you step into that situation, you will not be unbiased. You will not handle it correctly. You will give that guy a pass, or you are going to be so harsh about another person saying on the outside goes, wow, that's really See why is that? Because you don't see clearly when something's in your eye. That simple. So what did Jesus say? You better not judge Until you deal with what's in your eye. That's what he's saying. That is what the passage is teaching. It is not teaching us that we never Make a judgment about anything that we deal with. It's to say do not judge until you have resolved your own personal issue because you will not see clearly, you will not handle it well, and if you handle it in the wrong way That will be the standard people hold you to when you're in the same position. Okay? Because what happens as a pastor, let's say that. I have an area where I have a line spot And I will not deal with it. You come to me about somebody and you want me to help you and I have a blind spot there and so rather than me dealing with my issue, I come in on that and I'm extremely harsh. Well guess what? If I have a blind spot That means there will be a day that someone is going to be looking at me like you are looking at them. That's what it says, okay? And guess what When somebody saw you handle the situation a certain way, they believe that's how they need to handle you. That's what happens. And so his point is, before you make a judgment You have to be introspective. You have to deal with what's in your own heart, in your own life, and as you deal with it, you begin to have clarity on how to address that issue. It's really important that we keep this principle in our mind. Galatians 6. 1. He says, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual restore such a one. You know, you don't want a contentious individual to help you become a peacemaker. I mean, there are times that we go out and ask people, what do you think about this? And you will get very divergent opinions. And a lot of it really comes down to was that person a spirit-filled individual or are they a very carnal person? You're going to get a very strong-handed approach, you're going to get a very manipulative approach, you're going to get a very vindictive approach from a person who is not spirit-filled You're going to get a gracious, methodical , merciful , persistent approach from a person who's spirit-filled. And so if we're going to go through this process, we better be very cautious about who we call into. Consideration five. I see that. Thank you, Bruce. Yeah, I won't finish this. That's okay. I did want to finish my consideration though. Consideration five. There has to be an element of authority in the process, or it's somewhat pointless. Okay? So, you know, the reason we can do this in the church is because we do have an authority structure, okay If we were just a bunch of friends hanging out with no authority structure, uh this church discipline issue would kind of break down at some point. Okay. And consideration six, if there's an unwillingness To have appropriate restorative measures, we should relate to the person as if they're an unbeliever. That doesn't mean we hate the person, that doesn't mean we want to see them, you know Ruins? You know, many times we can become very vindictive in our attitude towards other people. And we we've got to be so cautious. And seven, I didn't see that. The process should affirm our love for the unrepentant individual while demonstrating the seriousness of their sin and the implications that flow from their unwillingness to respond in obedience to the Lord. Obviously two three I can't get into, but that's talking about the process. I'd really encourage you to take some time, look at that. If you have any questions, we can talk. um you know one on one on the way well on the way we're not a lot of time but we can talk at another time and um I know this is a tough issue I know that it's sensitive But I also know that it's right we need to do it and we need to do it the right way. And um I think we need to strive to learn. There are times that we try to go through this process, we don't do it the right way And um doesn't mean that we were bad when we did it. Like, you know, God threw us under the bus and didn't care about us anymore. No, the fact is that We we have to grow. And you know, like I said, we've dealt with these things more than once in Ghana. First time we went through the process, I think, biblically, but we did probably handle a few things the wrong way And most certainly on my part, my attitude at times was not right. I have no doubt about it. And that could have played a factor into some of the difficulties we have It's also true that the Lord and His Grace worked through that situation. We learned from it. And the church did do the right thing. And um when we had to deal with something like that again, we really did it a lot better. And it had a different outcome. It's also a different person. I knew that one was a believer and one wasn't. I mean that's another factor. But