And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to turn your b turn with me in your Bibles to the 10th Psalm. The 10th Psalm. And I was uh doing baby duty there, and all of a sudden I realized I don't know if my Bible is up here or not. So I had to walk around the back to make sure that I knew my Bible was sitting in that chair right there. So I was like, what am I gonna do? Do I go and print my message notes again or something? It's kinda complicated, you know. Sometimes you gotta improvise. So I have my notes, so this is not an improvised sermon. This is the real deal, okay? Alright, Psalm 10, we're looking at verses 1 through 18. We're not going to read the entire section. uh here at this moment, but we are going to look at the entire psalm today. So let's go ahead and begin in verse number one and then at a point we'll skip to verse 16. Because that really kind of gives us the summation of what's going on in David Hard as he's crying out to God at a time of really tremendous difficulty. Why standest thou afar off, O Lord? Why hidest thou thyself in times of trouble? The wicked in his pride doth persecute the poor. Let them be taken in the devices that they have imagined. For the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire and blesseth the covetous, whom the Lord abhorreth. The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek after God. God is not in all his thoughts. His ways are always grievous. Thy judgments are far above, out of his sight. As for all his enemies, he puffeth at them. And then in verse 16 he says, The Lord is King, King forever and ever. The heathen are perished out of his land. Lord, thou hast heard the desire of the humble. Thou wilt prepare their hearts. Thou wilt cause thine ear to hear, to judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that the man of the earth may no more oppress When we come to the 10th Psalm, I want to remind you again that this is really a continuation of the 9th Psalm. Psalm 9 and Psalm 10 are really two parts of one acrostic that really emphasizes David during a time of tremendous difficulty. In fact, the the title that I'm putting here is Clear Thinking When Our Emotions Are Strained. Another way to put it really is clear thinking when our emotions are strained because we are being treated unjustly, because we have an evil enemy. Really the purpose of the psalm was to express that even godly people experience deep frustrations when their emotions are strained by injustice. And the only lasting help for the downcast spirit is going to be laid out in this text. I want you to realize that even godly people, very godly people, can get to the place where they are so down and so discouraged that they feel there's no hope. In fact, when we talk about the way that we think and the way that we feel, we need to realize that when we are under intense pressure, a lot of times feeling and thinking are so intermixed that it's hard to separate the two. The reality is that our spirit can be overwhelmed at times. David's spirit was deeply overwhelmed here as he's expressing his prayer to God in the ninth and tenth Psalm. What we're going to find in this passage is that God really wants us to find peace in the midst of desperation. What I mean by peace is I'm not talking about external peace necessarily. Though I would say God wants us to have that many times, but there are times that for a season we don't get that external peace. But he does want us to have an internal peace. He wants us to be settled. He wants us to have stability. If that's what God wants, then that means it's attainable. It's something that he can give us, but the way that God gives us that peace and that stability is something that might take a little bit of time for us to recognize exactly how he does that. And so really what we're going to do is we're going to move to the progression of thought that we find in the 10th Psalm, and we need to realize that this is really a continuation of the progression of thought we find in the 9th Psalm. But as we look at this progression of thought, I really think it will give us tremendous instruction to help us to see how we can find peace in the midst of terrible difficulties. The first truth we're going to look at this morning is this. We must be prepared for complex emotions that we will face in difficult circumstances. You know, there are some Christians that will give you the impression that if you're right with God, everything's going to go smoothly. And if you're right with God, not only will everything go smoothly, but you will always be settled in your soul. I want you to realize even very godly people. People who love the Lord, people who are dedicated to doing what is right, people that are purposing to live for the Lord, even people in those circumstances can find themselves in tremendously complex thinking and emotions because of their circumstances David's an example. Now we know that sometimes David's complex feelings and thoughts were connected to the fact that he was making very bad decisions. But that wasn't always the case. There were times in David's life that he's doing right, yet his enemy is bearing down on him. And he feels that weight immensely. This is one of those times. Notice the way that David describes how he's thinking and how he feels in the midst of what he's going through. In verse 1, it says, Why standest thou afar off the Lord? Why hidest thou thyself in time of trouble? Now here's the question: Was God far off? Was God holding himself back from David? Well the answer is no. But did David feel that he was? Absolutely he did. In fact, David's thinking is not connected with reality, but his thinking is very strong. It's very complex. It's very emotionally driven. Two thoughts overwhelm David in the midst of this prayer. God is not near. God doesn't see. He's not watching. He's not observing. Can you think of any other biblical characters who we know were godly people who found themselves in the same kind of situation? First person that comes to mind is Elijah. Elijah was on Mount Carmel and he sees this overwhelming display of God's power. And God vindicates Elijah in front of those prophets of Baal, and he has gone through this emotionally high experience, and all of a sudden Jezebel says, before the day's over, you're going to be dead. And all of a sudden, just like that, Elijah feels like the world has turned against him, and God doesn't see, and there's nobody to run to. And Elijah runs for his life, and he hides in a cave far away from where he started at Mount Carmel, and he basically says, God, just take me. There's no point. And continuing to do what I'm doing. Folks, godly people can get in that place. David was there. Elijah was there. You can find examples. In fact, some of the people that have those greatest moments where they look at God and they are just overwhelmed with praise to Him, some of those same people can look at God and say, Where are you? It's possible. These thoughts overwhelmed him even though he had a sound theological understanding of God. David knew God. If you ask him questions about God's character, he'd tell you God is just and God is righteous and God is holy and God is sovereign and God is good and God cares about me. David would express all of those things. Look at the twenty-third Psalm. In times of desperation, have you ever gone there and read, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want? He maketh me to lie down in green pastures, he leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the path of righteousness for his namesake. And he walks through this psalm. David wrote that he knew God, but he was overwhelmed. He was overwhelmed. He loved God. He meditated in God's Word. He was a believer. He was resting in God's redemption. He was Trusting in God's sovereignty, the fact that God is in control, He is King. Yes. That's how he felt. He absolutely felt as down as could be. And he says, God, you are far off, and God, you do not see. You know, me we may at times even go through long seasons where we think just like David. Now, we may not say, God, you're not near everybody. You might say, you're near them, but you're not near me. You love them, but you don't love me. Sometimes we find ourselves there. We feel the weight of our circumstances. And our emotions begin to become overwhelming and debilitating. We come to a second truth, though, in this psalm, and that's this: these fearful emotions and thoughts are not always completely irrational. Now, it would be very easy for us to say, David, just trust God. Don't worry about your circumstances. It's just something that's getting into your head right now. But there's really nothing there. God can do anything. And it's true, God can do anything But I want you to realize something. David was discouraged because he had a real enemy, okay? And his real enemy was a really bad enemy And I want you to see that. Because the reality is, even though God is sovereign and God is in control and God loves us and God cares about us, the reality is sometimes we become fearful and discouraged. There's a real obstacle in front of us. If God wasn't in the picture, the reality is we should feel exactly how we feel at that moment. And this is what makes it complex. Let's look at some of the details in verses 2 through 11. David describes his enemy as a vicious, oppressive enemy. In verse 2, he describes his enemy as evil, arrogant, who preyed on the vulnerable. He says, The wicked in his pride doth persecute the poor. He's not going after the strong, he's going after the weak. He's going after the vulnerable. He's going after the one who can't defend himself. He is evil. He is arrogant. He's preying on people. And David says, I'm one of those people. His enemy gloated over his ability to take by force what he wanted. In verse 3 it says, the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire. He blesseth the covetous whom the Lord abhoreth. He basically says, here 's what I want. You help me get it, and you're my buddy. You know what I'm talking about? People that are gathering together in league to do evil, to take advantage of others. This is the kind of person he's gloating in what he can take by force. How he can destroy and how he can harm an evil, oppressive enemy. In verse 4, we see that his enemy had no fear of God and acted as if God did not exist. The wicked to the pride of his countenance will not seek after God. God is not in all of his thoughts Another way to put that is he says, There's no God. I don't believe in him. I'm not worried about him. It's as if he doesn't exist. He says, There's nothing in my life that needs to come under the authority of God because I reject his person. Folks, it's scary when people are in a place like that. It's very scary. Because what keeps them from doing evil? A fear that somebody's bigger and badder than them. And if they don't think anybody's bigger and badder than them, then they do whatever they want. David says, that's terrifying. In verse 5, he says that his enemy gave no thought of God's righteous ways and constantly made decisions that should cause us to grieve. He says, his ways are always grievous. Thy judgments are far above out of his sight. As for all his enemies, he puffeth at them. He says this person does not at all consider God 's justice. God's righteousness is not on his mind at all The kinds of things that he chooses to do, the ways he chooses to walk, the decisions that he makes, they're evil, they're wicked, they should cause us to grieve. This is the man. That is his enemy. He continues in verse six, his enemy was convinced that he was invincible. That's a scary enemy. He's not afraid of you because he says, you can't touch me. He has said in his heart, I shall not be moved. I shall never be in adversity. Think about a football game, which we may or may not get to watch this year, who knows? You watch a football game. Team comes out and all of a sudden they've got the momentum and they're winning the game and all of a sudden one little thing happens and the momentum flips just like that. And all of a sudden it's like you have a team that's a totally different team than before. One team was pushing, they were aggressive, they were in control, they were dominant, and all of a sudden the tide has turned and the other team is there. Momentum is a powerful thing When the momentum's on your side, you can keep pressing forward. And this guy's got the momentum on his side. Nobody can seem to stop him and he says, I'm invincible. I will never be moved. Terrible, terrible enemy. In verse 7, his words spew out profane and dishonest inconsistencies. His tongue is full of cursing and deceit. And fraud. Under his tongue is mischief and vanity. In verses 8 and 9, he says he's a meticulous planner. He plots evil to take advantage of the most vulnerable. He says, He sitteth in the lurking places of the villages. In the secret places doth he murder the innocent. His eyes are privily set against the poor. He lieth in wait secretly as a lion in his den. He lieth in wait to catch the poor. He does catch the poor when he draws him into his net. I don't know if you've ever interacted with people in your life that were like this It's not that just that this person has an evil heart. It's not just that they're dominated by their fleshly passions to take things from others, but they're smart. They're meticulous. They're planning. They're plotting And in the midst of all that planning and all that plotting and all of that meticulous care that they're taking, what are they doing? They're looking for a way to destroy people, to take their stuff. To satisfy their passions for greeds. And it just so happens that this person has set their sights on you. That's why David feels the way that he does. In verse 10, he's willing to put on airs of humility to exploit people. And he says he couches and humbles himself. That the poor may fall by his strong ones. He's setting people up. And in verse 11, he's convinced that God does not care. He has said in his heart, God hath forgotten me, hideth his face, he will never see it. Let me summarize why David's mind is overwhelmed, folks. He realized he was completely vulnerable. He was at the end of himself and he knew it. His fear was not entirely rational. When a person feels overwhelmed like that, and you just say, you know what? Life goes on, it's just a season, let's move on. They're going to look at you like you're crazy. David lays out before God a case for why he's afraid. He lays it out. And here's my question: Can David, in those circumstances, with all this weighing down on his soul, can he find peace? That's the question. If you're in David's shoes, can you find peace? And if so, how Well, the third truth we're going to see is this in the midst of these difficult circumstances, we must cry out to the only one who can rescue. If you're David And your heart is overwhelmed, and you have an enemy like the one that he's laid out here in this text, you cannot deliver yourself. You can't make things better by some decision. You know, you get in a set of circumstances, you say, I just wish there was a formula that I could put into place and it would just cancel out all those bad things and give me good things. I wish I could do it. You can't do that sometimes So, what does David do? He cries out to God. He says, There's only one person that can help me in this set of circumstances. It's God. He's the only one. David was a strong man, okay? This is the guy that killed Goliath, folks. He was a king over a mighty nation. He was a warrior. David was a fighter. But even the strongest will meet their limits. David was a smart guy. He made a lot of shrewd decisions over the course of his kingdom. He was fearless. He was bold. God was with him. Even that man was at the end of himself. He cried out to God. I want you to notice how we did it in verses 12 through 15. First of all, David appealed to God to take immediate action. In verse 12, he says, Arise, O Lord God, lift up thine hand, forget not the humble. He's saying, God, I just laid out to you everything that I'm facing. Please stand up and stand on my behalf. Take action. He expressed his frustration with the wicked. And they were ultimately balking God by their actions. In verse 13, he says, Wherefore doth the wicked condemn God? He has said in his heart, thou wilt not require it. He says, God, stand up. Their actions are ultimately an affront to you. When I look at the story of David and Goliath, the thing that really stood out to me about why David was so quick to go and fight Goliath is he said, how can this man stand up and mock our God? That's what he said. I want you to realize this. When people come to the place that David's enemies came to, their very actions, their very thoughts, their motives, it's all an affront to God. All of those actions, all of those decisions, they're saying there's no God who's going to take this into account. There's no God who's going to hold me responsible. I can do what I want. I have no limits. He says, God, take action. They're mocking you. Very important. The next thing we see is he expressed his conviction that God saw what was happening and was going to take action. Now this is really interesting, and this is where the complex side of this is. As David is yes overwhelmed, and David is looking at an enemy who is yes very evil. Very antagonistic, very overwhelming. He's got these competing thoughts going on in his mind, these competing emotions. It's a very complex situation. He says, I feel like you're not near, but I'm crying out to you because I know you're my only hope. He says, they're mocking you, God, not just me. But then in verse 14 he says, But I know you're going to act. That's what faith is, folks. Faith is you can't see what God's going to do. You can't see how he's going to act, but you know his nature well enough that you're convinced he'll do the right thing. That's what faith is. In the midst of all of what he felt, David said, I'm going to trust you, God. I believe you will act. He says, Thou hast seen it. Thou beholdest mischief and spite to require it with thy hand. The poor committeth himself unto thee. Thou art the helper of the fatherless. Now when we see that word fatherless, I don't think that we appreciate what David means when he talks about somebody being fatherless. He's talking about an ancient world that was a lot more difficult than the world we live in today. We talk about fatherlessness in our nation today. It's a major problem. It leaves young people very vulnerable. But if you lived in the ancient world, you had no defender. You had no provider. You had no guides. You were extremely vulnerable. He says, God, you are the one who helps those people. You see them in their need. You see them when they're vulnerable, and you care about them. It says he pleaded with God to cripple his enemy so that he would be unable to continue to inflict pain and abuse the vulnerable. Look at verse 15. This is so interesting. You've got to love how graphic And descriptive his statement is. He says, God, break thou the arm of the wicked. He's using his arms to crush people. Snap his arm. It's pretty like pretty straight in your face right there. God, cripple this man. Don't let him continue to do what he's doing. Break the arm of the wicked and the evil man, seek out his wickedness till thy thou find none. He's saying, Stop him Go after all of the ways that he is oppressing people and don't stop until it's dealt with. That's the way that David's praying. I want to ask you, have you ever been in a place like this? I don't mean that you have a person exactly like what David's facing. Your circumstances, my circumstances are different than David's. But here's the fact. We find ourselves interacting with people who put us in very bad places. And we have no deliverance in and of ourselves. There is but one place to go, and that's God. David did the right thing. Even when his heart was overwhelmed, he cried out to the only one who could help him. But once you realized something, that's not what gave David peace. It's not. It was a step, but it wasn't the final step. Because the fourth truth is really the final step. God's character and ways are really the only true source of our refuge David had to remind himself again. He knows in his head who God is. Okay? If you ask David, here are the questions, how do you answer them? David would give you the right answers. But if you asked him in the moment, how do you feel about God? you would find that how he felt about God and what he would say on his test would have been different. Do you understand what I'm saying? He had to talk to himself. He had to speak the truth to his own soul. What he knew to be true, he had to tell himself again. He had to remind himself about several truths about God and his ways. We've got to do the same thing. Here are five stabilizing facts about God and his ways that David reminded himself of. And I want to encourage you this morning, let's remember together what David told himself as he wrote this psalm. And every time somebody sang this psalm, they would remind themselves of the same things that David reminds himself of in this text. The first is this: the Lord is king. Notice that little phrase in verse 16. The Lord is king. That means there is no one higher than him. There is no one stronger than him. There is no one with greater authority than him. He is the Supreme Court of all. Now this week. The Supreme Court ruled on a case in Nevada. As a pastor, the ruling really concerns me, I'll be honest with you. It should concern you too. But once you realize something, that's not really the Supreme Court. Okay? That's not the Supreme Court. There's a judge that's higher than that There's a judge that's higher than that. He's the king. And there are times that we have to remind ourselves that the highest human authority we know still answers to God. And that's what David reminded himself of. The Lord is the King. In Daniel chapter 4, verses 34 to 37, Nebuchadnezzar, the most powerful man living in his generation. probably one of the most arrogant men living in his generation. Probably one of the most wicked men living in his generation. What the man with probably more blood on his hands than anybody that lived in his time. Nebuchadnezzar, a strong, ruthless, evil man, says I bless the Most High, and I praise and honor him that liveth forever, whose dominion is an everlasting dominion. His kingdom is from generation to generation. All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. He doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven. And among the inhabitants of the earth none can stay his hand or say to him, What doest thou? All whose works are truth, and his ways judgment, and all those that walk in pride he's able to obey. The most powerful man living in his generation said that. Not about himself. That's really important. We've got to remember He's the King. Fact two, His kingdom is eternal. He doesn't just say that the Lord is king. He says the Lord is king forever. You know what Nebuchadnezzar realized? He realized that his kingdom was temporary. The reason he realized it is because he became like an animal for a period of his life. And he lived out in the field and his advisor said, What happened to this powerful man? To me, the most shocking of that whole story. Is not what God did to him and not what he says about God later, but that his his subjects put him back in power. Like that just blows my mind. What happened there though? He was reminded that there is someone whose kingdom is forever and mine is temporary. The Lord is king forever. In 2 Corinthians 4, verse 16 to 18, we talked about this in Sunday school today. It says, our light affliction, which is but for a moment That word's important a moment. It worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. Well, we look not at those things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. The things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. And the psalmist says he's not just the king, but he's the king forever. In other words, no matter what I'm dealing with right now, There is an endpoint here. I don't know if it's today, I don't know if it's tomorrow, I don't know when it is, but there's an endpoint And what I do now in that time period is going to determine something that is far better forever. In other words, the king will set the record straight forever. And that strengthened David. A third fact: the wicked will not be able to rule forever. He's not just emphasizing the fact that God is the eternal king. But my enemy has a start date and he has an end date. And the most powerful and the most wicked rulers of all time are one day going to have a stone that says date of birth. Day to death. It's going to happen. Think about the most wicked people that have lived in the 20th century. We could all debate who they were, but they're not with us anymore. They wreaked tremendous havoc on nations. They built massive empires. And right now, they're facing justice forever. That's the reality. He says the wicked, the heathen, are perished out of his land. This is God's creation. He's going to remove all evil from his universe. In 1 John 2. 15, John says, Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. All that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. And listen to the next statement. And the world Passeth away. And the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. And it's interesting that that phrase The world passeth away is written in the present tense, having the idea that it is continually moving to the point where it's going to be gone. In other words, he says, God's people last forever. This world system is temporary. That's meant to strengthen the believer. That's meant to say, don't chase this world system. That's also meant to say, don't allow this world system to take away your joy, to take away your peace, to take away your confidence in the Lord It's passing away. That's a fourth truth he mentions. God has heard your affliction. He says, Thou hast heard the desire of the humble. I think of Psalm 40, verse 1, it says, I waited patiently for the Lord. Maybe we don't always wait patiently. Apparently David did when he wrote this. He says, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined his ear unto me and heard my cry. Now I have little kids. Sometimes my kids will be saying something to me and I have no idea what they're saying. I can't hear 'em. I can't understand. And so I stop and say, can you say that again? And I try to really focus my attention on what they're saying so I can get it. Especially Caleb. He's in that stage where he can express himself, but it's a little confusing. Sometimes you get a little translation, alright? You gotta bend your ear down and listen. You know, God does that with us. He says, he inclined his ear into me and heard my cry. He brought me up out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock. and establish my goings. He hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall fear and shall trust in the Lord. Blessed is the man that maketh the Lord his trust God listens. He inclines his ear when we are weighed down. Fact five. God will personally strengthen us in the midst of our struggles. I think about what it says in the book of Hebrews. He says, we have a high priest. We have not, excuse me, we have not a high priest. which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted, like as we are, yet without sin. He says, Let us therefore come boldly before the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Basically, what the writer of Hebrews is saying is this: God knows, not just he's seen it, but the Lord Jesus Christ experienced the same kind of stuff you're experiencing. He knew what it was like to be tempted. He knew what it was like to face oppressive enemies. Jesus doesn't just see it, he understands it. From the point of reference that he walked through it, he can give you strength to help in time of need because he can identify with that. In other words, it says, thou wilt prepare their heart. So the psalmist says, God will actually come right into our situation. And he's going to come alongside of us, and he will personally strengthen our hearts by his own hands. I want you to Think about that. We talk about God as the king and we think about him in lofty terms of how he's way out there. And this brings it into My personal life and says, He's right here with me. He's strengthening me. He's preparing my heart. When we are going through very hard times, we need God to come right alongside of us and do that. Psalm 34, 17, the righteous cry, and the Lord heareth. Delivereth them out of all their troubles, the Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart, and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth him out of them all That's a really precious thing to consider, is it not? And there's one more I want to mention today. Fact six, God will personally come to your defense. He says, Thou wilt cause thine ear to hear to judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that the man of the earth may no more oppress. That word judge means that God will vindicate those who are oppressed. Folks, we need to recognize that when we go through very difficult times, There are really two things we need to do. One, we need to go to the one person who can help us. That's God. I'm not saying we should not go to others, okay? God gives us the church. He gives us godly friends to come alongside and strengthen us. But there are times that the only one who can truly help us is God. We've got to start by going to Him. And the second thing we've got to do, in the midst of all the noise, all the fear, all the anxiety, we've got to speak. The truth to ourselves. I didn't say speak your truth. I said speak the truth to yourself. These facts are always there about God. His character doesn't change. He's the same God who strengthened David thousands of years ago. He's the same God who can strengthen you today. Difficult circumstances stir up complex emotions, competing internal thoughts. We must be prepared for that reality. Don't be shocked. Don't think you're the first person that's lived that's gone through that. If you're going through difficulties, realize that many people. This is why the church is so important. Because all of us at some point in our lives have or are or will go through these things. We need each other to be reminded of that, too. You can't always explain away every difficulty that stirs up those overwhelming emotions Somebody can come into my office and say, Pastor, here's what I'm going through. They lay it out. I can't tell them it's not there. I can't. I can't just say stick your head in the sand, it's no more there. I can't do that. It's there. So I agree with people. I pray with people. But in the midst of that, there's also everything we've talked about, God. He's there. He's ready to come alongside of us. We must turn to God when our heart is overwhelmed. We need to speak the truth to ourselves about God and his ways. When our heart is overwhelmed. It might be that you're in a place where you can't do that. When I say you can't do that, I don't mean like you don't physically have the capacity to do it. But I mean because of the state of mind you're in at the moment, you can't do that Your mind is so everywhere. So what do you do? You go to somebody who's not dealing with what you're dealing with and say, Can you tell me the truth about and just walk through these things? And you know what they do? They can speak the truth to you as a friend who loves you. Comes alongside of you. Folks, in the midst of very difficult circumstances, we can have peace. Internal. It's something that God gives through His Word. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer this morning. Father, we've been reminded today that life is hard, that what goes on in our minds is sometimes very complicated. But we're also reminded that in the midst of all of that, we serve a very good God A God who is willing to come alongside of us in our darkest and hardest moments, and who wants to strengthen us. Father, please minister to every soul that's here today. You know every burden far better than I do. You know how this has ministered to hearts, or how it will be used to minister to hearts. To the way it's instructed people in our congregation. Father, help us to be godly people. Help us to be compassionate, loving, and tender-hearted towards those in times of great need. And Father, help us to be a people who find strength in you. We know that these are difficult days, yet we also know that you're in control. And so we cry out to you to work in our midst and through this church. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.