Well, good morning. Like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church this morning And if you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we want to warmly welcome you and hope that you received a welcome packet and in that there's a gift from the church as well as some information about the church. And there's also a connection card. And if you're interested in us connecting with you, maybe visiting, reaching out, please do fill that out. And put that in the little box in the back. And what we'll do is we'll get back with you. Pastor Chris has several announcements, and then we'll open up our service. All right, good morning. I hope you had a chance to grab a bulletin as uh we do have a lot of opportunities to uh minister in the next couple of weeks as well as to enjoy some fellowship. Uh particularly this coming Saturday, we got our men's breakfast and Bible study at 8 a. m. And there is a sign-up sheet for that. So please do uh note on there if you're going to be joining with us so we make sure that we have have enough food there. And right after the men's breakfast we have our community canvassing and we've been able to do that the last couple weeks and we've had a great we We've distributed hundreds of tracks just going on going up to doors and either knocking on them, having conversations, and it's been we've had great reception. uh in our last couple weeks. So do plan on joining us for that. That's at nine a. m. or right after the men's breakfast. We also have the the Baltimore Rescue Mission on the 14th And uh I know that's Valentine's Day, but um we're gonna be going there and there um there's a good chance that we may not be going to the ladies' side. So ladies, if you plan on joining us for the Baltimore rescue mission that night, um let us know so that we can keep you in the loop on that. Then we got our senior luncheon on the 16th, and uh I kind of suspect it'll be Valentine's Day theme. But if you are being g going to be joining us for the senior luncheon, um there is a sign up for that as well. Then our college of career Bible study is on the seventeenth. And our Sunday School Workers meeting is on the 19th. So if you're a Sunday school worker, going to be a Sunday school worker, do be at that meeting on the 19th. After the AM service. Then our team sing is on the 19th as well. That is a change from the original planning. It was going to be on the 12th It's going to be on the 19th, so please uh plan accordingly. And then our mother of littles is on the 27th. And uh that's also something to take note of as well. Pastor? Okay, if you have your Bibles, I want to ask you to turn with me to Psalm 91, and our opening scripture will be from the 91st Psalm. And we'll be looking at several of the first verses in that psalm. And the theme of our focus this morning is resting in God's gracious protection. And we're going to see that emphasized in the 91st Psalm. We're also going to see that emphasized in Psalm 28, which is the text we'll look at for a morning sermon this morning. Psalm 911 says the following He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress. My God, and Him will I trust. Surely He shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from the noisome pestilence. He shall cover thee with his feathers. And under his wing shalt thou trust. His truth shall be thy shield and buckler. Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night, nor for the arrow that flieth by day, nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday. A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand But it shall not come nigh thee. Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked This is a powerful psalm. It's very important for us to understand exactly what the context is and what it's communicating, and it's really a parallel concept to what we'll look at in the 28th Psalm. So let's be our hearts together. Ask the Lord to bless our time. Do remember those in our congregation who are going through affliction. There are several who are sick, who are dealing with recovery from surgeries. Please keep the Lewis family in prayer as they are now in Cincinnati and receiving regular treatments for baby Zach, and that's a very delicate situation, so please be in prayer for them. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, first of all, we want to glory in you. We are so grateful that in the midst of chaos and turmoil, we can rest in the fact that you are firmly in control. We as your people rest in the fact that you protect, you defend, you strengthen, and you preserve your work I pray that you'd help us this morning to be overwhelmed by that very important reality. As this text is laid before us, I pray that you would stir up our hearts. You encourage us if we are discouraged and disheartened and fearful. Father, you'd help us to recognize the weight of these truths and how truly precious they are. Father, I pray for those in our congregation who are dealing with great difficulties, people who are dealing with physical sickness, recoveries from surgery. Pray especially for the Lewis family as they're away from us in Cincinnati. Each of these situations is very delicate, and so we appeal to you and we ask you to intervene on behalf of these individuals. Individuals. We love them. We're thankful for them. And we pray that you will strengthen them. Father, bless every aspect of the service. May the preaching of your word, the singing of these hymns, and the reflection on these truths from your word. really motivate us to worship you in spirit and in truth. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen. All right, good morning, Anchor Baptist Church and esteemed guests. It's good to have you in person with us and joining us on live stream. So we're gonna warm things up a little bit here. I tell you. I'm I've had it enough with winter I think already. My eyes hurt yesterday Just thinking about going outside. But we're going to warm things up if you'll stand with me. We're going to turn to page 81 in the hymnal. Page 81 in the hymnal, and we're going to sing, A Mighty Fortress is Our God. All four verses, so get them warmed up. I 'm going to be a little more glory of the meeting. I'm the T We could not be walking by I don't know , I 'm taking the war And we'll sing all four verses of a shelter in the time of storm I was going to go , you 're going to be a children, I was going to be. Oh we needed to be able to cry, we need to be here, we need to find it , uh Oh my gosh , but I think here sheltering I must fall We have a deal shall we Very good. We're gonna go to page five hundred and seventy-seven. Way back in the back. What is this one? Strong in the Lord. Amen. All the way back to page five hundred and seventy-seven, all three verses. We strong, we strong, we drove in the door, and we are making for each of the ground. We call upon the water , I 'm gonna go , but we come up with that. Amen We 'll go to the scripture reading for this morning. Psalm 28. We're going to read the entire psalm. Verses 1 through 9. Chapter Psalm 28, verses 1 through 9. And the scriptures say, Unto thee will I cry, O Lord my rock. Be not silent to me, lest, if thou be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit. Hear the voice of my supplications, when I cry unto thee, when I lift up my hands toward thy holy oracle. Draw me not away with the wicked, and with the workers of iniquity, which speak peace to their neighbors, but mischief. is in their hearts. Give them according to their deeds, and according to the wickedness of their endeavours. Give them after the work of their hands, render to them their dessert. Because they regard not the works of the Lord, nor the operation of his hands, he shall destroy them, and not build them up. Blessed be the Lord, because he hath heard the voice of my supplication The Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusted in him, and I am helped. Therefore, my heart greatly rejoiceth, and with my song will I praise him The Lord is their strength, and he is the saving strength of his anointed. Save thy people and bless thine inheritance. Feed them also and lift them up forever. Lord, bless the reading of his word. No, no, no. Rock of Ages. All right. Now you're going to have to follow along on the screen. We're going to sing out of another hymnal before the throne of God above. We're going to sing all three verses. Don't you just love it when technology works? But when it doesn't, everybody knows it. So amen. Okay, before the throne of God above all three verses. Uh really nothing. Now we'll go back to the blue book. So you do have the blue book sitting in front of you. We're going to turn to page one hundred and fifty-one. In the blue book and sing all three verses of I Run to Christ. Come, my soul, with every care. Jesus lost to answer breath. He himself bids you to pray and will never turn away. You are coming to lucky large petitions with you bring. For his grace and power such , I can ever ask too much. With my birth in I beacin Lord Reap is load of sin Let your blood for sinners built. Set my conscience free from guilt. Lord, you 're rest to me in part, take possession of my heart. There your blood but right maintain, and without arrival rain While I am a pilgrim here. Let your love my spirit be as my guide, my guard, my friend. Lead me to my journey sense. Show me what I am to do. Every day my strength renew, I would have your will, not mine. For it's perfect good and cry, so kind. Wars a friend we have in Jesus All our sins and griefs to bear Why 's of privilege you carry Everything to God in prayer. Come my soul with every care. Jesus loves to answer prayer. He himself bids you to pray. And will never turn away Okay, our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to come with me to Psalm 28. That's the 28th Psalm. And we're going to read the Psalm in its entirety. We'll have a word of prayer, and then we're going to dig into what I think will be an extremely practical and helpful topic for us to look at this morning Psalm 28, verse number one says this: Unto thee will I cry, O Lord, my rock. Be not silent to me, lest if thou be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit Hear the voice of my supplications when I cry unto thee, when I lift up my hands toward thy holy oracle. Draw me not away with the wicked And with the workers of iniquity which speak peace to their neighbors, but mischief is in their hearts. Give them according to their deeds, and according to the wickedness of their endeavors Give them after the work of their hands, render to them their dessert. Because they regard not the works of the Lord, nor the operations of his hands, he should destroy them, and not build them up Blessed be the Lord, because he hath heard the voice of my supplication. The Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusted in him. I am helped Therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth, and with my song will I praise him. The Lord is their strength, and he is the saving strength of his anointed. Save thy people, and bless thine inheritance, feed them also. And lift them up forever. I want to ask you a question before we go to prayer. Do you get the sense that our culture is in chaos? I do. If that's the way you feel, then you need to look at this text this morning. Let's bow for prayer. Father, would you open our eyes to understand the tremendous weight of the truths that we'll read in this text? Father, as I reflect on these truths, my heart is overwhelmed. By your power, your justice , your kindness, how you work personally in the lives of people. Father, I pray that this morning as we reflect on the psalmist conflicted heart, that we would have the same comfort That he had as he reflected on the time in which he lived. Father, I pray that you would minister to our hearts through your Spirit's work. Comfort, strengthen , uplift, challenge us. May we as your people be fed in your word today, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. The passage before us is a familiar theme in the Psalms with David. In fact, the Psalm that we opened up our service with, Psalm 91, is a theme where David is expressing the fact that God is his comforter, his deliverer, his protector. But there is a side to those Psalms that a lot of times we don't understand, I think. And because we don't understand them, we don't appreciate exactly what the psalmist is saying. In those contexts, many times, the psalmist is expressing a feeling that he has as he sees that God who is just who is extremely patient with people, takes times in history, and he begins to deal with evil And he does it very swiftly, he does it very firmly, and I might even add in a very terrifying manner. And God's people have lived through times where God judges societies. Where God judges cities, where God judges civilizations. In fact, while the ladies were having their ladies' meeting, my boys and I were watching some interesting historical documentaries and we were learning about the spread of the Roman Empire from just a family in Italy to essentially controlling the entire Mediterranean world and down into North Africa all the way over even into Asia. And we saw that storyline, and the storyline is one war after another war after another war after another war. We were watching documentaries about the rise and fall of Greece. We watched the documentary on the rise of Egypt and the ancient world. We're talking about thousands of years before the time of Christ. And one of the things that you see is that every civilization has moments where they rise. And moments where they fall. And the question is, what's it like to live through that? Well, in fact, it's throughout church history there are believers who have lived through the rise and fall of the Roman Empire. There are believers who lived through the rise and fall of many different cultures even in Europe and in Africa and in Asia, they live through tumultuous times. Most of the people here uh remember what it was like to watch the Berlin Wallfall I even remember that as a kid and seeing them take out that those large chunks of concrete with all the graffiti on. Anybody remember that? Okay? That was a very significant moment in history. There were people that lived under a tremendous oppression. In the years, the decades that led up to that moment. In every single time period of human history, there have been people Who experienced and felt the same kind of thing that David was experiencing and feeling. So let me summarize this psalm, and then I want us to look at some very important principles this morning. God's justice is measured. And we must learn to trust him to preserve his people as he moves against evil. Let me read that again. God's justice is measured, and we must learn to trust him to preserve his people. As he moves against evil. God wants us to be comforted by his care when our culture is in crisis. And I want to begin by talking about some very simple principles that we see in the scriptures. We see that God is personally and actively involved in human history, not just on the individual level. If you're a believer, you can tell the story of how The gospel came to you. How you came to a point where you understood, I'm a sinner. God is holy and he's righteous, and I'm not holy and righteous. Christ went to the cross, he died for my sins, he bore the full wrath of God against my sin, and I can be forgiven and cleansed and declared righteous because of what Christ did, and he rose triumphant from the dead. And I've turned to Christ, I've placed my faith and his finished work, I've been saved by the grace of God alone, through faith alone, and the finished work of Christ alone. That's a very personal story. Every single person in this room that has experienced Conversion, you've placed your faith in Christ, you can tell that story personally. And you know what's amazing? Everybody's story is very different. It's unique. It's the same gospel message that our faith is rooted in. It's the same way that we're saved by grace alone through faith alone in Christ alone. But the road that gets us to understand and be convinced of those truths and to place our faith in Christ, it's a different story for everybody. Well, God doesn't just work in individuals, folks. He also deals with peoples, with nations, with civilizations, with cities. And the scriptures are full of examples of that very fact And I want us to ask for just a moment how God does that. First thing I'm going to say is this: all cultures go through cycles. Even secular historians have seen this observable, predictable pattern in nations We see that there's struggle within a group of people, and then some people rise up to power and stability is established. And a civilization begins to flourish, and as time goes on, there's tremendous influence. It could be military influence, it could be economic influence. It could be cultural influence, but that strength and that stability that came through the struggle provides influence. And then people become very self-centered. And people begin to live lives of luxury, and they don't care about anything but themselves. And you know what happens when that happens in a civilization? decline. And as civilizations decline, eventually there's a need for the struggle again. People that don't even believe in the Bible, they don't have a biblical worldview, they study history and they see this. And and they may have a certain niche group that they're looking at. And they can tell you the story of those people for thousands and thousands of years, and you see this struggle. While technology, education have all significantly made unprecedented advancements. The pattern continues. And the question is, why does the pattern continue? It's because this pattern is not about education and it's not about technology, it's about human nature. And human nature isn't changed by education. And human nature isn't changed by technology. It's expressed in education. And it's expressed stressing technology, but it does not become purified. It doesn't become cleaner and more morally upright. Human nature can only be changed by the power of the gospel. Very, very important. And so the people that learn from history are condemned to be frustrated while the people that don't repeat it. Yes, I've kind of changed that a little bit. You know, people uh as they watch what goes on in the world, they say, well, there we go again. And I gotta live through this, and I can't change anything about well that's not necessarily true. But that's what we see in civilization. It's not just a natural cycle. I want you to realize that as this plays out in a natural sense, There is also a sense in which God in heaven, who is ruler over all, who is the sovereign over all things, is actively and personally at work in what's going on in these civilizations. He holds people accountable. God doesn't just allow people for generation after generation after generation to persist in evil without consequence. He does not allow it. We see examples of the Canaanites, the Egyptians, the Babylonians, the Greeks, the Assyrians, the cities of Tyre and Sidon, Sodom and Gomorrah, Nineveh. But we see it most distinctly in the nation of Israel. I want to read to you what God said to his people as he was preparing them to enter into the promised land. Deuteronomy chapter 8, verse 10 says this. Beware that thou forget not the Lord thy God, lest thou, when thou hast eaten and art full, thine heart be lifted up, and thou forget the Lord thy God. And thou shalt say in thine heart, My power and the might of my hand hath gotten me this wealth. And walk after other gods and serve them and worship them. I testify against you this day. Ye shall surely perish as the nations which the Lord destroyed before your face. And as we read the Old Testament, we see that's exactly what happened. Now everybody's going, past this is like really dark. Don't worry, it's not going to stay dark. But you don't appreciate the light without seeing the darkness. God 's justice is measured. What I mean by that is that God is not irrational and whimsical when he begins to move in justice. God is methodical. He is careful. He moves in every single way perfectly according to his wisdom. Listen carefully to what it says in Ezekiel chapter 6. He says, your altars will be desolate and your images shall be broken. And you shall know that I am the Lord. Yet will I leave a remnant, and they shall loathe themselves for the evils which they have committed in all their abominations, and they shall know that I am the Lord. Now there's a lot more that could be said about this particular topic, but I'm just going to leave it at this very simple thought. When God brought Babylon to bring his justice against the nation of Israel for their idolatry. God was extremely measured in how that played out. He preserved a remnant. And in every generation of believers, there are people who are caught in this cycle. Every generation of believers lives through one of the stages of what's going on in civilization. For instance, there are some believers that have lived through the pioneer stage of the gospel advancing into a group of people. You know, we read the stories of missionaries at different times in human history, and you'll see how the gospel will come into a group of people. Who are living in complete paganism, complete idolatry, and we see the darkness that's going on in that place. And as the gospel comes in And churches are established. We see how God begins to work and move and radically transform a group of people because of the gospel. There are some people that live through that. There are some people who live through that period of time when the gospel is mightily influencing the culture in which they live. That's a pretty exciting time to live through, isn't it? That's an exciting time to read through, but that's not every single season of human history. There are stories about God moving and revivals where the gospel's influence begins to wane in a group of people, and then God stirs up the church and there are many, many people that are converted, and all of a sudden the culture is being influenced again. In this country, we have seen that happen several times. In fact, even before this nation became a nation in the 1700s, there was a mighty great awakening. And churches were literally being transformed, and it affected even the founding of this nation. But there are also people who live through the terrifying downgrades of immoral corruption in a society. As a society becomes self-absorbed, they see what happens, how the family begins to break down. People live without any restraints. People are abusive. They treat other people with disdain. And they're suffering. And God has to deal harshly with civilization. And there are Christians that live through that time as well. There are Christians who survived those seasons, and they're a part of rebuilding a civilization that has been humbled. I have no idea where we find ourselves today. And I'm not here to tell you I know. But I am here to tell you this. We are somewhere in there. And the question is, if that's really where we are, isn't that terrifying? It is. But it's not just terrifying. Because the text in front of us shows us there's hope. The text before us shows us that God's still in control. And the text before us shows us that we can rest in how God works. And so I want to move quickly through this. And I want us to just glory in how God works. The first truth I want you to see in Psalm 28 is that David was a godly man, but he was facing a very heavy dilemma. In verses 1 and 2, it says this: Unto thee will I come. cry, O Lord, my rock, be not silent to me, lest if thou be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit. There are three statements that David makes in these two verses that are extremely important to understanding. the weights that he's feeling and the dilemma, the conflict of heart that he's experiencing. The first is the statement, Unto thee will I cry. Well he's under pressure. Very very obvious. He wouldn't say this if everything was going smoothly and he looks at it life and he says, you know, I'm I'm kidding. 10, I'm satisfied, I still I feel secure, everything's good. David's expressing he feels pressure. By the way, in that pressure, he cries to God. Very important. The second statement is this, lest if thou be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit. There's a second side to this. Not only is he feeling pressure, but he feels the weight of his vulnerability. He recognizes that if God does not act on his behalf, he's in huge trouble. You know, think about it this way. Let's say that you were out in a boat, and as you're out in the boat fishing, you're by yourself And all of a sudden a storm comes up and and your boat capsizes and you're just floating out there in the middle of the bay It's in the middle of the night, because of course every good fisherman likes to go in the dark, right? And as you're floating out there in the dark, you realize something. Just a matter of time, if nobody finds me, when they do find me, they won't find me alive. You feel this complete vulnerability. You feel this weight, this knot in your stomach, and you ask yourself the question, what's it going to be like to drown? And you just say, God please. Have compassion on me. That's how David feels. He says, if God doesn't act on my behalf, I can't defend myself. I can't protect myself. There's a third aspect to how David feels, and that is the statement, draw me not away with the wicked and with the workers of iniquity. Now this statement is fascinating because what it does is it shows us that David understands the justice of God and he's processing the justice of God, and as he understands it and as he processes it This is part of why he feels the way that he does. You might say that David is pondering the implications of God's justice. When God deals swiftly, it affects not just the people that are doing evil, but it affects everybody. You know, if the nation uh if the United States of America were to go to war It affects every single person in this room. Not just the people that are in the military. It affects all of us. Think about what it was like in World War II. An entire nation had to come together. They changed their diet. They sent their boys to Europe and they sent their boys to Japan and those areas. They they sent their youngest and their strongest and their brightest and it affected everybody. This nation was affected by that. You know, if if if God moves against a people because of their evil, it affects everybody. Not just those who are raging against God. But those who are the innocent bystanders. In Matthew 13, 27, interesting statement. It's a parable that Jesus gave and it says this. Didst thou not sow good seed in the field? From whence then hath it tares. He says unto them, An enemy hath done this. The servant said unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up? In other words, let's uproot all the tares and he says No, don't do that. And it's interesting what he says. Nay, lest while you gather up the tares, you root up also the wheat with them. Let both grow together until the harvest. Now I know that the purpose of that particular parable wasn't to directly address the issue that we're talking about, but it's to show something very simple. When God deals with people in justice, it's affecting the people that are connected to them. You work with people that are Christians and you work with people that aren't Christians. You work with people that fear God and love him and you work with people that despise him and they mock him and they berate him. Well, if God's going to deal with someone who hates him and mocks him, it's going to affect you as well. And so that's the point. David in his mind is going I understand God is just and he is righteous and that he judges evil and I understand that all around me there's so much evil and I asked myself the question God when you move what happens to me that's how he feels anybody ever felt that way? Maybe you've not pondered this, and now you have. That's a terrifying thing to consider. In a war, people die. Not just the strong defending, but the weak and the vulnerable. During famines and pestilence, oppressive leadership, when somebody in leadership comes and they're an abusive person, it affects everybody under them. What happens when somebody gets into leadership and they're weak? And they don't take their duty seriously. Well then then aggressive, violent people terrorize the innocent. Economic hearts. If you go through every single list of how peoples are humbled, And what you will see is that it affects everybody. Everyone suffers in these situations. In fact, I'm even reminded of the founding of this nation. There's a reason that our first There's a reason that in the Constitution, the First Amendment, Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. You know why that's there? It's because many of the people who came to this land at that time were fleeing for their lives. That's why they were here. And they said, you know, we experience this in France. Those are my ancestors. We experienced this in Great Britain, England. We experience this and they name the place where they came from and they say we don't want to experience that here. That's why those things are there You realize in throughout most of human history, there are very few peoples that have had those stated protection. Very few. Very few. We've only had it for a very short time. Why do I say that? It's to say that most believers have suffered At the hands of the people that they rub shoulders with every day. Second truth I want you to notice is that he prayed for a measured justice. And this is where we begin to see the comfort. We've seen the reality, now we want to see the comfort. Here's what it says in verse number three. He says, Draw me not away with the wicked, with the workers of iniquity which speak peace. To their neighbors, but mischief is in their hearts. His primary concern falls into two parts. One is God judge the wicked, God preserve the righteous. Do you see that? It's not just judge the wicked, it's judge the wicked and preserve the righteous. And why is David thinking this? Because he recognizes the implication of God's justice. He understands that if God's judging the wicked but not preserving the righteous, we have a problem, and it affects him. And so he cries out, God, do both. I think of the illustration of a surgeon. When a surgeon goes to operate on somebody, they are inflicting pain. They're doing damage to tissue. But they're limiting that damage as much as possible. Why? Because they're trying to remove tissue that is killing someone. They're trying to remove it remove tissue, an organ, something that's going on inside the body that's ultimately hurting the health of that person. And so they make every single cut as precisely and carefully as possible. They're trying to inflict as little damage and as little pain as possible to take out what is killing and to preserve what is healthy. And if surgery has been successful, then the person heals and they recover and their life is preserved. This is a great illustration of what David is saying, God, please do. He's saying, God, when you go into uproot the wicked, preserve the righteous. Don't let me end up with them. That's what he's saying. He's saying, God, I know that the wicked needs to be judged. Evil people need to be stopped. Their destructive beliefs and unjust ways and the damage that they're doing to society, it needs to stop. God's slow, patient. He's reluctant because he's kind, he's holy, and he's just, and he most certainly will judge evil. And so on the one side he's saying judge evil. But on the other side, preserve the righteous. David's saying, that's me. That's the people that I'm the closest to in life. Preserve us as you deal with evil. That's what David is saying to God. And I have a wonderful promise from God's Word for you. God preserves the righteous. He does. Think about the vicious assaults that have been thrown against the church of God for thousands of years. Think about how many people want to destroy the Bible. Yeah, every single one of us is sitting here with a Bible in our laps. Or a Bible on our phones. We have so much access to the truth. Yet there have been many, many people who viciously hated the Bible to such an extent that they did everything in their power to remove it from society. Yep, we sit here today with the Bible right in front of us. There's terrible persecution that's taken place in lots of different cultures. throughout lots of different times of the last several thousand years of human history. Yet we gather together as a body of believers. And in many of those very lands where the most fierce of opposition to the gospel is going on, there are churches today. Why? Because God preserves the righteous Matthew 16, 18, I will build my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. That's what God says. Who's the church? It's us. Not where we're meeting, it's us, it's the people. Ephesians 6 11, put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil, who wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world. Against spiritual wickedness in high places. Take into you the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day. You say, how does God preserve the righteous? His grace sustains them when they face persecution. You know why Christians who are persecuted can stand? Grace sustained. It's true. I don't know about you, but I'm not a strong person. When I think about, when I when I read throughout church history about some of the terrible atrocities that fish Christians faced. I'm not the person that goes, man, I would have stood strong in that moment. I go, I don't know what would have happened to me. Probably if you're thinking clearly, you're thinking the same thing. Terrible things. God's grace in those very difficult moments sustained people and they faced terrible persecution. I read about some of the terrible ways people who love Christ were martyred throughout church history. It's a book called Fox's Book of Martyrs. It's about that thick, and if you read it, you'll be gripped by those stories Gripped by the stories. You know what? God's grace upholds people who are even willing to put their life on the line. They say, I'm not going to recant, I'm not going to turn away from the truth. Whatever it costs me, I stand. That's the grace of God. His grace preserves a remnant who will one day rebuild the future. One of the things that I deeply am convinced of is that as God's people, our focus should simply be to be faithful. Because all the chaos that goes on around us doesn't change what God expects of us. Nothing. It might change how we feel, it might change what we face. It might change how much we can speak, where we speak, but it doesn't change our duties in any way. We have no idea what happens 20 years from now. We really don't. Our children, who we are raising right now, are going to be where we're standing today in perhaps a very different country than what we have right now. It may be a far more immoral country than it is right now. It may be an oppressed country while it's free right now. It might be a incredible be an incredibly humbled country. I have no idea. But what I do know is if we don't have them and we don't prepare them, they won't be there. And so we need to be faithful. His grace preserves the remnant who will rebuild in the future. I think about the nation of Israel who is facing the destruction of Jerusalem, the destruction of the temple. The Babylonians were all around the city. And you know what God told Jeremiah to do? He said, buy land. Buy land. Why, God? Because someday there'll be people here again. And you need to be faithful where I put you, and someday that land will be used again. That's what he's saying. We need to be faithful. Truth number three. He was comforted by God's righteous care. In verses 6 through 8, it says, Blessed be the Lord, because he hath heard the voice of my supplications. The Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusteth in him. I am helped, therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth, and with my song will I praise him. The Lord is their strength, and he is the saving strength of his anointed. Now, everything that I have said up to this point has a fairly dark element to it, but this is where the psalm really turns to be extremely positive and extremely comforting and extremely encouraging. David was not comforted because he had some happy, hopeful thoughts. I just hope the world gets a little better. I'm going to give you an example of what I'm saying on Monday of last week. It was a beautiful day. It was so warm. And I went behind my fence where I have my firewood stacked and and I decided I'm going to plant some fruit trees. But if I'm going to plant those fruit trees, I've got to clear that area. And I knew, I knew there was poison ivy inside this area. But I couldn't see it. And I made a fatal mistake. Not fatal, I'm alive, but but it wasn't a good idea, I'll tell you that. I decided I didn't care. I was gonna cut everything there. I was gonna uproot it. I was gonna move it and I wasn't gonna mess with it anymore. My arm is wrapped right now in oozing because I have poison ivy all over my arm. That's not where his hope was. Oh, I just hope. I'll just see how it works out. No, no, no, no, no. That's not what David was doing. His comfort was built on facts. His comfort was built on what he knew was true about God, and what he knew was true about the way God works. Listen to what it says. Blessed be the Lord, because he hath heard the voice of my supplication. You know what he said? He said, I know God. He listens to the prayers of his people. So when I'm feeling pressure and I'm confused and everything's getting a little crazy around me, I know if I cry out to God, He hears me, He listens, He answers prayer, He moves. The second statement is: the Lord is my strength. He didn't say, I hope he's my strength down the road. He says he is my strength right now. David says, I am experiencing the strengthening hand of God. I know he listens, and he's strengthening me at this moment. He says, the Lord is my shield. He says, I know that God Protects me. How did David know that? Because he was still alive. I mean think about all the people that tried to kill David And it you know, he's like one little guy, and Saul's like, I'm gonna kill David. I don't care what the Philistines are doing, and I don't care what it's gonna cost my men, I'm gonna kill David. And there he is, he's writing this psalm. Hey, God's protected me, he's been my shield. Through all those things, being hounded by many, many enemies, he knew that God protected him. God was settling his troubled heart. He said My heart trusted in him and I am helped. He said, I trusted and I am helped That means I was struggling, I made a choice, and now I'm standing firm. That's what he's saying David understood that God had strengthened and settled his heart and was so troubled. Those are verifiable matters. He then says this, therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth, and with my song I will praise him. God was his joy Now, now listen, think about this for a minute. David understands God's justice. He understands the implications of God's justice. He's crying out and he's saying, If you're going to judge the wicked, then please preserve me. singing. Isn't that an amazing thing to think about? In other words, he could feel the pressure, but he could be strengthened, and he could be comforted, and he could be worshiping. This is the way we're supposed to live the Christian life. We feel the pressure and we feel the strength. And we express in song that gratitude to God. The last statement is very interesting. The Lord is their strength, and he is the saving strength of his anointed. Now when he says there, I don't think he's talking about the wicked, is he? He's talking about some other people who are like him. People who understand the same things he understands People that are feeling the same pressure that he is feeling, and he says, God strengthened them, and he is their saving strength. str You know what that's telling me? David realizes he's not just preserving me as an individual. He's preserving the people of God. God didn't design for us to live the Christian life in isolation. He designed for us to live it in community. And there's something very, very sweet. About when I'm struggling and someone comes alongside of me, and then we begin to talk about this issue and we pray together and we go to the scriptures together. We both walk away encouraged. Not just me, both of us. That's what the church is all about. I hope when we walk out of these doors, our hearts are just overwhelmed by joy and overwhelmed by God's strength. He says, God's not just preserving me, he's preserving a people. That's really significant. David knew who God was because he knew the scriptures. He knew of the numerous testimonies of how God had worked in the scriptures. He had actively experienced God's hand of comfort. He saw God working in the same way in other people's lives. Truth number four, don't roll don't worry, there's not seven truths. This is the last one. He acknowledged the necessity of God's preserving hand. Even though David knows how God works, and he knows what God's like, his character, and he knows what God's done, he still feels The sense in which he goes, I have to express that I'm dependent on him. Notice what he says in verse 9, he says, Save thy people and bless thine inheritance, feed them also, lift them up forever. His prayer wasn't just a petition, it was an acknowledgement of dependence. I think this is a very important part of prayer. Many times when I get on my knees and I say, God, I need you to do such and such, when it happens, I I recognize something. I didn't do that. Does that make sense? I'm not strong and I ask him for strength and then I survive. I go, oh man, I'm a really strong guy. No, no, no, no, no. You prayed because you needed strength. He answered the prayer and now you experience the benefit of God's moving. In other words, this prayer wasn't just a petition. It was an acknowledgement. I'm dependent on you. It was motivated by God's character, his promises, David's experience with the Lord. But that's not the end of the story. David closes with a prayer, and every word in that prayer is so important. The first word is the word save. He understood that the circumstances that he was in were far greater than he was. He says, God, I don't need help, I need salvation. That's what he's saying. The next word is the word bless. David didn't just want to survive, he wanted to thrive That's an important difference. There are some people they're alive and they're miserable. And they're going through life with a downcast and angry spirit. David said, that's not me. I want to thrive. In the midst of everything going on around me, I want to thrive. God's the one who does it. The third word is the word feed. He says, I can't thrive without you nourishing my soul. And by the way, when he uses the word feed, there is a picture that should come to our mind. The shepherd. He says, God, you're my shepherd. Save me. Let me thrive. Feed, nourish my soul. Lift them up. They couldn't carry on in their own strength. And I love the next word, forever. This shepherding relationship was from everlasting to everlasting. God's ways may perplex us. But we know that his purposes are short. Psalm 77, 19, Thy way is in the sea, thy path in the great waters, thy footsteps are not known. Thou ledest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron. If you'd have been up on the Red Sea while Pharaoh's armies were coming, you would have gone, God, I don't know what you're doing. But on the other side, you go, hmm, I guess now I know. You weren't feeling that way before it happened, but you realize after the fact. That's what he's saying. His nature is kind. We can rest in him when life is overwhelming. Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He maketh me lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters Restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the path of righteousness for his name's sake. He though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I'll fear no evil. For thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me. In the presence of mine enemies, thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. That's what David's talking about. He understands that's his God. And so there's a lot of chaos around him. There are a lot of things that could have made him angry and fearful. That could have made him just bunker down and live the rest of his days in fear and in isolation. But he said, I'm not going to do that. God's my shepherd. I'm comforted, and I can thrive in such circumstances. So the question is, what do you take away from this? How do you take a text like this and apply it? I think there's actually a lot we could say, but let me share with you some final thoughts. We all stand somewhere in history and we have a role to perform, and that role cannot be performed in our own strength. Every person in this room has been fitted uniquely by God with certain gifts, opportunities, a place. And this culture, and God wants you to function in that capacity by his strength in a way that honors him. The uncertainties we are experiencing are not new to human to the human experience. If we research history, we'll recognize we live in some of the smoothest times of human history. I'm not saying that they're smooth. I'm saying they're smoother than what most people have faced. Our culture, like every other culture, is somewhere in this historic cycle. I'm not here to predict where we are. We all have our ideas. I'll just leave it at that. We will face pressure from this culture if we're strong and be right. If you stand for truth, you will face opposition. You will have to swim against the stream. You'll have to stand against the blowing wind of society. And we need to be willing to do that. And pressures will mount. But that's okay. There are lots and lots of people who've dealt with a lot worse than we have, and they've done just fine. His grace will sustain us no matter what we face. He's our shepherd from everlasting to everlasting. Nothing can sort his eternal purposes. I hope as we walk out of these doors this morning, that's where we land. He's my shepherd forever. His purposes will not be diminished. Yes, it's a chaotic time, but we can do what's right. And God can cause us not just to survive it, but to thrive in it. God can use us in amazing ways if we're willing to do the right thing. Let's bow together for prayer. Ask the Lord to take these truths and minister to our hearts. Father, thank you for your word. And thank you for the opportunity. To see the vulnerability , the transparency of David in a moment of weakness and comfort I pray that you'd help us as your people to look at life with a realistic perspective that is consistent with the world we live in. But is shaped by the Bible. It's shaped by trust in your unchanging character, in your gracious ways, who feed on your shepherding and nourishing care. Father, may we be faithful in whatever you've called us to. Help us to be strong. Help us to be diligent. Help us not to be fearful. Help us to do the right thing. Use these truths to strengthen us as your people. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. See could let's turn together to hymn four hundred and seventy-eight. It is well with my soul. I'll remind you that the man that wrote that was writing it at a pretty tough time in life. Google the song and find out the circumstances if you're unaware of them. And it'll make you appreciate what we're about to sing. We'll stand together. We'll sing all four verses, and on the last verse, I'd like to have us sing it a cappella and just really lift it up in praise to the Lord. Hymn 478, it is well with my soul. When these line of river attempts And get my way when sorrows might see hills roll What can the card now? Lake can should bother, your trials should come land. Let us more and control that I can be caught in my home and has share. My steel goddess of the song. My name is It is well, it might soul is my soul, it 's hard, it 's five. And so against the day when my pain shall be signed Dalakva mi vogana With my soul, my soul It's a good song. There's a reason to sing it. Frank, can you close your prayer, please? And uh if you're visiting today, I hope you'll stop by and greet me uh on your way out. If you need to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that And hope we can see you back tonight as we uh have a great text of scripture that we will be looking at. So, Frank. Our Heavenly Father, we we're so thankful that no matter what is going on in this world and our society, our culture, that Our souls in your very hand, Lord, and in your care and protection. And you love us and you care about us. And Father , I just pray that you would give us the strength and the courage and the faithfulness that um where we at in this world and this life That we would uh fulfill the purposes that you have for us in this world, and that Lord, we would dishonor and glorify you and be faithful to you and trust you and always remember that It is it is well with our soul because what you have done for us and the great love you have for us. And it's in Christ's name I pray and thank you. Amen.