Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our second Anchored in the Word morning reflection for this week, and I'm excited about digging into the contents of Romans chapter 8, verses 14. So if you have your Bible, I'd like to invite you to turn there with me. And we're going to read the passage together, and then we're going to dig into the first fact that we find in this passage, and that is that God is our Father. Romans chapter 8, verse 14, here's what it says. As many as are led of the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit itself bears witness with our spirit that we are the children of God And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ. If so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified together For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creature Waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. Now if you can remember to yesterday we talked about uh really the significance of Romans 8. It's a powerful chapter. probably my favorite chapter in the Bible. And the focus of that chapter is security, it is comfort, it is encouragement. It's all about God comforting his children when they're in the midst of difficult circumstances, painful circumstances Well this morning what I'd like us to zero our attention in on is the statement that we read in verse 14. I'm going to read it and then we're going to State what it's saying and then dig into the content of it. Verse 14 says this As many as are led of the Spirit, they are the sons of God. To put it very simply, if you are saved, if you have the Holy Spirit of God indwelling you, if you are a new creature in Christ, then you are a child of God. You belong to Him. That is an objective reality. That is something that doesn't It's not something that you get and then you lose. It's a positional reality that is not connected to our feelings. However, we're going to see later on as we dig into this chapter that there is an experiential side to this. There is a subjective aspect to this. And God takes that truth that we understand to be true objectively And he presses it into our hearts. And I really look forward to digging into that portion of this section. But to state it simply, if you're saved, you're God's child. Period. There's no ambiguity about the statement. As many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the children of God. Those are the people that belong to Him. And I'm going to remind you that there are really only two kinds of people in the world. Those two kinds of people in the world are those who are in Christ and those who are in Adam. For instance, listen to what it says in 1 Corinthians 15. He says, in Adam all die. In Christ shall all be made alive. You see that distinction. Romans five eighteen, it says, by the offense of one, judgment came upon all men to condemnation, even so by the righteousness Of one the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life. So you see the reference to in Adam being all who receive the punishment of sin because of Adam. And then you see that there is another group of people who are free from this condemnation because they are In Christ. John 5. 24. It says, He that heareth my word and believeth on him that set me hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation. but is passed from death unto life. So he's indicating this distinction between those who have uh been under judgment and those who have passed from death to life. Or John 3. 36, he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. He that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. You see the distinction Those in Adam, those in Christ. And so if a person is in Adam, the Bible teaches that they are spiritually dead, walking as slaves to their own fleshly passions, alienated from God and under God's wrath. Now, none of those are things that you want to be true about you, but every single one of us at some point in our life was in Adam. We were born into this world, dead in trespasses and sins, alienated from God, slaves to our sinful passions, and under God's wrath. But then on the other side we see those who are in Christ. Those who have turned to God, place their faith in Christ, they are The scripture says regenerated. That means that once they were spiritually dead, now they are made spiritually alive by the power of the Spirit's work in them. They were once dead in trespasses and sins, now they are Alive unto God. They were once alienated from God, but now they are brought near by the blood of Christ. They were once under God's wrath. There is now peace. between us and God. We have been saved from wrath through Christ Jesus our Lord. And so you see those two different kinds of people in the world. Which leads us to a second statement. That is that the distinction between those who are in Adam and those who are in Christ is what we do with the gospel. It's not about our family. It's not about the church that we're attending. It's not about how much money we've given to God or how we try to manage to keep the law. It's about what we do with the gospel. A person who does not believe in the gospel, who rejects the gospel and unbelief, is in Adam. They are in their natural state separated from God Those who have believed on the Son, who embrace the gospel where there is a repentance of heart toward God and faith alone in the finished work of Christ. That means they're not trusting in their own righteousness, their own good deeds, their own works, their own religious system. They're trusting alone in what Jesus did for them. Those individuals are no longer in Adam, but they are now in Christ. The distinctiveness between those two positions is what we do with the gospel. The third statement I'm going to make is that those who are in Christ are called God's children. Listen to what it says in John chapter 1 verse 12. It says, As many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name, which were born not of blood, nor of the will of man, nor of the will of the flesh, but of God. What does Jesus say to Nicodemus in John chapter 3? Ye must be born again. If a man is not born again, he will not see the kingdom of God. James 1 17 says, Every good and perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow turning. Of his own will begat he us by the word of truth. What do these three passages have in common? What they have in common is that when a person passes from in Adam to in Christ Through faith alone in the gospel, they are born of God. The word we use is regenerated. They are made alive. They are now a part of a different family than they were before. There is a positional change between in Adam and in Christ. The second thing that I will mention Is that being born again gives them a new nature, a new disposition? Second Corinthians 5. 17. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. And so being born again means I have now a new nature, new disposition. that I did not have before I placed my faith in the finished work of Christ. And the third thing I'm going to mention is that there is now a change in the focus of the purpose of the person who is born of God, a new creature in Christ, the person who is in Christ. Romans chapter 6 gives us an explanation of this. It says, We are buried with him in baptism unto death, that like as Christ even was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. You see, the distinctive purpose change from the unbeliever to the believer. We should walk newness of life. He says, our old man is crucified with him. that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. So you can see the positional change and the purposeful change in reflecting the glories of God, walking in conformity to his purposes, all of these things are true. And so when we come to Romans chapter 8, I want to remind you of a very simple fact. If you've trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, on the day that you're doing great and on the day that you're not doing so great, on the day that you feel close to God and on the day that you feel distant from God, you are objectively his child's. And that is a thing that we should be so, so deeply grateful for, and we should rejoice in that position I'm looking forward to what we will talk about tomorrow as we're going to expand this concept a little bit further to understand how God takes that positional reality, a child of God who is now born again, new nature reflecting a different purpose, and how that is going to affect the believer in what we could say is a subjective manner or experientially that kind of a thing So hope that you'll join us tomorrow as we talk about that. And I pray that this will have been a great encouragement to you. Have a blessed day. Bye now.