Well good morning. Great to see each of you. I hope that you had a fantastic week. And uh I'm thankful that even though it's uh following the pattern of a very wet weekend as we've had almost every week in February that today we can gather without snow and ice and all those things. And so it's good to see each of you. If you're visiting with us today, we want to give you a warm welcome. If you're visiting with us for the first time in a while, we want to say uh so good to see you. And uh hope that uh you're able to get a visitor's card if you're visiting with us. And that's a way for us to follow up with you. And I'm looking forward to getting to meet up with you if uh if I've not met you before. Let me give you a couple of announcements of some activities that are going on. We're really getting into a much busier uh time of the year. We've had a little lull after the Christmas holidays. And so I want to remind you of some of the things that are going on. First of all, we have our ladies meeting on March the 4th. And so ladies, please do prepare for that. I hope that you'll be able to make it for that. I believe that there's a sign-up sheet in the back, so if you could sign up for that, that way the ladies who are hosting it will be able to prepare for that Also, I know the teens have several activities. They have a board game on March the 12th. That's a Friday night. They also have a Teen Synxpiration on the 14th. So teenagers, please do make sure that you remember those activities. It's a great opportunity for families in our church to host you. It's a great time to sing praise to the Lord and share testimonies of God's goodness. Also want to remind you that men, we have our next men's Bible study on Saturday morning on March the 13th, and that's a great time for us to get together, to pray together, to encourage one another, to be accountable to one another. uh to reflect on issues related to uh just being godly men and uh walking with him and leading our families uh in a in a godly way. Also want to remind Uh each of you that in the middle of the month, that's March the 14th, we have our our daylight savings time change. And uh that means that it's gonna be light until 7 something. I don't remember Um when it'll actually get dark, but it'll be well after seven. And um make sure that you are prepared for that for the next Sunday because uh that'll change our time that we're gathered together. I also wanted to mention that uh when the time changes We will start back our our Tuesday night Bible uh excuse me our Tuesday night visitation time at 6. 45 And so if you'd like to come to that uh on the Tuesdays that we're not going to the rescue mission, um we will be gathering together to go out and invite folks to church and give them tracts. It's an opportunity for us to go. and visit folks who maybe have been visiting the church and uh it's an opportunity for us to uh to get to know them and um find out if they if they understand the gospel and share the gospel with them. So Please do mark on your calendars that we're going to be starting that back up after the daylight savings time change, also once a month. on the second uh men's bible study, um after the Bible study, we will have uh family time where we'll be going out and doing uh visitation. That'll just be on um the sat the second Saturdays of the month when we have our men's uh men's meeting. So want to remind you of that. We also have our church work day coming up at the end of the month. And uh we'll be kind of getting our facilities uh spring cleaning. Uh we'll be kind of cleaning up from whatever has happened damage-wise over the winter. So mark that on your calendars. Please do sign up for that Usually we get donuts and coffee so that if you want that, I know the kids always love getting the not the coffee, the donuts, uh, but please sign up for that. Okay, if you could, let's take our Bibles and let's turn together to our opening scripture reading. And this is the 145th Psalm, Psalm 145, we're looking at verses 8 through 20 as our opening passage of Scripture. God's word says, the Lord is gracious and full of compassion. Slow to anger and of great mercy. The Lord is good to all, his tender mercies are over all his works. All thy works shall praise thee, O Lord, thy saints shall bless thee. They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom and talk of thy power, to make known to the sons of men his mighty acts and the glorious majesty of his kingdom. Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion endureth throughout all generations. The Lord upholdeth all that fall and raiseth up all those that be bowed down. The eyes of all wait upon thee, and thou givest them their meat in due season. Thou openest thine hand wide and satisfiest the desires of every living thing The Lord is righteous and in all his ways and holy in all his works. The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him and call upon him in truth. He will fulfill the desires of them that fear him. He also will hear their cry and will save them. The Lord preserveth all them that love him, but the wicked will he destroy. This morning, as we come to the Lord in worship, as we sing praise to Him, as we reflect on this text of Scripture, and also the passage we'll read later in our service, I want to remind you that Today our focus is on God's patience and his mercy and his justice. And so as we sing these songs of praise to God, as we think about these scriptures that are being read and preached on, we're going to focus on God's patience. His mercy and his justice. And we're going to treasure God and worship him as a wonderful God who is patient, merciful, and just. Let's be add together for prayer and ask the Lord to bless our service. And the opportunity we have to gather together. Father, we are so grateful that this morning we can gather together as a local church. We can sit under the ministry of the word. We can be fed spiritually. We can be challenged. We can be exhorted. We can be encouraged. Father, first of all, we want to praise you that you are a God who is good. I'm so grateful that your goodness motivates all that you do. You are always righteous. You always do what is right. Father, we are so grateful that you are patient. And our lives bear the testimonies of your patience. How many of us have stumbled in unbelief for years? We have rebelled against you for years, yet you have been patient, and you have been merciful, and you have brought us to the place where we saw our sin. We are convicted of sin, righteousness, and judgment, and we humbly place our faith in Christ. We are so grateful that you are patient. Father, we are thankful for your mercies that when you look at us, you look at us with compassion and tenderness. You recognize when we are afflicted. And you care about us and you strengthen us in those moments of desperation and fear. Father, we are so grateful that you are just. Father, we recognize that there will be a day when you will judge the world in righteousness. All those who have been oppressed by the wicked. All those who have suffered and been persecuted for the sake of the gospel, you will one day vindicate your children, and you will judge the wicked forever. Father, we are grateful that we serve a just God. Father, we want to lift up to our nation. We recognize that we live in tumultuous days. Father, we recognize that there is a nationwide rejection of your authority in so many areas of life. So, Father, we pray that you would allow us as your people to continue to live a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness. that we will be able to continue to proclaim the gospel, that we'll be able to continue to proclaim your glories. your statutes, your laws, that we'll continue to stand on the side of truth without persecution and trouble from our government. I pray that you will help us to be salt and light in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. Father, we pray for those in our national, state, and local governments that the men and women who are in these positions would make decisions that are consistent with your moral will, and that you will continue to preserve the freedoms that we are so grateful and humbled that we have enjoyed. And in fact we will not waste those freedoms. Father, we pray for those all around the world who right now are being persecuted for the sake of the gospel. We recognize we have brothers and sisters in Christ. all around the world that today are meeting in secret. Some are imprisoned right now as we speak. Some are suffering abandonment. Some have been beaten. Some have been abused. Some have suffered tremendously simply for the name of Christ. I pray that you would strengthen and preserve those dear saints. Give them the courage and the strength to continue in obedience to you. And may we be people of integrity that if it's ever our place, we will stand firm on the side of truth. Father, we pray that you would be with those who we are partnered with around the world that are preaching the gospel even this day. We thank you for the many missionaries. who are involved in church planting through this church's labors and giving. Please strengthen and bless these individual congregations Father, help these missionaries to have wisdom as they train the next generation of leaders. And I pray that they would see tremendous fruit for their labors. People who are trusting Jesus as their Savior, walking as disciples, and being trained so that they can replace these missionaries and establish churches that are truly autonomous and that submit to the Lordship of Christ. Father, I pray for our church family. I know within our congregation there are people who are suffering. People who are suffering physically, people who are suffering emotionally and mentally. People who are facing great spiritual struggles. I pray that every individual that is a part of this congregation, every individual that is joined with us this morning, that you would strengthen them and meet their needs. As a result of the time that we spend together in worship, I pray that this would be a very rich and Christ-centered morning and that we would be strengthened by the things that we will hear and sing this day. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen. Good morning Anchor Baptist Church and guests, those are connecting with us on livestream. I think I've decided I'm going to take off my snowshoes and put on some flippers so uh I don't get web feed out here this uh past month. Goodness. Aren't we looking forward to spring? And it's right around the corner. So as we uh start our song service, stand with me. Let's turn to page 44 in the hymn book. Stand with me. We'll sing three verses of to God be the glory. And if you really, really believe That God gets the glory. Sing out. Make that joyful noise. To God be the glory. Sing out. God be the glory, great things he had done, so love be the world that he gave us his son for yet in his life. I cannot unpick for sin and open the life that all may go in. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the earth care. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the people rejoice with the God, through Jesus and Perfect redemption, the purchase of blood to everything. The promise of God 's virtually believes that moment only was the border. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the earth hear his voice. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the people rejoice. And give him our glory, great things we have done. We have not great things we have done, and great for rejoicing through Jesus. Will be all underly. Brain the Lord, bring the Lord, let me hear his voice. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the people rejoice to come up to Jesus Christ and give him for Amen. We're starting out very well. Have a seat while we turn to page 134 Page 134 and we'll sing three verses of And Can It Be? Sing Out with Wonder. In amazement. And can it be that shut? Just his thing to define all things on God. How can I choose for me amazing? How can it be that the God should be? What is worse for God? Stelling, still I just never. Look cry And claim I grow. Amen. Good singing. You could still come out a little bit louder. When you're all spread out throughout the congregation, you need to come out a little bit louder. Now if we were all up here in the front where I could hear you. More clearly, but we can do it. You're sounding good? Just sing it out. How great thou art I see those thoughts, I knew the rolling, I won't have. It saves my soul, my Savior God to me. How right now we know that it saves my soul. Oh my god, how great thou great thou and when I have I'll break up. How great thou thy soul, my Senior God to thee. How great thou art, how great thou art. Thou are the stand on the last Where Christ shall come , this shall come back love me, shall and take me home, and joy shall be. There I shall fall, there I'll have your shot, and I will play my light and so quite so. Voice of your God to me, how pray thou bring thou sacrifice all voice of your God to thee. How great thou art, how great thou. Remain standing for the reading Next reading of the Word of God, uh from the Word of God. Good being looking at James chapter 5, verses 1 through 6. Yes, I got it right this time. And Scripture says, go to now, ye rich men, weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you. Your riches are corrupted, and your garments are moth-eaten. Your gold and silver is cankered, and the rest of them shall be a witness against you, and shall eat your flesh, as it were fire. Ye have heaped treasure to work together for the last days. Behold, the hire of the laborers who have reaped down your fields, which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth. And the cries of them which have reaped are entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth. Ye have lived in pleasure on the earth, and have been wanton. Ye have nourished your hearts as in a day of slaughter. Ye have condemned and killed the just, and he doth not resist you. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Please be seated. We'll continue with the song service now. Oh, I might have asked you to sit down too quickly. I forgot which one was coming. Page 587 in the book. But victory in Jesus. Please stand with me. I forgot which one was coming. Victory in Jesus. The Baptist hip. Send you out, folks. I heard it all. To save a wretch like me. I turned about I repented of my sin and wonderful. Victory in Jesus, my Savior for me and what we within God. Hey on the air I knew him , and all my love is pledged me to victory in it. I heard about his healing of his lazy power freebies made the lamb to walk again and want the water And when I cry us, come and hear my broken spirits from how Jesus came and what you Be the victory, oh victory in Jesus, I pray God forever Stopped me and bought me with his redeeming light He loves the air I knew him and all my love is He wants me to victory beneath the presenting on the last I cared about the mansion he had built Heard about as we go, they want a crest for sea , but helps me in the same way. Some sweet day I'll bring up there the throng of victory. Oh victory in Jesus. My favorite sought me and watch me with his remaining love in Lambier. I knew him and all my life transmits a victory in the Amen. I think you ramped it up and uh a notch on that one. That was almost the volume 11. Let me tell you. One more try and we could have got it. Okay, for this month's song we've been singing my Jesus Fair. I brought my big page, so now I can read it real well Instead of looking at the little book out of the blue book, but my Jesus Fair, we will sing all five verses. So remain standing My Jesus bear cause where my boys From the fall to see who came, the curse was going to win that curse for all. Oh the matches prayed. That God should die for me. With joyful grief, I lift my grace. Adoring only , adoring only by Jesus he was alive. I made blast to me, Father, forgive their sins. Oh love divine, oh matchless grace, that God should die for men with tribal grace. I live my grace emboring on my sin Adoring of my Jesus time was over my nails. My nails are cruel in to His process has grace prevail God in my red and sin. Oh love divine, oh matchless grace, that God should guide. I forbid with joyful grief I lift my grace aboring only I bloring only my Jesus pure must brush by God. My God in judgment has Father grief yet turn his right God twice they said for us Oh love divine Oh match disgrace That God should die I forbin with joyful grief I live my grace Aboring all my sin , adoring only on the less, my chance and strong shall come to reign. To obey in Majesty, the lamb arose and death is lame Lord come in victory, O love divine mass was raised, that God should die for men with joyful grace. I live my graze aboring on my sin , a moring call. Amen. Please be seated. Aren't you so glad that Jesus loves you? And it's a a song that our kids sing. The fact is it's something that we should never get over. And God's love is something that We will never fully grasp the magnitude and the weight of his love for us. If you could take your Bibles, let's turn together to James chapter 5. I know our kids are heading to the back for junior church. James chapter 5, we're looking at verses 1 through 9. I wanted to mention that we're going to take a short pause in our study through the book of James as we get into the month of March, and we're going to be looking at passages of scripture related to the death of Christ, the resurrection, because we're going to be thinking about the resurrection of Christ, which we're going to be remembering in just about a month, really. And so what I'd like us to do is take that season, that time period, to really focus on the heart of what makes us a Christian. What is it that makes us right with God? How are we able to stand before God as righteous and forgiven? and cleansed. How can we stand before God recognizing that there is now no condemnation to us, we who are in Christ Jesus? How can we do that? We're going to look at that that very important topic. And we're going to spend a lot of time in the Old Testament. One of the things that I get concerned about is how often we don't see how the Old Testament really is the foundation. For all New Testament teaching. And when we look at the teachings of Jesus, when we look at the preaching of the apostles in the book of Acts, what we see is that they were constantly referring back to the Old Testament. In fact, the Bible, if you want to put it as the scriptures that these people were using week in and week out, they were the Old Testament scriptures. And so we sometimes get in our minds that, well, you couldn't ever lead someone to the Lord from the Old Testament because the Old Testament doesn't talk about Christ. Well, that could be not further from the truth. The reality is that the Old Testament is in its entirety pointing us to the work of Christ. And so I want us to see from the Old Testament, then moving into the New Testament, the significance of those prophecies related to Christ the Messiah and talking about the heart of the gospel, not just from the gospels and not just from the epistles, but also that we'll be able to see this from the Old Testament. So when we come to our next time together, and I don't say let's turn together to James chapter five, you're gonna go, what's going on? Well, we are getting in the month of March. We're gonna be looking at the crucifixion, the resurrection. We're going to be looking at Old Testament passages. We're going to be looking at doctrinal concepts. It's going to be a really rich and I hope very profitable, encouraging time for you. James chapter 5, we're going to read verses 1 through 9 together and then dig into what I think is an extremely practical and important text of Scripture. James 5. 1 says this. Go to now, ye rich men, weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you Your riches are corrupted, and your garments are moth-eaten, your gold and silver is cankered, and the rust of them shall be witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as if it were fire. Ye have heaped up treasure together for the last days. Behold, the hirer of the laborer who has reaped down your fields, which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth. And the cries of them which have reaped have entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth. Ye have lived in pleasure on the earth and have been wanton. Ye have nourished your hearts as in the day of slaughter You have condemned and killed the just. He does not resist you. Be patient, therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it until he receives the early and latter rain. Be also patient, stablish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Grudge not against one another, brethren. Lest he be condemned, behold, the judge standeth before the door. Now when we come to this passage of Scripture, there are so many rich And extremely important concepts that James is addressing to this body of Christians. And what I think is really interesting about this section that we're looking at this morning Is that this section of Scripture is actually not directed to the church, but it is directed to a group that is persecuting the church. But it is for the benefit of the church. You will see what I mean by that in just a moment. In other words, when he says, Go to now ye rich men, weep and howl for your miseries, he's not talking to the church. He's talking to people that are persecuting the church for the benefit of the church. You say, well, why in the world does James take such an approach? Why does God move James to write these very words not to Christians, but for the benefit of Christians? Well, I hope that's the question that's really resonating in your mind because I want us to kind of focus in on why he does that and why this is so very important for us this day. The passage in front of us was meant to encourage Christians who were suffering. And it was so that they would be faithful by looking to God's justice for comfort. You know, there are times in the Christian life that we go through intense suffering, and this intense suffering is not necessarily the result of our own decisions. or because of some physical infirmity, but it's because there are people around us who do not fear God, who are not guided by principle, but rather are guided by their own fleshly passions. And their desire is to disrupt and trouble us primarily because of our association with Christ. And the question is, how do we respond to those kinds of situations? Well, here is the answer, or here is part of the answer for how we are to respond in these kinds of circumstances. He writes this section of Scripture to encourage the faithful yet suffering believer so that he will look and say, God is just, and because God is just, I can trust him. And I can be strengthened by that principle, that truth, that God is just. God wants us to be a people who rest in his righteousness. Even when times get very difficult. And that's what the passage in front of us is calling us to do. Be faithful. Rest in God's righteousness. Rest in his justice, even when times are tough. So the question before us is how do we do that? How can we be a people who obey God, who are faithful, and are encouraged even when life is very hard? Well, the passage in front of us is going to give us the answer to the question of how. So I want us to begin first of all by looking at kind of the big picture of the text in front of us. The passage in front of us tells us that we are pilgrims and that we one day will overcome because of the gospel. The first truth we find is we are pilgrims who will overcome. I want you to think about the immediate context that we're looking at. There is a change, a clear change of reference that we have seen consistently in the book of James to the passage in front of us. Let me kind of give you a sense of what I'm talking about. Notice what he says in James chapter 1, verse 2. In fact, I'd encourage you maybe go in your Bibles and just kind of sum through and look at these verses with me. The first statement is in James chapter 1, verse 2, it says this: My brethren Count it all joy. Well, and when he says brethren, who's he talking to? Well, he's talking to Christians. Go down to verse number 16. He says this: Do not err, my beloved what? Brethren, who do you think he's talking to? He's talking to Christians. We go down to verse 19, and he says, Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. Who's he talking to? Believers. James chapter 2, verse 1, he says, My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect to persons? Who's he talking to? Believers James chapter 2, verse 5, he says, Hearken, my beloved brethren. Hath not God chosen the poor of this world, rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom, which he's promised to them that love him? Who's he talking to? Christians. James chapter 2, verse 14. What does it profit my brethren, though a man say he hath faith? James chapter 3, verse 1, my brethren, be not many masters, knowing that ye shall receive the greater condemnation. Chapter 3, verse 10, out of the same mouth proceedeth blessings and cursings, my brethren. These things ought not so to be James chapter 3, verse 12. Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries, either of fine vine figs? So can no fountain both yield salt water and fresh water? And James chapter 4, verse 11, he says, Speak not evil one of another brethren. He that speaketh evil of his brother and judgeth his brother, speaketh evil of the law and judgeth the law. You say, Pastor, why did you take time to go through all of those verses? One very simple reason. They are all directed to Christians. But I want you to see how he responds in chapter 5, verse 1. Go to now, ye rich man. Weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you. You know what's really interesting about the reference? It's changed. You might say that it's changed. He has been writing to believers. And in the context, believers that have been persecuted, they've been struggling. They've been bearing under this tremendous load and this tremendous weight. And he's talking to them about how to live godly in a tough world. They are a part of the diaspora. They're the strangers that are scattered throughout the Roman Empire. He's telling them how to live in those circumstances. And all of a sudden, he changes reference and he says, go to now you rich. And you say, well, why does he do that? The answer is because God wants to encourage these Christians that God sees what's going on. It 's kind of interesting. We go to the book of Exodus, and we see that the nation of Israel is enslaved in Egypt. And they are basically building the pyramids. It doesn't talk about them building the pyramids, but when we look at history, that's about the time that this is going on. They are an enslaved people. They are a suffering people. And the Bible says the Lord looked on his people and he remembered. Now it's not like God forgot. It's that he reminds himself, he rehearses to himself, these are my people. I'm about to move and I'm about to deliver them. And he tells us that. I want you to realize that there are actually many times in the scriptures where God addresses not the believer, but the persecutor. And when God addresses the persecutor, he's doing it for the sake of not just the persecutor But he's also doing it for the sake of the believer who is feeling the wrath and the weight of the unjust God's actually doing this to strengthen, to encourage, to comfort those who are in a genuine position before God as his children, yet under the weight and the struggle of the unrighteous. I want you to see an example of this. Go with me to a book that you've not probably read a lot of, and that's the book of Nahum. In Nahum chapter 1, verses 1 through 3, I want you to listen to what the prophet writes. He says, the burden of Nineveh. You say, well, why in the world does God address Nineveh? These are not believers. These were not a part of God's people that were anticipating the Messiah. These were idol worshippers. This was a ruthless, evil, oppressive empire. These were people that had oppressed the Jewish people. Why does he write the burden of Nineveh? You'll see in just a moment. It says, God is jealous. Why does he say that? Because God loves his people. You mean as the people were suffering, God saw it? Yes. As the people were suffering, you mean that that God was not just being on the sidelines with this kind of cold caliphist, but he actually loved those people and cared about those people and he was going to deal with those who were present. Yes, that's the answer. The Lord revengeth. The Lord is furious. The Lord will take vengeance on his adversaries. He reserveth wrath for his enemies. You say, wow, that's kind of that makes me a little uncomfortable, right? God is angry and God is jealous and God is wrathful. Of course he is. If God loves people who are being treated unjustly, if God loves people who are being abused, do you think God is also happy with the abuser? The answer is of course not. Who God loves, He treasures, He protects, He cares for. And so in these verses God is communicating through Naam to the nation of Israel that though you have been an oppressed people, I have seen it, and I still love you, and I'm going to step on your behalf. And I'm going to vindicate you in the right time. And when I do it, I'm going to deal swiftly and justly and harshly with those who have been abusers. You know, when we walk into a court of law, do you know what the purpose of a court of law is? It's to defend the innocent by condemning those who have broken the law. In other words, justice has an encouraging side when you're the one who is going to be vindicated And it has a fearful side to those who have violated the law, taken advantage of people's rights, abuse them. The purpose of the law and the purpose of the court is to protect the innocent and to judge the guilty. And so he's telling us in this text of scripture, hey Christian, I know what you're going through. And there's going to be a time that I step in and I deal with those who are doing wrong. You know, recently there was a A story that I saw on the news of a man who had been doing some very abusive and terrible things. He is a gymnast gymnastics coach. It's a terrible, terrible story. And in the article it says that the man committed suicide, and people said he was able to get away with it. He was able to escape justice. I want to tell you something. The decision that that man made to take his own life did not cause him to escape justice. He escaped justice from the hands of man, but that's not who he should have been afraid of. The fact is that God is just, and this man literally took a decision to stand before the ultimate judge. In fact, what he did was very foolish and very evil. There's lots of different ways to look at it. But the point is this. If you do not believe in a God of justice. And you do not believe in eternal judgment, then the fact is when people get away with it on this earth, then they get away with it. But that's not what the Bible teaches. God teaches that He is just and He will always deal with evil. In fact, this is one of the great comforts of the Christian worldview. That even if people get away with it on this side, there's coming a day that God will deal with it. And when He's going to deal with it, it's going to have eternal significance, not just temporal significance. It's very interesting. Even within our justice system in the United States, we have this sense in which you could have a person who is presumed to be innocent until they're demonstrated beyond a shadow of a doubt to be guilty. In other words, you're not presumed guilty when you stand in the courtroom. You're presumed innocent. The facts have to prove you're guilty. You say, well, why is that? Because there was a time in our nation where people recognized even a person who gets away with it here will not get away with it forever. And so we would make sure that if we're going to err, we err on the side of not condemning the innocent. Very interesting. He goes on to say this the Lord is slow to anger and great in power. He will not acquit the wicked. The Lord hath his way in the whirlwind, and the clouds are the dust of his feet. What's so interesting about that text of Scripture is that when we read it, we see the justice of God in a very rugged sense. We see the compassion and the love and the mercy of God for those who are in that position of vulnerability and they belong to Him. And so we see this blend of the two, the justice that vindicates And brings comfort and the justice that condemns those who are arrogant and oppressive. I want you to realize when we read Genesis, uh James chapter 5, that is the sense of the text in front of us. In fact, this is a major theme in the scriptures. I think of Revelation chapter 6, verse 10, it says, They crowd with a loud voice saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true dost thou not judge and avenge our blood? On them that dwell on the earth. These are believers who are being persecuted. In fact, they're dying for their faith. It's the kind of stuff that's going on in places like North Korea. It's the kind of stuff that went on in the former Soviet Union. It's the kind of stuff that went on in communist China during the purge that took place in the 1970s, in the 1960s. That's the kind of stuff we're talking about. And they say, God, do you see this? How long is this going to last? And he says, a little while. You should rest for a little season. God is slow to move. Why God moves on the timetable, sometimes we don't understand. Because even though God is just, he's patient. And God wants to deal with people not only in justice but also in grace. And so we see this from God. In fact, the overall sense of this book is it's written to the diaspora , those who are scattered around. James 1, he says, the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad. These were p believers, Jewish believers, that were spread all throughout the Roman Empire, and they were in isolated places. It was a tough life. They were suffering. James chapter 1, verse 2. He says, Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, suffering people. And then in chapter 6 and chapter 2, verses 6 and 7, we see that they are an oppressed people. He says, Do not the rich oppress you and draw you before the judgment seat? His point is there are people that are abusing their power. And they know because you are part of the diaspora, they can take advantage of you. Because you don't have family ties and you don't have ties within the community, they could take advantage of you Because you're a Christian, they can take advantage of you. That was the state of the people we're talking about. But I want to remind you of two very simple truths about all believers. God views them as two things, well lots of things, but two that I want to mention. One is the word pilgrim, and the other is the word overcomer. A pilgrim is someone who has traveled. Someone who is in a foreign country. It's not their permanent residence. It's not where their roots are established. An overcomer is someone who suffers but is not pressed down and quits. But they actually triumph in the midst of suffering. This is the way God communicates the life of the Christian and the world that we live in. Let me give you some examples. In Hebrews 11, verse 10, he talks about our forefather, Abraham. He says he looked for a city which hath foundations. whose builder and maker is God. In verse 13 it says that these, the patriarchs, died in faith, not having received the promise. But having seen them afar off were persuaded of them and embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. In Hebrews chapter 11, verses 25 to 27, he talks about Moses. And he says, Moses chose to suffer affliction with the people of God then to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. He esteemed the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt. He forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. The word pilgrim, the word stranger, the word traveler, these are the words that describe the nature of those who were the forefathers of God's people. In fact, in the first century, when he writes to those individuals in 1 Peter chapter 2, he says, Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul. Having your conversation honest amongst the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. I'm amazed how many times in the book of 1 Peter he emphasizes the suffering of the believer in this context. Why does he emphasize that? Because that was reality. You know, the freedoms that we have enjoyed in our nation are very short and very unique in human history. What we've enjoyed in this country is unprecedented in human history. There are hardly any cultures within all of human history that have had the freedoms that we've had The right to assemble and worship God according to the dictates of conscience and his word Do you realize even during the time of the Reformation, that was not accepted in Europe? The reality is, even in the early colonies, that was not accepted even on this continent. We have enjoyed this for a very short period of time. But I don't want you to think in your mind that this has been the reality of Christians throughout human history. The answer is it's not. It's unprecedented. It's unique. There have never been seasons of history that have had the kind of freedoms that we've enjoyed. And so I want to remind you this morning when we read the text in front of us, we're talking about what was normal for Christians throughout the entire first, second, third, fourth century, all the way until really the time that this nation was established. And not even in the early days of the nation, really, once we got things like the Bill of Rights and those kinds of things, even in the colonies, people did not enjoy these kinds of freedoms. Yet we do. Pilgrims. Second word is overcomer. We're overcomers because of his cross. In 1 John 5, verse 4, he says: whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world. This is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Chapter 5, verse 5 says, Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God? Revelation 12, 11 says they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, by the word of their testimony. They loved not even their lives unto death. Revelation 21, 7, he that overcometh shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. So what do we see in these scriptures? We see that God's people live in a broken, fallen world, and when they walk according to conscience before the Word of God and they submit to His Lordship, There are times that there are people that take advantage of the believer's position and take advantage of the believer's conscience, and they do things that are quite evil. Pilgrims, but overcomers. The second truth I'd like us to see is this: the world is getting its best life now. Now I think there's a book that, well, it was popular maybe ten years ago. Maybe it's not as popular today as it used to be, but it's called Your Best Life Now. And once you realize that the Bible teaches if your best life is now, the one that's coming is not good. And the fact is that the world is living for now without consideration of eternity. When somebody lives in a way that is evil and reproachful and unrighteous and abusive, guess what they're doing? They are living for now and ignoring forever. In 1 John 2, verse 7, it says, That the world passeth away and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. And John basically says, this world system is living for today, and it is moving toward a sudden end of destruction. But the believer is going to enjoy God's glories forever. Six truths that we see in this text. I'm going to mention them quickly and not dig deeply into them, but I want you to see them because they're a part of this text. About those who oppress and don't fear God. The first thing we find in verse 1 is that they are blinded to their true condition. He says in verse 1: Go to now, ye rich man, weep and howl for your miseries. that shall come upon you. Why does he have to do that? It's because they're not weeping. They're not howling. They don't believe that they're in a miserable place. They have power. They have ease. They're in the driver's seat. He says you need to realize that the ease you're enjoying has blinded you to reality. Weep how your miseries shall come. It's in the future. The second thing he mentions is in verses two and three. They think that their possessions will give them value. He says, Your riches are corrupted, your garments are moth-eaten, your gold and silver is cankered, the rust of them shall be a witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as if it were fire. You have heaped treasured together for the last days. The phrases and the words that really stand out are your riches are corrupted, moth-eaten, cankered, they rust. What's he saying? What you think has real value Is decaying. What you think has real value, what gives you your status, what gives you your authority, what gives you your power, it's all falling apart. He says, You've heaped up treasure for the last days. You have lived as if by what you gather today you will have security forever. We talk about a person that is preparing to retire. What are they doing? They're saving money, they're investing money, they're even listening to financial advisors. Why is that? Because they want security in the future. When I'm too old to work, or maybe I'm not too old to work, but I don't want to work anymore. I want to be able to just enjoy life and go and enjoy places and visit and hang out with my grandkids and enjoy life. When a person gets to that stage they want security They want to know that all those investments are going to continue to give them the life that they want. And he says that there are people that they live as if what they accumulate today is going to give them a good eternity. He said it's not true. It's like we go to the British Museum, if you've ever been there, and you see some of the ancient Egyptian artifacts. Where did those artifacts come from? They came from the tombs of the pharaohs. So, like literally when these people died and they embalmed them, they placed them in these pyramids and they put all kinds of gold and a lot of stuff there. Why did they do that? Because they thought it was going to help them in the life to come. But it can't help. We have no lasting value in the stuff we accumulate today When you go to a museum and you look at these fascinating artifacts, what are you looking at? Stuff that somebody used to own but now they're dead. Cool stuff, fascinating stuff, expensive stuff. Stuff that tells a fascinating story, it tells a story about a life that was and is no longer with us And he says, these people have come to the conclusion that possessions mean lasting value and security. And he said they're wrong. But this next one is really interesting. Number three, they see people as tools for their own ends. This is one of the great tragedies of humanity. While someone will talk about how much they value people, they will use them for their own ends. And they'll even be convincing them while they're doing it that it's for their good, not for their good. He says in verse four, The hirer of the laborers who have reaped down your fields, which of you have kept back by fraud, crieth, and the cries of them which have reaped are entered in the ears of the Lord of Sabayoth. You've lived in pleasure on the earth, have been wanting. You have nourished your hearts as in the day of slaughter. You have condemned and killed the just. He doth not resist you. So how would you feel if uh on March the first you go to your bank account and you see you weren't paid? On April the 1st, you go to your bank account and see you weren't paid again. On you would have taken action long before May the 1st. Yet there are people throughout human history who have and still do essentially abuse their power. I remember when I lived in Ghana, the majority of the people that I that I ministered to in our church, the majority of them were not regularly paid for the work they did. And I don't mean like they got paid like a week or two late. I mean they didn't get paid for months. And then their boss would be like, oh, let me help you out. And he'd give them like a third of what he owed them. You see, that's a tragedy. Do you realize people live like that all over the world? They have for thousands of years. Because people who have authority sometimes Live for themselves. And they act as if they are the center of the universe. And they use people as tools to their own ends. He says, the hirer who reaped, you kept back by fraud. And he cries. He cries, and it's entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabbath. We know the song that Martin Luther wrote, A Mighty Fortress is Our God, and we say, Lord, Sabayoth his name from age to age the same. He must win the battle. What does that mean? He's the Lord of hosts. And whenever we see that statement, the Lord of hosts, particularly in the Old Testament, what we'll see is it's in the context of a person that's being oppressed, and God sees it, and He's going to step in, He's going to vindicate, He's going to defend them. He says, God's listening. You've lived in pleasure. You've nourished your heart for the day of slaughter. You've condemned the just. He doesn't do anything about it. The fourth thing we see is that they're blinded by their success. In verse 6 he says, You've condemned and killed the just, and he doth not resist you. They've gotten to a place where they feel they're going to get away with it. And they get away with it over and over and over and over again. Doesn't seem like anybody's going to stop them. Guess what happens? The longer people get away with something, the more bold they become in what they're doing. And you know what's amazing about that? Many times God is setting them up for a very sudden and a very painful fall. You know the story of Pharaoh. He hardens his heart over and over and over again. What ends up happening? The Pharaoh is destroyed with his armies in the Red Sea. Look at Haman. That 's a fascinating story. He's building this gallows because he hates Mordecai and he wants to have Mordecai not only killed, but killed not only publicly, but in a way that everybody can see what's going on. Because he wants to gloat in it and what ends up happening? The very gallows that he built for Haman are the ones that he's hanged on by the king. God allows people to keep moving forward until eventually they cross the line. The success blinds people and makes them arrogant. And he says, these are the people that you're dealing with. Lastly, they exploited the vulnerable. He says, he does not resist you. But I want to mention one final thing. God is going to judge them in his time. And verse 7 he says, Be patient, therefore, my brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. The coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Behold, the judge standeth before the door. Though God may not have acted yet, he most certainly will act in his own time. Let's say that you have a person that has committed a horrible, violent crime. Do they stand before the judge on the next morning? Well, there were times in history that they did. And it was just a clear, well, you're guilty. That's the end of it. But not in our judicial system That person may go through a series of court cases. They may be found guilty. They may actually kick it up to another court. And they they may go through this whole process of appeals. And as they go through that process, we would not say justice is denied forever. We recognize that there's a process, and as the process plays out, eventually there's going to be a time when justice is served. This is how God works. God allows people to live their lives. He allows people to make their decisions. Sometimes their decisions are really bad, really hurtful, really troubling. Sometimes God allows things to fall through at just the right time. Sometimes people appear to get away with it. But I want to remind you of something. God is just and he will deal with sin. And we see this laid out in the text before us. So I want to close with a final question. What do we learn from all of this? And here's my statement. We need to be sobered and encouraged at the same time. I want to give you one simple counsel. The sense of the passage is meant to encourage an oppressed person. a persecuted Christian, yet it should also serve as a warning about the depravity of people's hearts. You know, when Jesus talks about judgment, he says, before you judge another person, you better examine your own eye first. Because if you examine your own eye first, then you'll be able to see clearly, and if you remove what's hindering your vision, then you'll be able to help the person who's also got a problem. Sometimes we can look at others and we can rage at the injustice, the evil that we find them getting away with, and we fail to realize we're doing the same thing. We are following the same patterns. We talk about justice and righteousness, and we recognize, if we could step back, that we are just as unjust and just as unrighteous in what we are demanding as well. This is one of the great plights of humanity. Before we condemn a person, let's stop and ask the question, am I guilty of this too? We can become blinded to our true spiritual health. We can view position, influence, money, and power as our value. We can use people as tools for our own self-centered ends. We can be blinded by our own success. We can take advantage of others. And before we get upset at the people around us that are doing it to us, we should ask, is there somebody that's thinking about me the same way? So that we can address these issues. The second counsel is this: we need to make sense of the dynamics we're living through. The purest example of the Christian church throughout history has been primarily a suffering, persecuted church. I'm not saying always. Thankfully there are exceptions to that. But as a general rule, Christians have suffered in the places they've lived. John 15, 8 says, If the world hate you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. 2 Timothy 3:12 says, All that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Folks, when we look at the world around us, let's not be shocked. Let's not become people of despair. Let's recognize this is what Christians have dealt with for thousands of years. Counsel number three, let's be comforted by God's justice. Like the text says, be patient until the coming of the Lord. Be also patient, establish your heart, for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Behold, the judge standeth before the door You may look at a situation, a personal situation, a local situation, a relational situation, a work situation. A statewide situation, a national situation, and you look at it and you say, injustice, unrighteousness, I'm afraid, I have despair in my heart, I'm shocked, I don't know what to do with myself. Remember God is still righteous. He is still on the throne. You don't know what God will do, how he'll do it, but you've got to learn to trust him in those circumstances. The final passage I want to read to you is what we start our service with, and I want you to think of it in light of what we've talked about this morning. Psalm 145, 8 through 20. The Lord is gracious. Full of compassion, slow to anger, of great mercy. The Lord is good to all, his tender mercies are over all his works All thy works shall praise thee, and thy saints shall bless thee. They shall speak of the glories of thy kingdom and talk of thy power. Thy kingdom is an everlasting commun kingdom. Thy dominion endureth throughout all generations. The Lord upholdeth all that fall, He raiseth up all those that are bowed down. The eyes of all wait upon thee, and thou givest them their meat in due season. Thou openest thy hand and satisfyest the desire of every living thing. The Lord is righteous in all his ways, holy in all his works. The Lord is nigh unto them that call upon him. him to all that call upon him in truth. He will fulfill the desires of them that fear him. He will also hear their cry and will save them. And here's the last statement. He preserveth all them that love him, but the wicked he will destroy. Don't be wicked. As we face difficulties as Christians We need to recognize that all of those statements about God's compassion and his mercy and his love, they are true. And we need to also be reminded that God is going to deal with all evil. And we need to rejoice in that. God wants us to rest in his righteousness when times are tough. Let's do that. I want to encourage you to bow your hearts together with me, and we'll close in prayer in just a moment. But in our closing, I want to ask you a question. Can you apply the text in front of you? Are you a child of God? I emphasize that this text is to encourage the believer that God will judge the wicked. But the fact is, if I'm not a child of God, I have nothing, nothing that I can look to for hope. Save the cross of Christ and the gospel. Can you rest in God's justice? If you don't know for certain that you're saved, that you're God's child, I hope that you will not leave this place without getting that issue resolved. Let me just ask this question. Is there a person here today that might say, Pastor, I don't know for certain that I'm saved? I know the message wasn't primarily evangelistic, but I need to talk to somebody. I just want to let you know that so that you can meet with me and show me how to be saved. Anybody like that? Raise your hand quietly. Nobody's looking except me. But I want to be able to make a note of that so I can meet with you, share the gospel with you. The second question is, is there any person here that say, Pastor, I know I'm saved, but you know, I turn on the news. I think about some of the legislation going on in our government. I'm scared. I'm angry. I have despair in my heart. And I needed to be reminded of that today. If that's it, you would you quietly raise your hand and say, Pastor, that's me. I'm not gonna call anybody's name or anything like that. And there's a lot of hands Put those down. It completely makes sense that you'll feel that way. But that's why we needed this text of scripture this morning. Let's be all together for prayer. Let's ask the Lord to comfort us by his righteousness. Father, thank you for the opportunity this morning to be reminded that you're just I am very sure that there are people in our congregation, people that listen this morning, that are feeling the weight of injustice on some level, whether it's interpersonal. Whether it's the fear of the future, I pray that you will comfort them. But they'll be reminded that you are very compassionate towards them and their circumstances. And you love them and you will strengthen them. They will overcome. By the enabling that you give them. And in the end, you will vindicate them. I pray that you would help us as a church to be firmly convinced of your sovereignty, firmly convinced of your goodness and your wisdom, firmly convinced of your justice, and that those truths would really encourage us this morning We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, I want you to take your hymn books and we're going to sing hymn 109, Great Is Thy Faithfulness. As a hymn to remember what we have what we've heard this morning. Great is thy faithfulness. Sing the first and the la first and the third verses together, please. Let's stand and really reflect on these wonderful truths this morning. I stay Oh God, my father There is no shadow alternative. Yes, my faithfulness made it. My faithfulness, morning by morning , mercy I see. All I have seen at I had no It is thy dayfulness on the last hard and force sin and the key standard. Thine own dear presence to fear and to die Spring for today and fight to In the house and thy faithfulness , it is thy faithfulness , morning, my morning. In your mercies I see all I have needed I can have it as I say. Amen. He is faithful. Tori, can you close us in prayer this morning? And I hope that you'll be able to join us again this evening. We're going to be looking at an interesting text of scripture. We're going to Ecclesiastes 3. It's probably one of the most well-known verses uh of scripture in the Bible. It's a time to be born, a time to die, a time to mourn, a time to dance. You know this this section of scripture, I'm sure. We're going to talk about that text of scripture tonight, and I think that you'll find it to be very encouraging. I think it dovetails very well. with some of what we've talked about this morning. So I hope that you can join us again this evening as we continue our study in the book of Ecclesiastes and we talk about how there is a time for every purpose under heaven and what that means. So Hope that you can make it back tonight. And uh Tori, close us in prayer. And uh if you were visiting with us today, it's so good to have you and I hope that you will uh greet me on the way out. And if you didn't get a visitor card that you will uh get that filled out so we can connect. with you. Go ahead. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for your grace, your continued mercy in our lives. Thank you for your word, sobering truth. Uh that you are God of justice. We thank you so much that it does mean that uh you will look out for us as your children. But we also live in the careful warning, Lord, that uh Uh that you are just in all ways and uh we do pray that that would sober us to live lives that glorify you and to be a testimony to those around us. Lord I pray for safety for everyone that traveled uh here today and then It's a travel home that you would protect everyone. Thank you for your continued watch care over our congregation. We do pray that you would continue to keep us in good health and strength throughout the week. May you bless us until we meet again this evening. In Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen.