You take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of Romans. We are in Romans chapter eight this morning, and as we dig into this passage of scripture, this will be a little bit of a breakaway from our typical series that we're doing through the book of Luke. And since it is Father's Day, we're going to focus in on a theme that I hope will be very encouraging for you. As dads, whether your father is living or not, whether your father was a godly father or not, we can look to our heavenly father as the perfect example. In fact, we will find tremendous comfort in him. And then as we dig into how he relates to us, I think it gives us a great pattern as dads that we should follow. Romans chapter 8 will begin in verse 14. It says this, For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. You have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit that we are the children of God, and of children then heirs. Heirs of God, joint heirs with Christ. If so be that we suffer with him, we may also be glorified together. For I reckon that the suffering of this present time is not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. Let's bow together for a few minutes. Ask the Lord to bless our time together, and then let's dig into this passage as we reflect on being comforted by our loving Heavenly Father. Father, as we dig into your word, I pray that the Spirit of God, who convinces us of our need to trust Christ, And then convinces us of our position in Christ once we are your children. I pray that the Spirit of God would open our eyes to these wonderful truths. You know every heart, every burden, every challenge, you know what's going on as people are gathered this morning or with us on the live stream, and I pray that you administer to every heart. in a very personal way. Help me as I work through this passage to do it clearly. Help it to be accurate. Help it to be very powerful in the way that it's communicated. And I pray that the word of God would take root in every heart today. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. On Friday mornings, we spend time together as a group of guys within our church staff, and now we have an intern with us as well. And we gather with a couple of friends, not just here in Maryland, but also through WhatsApp. And so we gathered with Josh today or on Friday. We were able to get together with another man that was staying there in Ireland with him. I believe it was kind of like an intern that he is dealing with this summer. And then we had the guys from Ghana. Eric and Michael are often able to join us. And so as we are working our way through this passage of Scripture, we are talking about Father's Day, and the truth is that not every country celebrates Father's Day and not every country celebrates Father's Day at the same time and not every country celebrates Father's Day in the same way. And one was that in one of those countries, Father's Day wasn't really that big a deal. And the reason it wasn't such a big deal is because a lot of people did not really have close relationships with their dads. A lot of fathers had not really made a very positive impact, and so it was something that they were trying to get it to gain sting, but in fact it really wasn't the way that maybe it is in some places. The truth is when we come to days like Father's Day, Mother's Day, a lot of national holidays, I always struggle a little bit because I know that there is a bitterness and a sweetness many times when we think about these kinds of events. Not everyone had a good relationship with dad. Some people did not grow up with dad. Some did not grow up with a godly father. Some people had a wonderful relationship with their father. And now he's in glory, and this is a very hard day for them. The fact is that when we come to a passage of scripture like this one, what it does more than anything else is it drives us home to the point that there is a father who is perfect. There is a father that gives us a perfect example, and there is a father that no matter what kinds of circumstances we encounter in this life, we can rest. In the goodness and the wisdom of that Father, we can always pattern our lives after his example. He will never leave us a deficient example. And that Father is our Heavenly Father. The passage in front of us was written to comfort and strengthen believers who were facing hardship. We know that because later on in these verses it talks about the fact that we reckon that the sufferings of this present world are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. And he talks about how creation groans and how there are a lot of heartaches in life. As we look at these verses, it's going to give us comfort. It's going to give us hope. Not in circumstances, but in the one who we rest in in the midst of difficult circumstances. As we read these verses, what we're going to see is God wants us to simply rest in his fatherly care. And so working our way through Romans chapter 8, we think about the fact that life sometimes throws us curveballs. Sometimes it's very painful, very confusing. And when we get into tough situations, my question to you is, where does your mind go? You know where my mind goes many times? Is God good? You say, Well, you're a pastor. You know he's good. Of course I know he's good, but what about in the experience? What about when you're living through something that you cannot make sense of? Do you question God's goodness? Or you might say, well, he's good, but does he care about me? That kind of personalizes us a little bit. Or is he really in control? Is he a sovereign God? Has he abandoned us? Our circumstances sometimes drive us to ask these questions. But in this passage, we see some very comforting statements. Let me highlight them quickly. Verse 1, there is therefore now no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. Verse 15, we have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. Verse 18, the suffering of this present time is not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. Verse 28, all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose. Verse 31: If God is for us, who can be against us? Verse 38, I'm persuaded that nothing can separate us from the love of God and Christ Jesus our Lord. What do all these verses have in common? They give us security. They give us comfort. They give us encouragement that is outside of circumstance, but is rooted in something That is real, that is certain, that is true. It reminds us that God is good and strong and he tenderly loves us as his children. That last little statement is the one I want to focus in on today. We are his children. What does knowing that I'm a child of God do for me in the midst of all the kinds of things that can come come along in life. Well, it gives me hope. It gives me comfort. It gives me strength. And so I'd like us to focus in on that concept. First thing I want you to notice from the text in front of us is that God is. He is our Father. We hope he will be our father, or he might become our father, or in the future he will be our father, but in fact he is Right now, our Father. Look down at verse 14. He says, as many as are led by the Spirit of God, They are the sons of God. Now, if we go back into this passage of Scripture, he talks about how someone becomes a son of God. A child of God. And he emphasizes the fact that what the law was not able to do in its weakness to the flesh, God did it by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh. He condemned sin in the flesh. so that we could actually walk as new creatures in Christ. But one of the things that we see highlighted in this text is that there are two kinds of people in the world. And we could break this down a couple different ways. We say there's men and there's women, okay? Or when we look at the book of Romans, we could see there's Jew and there's Gentile. But there is one distinction that I'd really like to highlight this morning, and that is there are people who are spiritually dead and people who are spiritually alive. Say what do you mean by that? What I mean by that is this. There are some people that are God's children, and there are some people that are Not God's children. Right here, right now, maybe even in this room, I don't know, but most certainly in this community, there are people in one of those two categories. This concept is flushed out in the New Testament quite a few different ways. It's stated in several ways to kind of give us a fuller picture and understanding of what he means by this. For instance. Ephesians 2. 1 says, you have he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sin, spiritually dead, now spiritually alive. Well 1 Corinthians 15, 22. This is a really clear one. He says, in Adam all die. In Christ all are made alive. He puts people in one of those two categories, or John chapter 3, verse 36, he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. He that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. Again, two positions One is spiritually alive, one is spiritually dead. One is dead in Adam, one is alive in Christ. One is alive, having new life, eternal life in Christ, and one is under God's wrath and judgment. And then John 5. 24, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life. shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. Question. Which position are you in right now? Are you in Adam or are you in Christ? You might say, I've never heard of such a thing in my whole life. So obviously I can't answer that question. What is the distinguishing mark between being in Adam and being in Christ, or being spiritually dead versus spiritually alive? having condemnation versus being one who possesses eternal life. What is the difference? It's all about what you do at the gospel. It's all about how you respond to what Christ has done for you. Christ died for your sins. He rose from the dead, and if you will turn humbly in faith and trust in what he did for you on the cross, you will pass from death to life. You will go from being in Adam to being in Christ. You will go from being under condemnation to now having, possessing, eternal life. The difference between these two positions is faith alone in Christ. And so he talks about it this way. If someone is in Christ, he's now God's child. Born of God, belonging to God. 2 Corinthians 5 says that he is a new creature in Christ. Romans chapter 6 talks about how we have now come into this new position and we're to walk in newness of life. And this new position is revealed by a change in attitude towards sin. And that's what he means when he says as many as are led of the Spirit. This person who's now a new creature in Christ, who belongs to God, who is God's child, there is something that is fundamental that has changed in their heart, in their attitude towards God, their attitude towards sin. And their faith alone and the one and only way to come into God's presence through Christ. Are you a child of God? The Bible says that you can know that for certain. And so if there's somebody here this morning or maybe somebody on the live stream who says, I don't know for certain that I'm a child of God, please do not leave this place today. or do not turn off the live stream without sending an email and saying, hey, I want to talk to you about this issue of salvation. The Bible is very clear. It shows us exactly how we can become God's children through what Christ has done for us. But there's a second truth I want you to notice in these verses. Not just that a person can right here and right now be a child of God, but secondly, that same person can experience immediate comfort within that relationship that they have now to God. Look at what it says in verses 15, 16, and 17. He says, you have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption. Whereby we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God, and if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ. Now there's some really fascinating things that are stated in these verses. The first thing that I want you to notice is that we have a real Objective position when we become a child of God. Verse 16, what does it say? We are the children of God Not only does he speak about it in terms of who we are, but he also talks about how we now are relating to God and how he is relating to us. Notice these two little statements, very interesting. He talks about us not having a spirit of bondage, which leads to fear But he talks about us now having a spirit of adoption that motivates us to cry Abba Father. You say, what in the world is he talking about? What he is talking about is how our relationship to God that changes also changes how he relates to us. And he speaks specifically about the Holy Spirit. Everybody in this room right now, if you have understood the gospel and you place your faith in Christ. You are, whether you feel it or not, at every single moment of every single day, you are a child of God, and you have the Holy Spirit indwelling you right now. And you know what the Holy Spirit does in your hearts? The Holy Spirit takes the Word of God as you go through difficult seasons of life. And he draws your attention to the truths of Scripture that are to comfort you and strengthen you and help you navigate those issues the way that God designed for you to navigate them. So when a person starts doubting, you know, confidence, am I really a Christian? And they start doubting that not because of what they read in the Bible, but because their conscience is condemning them, because They have stumbled in the Christian life. You know what the Spirit of God does? He draws us back to the gospel. He points us to those truths. He says, that's true about you. And he comforts us through that. Or maybe we experience something really hard, really complicated, really discouraging in life. We can't make full sense of it. And all of a sudden our mind starts drifting into this mentality. God has abandoned me. He doesn't care about me. He doesn't love me. You know what the Spirit of God does? He drives us back to the truth. He'll never leave us. He'll never forsake us. We belong to Him And he talks about those truths in the Word of God. He drives us back to that. You know what that is? That is the comforting work of the Spirit. Same Holy Spirit, you know what he does to the unbeliever? He doesn't comfort them. Say, why? Because they're not in Christ. He draws their attention to the law of God and how we fall short of the law of God, and he says, you cannot earn your way to God. It says in John chapter 16 that when the Spirit comes, he convicts the world of sin and righteousness and judgment. He says, you break God's laws. You fall short of his righteousness. You're going to be judged. You need to turn to Christ. That's what he does. And he does it over and over and over again in so many different ways. But when a person turns to Christ and places their faith in him, that same spirit relates to them differently. Why? Because their position has changed. And that is really the sense of what is being talked about here. A spirit of bondage that drives a person to recognize their righteousness doesn't cut it, they have a problem, Christ is the one who died for their sins, and he can save them. Spirit of adoption, you belong to God. You are his child. Rest in those realities. And so what is the sense of these truths? The sense of these truths is that you and I can have immediate comfort no matter what's going on in our lives. Yeah, the world doesn't have that. And I'm not saying that the world can't find comfort, but that comfort is temporary. That comfort is built on something that is assuming things that aren't necessarily true. The believer's comfort rests on the unchangeable, objective truths of Scripture He says in verse 17, if we are children, then we are heirs and joint heirs with Christ. Verse 15 he says, through these things what do we do? We cry, Abba Father. The Christian life is not supposed to be lived as a cold, lifeless, strict academic pursuit. It's supposed to be a real, living, vibrant relationship. God wants you to know him personally. And so he wants our faith to be filled with passion and warmth and affection. That's what he wants. But then I move to a third fact. You and I can rest in the security of that position. Notice what he says in verse 17. He says, if children, then heirs. Joint heirs with Christ. If we suffer with him, we may also be glorified together with him. Now, when I use that word rest, what I mean is this. We as God's people should navigate life with comfort and confidence in our heart. I I kind of thought of this analogy in my mind. Anybody in here ever been to an NFL football game where you were sitting close enough that you could see the players and like how big they really are? Anybody ever been to a game like that? Alright, come on. We live close to Like Baltimore, Washington. Come on, man. So I've been to a couple of football games. Most of them I wasn't close enough to appreciate how big and fast these guys are But there have been a few times that I've been close enough to be able to see how big these guys really are. And I'll tell you, watching a game in person versus watching a game on a television is just not the same You do not get an appreciation if you are watching on a television how big, how strong, how fast, how intense. The struggle is on the line. I mean, when you see the guys that are working on the offensive side and they're trying to protect the quarterback and they're trying to break that line open, And you see the struggle between these guys that are 320, 330, 285, 300, and I mean they are really wrestling on that on that line. You don't appreciate it until you're in person. It's a pretty awesome thing. But I want you to picture what it would be like to watch at the end of the game where one of those big football players, somebody that's on the defensive line or the offensive line, these are the big guys, all right? They walk out on that field, and out of the stands comes this little lady with a couple of little kids Two, three kids. You ever seen something like that? There's kids like this. That their dad is an NFL football player. And here's this big guy that's been wrestling on the line for all those hours. And then here comes this Little kid running up to his daddy. Running up to her daddy. And here's this big old guy. Lifts up this kid in her arm in his arms. And you know what you see? You see strengths. And you also see affection. It's kind of a crazy thing to think about. And you also see a really sweaty mess when they're doing this as well. But you see strength and you see affection. What an awesome picture. The truth is when we talk about our relationship to God as our Father, we see the strength of the Almighty, unchangeable, creator of heaven and earth, and we see the warmth of the and the affection of one whose mercies are new every morning. It's incredible to think about. And so that's something that should give us security. It should give us comfort. We should feel warmth and affection. And we think about the position we have in Christ. And that's really the sense of it. If we are God's children, we are also his heirs And if we are his heirs, we are joint heirs with Christ. And if we suffer, we are going to experience glory with him. It's all true. We can rest on that. What I mean by that is we should delight in God's grace. Ephesians chapter 2. We all were by nature the children of wrath, but God, who is rich in mercy, for his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, he has quickened us together with Christ. That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. We have this infinite God who wants to give us The riches of his grace. Pretty amazing thing to think about. It's his grace. Or Romans chapter 5, verse 6. When we were without strength, Christ died for the ungodly. Christ, God commended this love toward us while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. We should delight in God's love. Or Romans 8. 31. If God before us, who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Nothing shall be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. We should rest in his love. When you and I think of our creator and God, who has established a relationship with us through the sacrifice of his son. We should delight in him. We should rest in him. We should glory in him. And that should be something that is very, very comforting. If children, then heirs, if we suffer, we shall be glorified together with him. But there's a fourth truth I want you to notice. And that is we can endure as overcomers. Look down in verse 18, he says, I reckon the suffering of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. That word reckon has the idea of a calculation. So I have these facts, I look at these facts, I ponder these facts, and I determine based on the facts that in fact they are true. And I acknowledge them as true, and I rest in them and I deal with them as if they are true. That is the sense of reckoning. It is considering a thing to be true after you have analyzed it and seen that in fact it is true. These truths should fundamentally shape how we view life. And so what does the Spirit of God do? He personally works in us to cultivate a healthy overcoming perspective. As he works, we've got to choose to embrace what he says. Truth is, what I'm telling you this morning, these are wonderful truths. But you could sit here and hear them and not believe them. Or you could sit there and say, Well, I believe them, but you don't think twice about them the rest of the day. You have to make a choice with the truth you're exposed to. When he says, I reckon the idea is we have to daily choose to consider the reality of what he says. Every morning, throughout the day, no matter what I've encountered in the day, in the evening before I rest my head at night, I need to stop and I need to ponder, I need to think. on the twos that we find here. Secondly, we must view our present suffering in the light of future glory. One of the things that is so hard to do is to get our eyes off of what's right in front of us and miss what's out in front of us. I think that an athletic analogy is really good here. If anyone's ever been on a sports team and they know what it's like to go to the first couple of weeks of practice, Maybe in a sport like wrestling. I know that one very well. I know it was like to go to wrestling practice. That first month, I'm telling you the whole point of that first month was to weed out all the guys that came out and they thought they were tough in macho, and by the end of that month they're like, I'm done with this. I don't want anything to do with this. It was about getting you up to speed, but it was about we if we didn't add a bunch of guys as well. I remember the first time I tried out for a ju uh seventh grade basketball team. That one was really trying to weed out the guys that they didn't want on the team. And we just ran and ran and ran and ran. And it was misery. But a good coach is going to put you through what you need so that you will be stronger, you'll be faster, you'll have greater Skill when you step onto the mat, when you step out on the field, when you step out on the court, you're ready to compete. And you're not just ready to compete, but you're ready to compete at a level of excellence. It's fun to win. It's misery to lose. And so what is your coach doing? He's training you in the trenches so that when you step into the arena, you're ready for it. The truth is a lot of athletes, when they get into those practices, they're like, oh, they gotta run another suicide. I don't know if they call them that anymore. That's what they call them when we're when we're in school. Maybe they don't do that anymore. I don't know. Oh, we gotta run another mile. Gotta hit another rep. Got another minute of that drill. But what's the coach thinking? I'm trying to push your endurance level just a little bit more. I'm trying to make you just a little bit mentally tougher because I know when you get into the competition, you're going to need that extra push. And the truth is that when we go through the challenges of life, God is taking us and he is molding us to become the people he wants us to be. He wants us to mature, he wants us to grow. He wants us to be men and women of character and maturity. By the way, that is what godly fathers are supposed to do. A godly father looks at his children and he doesn't just let them do anything they want to do. He gives them boundaries. He gives them restraints. He teaches them. He guides them. He meets them in those challenges. Sometimes he even puts challenges in front of them. Because he wants them to push through that and he wants them to endure and he wants them to come on the other side having learned a skill or having learned some kind of discipline And so what does the father do? He puts them through it. Not because he's mean, not because he's cruel, not because he wants to see his children suffer. No. He knows that the process is necessary to have that product down the road that he wants to see his children. He wants to equip them for life. God does it too. And so, as the Spirit of God works in the children of God, you know what he does? He teaches us to see that present suffering is incomparable to future glory. And present suffering serves a purpose. That as we go through those trials of faith, it will produce patience and maturity and Christ-likeness. We've got to view our present suffering in the light of future glory. We must rest in the promise of God who cannot lie. What does he say? It will be revealed in us. That is very comforting. No matter how hard it might get on a day-to-day basis, there's light at the end of the tunnel. And that light of the end of the tunnel is future glory. And that future glory is preserved for us by God because He has saved us, He keeps us, He'll complete His work, we will experience all that He has promised. So how do we apply this? Well, there's two categories of people in the world. There's those who are in Christ and those who are not. And so if you do not know the Lord as your Savior, I want to start with Showing you how this applies to you. In a world filled with hardship, humanity longs for genuine hope. And that is so true. Suffering causes people to look to places for hope. And as people navigate life's challenges, there's only one place they can find real hope. It's in the Lord. He has dealt with our sin. He has provided everything needed so that we can be reconciled to the Father. He calls us to personally respond to the gospel. And my question is this, what is keeping you from trusting Christ today? It might be that everybody here in this room is a believer. I really don't know. But if for some reason you're sitting in this seat and you're going, I am not a Christian. I have never embraced the gospel, then I want to encourage you to turn to Christ today Place your faith in him. Depend on what he has done for you in his death and resurrection. Then I speak to the second category. It might be everybody here, I don't know. And that is the Christian, the one who you can say with confidence, he is my father, I've trusted in the Son. I have the Spirit and He works in my heart so that I cry out of the Father when I go through the sufferings of life. What can I take from this text? First of all, life is hard and people need hope. But what do we have in Christ? Everything we need. We have everything we need in him. He is our Father. He is good. Not just somewhat good. He is infinitely good. We have a position in Christ that is forever, forever secured in him. We have the Spirit of God who is actively working in us. He convicted us of sin to drive us to Christ. He comforts us to remind us of our position as we encounter life's challenges. We can actively choose to rest in these truths, and we must do it. I want to finish where I started the service. Pastor Josh read Psalm 103, verse 8. I want you to listen carefully to these words. Because they are true of your father. No matter how you're feeling at the moment, these are true of your father. Here's what it says. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and plenteous in mercy. He will not always chide. Neither will he keep his anger forever. He hath not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. As the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us. Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. He knoweth our frame. He remembereth that we are dust. That's your father. That's your father. Dads, that's who we should reflect. Let's do it by his grace. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. With every head bowed and every eye closed, before we close in prayer, I have a simple question. Is there anyone here this morning that would say, Joel, as I listen to that message, I came to a very simple conclusion, I am not a Christian. I've never placed my faith in Christ. You talked about two people in the world. I'm in the wrong category. And I'm concerned about that. I need to trust Christ. Is there anyone that would quietly slip up your hand? I'm not gonna call you out, I'm not gonna ask you to come forward, I'm not gonna ask you to give a speech, nothing like that. I just want to see your hand so I know that I can try to connect with you after the service. Is there anyone that would raise your hand and say that's me? Joel, I need to talk to someone about the gospel. I don't know for sure that I'm saved. Anybody at all? Give you just a moment. Slip up your hand if you need to acknowledge that. Anyone at all? Second question I have is this, is there a dad here that's like, I needed to hear that because I'm not I'm not a good reflection of my Heavenly Father I want my children to see a good example. Any dads like that? I need to raise my hand. Because there are days that I'm not a great example Days that I'm impatient. Days I'm too harsh. Days I'm too lenient. Days that I don't follow through with commitments I've made. Every dad in here. Could probably honestly say I fall into the same category. May God help us to be faithful fathers. Let's be out for prayer. Our Father in heaven, we thank you that we can come to you with complete confidence. That we are yours, that you love us, you will keep us. And Father, I pray for all of our men here. That's fathers, that's grandfathers, that's future fathers. May all of our men here purposed by your strength to be godly men who will point their children and grandchildren to you. Father, I pray that you will be with those who are Needing that comfort and that reminder of their Heavenly Father, may they be comforted by the things they've heard today. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.