Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I'm very sorry that yesterday I wasn't able to get one of our Anchored in the Words out. So I'm going to uh Put one more video out um tomorrow on Saturday uh to make sure that we get all five in this week. Uh but if you're joining us, I want to remind you that we're in Romans chapter eight And we're looking at a very important concept. We're looking at the concept of God being our loving Heavenly Father. What I'd like to focus on this morning is the fact that the way that God deals with us as His children is always good. In fact, it is very, very good. So let's go ahead and read these verses again together. Romans chapter 8 verses 14 through 19 and then we're going to focus in on this concept of how God's ways with us are very good. It says, As many as have led of the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit that we are the children of God, and if children, then heirs, heirs of God, joint heirs with Christ, if so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified together. For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us Now yesterday we talked about, or actually it would be the day before because we we missed yesterday, but um we talked about the fact That God wants us to understand our position objectively, that we are his children, but then he wants us to go a step further. Not just that we have this intellectual understanding of our position, but we actually have this rich experiential sense of the position that we have in Christ. as his children. And the thing that God really wants to drive home to us is that the way that he deals with us and the way that he relates to us and how he is inclined toward us. It is always, always good. You say, well, well Joel, how do you know that God's ways are always, always good towards us? Well the reason I know that is because I know God's character, and I also know that the volumes of examples in Scripture that show us how patient and how kind and how gentle and how good God is toward his children. But I really want to highlight this in verse number 17, because in verse 17 it says the following, if we are children , then we are heirs, heirs of God, joint heirs with Christ. If so be that we suffer with him , that we may also be glorified together. Now this passage of scripture, this statement, is very important. There's this logical connection between being God's child and being his heir. And if I'm his heir, then I am his heir with Christ Because I've received this inheritance in Christ. Another way to put that is that the fullness of that inheritance that God has purchased for me is something that I receive in Christ. And all of the realities of that inheritance, every aspect of our salvation is a direct result. of God's lavish display of goodness on our behalf. There is nothing that we have done to merit or deserve or have earn or to have earned such goodness from God. We know that because in Ephesians chapter 3 it talks about what we were before we were in Christ and what we are now that we are in Christ, and it explains the exceeding abundance of God's kindness toward us. Here's what it says in verse 3. He says that we were all by nature the children of wrath, as others. But God, who is rich in mercy for his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins hath quickened us together with Christ. And he's done this so that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. Now that passage of Scripture is highlighting our position before we were saved, our attitude and disposition toward God before we were saved. the manner in which we lived before we were saved, and the abundance, the exceeding abundance of the riches that are ours in Christ after our conversion. Now, what is the connecting piece between what we were and what we are and what we will receive? Well the connecting piece is this statement, but God who is rich in mercy That is what connects us. And so what that tells us is that God takes a person who is contrary to him. He is in enmity with him, walking by nature in opposition to him, and in his great mercy and great love and his abundance of grace In his kindness toward us, he makes us alive in Christ, and he says, I've done this so that I can give you for all of eternity this lavish display of an eternal inheritance. What is that? That is God demonstrating the goodness of his ways. And we see this also in Romans chapter 5, verse 6. He says, that when we were without strength, Christ died for the ungodly. God commendeth his love toward us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And I just love the word commendeth. It means that He takes this abundance of riches and this goodness and this grace and he lifts it up and he says, examine this, treasure it, revel in it. I'm demonstrating to you the amazing goodness and grace and love that I have for you. That's what God's doing And so the fact that we are his children, that we have been born again, we have been regenerated, is all the work of the Spirit of God. It is by his gracious act toward us that we are alive in Christ. The fact that we have this internal, eternal inheritance has been purchased for us by the redemptive work of Christ. He literally laid down his life so that we could be redeemed to him. And you say, well, what was the motive of this? It was his great love. It was this desire to demonstrate his grace toward us. It was his rich in mercy toward us. It's all of his goodness. He says that we're going to be joint heirs with Christ. We've been united with Christ by what? By grace. And so again, it's his goodness. He even goes on to talk about the affliction that we endure in the Christian life. And the idea is that even the afflictions that we endure, these are not wasted afflictions. Everybody in this world experiences hardships. Whether you're a Christian or not a Christian, you experience hardship and suffering because this is a fallen world, and we are fallen people, and everybody that we interact with is fallen. But God takes the afflictions that the believer endures and he uses them for redemptive purposes. He uses them to accomplish good. So in the life of the Christian, God even takes all of these challenging circumstances these difficulties, these hardships, and he weaves them together to accomplish this great purpose of conforming us to the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, well, Joel, what's the great takeaway? Here it is. The great takeaway is that God strikes the perfect balance that you and I need so that we can mature in the faith. and be the people that God wants us to be. That we would be conformed to the image of Christ in our thinking and conform to the image of Christ in our reactions and conform to the image of Christ in the level of maturity and endurance. And we will be conformed to the image of Christ in our character. How does God do that? He strikes this perfect balance and how he guides the affairs of our lives to accomplish good. on our behalf. And so what do we have today to walk away with? What we have to walk away with is that God's ways are always good. I hope that this morning As you go throughout your day, you will pause and reflect on that great truth. God's ways are always good. towards his children. Have a blessed day. And Lord willing, I know it's Saturday, but Lord willing tomorrow we will uh do our fifth series so that our fifth our fifth uh episodes that will close out uh our reflection on Romans chapter eight. Have a blessed day. Bye now.