Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church this morning and uh special warm welcome to our fathers as it's Father's Day We do have a gift for our men after the service, so please stop by and pick that up, men, after the service, and also a couple of announcements. One is that there's a brief announce or there's a brief meet meeting after the evening service and we'll be voting um on uh the Linders and also on Wednesday night for all of those who are uh sending kids to camp, our teen camp. Uh there's going to be a meeting for parents after the uh the prayer time on Wednesday night. So please make sure that you mark that. And then also for our teenagers at 7 p. m. On the 22nd, we have our anchored in the word teen study. That'll be at our house. And so please mark that on your calendars. There are several other items in your bulletin. So please make a note of those things. If you could, let's all turn in our Bibles to Psalm 77. Psalm 77. I'd like to read to you a portion of this Psalm. As we think about how God is our Father. Psalm 77, verses 11 through 20, here's what it says. I will remember the works of the Lord. Surely I will remember thy wonders of old. I will meditate also of all thy work and talk of thy doings. Thy way, O God, is in the sanctuary. Who is so great a God as our God? Thou art the God that doest wonders. Thou hast declared thy strength among the people. Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph, Selah. The water saw thee, O God, the water saw thee, they were afraid, the depths also were troubled. The clouds poured out water, the skies sent out a sound. Thine arrows also went abroad. The voice of thy thunder was in the heavens, the lightnings lightened the world. The earth trembled and shook. Thy way is in the sea. Thy path in the great waters, thy footsteps are not known. Thou ledest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron. This is a great text of scripture for us to open our service as we joyfully consider God's fatherly care over his children. And these verses we see of the terror of the Lord as he protects his children. And we see how he tenderly led his people even through the Red Sea. What a fascinating picture of God's power and his might and how personal and how much he loves us as Let's bow together. Ask the Lord to bless our time, that this service will really be a tool that God uses to draw our attention to Himself and work in our hearts. Father, we are so grateful that we can gather together as your people. We are redeemed by the finished work of Christ on the cross. There's no basis for us to stand in your presence apart from the death, the burial, and the resurrection of Christ that removed our sin debt. And purchased eternal life, and the righteousness of Christ that is imputed to us by faith alone in the finished work of Christ. We recognize we stand righteous only by grace And we treasure this position. We glory in it. I pray that this morning, as we open up our Bibles and as we consider the fatherly care of our great God , That our hearts would be overwhelmed by the tremendous work that you have accomplished on our behalf, the tremendous benefits that we enjoy entirely of your grace because of Christ's redemptive work. As we consider how you draw us to yourself and how the Spirit of God presses our hearts close to you as we go through difficult seasons, I pray. That you will take the Word of God, help us to understand it rightly, and then may the Spirit of God press it deeply upon our souls As we sing praise to you, may we consider with great joy the position we enjoy and the way that you care for us as your people. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning. Thanks so much for joining us Joining us here at Anchor Baptist Church for worship. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number sixty-three, Immortal, Invisible, God-only wise. We're going to sing all four verses of hymn number sixty-three. Yeah, well Pray God to God, Glory , God , God , all the time. Great singing. Let's turn over to hymn 116. This is my father 's world. 116, we'll sing verses 1 through 3. All three verses. I ever need to be the last time I can continue that I do not know. No tiene que ver eso, como no es como. . Great singing, please be single. Seated as we turn over to hymn number one hundred nine. One hundred nine. Great is thy faithfulness. We'll sing all three verses. And I 'm Well Pero a lo mejor no hay que hacerlo, pero yo le digo que no. Amen. Great singing this morning. Our scripture reading will be found in Romans chapter 8. Romans chapter 8, verses 14 through 19. Romans chapter 8. Verses 14 through 19. The scriptures say, For as many as are led by the Spirit of God , They are the sons of God. For ye have not yet received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father The Spirit itself beareth witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ. if so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified together. For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. So, I'm not sure what I'm saying. Alright, let's continue our wonderful singing this morning with opening our hymn books to hymn number 130. The Love of God. 130. We'll sing all three verses. Alright, please stand with me as we sing number 109 from our blue book Number 109, our triune God will sing all three verses, and we'll sing that last verse, a cappella. To those who are we praise you for your team that God we were. We all can come up with Yeah I glory I then praise the name. Please be Make me know your presence for the king In a glory. You know we saw January and fear How can I hide from me? Can argue hide inequity? Oh how can I unpake for be When you are to me When God is living all my worstly far away. When God is bearing every fear is not our side. When God is near, how can I scream? How can I falter? I'll stay upon the altar I know my God is Make me know your presence for well, I feel so almost. You know which tribal testing paint the birth that is unknown. Oh, why can I not sleep? Your hands over me guiding me. Oh, how can I untrust him be When you are meaning to me When God is there is there, all the world is far away. When God is every period that 's a sign. When God is me, how can I pray? How can I conquer? I'll stay upon the altar. I know my God is Okay, well our children who are junior church aged can be dismissed to the back With some parental help. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to the book of Romans. And we are in Romans chapter 8 this morning, and I absolutely love The text of Scripture that we're going to deal with this morning, in fact, I love the chapter. Romans chapter 8 is probably my absolute favorite chapter in all scripture. Because it has some of the richest themes. It is it is one of the most gospel-centric texts that you will ever read in Scripture. I hope that as we were singing these songs this morning, you notice that there is a very distinctive focus. To our worship. We sing about God's majesty. We sing about God's fatherly care. We sing about God's faithfulness. We sing about God's love. And then we sing about how each of the three persons of the Godhead, the Father, The Son and the Spirit, each person works in perfect unison to give us the salvation that we enjoy this morning. The Father had a very distinctive role in our salvation. The Son had a very distinctive role in our salvation. The Spirit had it a very distinctive role in our salvation. When I use the word had, I mean he has. Okay, and will forever. Each person of the Godhead has a very definitive ministry when it comes to this matter of salvation and the gospel. And this morning, what I'd like us to look at is how God comforts us as a loving heavenly father. You know, when we come to a day like Mother's Day or a day like Father's Day, I recognize that within a congregation this size, there are some folks that this is a day that you honor a mother or a father who is a tremendously godly example, though a flawed example, a very godly example. But also recognize that there are others that that is not the case at all. They do not have a godly father, do not have a godly mother, and so a day like this sometimes can be a little bit complicated for them to to face and to think about. What I'd like to do this morning is I'd like us to look at the perfect father, the perfect example. And I want you to give just a little bit better glimpse and appreciation for the kind of care that God in heaven, who created us and who purchased us, who redeemed us, How he cares for us as his children. I hope that today we'll have just a little bit better understanding of that concept. Romans chapter 8, verse number 14 says the following: As many as are led by the Spirit of God. These are the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption. Whereby we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our Spirit that we are the children of God. And if children, then heirs Heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ. If so be that we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified together. For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to help us to understand these wonderful truths that we will unpackage this morning. Morning together. Father, I am so grateful that when we come into your presence, we come as your children who are fully accepted because Christ Has made us reconciled to the Godhead. We think about the shedding of his blood that purchased our redemption. We think about his perfect righteousness that is imputed to us, and we stand justified in your presence because we are in Christ. We think of this work of the Spirit that regenerated us and gave us life we did not have. We think of the earnest of the Spirit. We think about how the Spirit indwells us as your people. And this morning we come into your presence and we say, Father, please open our eyes to understand the weight of these wonderful truths. Help us to appreciate how you deal with us to a much richer degree. And help us to be a godly people. The men in this room who are fathers, I pray that they would be godly men who reflect the kind of care that our Heavenly Father cares for us with. The women in this room who are not fathers, obviously, but who are to be godly, I pray that the same kind of character that is demonstrated in our great God Would be demonstrated in their lives as mothers and sisters and daughters. Father, I pray that this morning you would work with us in a very meaningful and significant way Way. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Romans chapter 8 was written to comfort and to strengthen people who are believers who are facing some of life's harshest realities. And the way that this text of Scripture encourages and comforts and strengthens the believer is that it reminds them that God is their loving heavenly Father. This entire section of Scripture is emphasizing different aspects of how the gospel gives us comfort when we encounter challenges in life. And what the text ultimately does is it tells us that God wants us to rest in his fatherly care. He also wants us to reflect his goodness. As we commune with him and we walk with him, and we are conformed more and more to the image of Christ in the way that we think, in the way that we live, and our responses, that our lives would truly reflect The God in whose image we are created. That's really what this text of scripture is all about. And so what I want to do before we dig into the actual text here in front of us is just remind you of how wonderful Romans chapter 8 is. I want you to consider some of these wonderful statements that are so profound and they are so rich and they are so comforting and they are at the heart of what encourages us as believers. Romans chapter 8, verse 1. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus You 're going to preach an entire sermon on that one passage statement. Now, therefore, no condemnation to those in Christ. Every single one of those statements is absolutely significant. Romans 8:15, we have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. How many Christians, when they serve God, they serve Him because they are terrified that He is going to crush them? Yet this text in front of us tells us that that is not the spirit in which we as God's children should relate to our Father, not a spirit of bondage to fear. But a spirit of adoption whereby we cry, Abba Father. We're going to talk about that this morning. How you view God is really bound up in a statement like that. Romans 8, verse 18. I reckon That's not a southern reckon. That's more like an accounting reckon. I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. That last little statement in us is very, very significant. It is because I'm in Christ that I can say the sufferings of this present world. They don't even compare To the glory that I'm going to enjoy in him forever. Romans 8. 28. I know we know this one. We know that all things work together for good. To them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. And then from Romans 8. 28, we we move through this chain that talks about each link of how the gospel gives us An absolute assurance that we are secured in Christ. And verse 31, what shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against against us. us? Because of the cross, because of Christ shed blood on that cross, because of the triumph of the resurrection, because of the righteousness imputed to us, there is nothing that can be laid to our charge and say, you're guilty. 38 and 39, I'm persuaded that nothing can separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. How could you not love Romans 8? In fact, this text of Scripture is just a small piece of these wonderful rich truths. But what do all these passages have in common? Well, they're all in the same chapter, but that's not where I'm going. What they all have in common is that they offer us security. They offer us comfort, and they offer us encouragement. And you know what? We need that. We need that because our own hearts are so prone to wander, so prone to doubt, and so prone to discouragement. And the way that we process the things that we experience in life, oftentimes they knock us from the surety that we can and should have in our thinking, and we begin to waver. We begin to get discouraged. We need someone to come alongside us and lift us up and they speak truth to us. And they say there's security, there's comfort, there's encouragement because of what Christ has done for you. And continues to do, might I say. We can flee to them when we are troubled, fearful, and feel distant to God It might be that this morning you got up and you opened up your Bible and you began to read it and it was like you felt like God was nowhere near where you were. Or maybe you began to pray and you felt like you couldn't because there's no way God would listen to you. And in the back of your mind you said, how could God Listen to me and accept me because I'm a great sinner, and all of a sudden your conscience weighs you down. I'm sure no one's ever experienced such a thing. These scriptures say, well, they're for you. These things are all objectively true about us because of him. They're not true about us because of us. They're true about us because of him. We talk about salvation. The work of salvation is entirely the work of God. We simply receive it by faith, trust, dependence. We don't earn our salvation. We don't work to keep it. We receive it freely as a gift And all of these passages testify to that simple fact. They testify to the goodness of God, his strength in holding his children, his resolve to work in us and through us despite all of our weaknesses. And his affection and his warmth toward us as his children. That is what we see in these verses. Well, the last statement I want to make is this. This text in front of us is about how God deals with his. Children. Children. There are lots and lots of different words we can use to describe the Christian. We could say that we are servants. We could say that we are saints. We could say that we are redeemed. We could say that we are new creatures. We could also say that we are God's children And that moves us to a very important truth that we will see here, and that is that God is our Father. In verse 14, he puts it this way: as many as are led by the Spirit of God. They are the sons of God. Now, when that passage, when he makes the statement as that many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God, he's talking about the nature, the disposition of someone. Who's understood the gospel, they've placed their faith in the finished work of Christ, they are regenerated, they 're alive in Christ, they are indwelled by the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit is at work in them. That's what he means when he says As many as are led of the Spirit of God, these are the sons of God. He's not talking about how you become a Christian. He's talking about what is true of Christians. That is what he's saying. And that leads us to a very important principle, and that is that there's really ultimately only two kinds of people in the world. Only two. There are people who are in Christ. And there are people who are in Adam. And there are lots and lots of things the Bible has to say about those who are in Christ, and there are lots of things the Bible has to say about those who are in Adam. In Adam is where we are born. In Christ is where we are born again. But the huge distinction between those two things For instance, in 1 Corinthians 15, 22, in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive. Romans 5. 18, by the offense of one, judgment came unto all men to condemnation. A description of those in Adam. Even so by the righteousness of one, the free gift came upon all men unto just spirit. A description of those who are placed into Christ. John 5 24, He that heareth my word and believeth on him that set me hath everlasting life, shall not come into condemnation, but is past From death unto life. The passage tells us that a person was once dead in trespasses and sins in Adam and has passed from death to life through faith alone in Christ. John 3, 36, He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. He that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. Let me kind of summarize it this way. In Adam, we are spiritually dead. We walk as slaves to our fleshly passions. Doesn't mean that a person in Adam can't do good things. But he can do nothing that comes close to what is expected to be able to stand in the presence of a holy God. We follow our passions. Alienated from God under his judicial wrath. We can go to scriptures, we can lay out every single one of those principles, every single one of those truths. In Adam all die. In Christ, there's the opposite of these things, regenerated by the Spirit's work, once dead in trespasses and sins, now alive unto God, brought near by the blood of Christ. Save from wrath through him. Do you see what those scriptures would say about all of these things? They're in complete contrast. And you say, Well, how can I tell does somebody look like they're in Adam versus look like they're in Christ? And the answer is No, it's not a physical matter. It's a spiritual matter. It's about something that's gone on within the heart of a person A person who is in Christ is someone who's understood the gospel, and a person in Adam is one who continues without the gospel. That's really what it comes down to. The distinction hinges on what we do with Christ, on what we do with the gospel. Some reject it in unbelief. The way that it was stated in one of these verses is he that believeth not. Now, there are lots and lots of different ways that someone can believe not on Christ. They can believe not on Christ because they ignore it and they just say, well, I think there's lots and lots of ways. I'll just I'll choose the one that feels best to me. That's one of the ways they could do it. They could do it because they don't hear the gospel and they reject whatever God has given them, the light that's available to them, and they reject it on that basis. They could reject it in very hardened and militant unbelief and an antagonism and in a hatred towards Christ. They could do it by accepting a Jesus who the Bible doesn't teach. There are lots and lots of different ways that someone can believe not on Christ. There's only one way to believe on Christ. You know who he is. You know what he did. You recognize it's personal. He did it for me. Christ died for our sins. He rose from the dead the third day according to the The scriptures. God in flesh. Emmanuel did that for me. So what does belief in Christ look like? It's accepting what the Bible says about me I'm a sinner. I'm condemned. I have absolutely no hope of salvation in anything that I do for God. I have no ability to build up credentials so that God accepts me. I entirely depend on the redemptive work of Christ. That is the distinction between those two. If this morning you're sitting in church and you've never come face to face with the reality of I'm a sinner, I'm condemned, I can do nothing to earn my salvation, it's it's the finished work of Christ and Him alone. Then at this moment you're in Adam. You say, well, what do I need to do to be in Christ? Turn to Christ. Trust in his finished work. Understand what the Bible teaches about sin and self and the Savior, and embrace who Jesus is and what he did for you. You can walk out of this room this morning. in Christ. Regenerated, alive unto God, brought near by the blood of Christ, safe from wrath through him. It's all available to you. The dividing line is what we do with Christ in the gospel And those who are in Christ are called God's children. Born of God. John chapter 3, verse 3. Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. John 1. 12, as many as received him. Received meaning, here's Jesus. He says, I'm the Messiah, I'm God in flesh. In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God. The Word was God. I'm coming to die for your sins. I'm going to rise the third day. And someone says, I reject him. That's not receiving him I believe and I trust. That's receiving him. As many as received him, to them he gave the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. It's faith alone in Christ, folks. He says, as many as were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. James 1:17, every good and every perfect gift is from above. With him is no variableness, neither shadow turning. Of his own will begat he us by the word of truth. That's all several different ways of saying born again. Being regenerated. You are a new creature in Christ. And I ask you this: have you trusted Christ as your Savior? Secondly, this new creature has a new nature. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things have passed away, all things have become new. And we reflect a completely different purpose Romans 6, 4 to 6, we are buried with him by baptism into death, like as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk. in newness of life. Our old man is crucified with him that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. So if you're in Christ, you are born again, you have a new nature in Christ, and your life is to be conformed to his purpose of the body of sin being destroyed. destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin, but we should walk in newness of life. That's what the Bible teaches. Second truth I want you to notice is that he wants us to experience a personal closeness I think that this part of the text is very, very important. I think a lot of times we read this part of the text and we just kind of blow through it and we don't think about the implication of it, the significance of it, and I want to kind of Reflect on this a little bit this morning. God doesn't want us to just be a bunch of theologians who write theological dissertations. He wants us to be a people who know him personally. He wants us to be a people who have a genuine affection and a warmth and a love for him. He wants us to be a people who can't just rattle off doctrinal theological concepts, which we should be able to do, don't get me wrong. But he wants those truths to be connected with the human experience. He wants us to be living a vibrant Christian experience. And this text shows us that. Listen to what he says. You have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear. That's experiential. That's internally motionless. That's how I feel toward God But you've received the spirit of adoption whereby we cry, Abba Father. Spirit beareth witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God join heirs with Christ. I want to take a couple of moments to kind of dig into what he's saying here. The first thing I want to mention is this. He states our position in a very objective manner. I'm in no way suggesting that when he talks about the spirit bearing witness with our spirit that we're the children of God, that somehow this is something that God just zaps into us and it's not connected to an understanding of the gospel. An understanding of who Jesus is, an understanding of our brokenness and our sinfulness, and our understanding of that Jesus died for our sins, and that he rose from the dead, and that we must be righteous in him. He speaks in very objective terms. We are the children of God. That's an objective truth. That is an objective reality. That's not something that you can see. That's something that is true of every person. who has turned Christ and placed their faith in the finished work of Christ. Two, the way we're to relate to God has fundamentally changed. Verse 15, you've not received the spirit of bondage to Fear, you have received the spirits of adoption. Now this is very important. He's saying that when it comes to how you should relate to God, objectively You should not be relating to him as someone who's terrified of his judgment, but as someone who loves his care as father. That is how we're supposed to relate to God. That doesn't mean that we feel this way all the time. That is an objective reality. That is how we should relate to God. And the reason we should relate to God in such a way is because of the nature of the gospel itself. It is by grace alone. It's in the work of Christ alone. It is by the righteousness of Christ alone. It is entirely God's work, not our work. So it's not like we're living the Christian life trying to somehow prove to God that we are really saved or prove to God that we need to stay saved. We are saved on the basis of something that's objective. How we feel about it doesn't change the objective reality. That's why we're saying that we should, based on the nature of the gospel, think in such a way How we think and how we feel, that's the experiential side to it. Am I thinking and feeling consistent with what is objectively true? That's the idea And then we see that we have a sure everlasting inheritance. Here's how you put it in verse 17. If we are children, then we are heirs of God. And not just heirs of God, but joint heirs with Christ. Now why does he say we're joint heirs? With Christ. It's because our inheritance is found in him. So outside of him, we do not have such an inheritance Because we are rooted in him. The in Christ is everything there. But these are objective truths. God's children, we are we can and should relate fundamentally different to him because our position has changed. And we have this sure everlasting inheritance. Now, on some days you may feel very solid in those things, and on other days your thing is all twisted and messed up. And the way that you feel about it is inconsistent with what the scripture says. But these objective things are still objectively true, no matter what's going on inside your head and inside your heart. But then that moves us to something that's important. God wants us to have an experiential side. That is consistent with the position that we enjoy. In other words, God doesn't want us to just be saved, but then not think like we're saved. And not act like we're saved, and not feel like we're saved, and not relate to God like we're saved. He wants us to live in the light of the position that we have. He wants us to enjoy the rich benefits of such a position. Some Christians do, and some Christians don't. Sometimes we do for seasons, and sometimes we don't. But God desires us, and He's done everything necessary for us to enjoy such fellowship, such communion. 1 John, why was it written? For such a reason. So that we could enjoy communion with God and have fullness of joy. And so he says in verse 15, whereby, on the basis of such things, we cry, Abba, Father. That's what he says. Now, why do people cry Abba Father? It's because something inside of them compels them to turn to God. Say, Father, I need you. That's why. That's an experiential thing. He says that the Spirit bears witness with our spirit that we are the children. Of God. What we could say is that this text is teaching us that there is a witness of the Spirit. He's talking about a kind of conviction internally, a kind of assurance that is experiential. And it's something that's available to us because of our position. And it's something God wants us to have. And it's what draws us near to God in the most troubling of times. It's the difference between saying, God, why are you doing this to me? I want nothing to do with you, and saying, God, I need you. Strengthen me, uphold me, encourage me, uplift me. I'm thankful for what I have in Christ. There's two totally different ways of thinking. We'll say, well, how does this take place? How does the Spirit give us such an assurance? Well, it's through what we believe being grounded in the truth first. The way that God convinces us of such things is through the word of God. How do you come to believe in the gospel? It says that faith comes by hearing the word of God. So it is through the preaching and teaching of the Word of God. It's through reading the Word of God as I read the scripture, as I hear it preached, as I hear it taught. The Spirit of God takes that and he convinces me inside of my heart this is true. He convicts me of the reality of these things And I feel compelled and I feel pressed to embrace them because of the Spirit's work. John 16. When he comes, he'll reprove the world of sin, righteousness, and judgment. He talks about how the Spirit of God does this. When the truth of Scripture is laid before us, these truths are not supposed to be just cold, lifeless, academic things that we pick up and we say, Oh, yeah, that's true. I'm justified. I'm redeemed. I'm adopted. I'm an heir. Whatever. Folks, if that's the way you think about these things, it's a huge problem. It's a huge problem If you have this coldness and this callousness towards these things, you do not understand them. You do not understand them. And you need to recognize that this is a serious problem. This faith should be filled with passion, conviction, warmth, and affection That's the way we're supposed to be as Christians. We're supposed to, as Deuteronomy 6 says, love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul. And with all thy might. He could have said, just obey me. Somebody said, Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might. He says, if you love me, you keep my commandments. In other words, obedience follows love. Obedience is not love. Okay? It follows love. We might obey somebody because we're terrified of them. And we're afraid that they're going to crush us and they're going to they're going to hurt us and so we obey them because of fear. But when he talks about this, he says, love God. And someone who loves God wants to obey God because they realize He is good. Psalm 63. Listen to the way the psalmist puts this. He says, My soul thirsteth for thee. My flesh longeth for thee. Those are experiential things. David's not just saying, oh yeah, I can rattle off some theological concepts. He says, I thirst for you. I long to be in your presence. Why? Because thy loving kindness is better than life. My lips shall praise thee. My soul shall be satisfied with uh as with morrow and fatness. It's like I'm sitting there at this banqueting table and I'm just eating. I'm just like, oh, I feel so good. This food is amazing. So that's that's the way God's presence is. So satisfying. It's so rich. I ask this question as a Christian: is that the way that you view God? I mean, do you enjoy Him? Do you enjoy His presence? Do you enjoy prayer? Do you enjoy reading the Word? If you don't, there's a problem. Do you enjoy sitting under the ministry of the scriptures? And as the scriptures are opened up, you just feel this internal, the Spirit of God taking the word and Pressing on your heart and encouraging you up, but lifting you and strengthening you and challenging you. Do you experience that? He says, When I remember thee on my bed and meditate on thee, in the night watches, in the shadow of thy wings will I rejoice. My soul followeth heart after thee, thy right hand upholdeth me. Folks, the scripture is full of examples of people who loved God. They weren't just cold and calloused. They loved God. Him. He was their greatest delight. He was the center of their joy. This is what we mean when we say the Spirit bears witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. God. It begins with understanding truth, it takes the truth, and it awakens our hearts so that we understand the personal implications and And the significance of these truths. He convinces us of the truth. He stirs up our affections through the word. And let me say this: this is what the preaching of the word does in Christians. If the word is being properly expounded and you are a Christian, you cannot sit there and just I don't care. You can't. There's something wrong. But when we sit under the ministry of the word and it is being properly expounded and is being laid before us, there's something inside of us that just presses us. And it strengthens us and it motivates us. This is what we mean when we say the Spirit of God illumines the Word of God. to us. We don't just experience and we listen to preaching and teaching. We experience when we read the word for ourselves. We experience it when we have good Christian fellowship with other Christians. You know, a brother or sister's talking to you, and you're talking about the Lord, and you're talking about biblical concepts, and you're just being uplifted, and you're being encouraged, and you're being strengthened. Who does that? The Spirit of God does that. He takes the truth and he presses our hearts with it. And so in this particular context, he's saying, what he's pressing my heart with is warmth and affection toward my Father. So that even though I'm discouraged and I'm wearied and I'm weighed down and I feel like I can't get back up, there's something inside of me as these truths are laid before me, they press me close to God and I cry out. Abba Father. That's what he's saying. We run to God when we are in times of affliction. Not away from Him. We want him to teach us as opposed to scorn him. Truth number three. It's because his ways toward us Are so good. Verse number 17. He says, if children, then heirs. Heirs of God, joint heirs with Christ, if so be I love these statements in the book of Romans. Paul was a an if-then kind of a guy. If this is true Then this is true. And sometimes his if and thens are like huge portions of scripture. And then here's the application. Even when we come to Romans chapter twelve. He he he he talks about all these practical things. They're all built on what was formerly said. This is kind of like that. He says, if we're God's children, which indeed we are, I've told you that, then we are also God's heirs. And if we are God's heirs, then we are joint heirs with Christ. Why? Because we are in Christ. So the same inheritance that the Son receives, we receive with him. That's what he's saying. In other words, we enjoy all the realities that God has given us by his grace. Think of Ephesians chapter 2 We all were by nature the children of wrath. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love for which he loved us even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace, his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. Do you see what he's saying? He's saying, This is what we were, this is what we have. How do you respond to such a thing? With joy, with gratitude. Romans 5, 6. When we were yet without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. God commendeth his love toward us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. How do you describe that? Well, it's a kind of goodness that is not the kind of goodness that we have toward one another. It was God's love for an enemy It was God's love for someone who was at war with him. It was his love for someone who was living completely contrary to him. And that person was me. That person was you. We became his children by that gracious regenerating work of the Spirit. We will be heirs for of an eternal inheritance purchased by the redemptive work of Christ. We will be joint heirs with Christ as those who are united with Him. Our afflictions are not wasted because God always has redemptive purpose in what he allows. He strikes the perfect balance that we need to mature in the faith. God is good. He is a good father. He's a far better father than I am. And he's a far better father than you are. He is a perfect father. So it moves me to a final fact. We have to rest in and reflect this kind of goodness. Verse 18 he says, I reckon That means I'm going to look at these things and I'm going to account them to be true, and I'm going to live like they're true. It's an accounting term. I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. We must choose to think deeply and biblically about these truths. That's what the word I reckon means. There is a practical daily calculation that must be made based upon truth. We have to preach the gospel to ourselves. We have to remind ourselves of our position. We have to remind ourselves of the nature of that sacrifice that was made for us. We need to continually remind ourselves of the kindness and the patience and the grace and the mercy and the love of God. His love for us is unshakable. His actions toward us are consistently good. He skillfully guides us through life's most difficult circumstances according to perfect wisdom. He permits struggle to stimulate growth. He uses all circumstances to mold us, build us, draw us near to himself. He tenderly cares for us when we are discouraged and comes alongside of us to strengthen us in our weaknesses. He calls us to walk according to this pattern with other people. I ask you this question. Is that how you think of God? Is that how you view him? Is that how you relate to him? If you say yes, then I go, is there warmth in your heart? Well, no, not really. Go back and think about a little more then. Go back and reflect on these things. Allow these truths to grip your soul. Because if you understand what those truths are, you cannot walk away from them with a coldness. How do you apply this this morning? Well, let me give you some thoughts in closing. We must discipline ourselves to get into the word and carefully study it so we know what is true. One of the reasons that a lot of Christians do not have this warmth and affection, quite honestly, is because they don't have the personal discipline. To put down all of the distractions and pick up their Bibles and just read it. That's the truth. To just read the Bible To allow the Word of God to get into our hearts. When I read the sermons of people that lived hundreds of years ago, I'm absolutely blown away by the tremendous amount of biblical recall that these people have Their sermons were more saturated with scripture without a computer and without the digital uh uh crutches that we use. I use them too, okay. That that we use. Like, I I 'll sit there and like I know there's a passage and I can remember some of it and I'll start typing it into the search bar and then boom it pops up. Or I can always go to Google and I'll start, you know, start it and then then it'll pop up. Oh, that's what I'm talking about. We have these kinds of tools available to us. And I'm thankful that we have them. I'm not doubting them. But the truth is this. We do not have the discipline. Many of us do not personally have the discipline to just dig into the word and let it speak to us. We really don't. And so I ask you the question. With the beauty of eternity in this book before you, are you willing to put aside the junk of the day and just let God speak to your heart? We've got to meditate on these truths by thinking deeply about how they personally relate to us. You can read the book cover to cover, but if you don't read it with an attitude of contemplation, and you don't read it with a heart to reflect, it's pretty amazing how much you miss In fact, I think we can even run the risk of being very proud because we've read through the Bible. I've read through it this many times. Who cares? Is it in your heart? Changed you as a person? Does it really shape your disposition? Do you really think about it, or is it just it's it's something you do as a checklist? Like making your bed in the morning or brushing your teeth? We've got to meditate on the word. It needs to be in our hearts constantly. We should anticipate and allow the Spirit of God to awaken our hearts to the depths of these realities. So they warm our hearts and press us into healthy patterns of relating to God. I'll even ask this question, how do you listen to preaching? and teaching. I mean as a pastor I like to listen to preaching because I enjoy it. It's true. I'll get on sermon audio, I'll get on YouTube, I'll go to the MLJ Trust dot org, I listen to the sermons every day. And I can listen to these sermons, and all it does is it entertains me just like going fishing or working in the garden or watching a baseball game. You may not realize this, but theology can do that for some people I'm one of them, right? That's not how God wants us to read the word. That's not how God wants us to reflect on these things. He wants us to internalize it so that the Spirit of God takes it and presses us. Us in the heart. He wants us to tear up sometimes about what we hear. He wants us to fall on our knees and say, God, thank you. That's the way he wants us to respond. To his word. And when that doesn't happen, it's an indication that the way we're reading or the way we're listening is flawed. The problem is not the Bible. And the problem is not the spirit. The problem is how we approach it. Let's rest in the fatherly care of our great God. And I'll tell you this: if you read the Bible this way You will reflect him far more than you do right now. I will too. It'll shape how I'm as a husband. It'll shape how I relate to my wife. It'll shape how I relate to my kids. It'll shape how I relate to people when Dealing with controversies of what other Everham Nature, it will shape us as people. When the word is in us, and the word is saturating us, and the word is shaping our affections, it changes us from within. And that is the challenge of the text in front of us. Let's rest in his care. Let's reflect his goodness. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for the word. This text is so rich, in a chapter that is so rich. And I pray that you would help us as your people to not walk from this room with a callousness and a coldness. But help us to walk out with an affection for you. A warmth as we reflect on what you have done for us. A joy that nothing can take away I pray that the Spirit of God, even as people are sitting in their seats this morning, would be pressing souls, pressing us to delight in you, to treasure you, to flee. To you. May you do your work in us and through us, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen I'd like to ask you to take out your hymn books and turn to a very familiar hymn, and that is hymn 336. 336, the song is My Hope is in the Lord. Our hope is not in a person in this room. It's not in the room we're in. Certainly not in somebody in the government. It's in the Lord. It's in the Lord. Let's stand together and let's sing this wonderful hymn. 336. We'll sing all of those verses and let's sing them with a heart of passion. Listening a cappella on the last. Slow it down just Mr. Hare. Not that we were singing too fast. And I just want you to just sing it with your heart engaged. Let's sing it here. Here we go. That's a good song. So th Thankful to have my father-in-law and mother-in-law with us tonight, or this morning and tonight. And uh was gonna ask if uh my father-in-law could close us in prayer. So please close us in prayer. Don't forget that tonight after our evening service we have a business meeting. And then also please don't forget uh the uh situations we have this week with uh the teen activity we have a teen parent camp meeting on Wednesday uh so please keep all of those issues in your mind. Go ahead please Father in heaven, we love you today, and we're so thankful for the privilege of being a father. And Lord, thank you for the reminder from the Word of God today that you are the perfect Father, that you love us, you sacrificed for us. You sent your son the Lord Jesus Christ to die on the cross in our place to pay for our sin. And Lord, I pray that we would just seek to have a vital relationship with you, not just a super Relationship with you. Oh God, we are overwhelmed by your love for us. Dismiss us with your blessing. Thank you for all that you've done for us. Thank you for every Father that is here today. May you bless them and help them to be more like you. Help me to be more like you in me being a father today. Thank you for this time. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.