Well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our evening service and let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer. And uh please don't forget that tonight we are partaking of the Lord's table, so if you're planning to partake Participate, participate, please, get your elements either after the prayer or during the first song. So let's bow for prayer. Father, we are so grateful for the privilege of gathering as a body, and I pray that as the Word of God is open tonight, that you would speak to our hearts. Help us to have hearts that are tender and receptive, and I pray that we would be reflecting deeply on the truths that we will see from your word. And as we sing praise to you, I pray that we would think about the words that we're expressing in song, that our hearts would be engaged. It wouldn't just be a traditional exercise, but it would be truly an act of worship And as we have testimony time, I pray that we would be able to encourage one another in the Lord by expressing how you've been at work in our lives. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Everyone, we're going to uh start off the service tonight with page 157. Page 150. Or follow along on the screen. Grace greater than our sin. Please stand with me. We'll sing all three verses as we make a joyful noise. Принятия , Господи , принятия , принятия , благодаря , ближайший. It Okay, just a couple pages over to page 160. Page 160, and we'll sing all four verses of my Jesus. I love thee. Amen. Go ahead and have a seat. And we're just going to turn back a few pages to 156. 156. How can it be? All three verses. Come on, I 'm not sure. No, no, no, no, no, no. Okay, well , we're gonna get a lot of people. Oh, goodness. Servant's heart And we'll sing the first one since it wasn't specified. All right, page ninety three in the blue book. That one sounds familiar? Yes. Bow the knee. First verse. I think I'm still waiting for my voice to change to Be able to sing that the first time. verse. Boy, that's low for me. Anyway, we made it. Page 77. Page 77, verse 2. Can I hear this one? Okay, here we go. Uh pressures but And let us Okay, page 42, uh 482 in the red book. Okay, page 482. Do we even need the book for this one? I don't think so. But it gives me something to focus on while I'm flapping my wings here. Page 482. First verse. All right, here we go. I want to read on my wood. I just had a thought. Kids, you put yourself in a bad spot. We know how loud you can sing now. So next time we have a children's choir, we expect something as loud. Not as raucous, but as loud. Okay. 502 So yeah, we know they can 502 502 and we'll sing the first, second, and the last of this one Three verses Thank you, Lord , who means pride all I love with every night. Please be seeing. And then we're going to have to do that. Okay, thank you for that. If you could, let's all turn together to Psalm 31 again. We were there this morning. And uh we're going to read through the first portion of the Psalm again. And I want to kind of remind you a little bit about what we talked about this morning, and then what I'd like to do is I'd like to take that passage of Scripture that we discussed this morning And I want to set it beside passages that are talking about Christ going to the cross. And I want you to notice how Jesus uses this passage of Scripture. and how he quotes from it when he's hanging on the cross. Psalm 31, verse number 1 says the following. In thee, O Lord, do I put my trust. Let me never be ashamed. Deliver me in thy righteousness. Bow down thine ear to me. Deliver me speedily. Be thou my strong rock for a house of defense to save me For thou art my rock and my fortress. Therefore, for thy name's sake, take thy name's sake lead me and guide me. Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me. For thou art my strength. Into thine hand I commit my spirit. Thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth. Now, if you can remember from this morning when we talked about this passage of Scripture, it's likely that what David is experiencing when he wrote these words was his son Absalom had rebelled against him and not just rebelled against him, he was trying to overthrow his kingdom. In fact he was doing a pretty good job at it at the beginning. He had Ahithophel with him and Ahithophel was advising him And as basically, as David is running for his life, he recognizes that unless God intervenes on his behalf, he is probably going to lose his life. That was one side of what David is experiencing. Not just the fear of death, but it was also the weight of the fact that this is his son. This is A person that he has raised. This is the person that he has fed and clothed and given him so many wonderful things. And it is true that David's sin was a contributing factor in all of the problems that he experienced in his household. But, that being true, it is still true that there was absolutely no excuse, and there was absolutely no justification for what Absalom was doing to his father And so when David is writing these things, what he is experiencing is the tremendous hardship that is associated with betrayal. And as we read through these verses, we see that David ultimately is processing this before our eyes, and it shows us how godly people process these kinds of situations. And by the way, the way that David processes this is something that we see in other kinds of internal problems that he deals with as well. Sometimes David is dealing with the internal difficulty of fear and anxiety. It's a totally different scenario, but he processes it in a very similar way. Or sometimes he's dealing with guilt and what's going on internally in his heart. And again, he processes it in a very similar kind of way. And so these verses show us what godly people do, what people who have a Christian worldview do when they're going through these kinds of difficulties. And so the first thing that we mentioned this morning is that David confessed his situation to God. Now when I say confess, I don't mean that it was a a confession of sin as much as it was a confession of what was going on internally in his heart. He's saying, God, you already know this. But this is how I feel. This is what I'm thinking. This is where my mind is going. These are my fears. These are my anxieties. He lays it all out before the Lord. Instead of withdrawing from the Lord, he lays this all out before the Lord. And by the way, it's very good for us when we are in difficult times to just pour out our heart to God. It's something that we need to do. It's something that sometimes we're afraid to do or feel like God doesn't want to hear these things, but he knows what's inside of our hearts. And sometimes we just need to lay it out before him. But that is not where David stopped. David moved from confession, telling God what was going on inside. To prayer, petition. He's pleading with God to intercede on his behalf. We talked about that in pretty significant detail. Then we move from David confessing what's going on inside. And praying for God to intervene on his behalf. But then we move from that to David reminding himself of truth. We could say that David is refocusing his attention on what is true. Now, what we're experiencing internally is sometimes consistent with what's going on outside. And sometimes it's not consistent. In fact, I would say most of the time it's not entirely consistent. And so what does David do? He reminds himself of several gospel -oriented truths. And as he reminds himself of those gospel-oriented truths, it's as if David all of a sudden has firm footing that he's standing on, and he's able to stand firm because of that. You know, in the New Testament, we have an example of this in Ephesians chapter 6. The Christian armor, passage of Scripture. And as we move our way through the Christian armor, what we see is that Paul says we're to put on the whole armor of God, and then from all of the different pieces he tells them to put on, each of those pieces is in some way connected back to the gospel. And he talks about the breastplate of righteousness. He talks about the belt of truth. He talks about our feet being shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. And the idea is that you have firm footing when you're reminded that you're at peace with God because of our Lord Jesus Christ. He says put on the helmet of salvation. And so we're reminding ourselves of that future glorification and how we're going to experience those things. Our salvation is secured. So if you go to the Christian armor in Ephesians 6, you could essentially say that Paul is telling the Christian in the New Testament To do the exact same thing that David is doing in Psalm 31 on the other side of the cross, before the cross. He's reminding himself of gospel-oriented truth. And then this morning we notice this. David's perspective entirely changed. But his perspective change had nothing to do with a circumstantial change. It's not like Absalom disappeared. It's not like his enemies disappeared. It's not like all of a sudden the armies were gone and he's like, oh, now I can breathe a sigh of relief because there's peace between me and my son. That's not what happened. There was absolutely no change on the outside, but what's going on inside is that David focused his attention on what was objectively true. And that is something we've got to learn to do as believers. But he didn't stop there. He goes from confession to prayer to refocus and then he moves to what? To praise of the Lord. And that praise of the Lord is something that I think started as a personal matter, but it didn't stay personal David gets to the point where he says, I want to express to all of my friends, the people that know the Lord, they are his saints. That's the way he describes them. He says, I want them to know the strength that I'm experiencing So that together we can praise the Lord. That's really a summation of the entire message from this morning. You might say, well, I wish you would have just given that. That would be a lot shorter. Well, anyway, there's a lot of content we wanted to deal with. You've got to sometimes lay things out so that we can see the authority of Scripture just coming through those things. But that is what we talked about this morning. Now, what I want to do as we look at this passage again tonight is I want to refocus on the gospel-oriented nature of Psalm 31. And this is a great time for us to do it because we are going to be partaking of the Lord's table together tonight, and we're going to be reminding ourselves of the death of Christ. His body that was broken, his blood that was shed, the fellowship, the communion that we enjoy as a body of believers. the unity that we enjoy because of Christ's sacrifice, the freedom that we have in Christ, the righteous position that we have, the forgiveness of sins. It's all bound up in the finished work of Christ No matter what circumstance you and I face, there is firm footing in the gospel. Firm footing in the gospel. When we get our eyes off of the gospel and we start getting our eyes on the circumstance and we stop thinking about God being the center of it all, all of a sudden things begin to unravel very quickly. And so let me remind you again of those gospel-oriented objective realities that David reminded himself of. Verse 31, chapter 31, verse 3, or Psalm 31, verse 3. He says, Thou art my rock and my fortress. I love those words. When he talks about a rock, he's talking about a high place where a person had safety. The reason they had safety is because it wouldn't have been easy for someone to climb up that that cliff and get to where they were. Now, we know that in history, whenever there are battles, the person that wants to win the battle decides where is a place that I can defend that I can work from so that the enemy has a very difficult time coming and attacking me. When he talks about Iraq as a military person, David is thinking of a place of safety. When he talks about a fortress, he's talking about a place that was built where they would go and they would defend themselves. David says, that is who God is to me. He's my rock. He's my fortress. I am safe in him. Now, when we talk about the safety that we have in God There is no greater safety that you and I enjoy than the security that we have in Christ. Now, when David is using this terminology, he is probably thinking primarily in terms of military position. preserving my life, those kinds of things. But that is not the end game. In fact, as we move through the passage, he's clearly going to get into issues of his position. He's going to get into issues of having been a redeemed person. He's going to get into issues of being a saint, one who is holy and set apart to God. Those are all positional realities rooted in the gospel. Verse number three talks about his identity. He says, It is for your namesake that I ask you to lead me and to guide me. And basically what David is saying is, because I belong to you , Because I'm your child, I know you defend the honor of your name. Every time a person says that they're a Christian. You know what they're ultimately claiming? They're claiming I belong to Jesus. Now they may not think that's what they're claiming. I don't know what's going on in their mind. But the word Christian means I belong to Christ. My life is entirely bound up in him. I'm forgiven in him, I'm cleansed in him, I'm righteous in him, I'm holy in him , I am secure in him. It's all bound up in him. And so one of David's great confidences was the fact that God defends the honor of his name. And who is associated with his name? His people are associated with his name. Verse number four. He says, Thou art my strength. God strengthens his hand. This reminds me of 2 Timothy chapter 2. I love this text. Because Paul writes to Timothy and he says, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. The things you've heard from me among many witnesses, commit to faithful men. He'll be able to teach others also. Or Ephesians chapter 6, he talks about being able to stand in the evil day. And how do we stand in the evil day? It's through the strength that is in Christ Jesus. And so when he talks about being a strengthened person Person, God being the one who strengthens , him, is going back ultimately to a positional reality. Verse number five: Thou hast redeemed me. That's an interesting statement. Hast has the idea of a it's something that has happened. We talk about the perfect tense. In fact, there is even a discussion, a debate within the original languages as to the use of the perfect tense there. Is he saying this is something that's going to happen, but I'm speaking of it as if it already has happened and I'm living in the light of it, the way that we tend to think of the perfect tense? Or is he speaking in terms of this has happened? I've been redeemed. It happened in the past. I'm enjoying all of the reality of that position, all the blessings of that position, and I'd have to say that's exactly what he's saying. It's perfect tense. The idea is God has redeemed me. I'm in a position that was purchased by him for me. I didn't pay for this position. It's a grace-oriented position, redemption. And then he talks about God's mercy. Verse 17: Thou hast considered my trouble, thou hast known my soul in adversities. All of these things, I believe you can make an argument, that they go back to positional, objective realities that are in the gospel. And then verses 23 and 24, he talks about praise, and he uses some very important terms. He says, love the Lord all ye his saints. The Lord preserveth the faithful and plentifully rewardeth the proud doer. Be of good courage. He shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord. Who are the saints? Well, they're the ones that hope in the Lord. They're the ones that have placed their faith and their trust in Christ. And so from David's vantage point in history, it's those who anticipated the Messiah. They believed that he was coming. And when he uses the word hope. in this particular context, it really it really gives uh captures the sense of it very well. There is a promise, and my confidence is in the promise that has not yet been fulfilled. That's really what's going on. And so the redeemed people, those who are the saints, are those whose hope is in the Lord. Very, very important. Second thing I want you to notice tonight. Is the fact that there is a sympathetic high priest who spoke out of this text as he was doing his high priestly office ministry. Two texts I want to mention, Hebrews chapter 2, verse 18, and Hebrews chapter 4, verses 15 and 16, are very important on this topic. Hebrews 2:18, Christ hath suffered, being tempted. He is able to succor them that are tempted. Let me read that again. Christ has suffered being tempted. He is able to succor them that are tempted. What is that passage saying? Well, it's saying that Christ understands by experience what it is like to suffer. And you say, well, in what setting or in what context did Christ suffer temptation? And what context did he suffer in such a way that he could come alongside of me and strengthen me and encourage me and help me to think properly and move through these difficult situations? Well the answer is it was in the cross. It was when he was in the garden. It was when he was going through all the different, we'll use the word mock trials. It was when Jesus was standing before Pilate. And they said, Who do you want? Do you want Barabbas, a thief and a robber, or do you want Jesus to be released? And they're like, crucify Jesus, we'll take Barabbas And Pilate goes, okay, all right, well, I'll wash my hands of this. It's all on y'all. And they said, hey, his blood be on us and our children. Whew. How would you have thought being in such a situation? That's injustice at its highest if there ever was a situation. There is no situation more unjust. Than what we see with Christ going to the cross. And then he's nailed to the cross, he's beaten, he's spat upon, he's mocked. As he's hanging on the cross in agony and in shame, they're gambling over his garments. Who's going to get to take this peace? There are people walking by and they're mocking him. It says they were wagging their heads at him and saying, You say that you're the Christ, bring yourself off the cross. Even the people that were being crucified beside him, one of them was mocking him. The word is reviled. That's a very descriptive word. They reviled him. And one of them says, Don't say that. We belong here, he doesn't. What's the point? The point is Christ knew what it was like to be treated unjustly. He knew what it was like to be hated, to be despised, to be reviled. He understood what it was like to be betrayed. Hebrews 4, 15 and 16, he says, we have not in high priest who cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. But was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Notice that statement. Feelings of our infirmities. Isn't that a fascinating statement? He's saying Jesus knows what it's like to suffer in a physical body. He knows what it's like to experience the weakness of humanity. And the suffering of being a human in a fallen world. And so because he triumphed over death. And he passed through all of those temptations and trials victoriously. He's able to give you the grace And the mercy and the strength that you need when you are pressed in your heart. There's really two sides to this comfort. He can comfort us because of what he purchased for us The fact is, if Jesus didn't go to the cross, there really would be no basis for you and I to pass through the trials of life, the struggles of life, the difficulties of life. and to triumph over them because the fact is you win this battle but then two or three years later your life is over. Okay You go, what's the point? If there's no afterlife, if there's no eternity, if there's no ultimate triumph of the cross and the resurrection, then frankly there is no basis for these things to comfort us and to encourage us. There's a reason that the world around us is so lost and so troubled and so disillusioned There's a reason that people in the world feel like life is hopeless and it's not worth living. It's because they do not have an objective basis For them to be a to believe that life matters and that life has value and that there is a bigger purpose than the moment and the things that they experience and the things that they feel. He can comfort us because he purchased our redemption. There'd be no basis outside of Christ. We would all be under sin We would all be under wrath. There would be no final appeal to him as our Father. Think about how many times you've gotten on your knees and you said, Father, can you do this? Father, I need this. You couldn't do that. Why? Because he wouldn't be your father. He'd be your judge. He'd be the one who you'll stand with, stand before on that final day, and you'll be found guilty and condemned for eternity. We can say Father. Abba Father. Think about Romans chapter 8. When we don't know what to pray for, the Spirit bears witness for us. He comes into the presence of the Father on our behalf. The fact is, we can come to God as our Father because of what Christ accomplished on the cross. There would be no redemptive purpose and suffering and pain and all those things, the comfort of our future inheritance with the same. If it wasn't for the gospel. I mean think about Romans chapter eight. I love Romans eight. Why? Because Romans eight says, you know what, life's hard and life's miserable on so many levels. But life goes beyond the grave. The grave is entrance into your eternal state, your eternal inheritance This is preparing you for that time. That's what it's all about. But if it wasn't for Christ's sacrifice, well, we wouldn't be able to do that We wouldn't be able to go to that. So there is a comfort in the fact of what Christ accomplished, but there's a second side to this. And I think sometimes we even miss that. this. We don't think about this. But there is comfort because of the way that Christ purchased our redemption. Did you catch that? Not just what he did, but how he did it. Because what Jesus is able to do is to say, Come to me, you who labor and are heavy laden, I'll give you rest. How can he say that? Because he understands what it's like to suffer the miseries of this fallen world. And so, in Luke 23, what does Jesus say? When Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. Where did that statement come from? Psalm 31. Now, just pause for a moment and think about it. If you want to appreciate what Jesus is saying, you've got to go back to Psalm 31 and see the contact. Of what Jesus is reflecting on as he's on the cross. Put it in another way, as Jesus hangs on the cross, he's thinking about all those things that David wrote in Psalm 31. And he's saying I'm experiencing that and I'm experiencing that and I'm experiencing that and I'm experiencing that and that and that Father into your hands I commit my spirit It's done. I have finished what you sent me to do. It's finished. He gave up the ghost He can personally sympathize with us and our suffering because he knows what it's like. Knows. It's interesting. During our testimony time this evening, my wife gave a testimony about how she called up one of the families in the church and talked to a mother. What was it like when your daughter had this uh appendicitis? And you know what? She had comfort in the fact this is somebody who who knows what it's like to go down that road. And and that's just that's just a simple example, but I could give you all kinds of different scenarios. Someone who has walked down that road, you reach out to them and you say, can you tell me what this was like? Can you tell me how how you got through that? Can you tell me how you processed that? Can we have a conversation about this? Why do we reach out to people like that? Well, because they know They know what it's like to walk down that road. They know what it's like. And so they can offer comfort in a very unique and a very personal way because they've experienced what you are walking through. Now listen, that is the sense of what we're looking at this evening. Jesus can comfort us because he knows, by experience, what it's like to suffer. And so think about the words, isolated. Psalm 311, I was a reproach among all mine enemies. especially amongst my neighbors, of fear to mine acquaintances, they that did see me without fled from me. How could Jesus say that? Well, how many disciples were at the cross with him? Where was Peter again? Oh yeah, aren't you one of those disciples? I don't know this man Um, you talk like that and cursed. Hey, I know I saw you with Jesus. I don't know this man. And then Jesus catches his eye. Sounds a lot like what David experienced, doesn't it? David knew what it was like to have his own son betray him. Jesus knew what it was like to have Judas, someone who he had invested three and a half years of his life into, the person that carried the money back to the most trusted of all the disciples. And he He's the one that Jesus hands that bread to at the Passover and He says, What you're going to do, go do it quickly. No disciples knew what was going on. Jesus did. Forgotten. 31 verse 12. He says, I'm forgotten as a dead man out of mind. Think about the celebration of the Pharisees when Jesus was dead. In their minds, we're done with this guy. We don't have to deal with him anymore. We got to deal with his followers, but they're terrified. They're afraid of us. And they really were. Jesus knew there are many, many people that were just with glee anticipating the moment he would say, it is. Verse number 12, I'm like a broken vessel. What do they do to Jesus' body? They took a a a crown of thorns and they they planted it on his skull and they beat it into his skull. They took a cat of nine tails and they whipped him mercilessly, literally ripped his back to shreds. The fact that Jesus survived to the cross, frankly, is a bit remarkable. He carried his own cross up to that hill in the blazing heat and stumbled in someone else's had to carry it the rest of the way. cross. Jesus' body was broken. Not his bones, but his body was broken. And so as he's as he quotes from the Psalm, do you see the parallels? Verse 13: I've heard the slander of many. How many times did they slander Christ? As he stood in these mock trials? How many times did they slander Christ as they beat him and they mocked him? How many times did they slander Christ as he hung on the cross? They loathed him. In verse 13, he says, They took counsel together against me. They devise to take away my wife. For how many years were the religious leaders plotting to kill Jesus? That was not a plan that started on the Passover week. This is something they had been plotting for a very long time. And when they had their opportunity, they took it. And they didn't want to just see Jesus die. They wanted to see him die in the most miserable. In the most horrific way possible. They took glee in the thought of the Romans crucifying him as a common criminal. And so with that in our minds, remember what Isaiah 53 says. Let me read this to you. It says, He hath no form nor comeliness. When we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. We hid as it were our faces from him. He was despised. Wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities, oppressed and afflicted, yet he opens not his eyes. And so I think about how he was unappreciated, no former comeliness, no beauty that we should desire him. Jesus grew up in a carpenter's home in Nazareth. In fact, in John chapter 8, when they're talking about Jesus, they say, you're not even 50 years old yet. How old was Jesus? He was 30-something. In other words, they're saying, oh, you're not a 50-year-old man. Obviously, he's not a 50-year-old man. Man. It's another way of saying you're a lot older, a lot more ragged looking than the average person your age. You're not the Messiah. There's absolutely no way it's true. He's despised and rejected of men. He was loathed. Isolated. We hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised and we esteemed him not. There were people they did not believe that Jesus deserved to die. They were not putting in their hand and saying, crucify him, but you know what? They would have never said, Don't crucify him. They would have never stepped up and said, Oh, I don't think this is right. This is unjust. You should have no part in it. The only person that we really hear saying that, ironically, is Pilate's own wife. Go figure. Not religious leaders, not a part of the Sanhedrin, not people in the crowds. Pilate's wife And then broken, he has borne our grief, he's carried our sorrows, wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities, oppressed and afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. Do you see the parallel? Jesus did all this so that we could have a righteous position. So that we could be forgiven and cleansed. And so, in just a few minutes, we're going to partake of the Lord's table together. You know what we're going to do? We're going to remember the sacrifice of Christ. But tonight I'd like you to think of it in two ways. I want you to think about how the sacrifice purchased our redemption, and we'd have absolutely nothing if it wasn't for that. But I'd like you to also look at it on a second side, and that is it is through the nature of the way he purchased our redemption that he can come alongside of us and he can strengthen us Strengthen us in our weakness. And he can strengthen us in our infirmities. And strengthen us when we are wounded and we feel broken and we're in misery and we feel there is no hope. We realize if it wasn't for the gospel, we'd have absolutely nothing. Let's bow together and thank God that Christ did all this. Father in heaven, we are so grateful that this evening we can gather together. And we can remember what Jesus did for us. The only reason we can even speak to you as Father is because He intercedes on us On our behalf. The only reason that we can come as righteous saints is because we are righteous in Christ. Father, may we be comforted and may we cherish this tremendous work that was done for us. I pray that this evening you would uplift hurting hearts That you would strengthen and encourage those who might be weary in their walk. That as they partake of this remembrance, as they drink this juice, And they eat this bread, they would be reminded of Christ's sufferings that purchase their position and his sufferings that give them strength because he knows what they are going through. Through. Father, use this to strengthen us as your people and the bonds that we enjoy with one another. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.