Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our final Anchored in the Word morning reflection for this week. And we have been in Romans chapter 8 all week. And so if you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to turn to that text of Scripture. We're reading verses 14 through 19 together. And we're going to look at how important it is that we take all these truths that we have looked at and we practically rest in God's goodness. Romans chapter 8, verse number 14 says the following For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For ye have not received the Spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the Spirit of Adoption, whereby we cry Abba Father The Spirit itself beareth witness with our Spirit, that we are the children of God, and if children, then heirs, heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ. If so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified together. For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. Now if you think back over the week, we have been focusing in on the fact that God is a loving Heavenly Father. And God doesn't want us to just understand this intellectually, but He wants us to actually have an experiential affection for Him. He wants us to have an experiential comfort, resting in the truths that the Bible lays out objectively. And so what I'd like to do this morning as we close out this section is I'd like us to look at that concept of resting in these truths and reflecting these truths. That's what we want to focus in on. And so notice verse number 18. He says, I reckon that the sufferings of this present world are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. What is Paul saying? Well when he uses the phrase I reckon, he is basically saying that when I take the truth literally And I think it through and I mull over it, I meditate , upon it, I come to the conclusion that in fact these things are true, and I purposefully rest in those things. In other words, I am considering them to be true, not just as uh an affirmation of truth, but uh by actually resting in those things. And that word reckon is used a lot. The idea is I am choosing to think biblically about these specific truths in relation to God being our Father. And so let me remind you of some of those truths that we should reckon to be true. We should reckon to be true that the love of God for us as his children is something that is unshakable. Remember what it says later on in Romans 8? He says that there is nothing that can separate us from the love of God. which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Another fact that we should be reckoning to be true is that God's actions toward us are consistently good. Those actions are consistently good because God is by nature good and and only good, and what he does is good and only good. And the way that he has dealt with us as his children is good and only good We can also be reminded and reckon this truth that He skillfully guides us through life's most difficult circumstances according to His perfect wisdom. Later on in the text in verse 28 he says, We know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose, whom he foreknew. He predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, or in verse number eighteen he says, I reckon that the sufferings of this present world are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us Well, th those two passages of Scripture have the sense of God guiding personally in our lives for our good according to his good character. We're reminded that God permits us to struggle, but that struggle has a purpose, and that purpose is our growth, it's our maturity, it's developing Christ-likeness. And so he says, it's good to those who are called according to his purpose, because whom he foreknew, he predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. He uses all circumstances to mold us and to build us and to draw us closely unto himself. We can also reckon the fact that he tenderly cares for us. And so when we're discouraged, he comes alongside of us, he strengthens us, he uplifts us, he pours grace into our lives. so that we are able to bear up under those great burdens. And he calls us to walk according to this pattern with other people. Like he is holy, we are to be holy in all manner of conversation. We are to be like Christ. We are to reflect his character. We are to reflect his goodness. And that filters into every single kind of relationship that we have. All of our Interactions with other people, our responses, what guides our thinking, all of this is supposed to reflect the pattern that is established by his good character. And so you may say, well, Joel, what is the application? What do I take away from this series of studies this entire week? Well, let me give you some simple things to think about. The first is that we've got to discipline ourselves to get into the Word of God, to carefully study it, to meditate on it, to reckon these things to be true. so that we know what is true and we are living in the light of what is true. We go from just that understanding and that knowledge to meditating on those truths so that those truths sink into us as people. And they begin to dominate our thinking and they begin to shape our affairs. affections and they begin to influence our desires. And so the meditating upon the scriptures, the thinking deeply about those things and how they personally relate to us is something that we need to do We should anticipate, thirdly, that the Holy Spirit is going to take the truth as we read it As we understand it, as we meditate on it, as we dig into it, he's going to take the truth and he's going to awaken our hearts. to the implications and the practical applications of those realities, those truths. And it is through the Spirit of God illumining the Word, opening it up to us so that we can see the practical implications that He is ultimately going to press us into new and healthy patterns of relationship to God. We've got to submit to the Spirit. We've got to allow Him to take the truth and to shape us into the mature saints that God calls us to be. Saints who reflect His goodness. And the last thing I'm going to mention is this. We need to rest in God's fatherly care. We need to say, when we are in difficult times, I know who my father is. I know how my father thinks, and I know my father's character, and I know how my father has related to me and to others, and I'm going to choose to rest. in that good fatherly care. That is our challenge as we close out the week. I hope that as you think about these truths that they will encourage you this weekend. I also want to add one more thing about our Anchored in the Word studies. Next week we will be going to camp And since we'll be going to camp, uh I will not have the typical access to uh internet for uploading our videos and those kinds of things. So it is more than likely I will not be able to get anchored in the Words Up this next week And so if you don't see the videos, uh just realize it's because we're at camp and then Lord willing we will pick up the following week uh with our studies just as we've been. So next week. Um If I'm able to get some up, I might do it, but more than likely, based on our internet, we will not have those. So perhaps go back and look over some of the past episodes and uh allow the Lord to use those things to encourage you in the Lord. Hope that you have a wonderful week. Be in prayer for us as we have our services on Sunday, and we hope to see many of you. And then also please keep us in prayer as we travel down to North Carolina to take our teens to camp. Have a blessed weekend. Bye now.