Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and uh hope you've been enjoying this study. We're in Psalm 28 again this morning, so if you have your Bible I'd like to encourage you to turn with us together and look at this passage of Scripture. So yesterday we looked at the way that David prayed to God and how he appealed to God to set a distinction between the righteous and the wicked. And today what I'd like us to do is focus in on how God righteously cares for his children. So this is going to be a very comforting, a very encouraging study, and so I hope that you'll enjoy it. Psalm 28 Verse number one says this it's the Psalm of David Unto thee will I cry, O Lord, my rock, be not silent to me, lest if thou be silent to me I become like them that go down into the pit Hear the voice of my supplication when I cry unto thee, when I lift up my hands toward thy holy oracle. Draw me not away with the wicked, and with the workers of iniquity which speak peace to their neighbors, but mischief is in their hearts. And then if you skip down verse number six, that's where I'd like us to start our attention today. It says, Blessed be the Lord God, because he hath heard the voice of my supplication. The Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusteth in him, and I am helped. Therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth, and with my song will I praise him The Lord is their strength. He is the saving strength of his anointed. Save thy people and bloss thine inheritance. Feed them also, and lift them up forever. Again, I mentioned earlier that today we're going to look at God's righteous care. And so we see that the focus of verses 6 through 8. Again, he says that the Lord has heard his supplication, the Lord is his strength, the Lord is his shield, and he has been his help And so I want us to kind of look at how David finds comfort in the midst of the heartache and the frustration and the fear that he's experiencing, recognizing, hey, I know that God judges the wicked. their implications uh to my life being connected to theirs, is God going to actually set a distinction between them and between me? Is he going to preserve the righteous? Where does David's comfort come from? Well, I'm going to start by saying negatively where it didn't come from. David's comfort wasn't just in some happy, hopeful thoughts. I gave this illustration on Sunday and uh about a week ago on Monday I got into some poison ivy. In fact, my arm looks pretty bad, but it's improving. I went to the doctor on Monday with the recommendation of a lot of people And I was able to get uh a couple of different uh medicines and took those. I'm still taking those and uh my arm is healing, thankfully. But the reason that I got into that mess uh is because on a beautiful Monday morning, a day kind of like today, nice and warm, um like like it's been the last couple of days, um I I decided I was gonna just take a chance and I was gonna work in the woods and uh I knew there was poison ivy in there and I thought, well, I'll be okay. I'm not gonna worry about it In fact, a lot of times people get themselves in bad situations because they depend on uh an assumption. They just hope for the best. That's a really dangerous way to live your life. Just building your life on a guess or building your life on a feeling. David wasn't doing that. David was building his life on something that was verifiable. Facts regarding God and the way that God works. And I want you to notice the exact things that he says about God. The first thing is he talks about the fact that God was listening to him. It says, Blessed be the Lord, because he hath heard the voice of my supplication. David knew that when he was fearful and when he needed comfort, he could cry out to God, and God heard him The question is, why did David believe that? Is it because he just had a feeling that God heard him? The answer is no. It's because he had the promises of Scripture. He had the testimonies of Scripture. He knows that God acts consistent with his nature. A second thing that he mentions is he says that the Lord is my strength. The idea is that God had been strengthening him. He didn't say the Lord's going to be my strength or the Lord used to be my strength. He says the Lord is my strength. That was his present condition. And so David understood that the reason he was able to bear under the pressures that he was experiencing in life were a direct result of the fact that God was strengthening his hands and strengthening his heart. So that's a second uh matter of God's care that he mentions. A third. He says, The Lord is my shield. Now a shield is something that defends or protects someone, that keeps them from facing an onslaught of some kind. And David was a warrior, so he understood what it was like to go into battle. Uh offensive uh weapon like a sword, and then the defensive uh protection, the shield He said, God is my shield. God actively protects him. Again, he's not saying God's going to protect him or that God used to protect him. He's saying that at the moment God is protecting me. That is a present condition. He gives a fourth, very important. He says, my heart trusted in him and I am helped. Now He's saying in the past, when I was being shaken and when I was getting pushed around and I needed comfort, I turned to God. I trusted in him and he is currently helping me. What does that tell you? God has settled his heart when it was troubled Again, these are all objective matters. These are things that are verifiable David is looking at. The fourth that he mentions, he says, Therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth, and with my song I will praise him. He goes from God listening, God strengthening, God settling, God protecting. He moves to God being his joy What David is saying is that because of the way that God has dealt with me in the midst of difficult circumstances, I can rejoice I can praise him. I can actually be content and I can be happy. He's not just surviving the struggle. He is thriving in the midst of it. And that's something that only God can do. God is righteously taking care of David. The last thing that he mentions, and this is a fascinating statement that he makes, is he says, the Lord is their strength. And he is the saving strength of his anointed. Now, in the first several examples, he's talking about it very personal, he is He is listening to me. He is strengthening me. He is protecting me. He is settling my heart in trouble. He's being my joy. But now he's not saying he's mine. He's Theirs. Now why does David make that distinction? Because David's not living his life independent of other believers He is living in community with other believers. And what he's expressing is that not only is God strengthening my heart, he's strengthening their heart. And it is through that connection that he has to other believers that David is being encouraged. So David is recognizing that God's care isn't just a personal matter. It is a personal matter. But it's also a corporate matter. And that's one of the reasons that the local church body of believers is so very important, because not only is God strengthening me as an individual But he's using me to strengthen my neighbor, and he's using my neighbor to strengthen me, and as we are growing together in the Christ likeness We are mutually encouraged and strengthened. So he's emphasizing that. What is really the heart of that? Well, the heart is that God is righteously taking care of David. So I want to kind of summarize it this way. As we look at these truths that David is expressing, we see that God is encouraging him because David knows from the scriptures who God is. He has the the numerous testimonies of how God has worked in the lives of other people in Scripture. And when David reads those things, he's encouraged. In fact, I'll give you an example of this. This morning Uh actually the last several days I've been reading about the life of Joseph in Genesis, and as I was reading through the life of Joseph just the other day, I saw that that Joseph expresses that God had helped him to forget his sorrows, the things that he experienced with his family, and God had made him to prosper in a land of affliction And I made this connection in my mind that David or excuse me, Joseph recognized that the reason that he prospered and the reason that he was able to process all of the pain and suffering that he experienced in his family life in the past, it's because of God's presence. Well when I read that It's something that God uses to help me. In other words, that the testimonies of the Scriptures and what God did with Joseph, they strengthen me Now I have the opportunity to share this with you this morning and to share it with other people who I have the opportunity to run into in various circumstances. What's the point? He's saying I was strengthened because I know what God's word says about him. I know what it says about his the testimonies, how he worked. And then he's actively personally experienced this comfort in an experiential way. It's not just an academic thing or have this knowledge of these truths, but he's living them out. He's experiencing them. He saw God working in the lives of other people. So, what do we take away from this? What is the practical application that we can kind of dig into this morning and take this with us throughout the rest of the day? Let me share with you three quick simple thoughts. First of all We need to turn to the facts in the moments that we are fearful or frustrated. We can't just rest in some feeling. We're going to get battered around back and forth like like the wind driving the waves or like a reed getting shaken in the wind. We can't just put our confidence in the moments of frustration and fear And just a feeling, or just hoping for the best. We've got to go to the facts. The second thing is that we have to dig into the testimonies of Scripture We need to meditate on psalms like the very one that we're reading. Because what's amazing about many of the psalms is that you have a person who is in a very difficult position and they ex Express the the heaviness of the struggle that they find themselves in. But what you often see in these Psalms is not just the heaviness of the struggle. And the reality of those challenges, but you see how this believer, a godly individual, processes the circumstances they're in, and they process the emotions that they are living through. And they continually turn themselves back to truth what what is concrete, what we what they know God's Word says And so we see in the testimonies of Scripture and in the Psalms, which are really examples of testimonies of Scripture, we see struggle. process and strength. And this can help us on a daily basis. And then the last thing I'm going to mention is this. We need to allow these situations to draw us closer to God and to other Christians. God never allows us to suffer without a glorious purpose being the ultimate end of that. That purpose is to reveal Himself to us, that purpose is to shape us into the image of Christ. It's also to strengthen our bond with other believers. When we go through hardships and we rub shoulders with other believers, they're able to pour and invest in our lives. And then we are strengthened by that interaction. And then as we are strengthened by that interaction, they are mutually encouraged as well. Why? Because God uses that interaction to strengthen those bonds and strengthen those convictions. and strengthen our hearts. As you think about this passage this morning, I pray that it will encourage you. We serve a God who righteously cares for us as his children. And we can be absolutely confident in that, and we can rest confidently in that. Hope you have a great rest of your day. If this has been an encouragement to you, I hope you'll share that. It's encouraging to get feedback and I've gotten quite a bit of feedback sometimes through text messages, sometimes through messages through YouTube or Facebook And share it with someone so that it can be an encouragement to them as well. Spread the word that we're doing these Anchored in the Word series studies. And I think that they'll be an encouragement to people. Have a great rest of your day. Bye now.