Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I'm excited about a new week of study. And if you were with us this past Sunday, you saw that we were in Romans chapter 8, and Romans 8 is one of my favorite chapters in all scripture. So I'm really looking forward to digging into this passage of scripture with you this week If you uh could, let's turn together to Romans chapter 8. We're looking at verses 14 down to verse 19. Here's what the scriptures say. As many as are led of the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. Ye have not received the Spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the Spirit of Adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our Spirit, that we are the children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, join heirs with Christ, if so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified together. For I reckoneth the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. Now, this passage of Scripture is very rich, and what I'd like to do is kind of set some introductory thoughts as we dig into the passage that's ultimately focusing in on our relationship to God as our Father. In order to do that, I want to begin with a summary statement, kind of highlight a little bit of the flow of Romans chapter 8, and then focus our attention in on what we will be looking at throughout the rest of the week, Lord willing. So Romans chapter 8 was written to comfort God's people as they encounter challenges and as they live in a fallen world. And all of these encouragements are really focused in on God's faithfulness and fatherly care. Because he is our heavenly father, because he is Good, because he is kind, because he loves us. When we encounter difficulties in life, we can trust him. We can find confidence and encouragement. We can be strengthened. That's what we're focusing in on this week. Romans 8 is all about encouragement. And I want you to consider some of these amazing statements in Romans chapter 8. For instance, in verse 1. He says, There's therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, to the person who's afraid that maybe God still is angry with them and maybe he's going to judge their sin and they're going to face God's wrath. That passage reminds us if we're in Christ, we belong to Him. and we are no longer under his wrath, no longer under his condemnation. Well verses three and four he says, What the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh condemn sin in the flesh, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us. And so it reminds us of what God is doing in our lives. He is conforming us to the image of Christ, and we live consistent with that pizza position because we have a new nature, because they have the Holy Spirit at work in us. We're in Romans Chapter eight verse nine he says, You're not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be that the spirit of God dwelleth in you. And so he he talks about the difference between the way that you thought and the way that you lived and your affections as an unbeliever versus What they are now that you're in Christ and you have this new nature and the Spirit of God is at work within your win within your heart Or then again in verse 18 he says, I reckon the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be Revealed in us, and we all face suffering. Suffering is a part of living in a fallen world. But he says, Because you're God's child, there is a redemptive purpose in suffering. And then Chapter eight verse twenty-eight. We know that all things work together for good. To them that love God, to them are the called according to his purpose. Verse thirty-one. What shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? Christ died for our sins. There's no charge that can be laid against us because Christ has paid in full our sins penalty And then perhaps one of the greatest statements of all is what we see in verses thirty-eight and thirty-nine. I am persuaded there's nothing that can separate us from the love of God. which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. You say, well, Joel, why did you go through those verses? Well it's to give you a sense of of the greatness of the comfort that is available to us. in Romans chapter 8. It is a magnificent text of scripture. But let's move from the content and look at a little bit of analysis of these verses. What are these Scriptures all have in common. Well, what they have in common is that they offer us security and comfort and encouragement. That is the focus of Romans chapter 8. They they all are passages that we can flee to when we are experiencing trouble, we are fearful, when we feel that God is distant from us. In those moments where our head and our emotions are not on the same same wavelength and we're beginning to feel tossed about back and forth What does God do? He drives us back to these scriptures. They are a comfort to us. They're an encouragement to us. They are all objectively true, and they're not objectively true because They're how we feel. They're objectively true because God said it and God did it. And whether we feel it or not These are realities that are rooted in his grace alone. They testify of God's goodness and his strength and his resolve to keep his children and to mature his children and to preserve his children And it talks of God's warmth toward us. But the the thing we're going to focus on this week is the statement, His children. We belong to God, not as just his servants, not as just those who he has created, but as his children. people whom he loves very dearly. And so this morning or this week, I am really looking forward to kind of expounding the concept of how this text of scripture Zeroes in on the fact that God is our Father, we're his children, and these comforts are rooted back in the gospel and the position that we have as God's children I hope that you'll join us this week as we study this scripture. And my prayer is that God will use it to really encourage you throughout each morning this week. Have a blessed day, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue our series. Bye now.