Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope that you're enjoying these studies this week. And I hope that this passage is very encouraging and helpful to you. Just to remind those who maybe haven't been joining us this week, we're in Romans chapter 8. We're looking at verses 14 through 19, and we are looking at the topic that God is a comforting and loving Heavenly Father. So if you could, let's turn together, look at this passage, and we're going to continue developing this concept. Romans chapter 8, verse 14 says the following. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. And if children, then heirs. Heirs of God, joint heirs with Christ, if so be that we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified together For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. lessons we have been dealing with the fact that God is our Heavenly Father, and we talked specifically about that yesterday. Well this morning what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to to notice how This text presents the concept of God being our Father as both an objective reality and also something that we're supposed to have an experiential sense of. We could say that there's both an objective foundation and then there is something that is supposed to be connected to that that warms our soul and it gives us comfort and it gives us strength Notice what it says in verses 15 through 17. Ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption whereby we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit beareth witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. That little statement whereby we cry, Abba Father, is showing us that it's not just something objective that we have this cold and calloused, uh um, we could say academic understanding of, it's something that's supposed to warm our soul It's supposed to press us internally. It's supposed to motivate us to cry out to God. And then he says that the Spirit bears witness with our spirit. In other words, he convinces us of this reality. And so in these verses, we're seeing both objectively stated truth and we're seeing the experiential side of that. And I want you to to notice that with me. First of all The objective side, we are God's children. He states it in verse 16. We are the children of God. That's an objective reality. Whether I feel like I'm God's child on one day and that that sense is very strong and very warming and very encouraging, or whether it feels like a distant reality if I've placed my faith in Christ That is objectively true about me. Or then verse 15, and very very important statement. He says, You have not received the spirit of bondage to fear, rather, ye have received the spirit of adoption. And so what he's telling us is that the way that we should relate to God has objectively changed We are not to relate to God as a slave who has no warmth and love for him, but rather we're supposed to relate to him as someone that we have affection for. There is an endearing relationship for him. We're not supposed to be terrified of him. We're supposed to love him. And that is the sense of verse number fifteen. The relationship has changed. Therefore, the way that we relate to him should experientially be changed. But he's talking about an objective reality. Or in verse 17 He says, if we are heirs, then we are joint heirs with Christ. And so he connects being a child to being an heir. to being a joint heir with Christ. And so he's talking about the objective reality that we have a sure internal inheritance. We're his children. Whereas heirs in Christ, we are joint heirs with Christ. Those are all objective realities. But then I want you to notice the experiential side, the subjective side, the aspect that's supposed to be a passionate response to objective realities. In verse 15 he says, it is by these whereby we cry Abba Father. Do you see the passion of that? Do you see how there is an internal response to the objective realities? That's what God wants us to have. He wants us to look at him and feel endeared to him, feel motivated to cry out to him, to feel a closeness to him. God wants the truth to warm our souls. and press our affections. And so what we see in these passage in this passage is we see the connection between facts, doctrine and experience the warmth of the soul, the affection of the heart. And notice that this warming of the soul and this affection in the heart isn't something that is disconnected from objective doctrine. No, that's something that flows out of objective doctrine. Because we believe the scriptures, that motivates us and that shapes our affection so that we Love God. So our belief isn't supposed to be cold and lifeless and strictly academic. It's supposed to be grounded in the truth and experientially warm. That's the idea And by the way, we find this concept in lots and lots of scripture. For instance, in Deuteronomy chapter 6, this is an Old Testament text. He says that we are to love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our soul, and with all our might. In other words, we're supposed to have affection for him. We're supposed to have this affection in the depths of our being, the entirety of our person. All of our heart, all of our soul, all of our might is to love God. Or in Deuteronomy 63, verses 1 through 8, he says, My soul f Thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee, because thy loving kindness is better than life, my lips shall praise thee, my soul shall be satisfied. With morrow and fatness, and my mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips, when I remember thee on my bed and meditate on thee in the night watches In the shroud of thy wings will I rejoice, my soul followeth heart after thee, thy right hand upholdeth me. Do you see the can The connection between the objective realities of the gospel and the objective realities of our position in God's character and the subjective or experiential side of thirsting after him, longing after him of being satisfied with him, by resting under the shadow of his wings, falling hard after him, loving him with all of our heart and soul. and mind and strength. The idea of this passage of scripture is that there's an objective reality that's supposed to capture my heart and it's supposed to press me to God. And so when we talk about the concept of God being our loving Heavenly Father, I want to ask this question to you this morning Do you not just know it or do you know it and you experience the warmth of that reality? That is really the sense of the passage before us. In fact, what we would call this is we would call it the witness of the Spirit. The idea is that the Holy Spirit takes the truth of Scripture and He presses it into our hearts and it changes how we think. It changes our relationship to God in an experiential way. We could call it illumination. Lots and lots of different ways that the Bible refers to this. So I want to just remind you as the takeaway This begins with an understanding of objective truth, doctrine. God takes the truth and he presses it into our hearts. He awakens our hearts to the personal significance of these realities and he convinces us of the truth. He stirs up our heart, he stirs up our affections Through the ministry of the Word. The Spirit of God takes the Word of God and He applies it to the believer's heart so that the believer doesn't just understand it intellectually, he feels the weight and the joy of these truths. This is perhaps the greatest effect of biblical preaching and teaching in the heart of the believer. The Spirit of God taking the Word of God and pressing it into our hearts. I ask you this morning, is that the way you live the Christian life? Are you warmed by the scripture as you think about what Christ has done for you. And the fact that you've turned to him and place your faith in him alone. Do you feel the closeness of these truths? Do they awaken your conscience to that the significance of those realities or not? My prayer is that this morning we will recognize not just the objective truths, but we will experience them. We will taste and see that the Lord is good, that our soul will thirst after him, and our flesh will long after him, and we will be satisfied in his presence. And we will remember with joy the position that we have and the blessings of that position. And that our soul will follow hard after God. May that be the state of our soul this morning. I hope that you have a blessed rest of your morning and I look forward to Lord willing tomorrow continuing our series. Have a blessed day. Bye now.