Well, good morning. Good to see each of you out. We want to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church this morning. And we have several announcements, so Pastor Chris is going to come with those, and then we'll open up our service with our scripture reading. All right. Good morning. Yeah, a chance to grab a bulletin. You see we got lots going on and things are picking up around here for the summer. We got uh our Friday night youth group this Friday along with our men's grill night on the Saturday that follows. If you haven't had a chance for the Men's Grill Night to sign up and show what you're going to bring. There is a sign-up sheet in the back and it is a bring your own meet. So for guys, if you plan to be there, it's at 4 p. m. on Saturday. We also have next week our nursery workers meeting after the a. m. service And then the following Sunday, we have our VBS meeting. So if you notice on the bulletin, we got our vacation Bible school on there. It's right around the corner If you volunteered to be at BBS or if you're still interested in helping out with VBS, we can use all the hands we can get. And uh for that you got to be at the meeting June 5th. If you have any more questions, let me know. Also with BDS, be sure to sign up for any crafts that we still have. We have a sign-up sheet in the back as well as information at church office if you have any questions. So we do need to know that as soon as possible if you would like to offer up any items for BBS crafts. With that, I'll leave it up to Pastor. Okay, we're getting ready to go into our new quarter for Sunday school, and this is uh promotion Sunday for our uh for our young people. So I know we have several um young people that are in the sixth grade that are going to graduate into the youth group. In fact, yesterday we had uh our first official youth activity that our up and coming junior high uh young people were able to come to and we just had a really great time with that. Wanted to mention with our uh our new quarter starting we're gonna ask that our Sunday school workers meet for a brief meeting after the morning service and so we will do that in the double door room. So if you are teaching Sunday school in the next quarter, please do come to that meeting. Won't be excessively long, but we just want to make sure that we're all on the same page with items for that. And then also uh Mothers of Littles have a an activity this coming Monday. And that will be at the church. So ladies, please come to that if you can. That'll be at 10 a. m. Also wanted to mention this is not in your bulletins, but we will have this in future weeks. But On June the 11th, we're going to ask if there's anyone that can come and help us with some tree removal. We have, I believe it's three trees. Is that right, Chad? Three three pretty good-sized trees that we're going to be cutting down. And so if you can come to that, we're going to start at 8 o'clock. And we're going to rent a lift so that Chad can get up into those trees and cut up those pieces. If any of you like to burn firewood, let us know. because we're going to have a lot of firewood available after after that. But mark that on your calendars again. That's June the 11th, 8 o'clock. And if you can come and help out with that, that would be a huge help If you could, let's take our Bibles and turn together to Psalm 103, the 103rd Psalm, and we're looking at verses 1 through 6 together this morning. Psalm 103, and again we're looking at verses 1 through 6. Here's what Scripture says. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. Who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases, who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles? The Lord executeth judge righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed. This morning, as we look at this passage of Scripture, actually this will be one of the scriptures that we'll look at in our Luke study, we're going to be focusing in on the compassionate care of the Lord. And how when we are in desperate situations, we can rest in the fact that God is compassionate, that He is sovereign, that He rules and He reigns. And we're going to see some very practical, encouraging things from Scripture this morning. So let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to bless our service today. Father, we are so grateful that we can gather together as a body of believers. I pray that you as we are gathered together, you would bless this time. in a very sweet way. Father, help our hearts to be attentive to the Word of God. Help me as I preach the Word later on in this service to lay open the scriptures in a very simple manner. I pray that you would take these truths and sink them into our hearts. I'm sure that in our midst or on the live stream, there are folks that are dealing with heavy issues, afflictions, physical infirmities That really weigh them down and discourage them. And I pray that as we look at these scriptures, you would take the truth of Scripture, apply it to our hearts, and encourage our souls. Pray that every aspect of this service this morning would bring honor and glory to the Lord Jesus Christ. Father, we pray for those who are now in the traveling season. I know Many in our church are beginning to travel for the summer. Some will travel this next week. I pray that you would give travel mercies to those who are on the roads, uh in the air, those who will be uh traveling soon Father, be with those in our congregation who've recently lost family members who are very dear to them. I pray that you would give them a tremendous measure of comfort this morning. Thank you for those who can join us, who are visitors. I pray that we would have an opportunity to get to know them and be a blessing and an encouragement to them. And I pray for those who've joined us on the live stream this morning. I pray that you would use this time in your word and this time of singing praise to you to uplift their spirits and encourage them in the Lord. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you so much for joining us and worshiping with us here at Anchor Baptist Church. Please stand with me. Open your hymn books to hymn number one. Rejoice the Lord is King. We'll be singing all four verses of hymn number one. Sing out. Rejoice, the Lord is king, your Lord and King of all. Rejoice, give thanks and sing and try ever. Lift up your voice, lift up your voice with joy, God and joy. When he had adjusting him to the Lift up your hearts, lift up your white rejoicing, his kingdom cannot. Lift up your voice, rejoice, rejoice in glory. And bring his dad to be burned for God. Let the God. Great singing. Let's turn over to hymn number fourteen. Worthy of praise. Hymn number 14, we'll sing both verses worthy of praise My heart overflows with praise. To the Lord, I will lift up my voice to my day in one half of the present hands of I power, and I worship it one more. Lord you are worthy, worthy of praise. My lips sing his praise, my heart feels his love, is worthy. I'm answering pressing and breath forever and not their arms from me closer to the Worthy of all my friend You are worthy of all my friend How I can must have been alone, more to worthy, worthy of praise Great singing. Please be seated. We'll continue our singing with hymn number 463. 463, Blessed Assurance. We'll sing all three verses. Of hymn number four hundred and sixty-three that mine go with a parts. Save the for his divine, a snation , turn of God What are these fairness? Washing this blood This is my story This is my heart Praising my came more than one This is my My story, this is my song, breathing my second all the day long perfect submission, perfectly light , this is the Angels descending straight from my bug Ethers of mercy, whispers of love. This is my Braising my second for the wall This is my story, this is my song I stand on the day long, perfect submission, all of the press, I am terrible and happy at last. Watching and waving working above Filled with his judgment, lost in this love This is my story, this is my dog Praise my sandwich all the law. Deliver 's all my song. Praise my hand. Great singing this morning. Our scripture reading will come from the Gospel of Luke. The Gospel of Luke chapter 4 verses 38 through 41. Luke chapter 4. Verses 38 through 41. The scriptures say, and he arose out of the synagogue and entered into Simon's house. And Simon's wife's mother was taken with a great fever, and they besought him for her, and he stood over her, and rebuked the fever, and had left her And immediately she arose and ministered unto them. Now, when the sun was setting, all they that had any sick with diverse diseases brought them unto her. And he laid hand unto him, and he laid hands on every one of them and healed them. Devils came also out of many, crying out and saying, Thou art Christ, the Son of God. And he rebuking them suffered them not to speak, for they knew he was the Christ. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Amen. It's wonderful. Alright, let's continue our singing. We'll open our hymn books to hymn number ninety-one. Number ninety-one, the steps of a good man. We'll sing both verses of hymn number ninety-one. So dark deal I can money , but maybe come on, and I come back with the. Let 's sorrow the breaks be my friend. Lord bless me thy bless Thus the son of a good man under the Lord, and we divide the hand is when How we all is at last, we are the for the law, for the law, for the law of the Lord make me pride by forever and death. And he won't let Very body shall not be altered down for the war, for the war Our last song is going to be number 192 in our blue book. 192, let's stand. We'll sing all four verses. This complete in thee. Complete in thee, no work of mine may take their Lord away. I thought that one for me And I am now complete in thee Yes I sanctified I'll please and more, thy God I thought and bought for me, and glorified I truth shall be complete and thee no more shall send. Thy grace has on her grave with them, thy voice shall be, and I shall stand completely. And take the part of this and far but for me And forever I choose to be complete Then this one will fight And no good thing to be denied A good force and more be I am no more complain to me Take up their fine thoughts and take the fight and aren't deep and forever. And I too shall me dear singer when before thy part , all strength and times I tell the Lord, I'm on thy choice, and where I meet. And thy right hand comes in thee, Yes and fight of God, and speak if I 'm thy border. For me and glorify thy truth shall be great singing, please be seated. God who dwells in courts of praises, angels song, you're rightful to Still you step to hear us in Bring a broken heart to you Hear our cry for full for again Cover us with cleansing praise. God, who hears your children's voice. God who forced it by the mountains, towering high above the land God is still the raging waters, till they gently brush the throws you hear a cry for strength or heaven In the dimension of our day, God who gives your children fly birth. Can you give an already beyond another window? God who brings us to our need here for me to try to Hell upon your faith we have the body for Skin Smith to the back for Junior Church. And the rest of you, I want to invite you to take out your Bibles and let's turn together to Luke chapter 4. Luke chapter 4, the text that we're looking at is verses 38 through 41, and we uh are working our way verse by verse through the book of Luke on Sunday mornings. And uh this is uh a very encouraging text of Scripture, and I hope that as we look at the contents of this passage and just think about this passage in light of the rest of Scripture, I really hope that it'll be an encouragement to you this morning Luke chapter 4, verse 38, here's what the text says. And he arose out of the synagogue and entered into Simon's house. That's Simon Peter. Simon's wife 's mother was taken with a great fever. They brought him for her. He stood over her and rebuked the fever, and it left her, and immediately she arose and ministered unto them. Now when the sun was setting, all they that had any sickness with diverse diseases brought them all unto him. He laid his hands on every one of them and healed them Devils came out of many, crying out and saying, Thou art Christ the Son of God. He rebuking them, suffered them not to speak. For they knew that he was the Christ. Let's be add together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to really help us to understand the passage in front of us. And then let's dig into a very comforting text of Scripture. Father, I'm so grateful that we can gather together as a body. I'm thankful for each person that is with us this morning. I know that each of us carry burdens on a daily basis. Some of them are health related, some of them are relational related, financial related. You know the various burdens of our hearts. I pray this morning as we open up this scripture and as we think about the fact that you related so kindly and so compassionately to these people that were in a very desperate situation. That you are the same compassionate God who works in our lives. As you demonstrated your authority and your power and your sovereignty. I pray that we would see that the same power that you possessed in these moments you possess today and you apply them very specifically and very personally in our lives. Father, help me to communicate this text of Scripture in a way that's consistent with its intent. And I pray that you'd open our understanding. Help the Holy Spirit to speak to our hearts through the Word and impress these truths upon us. And help us to apply them very personally, very directly in our lives. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. The passage before us is a very interesting passage. In fact, I'll give you the following summary statements so that we can kind of understand what is the main purpose as we move our way through the book of Luke. This section, this following portion of Luke 4 provides an encouraging reminder that Christ had compassion on people in their most desperate situations. This gives us insight into his goodness and his authority. So as we read these verses, what we're going to see is that there were people that were in tremendous desperation. Primarily, these are people who had health desperations. One of them was Peter's mother-in-law, and yes, Peter was married, and Peter had a mother-in-law. And Peter's mother-in-law was very sick, and when it says she had a great fever, We'd have to assume that this means she was probably in a situation where she could potentially die from the sickness that she had. It's interesting that later on in these verses we read that as the sun is beginning to set, the day is over, most people would go home to their homes. And they would kind of rest and get ready for bed and then they're gonna hopefully get the rest that they need to go into the next day. People are coming in massive droves, many people who are sick. Many people who are infirm and they're being brought by friends who have the power to bring them to Christ. And the reason that they're being brought to Christ is because These people see the desperate situations of their friends or family members, and they're going to plead with Jesus to do for their friends or their family members what he just did for Peter's mother-in-law. What we're going to see is that Jesus stopped. It's kind of like when you and I would be coming home for the day. Jesus' day was beginning. And it says that he healed all of the people that were brought to him. It tells us a lot about how good Christ is. It tells us a lot about his power and his authority. When we're reading these verses, the primary reason that Luke would have recorded these details is to demonstrate the authority of Christ. It's to demonstrate that his person is in fact God in flesh. Jesus has authority over sickness. Jesus has the power to forgive sin. He's demonstrating this authority in these verses. He's also demonstrating the humanity of Christ. His compassion, his care. We see that these are very personal verses. So as we read through this passage and as we dig into some very specific details, Let's not lose sight of the primary intent for which Luke would have recorded these words to help this man, Theophilus, to go, I can believe in the Christ because I see evidence, proof of who he is. What I think the Lord would want us to see from the Scriptures this morning is that when we find ourselves in desperate places, we can rest in this very simple truth. That the Lord Jesus Christ is in charge and he is compassionate. And I want you to see that from this text and many others this morning. Well you may ask, well, where do we see that this morning? Well, let's go ahead and begin with this first truth that we find in verse 38. I'm going to read these verses and then we're going to look at truth number one. Desperate situations are a painful part of our fallen world. Here's what it says in verse 38. And he arose out of the synagogue and entered into Simon's house. Simon's wife's mother was taken with a great fever, and they besought him for her. It's kind of an interesting way of putting it. She didn't come to Jesus and say, Can you heal me? I would have to assume that the reason they had to come to Jesus for her is because she couldn't come for herself. She was in a very desperate place. Later on in these verses it says, all they that had sickness and diverse diseases, they brought them unto him. Again, we're seeing people that don't have the power to go to Christ themselves. Somebody has to actually bring them to Christ, and we see that these people are in desperate places. This concept of being in desperation, it's something that every single one of us has, will, and in the future is eventually going to find ourselves in places like this. And there were two specific factors that were leading to the desperate situations that these people had. Some of their desperate situations were rooted into physical infirmities. We could say that they were sick, they had illnesses, they had things that were debilitating, they were not able to function in a healthy manner because of physical infirmities. Every single one of us gets sick. No matter how many precautions you and I can take, we're never going to be able to somehow navigate through life without sickness. There are some sicknesses that the reality is we're going to get them because of the genetic makeup that we have. This is something that we inherited from our parents and If we have children, we've passed it down to them as well. And we're going to come to a certain situation in life, a season of life, where some of these physical issues are eventually going to start showing themselves in our lives. You say, well, why is that? Why do we have sickness? Why do we go through physical infirmities? Why do we have these debilitating situations that unfold in this world? The simple answer is it's because it's a fallen world. We're going to dig into this a little bit more in just a few moments. But a lot of our desperate moments are really connected to things that we have absolutely no power to control. We could eat the perfect diet. We could exercise regularly. We could do everything right. And there's still going to be a day that something takes us out of this world. It's inevitable it's going to happen. These people were in a desperate situation because of physical weakness. But there was a second category here as well that's also very interesting. During this time that Christ is on his earthly ministry, we see several situations where there are people that didn't just have physical challenges, but they had spiritual challenges as well. The way that it describes it is that there were people who had devils. We could say that these are people who had either demonic oppression or demonic possession. When we say possession, we're saying that literally a demon is controlling this person in such a way that they are in some very desperate situations. They can't even control themselves. We could also talk about demonic oppression, which while this demon is not controlling them in the same way, the influence that this individual demon has is debilitating to this person as well. So, whether we're talking about physical infirmity, demonic oppression, or demonic uh possession, the reality is that these people were in desperation And I'm going to remind you of something that maybe I don't need to remind you of because we know it's true, but the reality is this, we live in a fallen world. And a fallen world is a painful world. Now, don't get me wrong, there are many rich blessings that we enjoy in a fallen world. We talked a lot about this in our ecclesiastes study this past Wednesday. We need a balance in how we look at life. Yes, it's true it's a fallen world. There's pain and there's suffering and there's sickness, but there's also rich beautiful blessings that we enjoy in this world. I think about yesterday in the morning I was doing a walk. And this is like the very best time of the year to do walks in this area. Because all the flowers are coming out. And so I'm walking down the road, and as I'm walking, I'm like, all these people have cut their grass and it looks immaculate. And all the roses, they're just exploding in color. And I can smell the roses as I'm walking down the road. And I see all these birds and I see all this activity. And they're all kinds of incredible flowers that are in full bloom right now. I don't know about you, but that's amazing, is it not? It's beautiful. It's a fallen world, yes, but there's a lot to enjoy in this fallen world as well. And so we kind of have to keep this balance of perspective. There are things to enjoy, but there are things that are very hard and they're very harsh. One of the things that's wonderful about the scriptures and a Christian worldview is that the Bible gives us the tools to have the balance And the Bible gives us hope because the reality is that Christ is going to give us an eternity that's free from sin and sickness and death and all those things And so we have the ability through Scripture to have the balance of perspective. But I want us to think about this for just a moment. This is a fallen world. It's a painful world. Romans chapter 8, verse number 20. Here's what it says. It says, the creature was made subject unto vanity. And I highlighted that when I was working through this. Not willingly. He then goes on to say this: it shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption. The very best you get in this world is corrupt on some level. into the glorious liberty of the children of God. We know the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now. Later on he says, even we ourselves, believers, groan within ourselves waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our bodies. Let me just mention again the way he describes the brokenness of a fallen world. It's subject to vanity. It's in bondage to corruption. The creation groans in travail and in pain. And we groan within ourselves, waiting for the redemption of our bodies. That's the world we live in. And so when these people are sick and they're coming to Jesus, because their friends are bringing them to Jesus, it's a reminder that this is the kind of world we live in. It's a world that's subject to vanity. Think about Ecclesiastes 1 where it says Vanity of vanities all is vanity. What profit hath a man of all his labor that he taketh up under the sun? Life is very redundant. You ever feel like you're kind of getting in a rut in life? I I'm sure we've all kind of been there different times. We feel this. Why is that? Because there is an emptiness to this world. If it's not for God and it's not for eternity, it's not for the gospel, it's not for redemption, this is a monotonous drearisome worlds. There is brokenness because of the curse of sin. Just think about how the curse of sin affects us on a personal level. We are sinful creatures. That means that our minds are affected by our sinful nature. Our affections are broken. Our wills are set in opposition to God's authority. This morning in Romans chapter 7, as Bruce was teaching, he he read a very interesting statement, and it basically says that sin took occasion. through the law and you go, well hold on a second. So the law is righteous and it says don't do this and when it says don't do this, sin took occasion in my heart? What what I thought my heart would say, oh I don't want to do that. It actually is the exact opposite. It's like you have a bunch of junior high boys walking down a hall. And as they're walking down the hall, one of the maintenance men who keeps the facility had to paint a little area and he puts wet paint, don't touch, on the door frame. Do you think those junior high boys will walk past that without just kind of sticking their finger? No, of course they won't. Why is that? Well, because when we're told not to do something, now we're aware of what we want, right? That's human nature. You say, well, why is that? It's because we're broken creatures. If it wasn't for the gospel, if it wasn't for regeneration and having a new nature that God gives us when we trust in the Lord Jesus Christ as our Savior. If it wasn't for the gospel Our minds would continue in blindness, our affections would continue to be broken, our wills would be continuing to be set in opposition to God. But as new creatures in Christ, we go through this process of of sanctification and God is changing our mind to shape it into the thinking of Christ. And He's developing within us affections that reflect the character of our Savior. And he begins to press our wills in a direction that honors Christ and his kingdom, not our flesh and this world system. And then we even think about spiritual opposition. 1 Peter chapter 5. He says to be sober and vigilant because our adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. It's pretty negative, is it not? These factors all work together to press us into desperate, painful situations. It may be that this morning you're in one of those seasons of life. It may be that you've been in a season of life like this for a while. Or you're not in that moment, but you're afraid it's like lurking uh in the shadows behind you. You know what I mean? It's like you go through a really tough time and then things kind of get a little better and you're like, I'm just waiting for the hammer to fall. You know what I mean? That's how you feel. God does not insulate us from every trial of our faith. And that's a reality that we see illustrated in this text There's a second truth though. And this is the incredible comfort. Actually, it's the beginning of unbelievable comfort. In verses 38 through 40, notice what it says. It says, he, that's Jesus, arose out of the synagogue and he entered into Simon's house. Now, if you know that somebody is sick unto death and they have a fever, would you might want to just like have dinner outside the house. You know what I mean? Like, let's just kind of keep our distance. We don't want to get what she had. He didn't do that. He went into the house. The people came to him and they pleaded with him, Could you please help her? Could you please heal her? And this is what it says. It says, He stood over her and he rebuked the fever, and it left her. Immediately she arose and ministered unto them. So Jesus heals this woman. He demonstrated his compassion. He demonstrated his authority, his power. We then continue on, it says, immediately she arose and ministered unto them. Now when the sun was setting, all they that had any sickness. with diverse diseases brought them unto him. Now it doesn't explain to us why there is like this time frame from when she was healed to ministering to him. Now it's evening and all these people are coming. So we have to in our mind just kind of ask the question, well, why is that? Well what I would kind of envision in my own mind, maybe I'm wrong at this, but that when Jesus heals this woman Everybody knows what's going on. You know, it's like when we have major health issues. Well, we have a prayer list. Why do we have a prayer list? Well, so we can pray for people, so we can be informed of what's going on in people's lives. So this woman was known to have this problem. And if she was close to death, people were preparing, even grieving for this moment. And when she's healed and she's serving in the house, word gets out really fast. All of a sudden people are going, Jesus just healed this woman. Hey, you have an uncle who's got a situation just as bad as hers. Hey, your aunt's going to hey you have a child that's infirm. My mother's in this situation. My grandfather's in this situation. All of a sudden people are going to their homes. And they're bringing these people to Christ because they're saying, if you can heal her, you can heal my family member too. That's what's going on. But by the time they get to Jesus, it's time for bed. It's evening. It says that the sun was setting When we took the teens to camp last summer, we had some interesting issues with the van, so it was a little bit of a longer day And I remember when we got to the town, I guess I'll call it a town, it was a very small community up in New Hampshire where the camp is, we needed to get fuel for our van. And so I remember we drive in and I I park the van and I get out and this young lady comes walking out of the gas station and says, sorry sir, we're closed. I was like, You're closed? She said, Yes So what time did you close? She's like, five minutes ago. And I'm like, could you please not help us out? Five minutes? She said, no, I'm sorry. We're closed. A lot of people have that mentality. If it closes at 9, don't come at 8. 55 through the drive-thru because you will not be served. You know what I mean? Jesus didn't do that. Jesus saw all these people coming, I'm sure an exhausting day physically, emotionally, and he healed all these people. That's what he did. And there's two things that I think are amazing takeaways from this. The first is that Christ is full of compassion. In James 5. 11 it says, you have seen the end of the Lord, that the Lord is very pitiful. Now when we when that word pitiful in this context, it's an old English term, it doesn't mean, you know, pitiful the way that we think of it. It means he's compassionate. It means he's kind. It means his heart is full of pity for those who are in tough places. That's what mercy is. He says he's very pitiful. He is of tender mercy. How do you view God? I don't know if we were to do a survey and we were to kind of see how people view God, not how are we supposed to view God, but how do we view Him in our circumstances. I think a lot of us would have to admit, say, well, I kind of think of God as somebody who is kind of waiting to pounce on me when I get out of line. Something bad happens in your life and the first thing you do is I wonder if I've been tithing regularly enough. Or I wonder if I've been I've been treating these people the right way. Is there somebody I forgot to say I forgive you to? Or there's something I didn't make right? Like immediately we kind of go to that that way of thinking. I'm I'm sure nobody here ever does that But that that's how I do sometimes think, right? But is that the way that God is? I mean, if that's really how God is Well, we wouldn't be here. We'd all be, you know, in the hospital or something like that, because the reality is it's God's grace is how He deals with us over and over and over again. He is kind to us. I want you to notice how many times In the Gospels, we see God's compassion being laid out in how he's relating to people. Listen to Matthew 9 verse 36. It says, when he, Jesus, saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. When Jesus saw this multitude of people coming to him, and if you're not familiar with the situation, it actually was connected to the story of Jesus talking to the woman at the well. And so when all these people are coming out of that city because she's saying, Come and meet a man that's told me everything I've ever done They're coming out and they want to talk to Jesus, and the reason is because they're people with problems like this woman, and they wanted Jesus to address that. And he's moved with compassion. Matthew 14, 14, Jesus went forth and saw a great multitude. He was moved with compassion towards them, and he healed their sickness. Mark 1:41, it says Jesus was moved with compassion, and he put forth his hand and he touched him and said unto him, I will be thou clean. By the way, the person he touched was a leper. I don't know if anybody gets a little squeamish around blood and all that kind of stuff, alright? I mean it's like when there's a a real nasty diaper that you gotta change and I and I And I'm like dry heaving the whole time and I'm like trying to change this diaper and he and he dads out here. Okay, I see one over here, right? You can identify with this, all right? We don't like to touch nasty things. Here's this guy who is a leper, and Jesus touched him to heal compassion. The one that I think to me is the most impactful is John chapter 11. Listen to what it says in verse 32. This is the story of Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead. He says, when Mary was come where Jesus was and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother would not have died. Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping, which came with her. Listen to what it says. He groaned in his spirit and was troubled. Now, did Jesus not know what he was going to do? I mean, he came to heal, not heal, he came to raise Lazarus back to life In fact, when the disciples came to him, they said, why did you linger? He says, well, Lazarus is sick for the glory of God. In other words, his death is going to be something that demonstrates my authority. I'm going to use this to prove and demonstrate who I am. That's what he's saying. Jesus knew exactly what he was going to do. So then why is he groaning? You think he was trembling with excitement because he's going to raise this man to life and he's going to demonstrate his power and his authority and his goodness. And all the people go, this is the Messiah, that's not what he was doing. He was troubled. Because he saw how it affected them emotionally. That's your savior He groaned and his spirit was troubled, and said, Where have they lain him? They said unto him, Lord, come and see. And then it says, Jesus wept. Then said the Jews, Behold, how he loved him, and some of them said, Could not this man which opened the eyes of the blind have caused even this man that he should not have died? Jesus therefore again groaning, and himself cometh to the grave. What do these verses tell us? Jesus is compassionate. I don't know how you view your Savior and the circumstances you find yourself in. But if you don't see him as the scriptures are laying him out in this text, you're believing a lie about the Savior. There's a second thing that I want you to notice, and that's he had authority to overrule this situation. And there's a sense in which This is a temporary overruling. When Jesus healed somebody, he healed them in that moment. They were restored in health. But it's not like they lived forever after that moment. I mean, poor Lazarus had to die twice Okay, so he got sick and he died. He's raised back to life and at some point down the road he dies again, okay So whenever someone was healed in these circumstances, it is a temporary demonstration, Jesus has the authority to heal. But You're still going to die and you're still going to have to go through glorification and enter into God's kingdom with a totally different kind of body, a a glorified body. That's something we have to understand. But whenever Jesus temporarily healed somebody, and I say temporarily, I don't mean he was healed and five minutes later he wasn't. I mean and that moment he was healed. And his health was genuinely restored, but there will be a day this person eventually dies. Every single moment that happened, it was giving people a glimpse into the authority of Christ. He has the ability, the power. And by the way, it's a foretaste of what's coming. There is going to be a day that there is a healing forever. That's what glorification is. We get this momentary glimpse. Listen to what it says in Psalm 103, verses 1 to 5. We read this already this morning. He says, Bless the Lord, O my soul, all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, forget not all his benefits, who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases, who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies Just gonna make a real simple statement. You get sick, you go to the hospital, you're not a Christian, and you're and you come out. Guess what? God did that. You say, well, that person's not a Christian. They didn't even pray. Well, that doesn't mean that God wasn't working in that situation for their good. You pray and you're a doubter. You're not sure if God's even going to step in in this situation. And he does. Guess what? He heals. When we go through affliction and sorrow and physical weakness and sickness, and we come through it, it's because God did that. No doctor has the power to heal. Doctors care, God heals. There's a difference. And so he emphasizes this. He redeems our life from destruction. He crowns us with loving kindness and tender mercies. Psalm 46, I read this uh at the senior luncheon this past Thursday. It says God is our refuge and strength of very present help in trouble. A refuge is somewhere where you're protected. Strength is something you needed that you need when you're not. Okay? And he is a present help in trouble. His presence is there in the midst of trouble. So what these verses show us is sometimes God, he just protects us from something. And we don't have to pass through it because we're he 's our refuge. And sometimes he goes, actually, this one, you're gonna have to go through it. But I'm going to strengthen you in it. That means, though I'm not keeping you from it, you're going to get through it. That's what it means. And the very present help in trouble means he's there with us. In the midst of what we're going through. That's emphasizing how good God is. That's emphasizing his authority, his power, his sovereignty. Secondly, he's going to eternally heal. Each momentary glimpse into his authority is meant to reinforce that conviction that one day there is going to be a wonderful glorious restoration of this creation. Revelation 21, 4. God is going to wipe away all tears from our eyes, and there will be no more death. Neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. Anytime you and I experience God's marvelous healing hand in this life, It's a taste of the real healing we'll experience down the road. That's really what it is. It's a reminder that he's going to do that once and for all. And so those things are to comfort us. He is good. He is compassionate. He is sovereign. Truth number three. We can rest in his compassionate care in our desperate situations. What I want you to do is I want you to turn to another psalm that I think really lays this out very well. And that's Psalm 91. Psalm 91, I'm not going to read the entire psalm, I'm only going to read the first two verses of the Psalm, but I'm going to kind of refer to a couple of the contents that we find in Psalm 91. Here's what it says. This is how Psalm 91 opens. It says, he that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress, my God, in Him will I trust. Now, Luke 4 gives us this vivid reminder that Christ is compassionate in the way that he cares for people who are hurting. The Scripture is full of examples of these kinds of reminders. I mean, when we read through the Gospels, we see it over and over and over again. Even when we read in the Old Testament, we see example after example after example of this. We even see a lot of this teaching in the epistles. But when we think about this Psalm 91, Psalm 91 gives us a lot of different scenarios, situations that we find ourselves overburdened in. I want you to notice them. But before we read it, I want to remind you what he says later on in Psalm 103, the text we mentioned earlier. It says, like a father, verse 13, pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. He knoweth our frame. He remembereth we are dust. The mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, his righteousness unto children's children. No matter the nature of the desperate situation you may find yourself in right now, or you were in, or you will eventually find yourself in, we can rest in God's compassionate care. Let me give you some scenarios. Is it not a terrifying thing to have an enemy who hates you and is watching you and is plotting to destroy you? I don't know if you've ever had a scenario like that, but there are times in life we find ourselves. David knew what that was like. I remember when we were missionaries overseas and we were robbed a quite a few times actually. And we weren't careless about situations, but the truth is that there were people that they watched others for opportunity. And I remember the very first time this happened, someone came into our house while we were sleeping, stole everything electronic of value on the side of the house that we were not sleeping in. And I just remember when that happened getting the sense like somebody has been watching me for quite a while. They know when I get up, they know when I go to bed, they know which windows are left open, they know where I sleep in my house, they know what electronics that I have. It's a scary thing to consider There are people, sadly, that have such evil intent. That's terrifying. So, I hope I didn't just put this in your head. But the question is, can you be comforted in those kinds of situations? David says yes. He says in verse number three, he says, Surely he that's God shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler. A snare that a fowler set up is he's a hunter and he's trying to catch something. Okay? I don't know if anybody's ever set up a trap to catch something. I've done this with a groundhog or two or three or four or whatever, okay. But I know where that thing goes, and I know what he likes to eat, and so I put the trap right there where I know he's gonna come through and he's gonna Going to see this. You know what I'm talking about? All right. I guess I was the fowler in that moment. And I put out a snare. In other words, there was a deliberate thinking through of how to catch that animal. And in a situation where you have an enemy like that, God says, David says, he will deliver you from the snare of the fowl. In other words, rest under the shadow of his almighty wings. Another example, the terrors that's associated with an uncontrollable health infirmity. Now He says it this way. He shall deliver thee from the noisome pestilence. I don't know if any of you have done a little bit of reading about history, but when people talk about pandemics. In the ancient world, we're talking about pandemics that like like literally wiped out 50 to 75 percent of an entire city or community. We talk about bubonic plague. We're talking about nearly when 250 million people, I believe, is what they say died. The United States has A 350, 370, something like that. I guess we don't really know how many people are in the United States right now. But isn't the 350 million-ish okay? What's the point? The point is that that's Almost 70% of our population dying. This is the kind of stuff he's talking about. Not something where, you know, the chances are pretty good, you know, maybe one in twenty people are going to get sick enough to die. We're talking about you get this One in five, how about one in three? How about one in three of you are not going to make it? That's what he's talking about. Actually, maybe two in three of you would not make it. What's the point? The point is this. If you were to find yourself in such a situation, that would be terrifying. Yet you can rest in the sovereignty of God in such a situation. The terror of uncontrollable circumstances, verse number four, it says, He shall cover thee with his feathers. And under his wing shalt thou trust. This is a picture of a mother hen who's got all these little chicks running around, and she pulls those chicks up under herself and she protects them. They are vulnerable and they don't have the sense to even realize how vulnerable they are. And she just pulls them up under her wings and she protects them. And the fact is that when there's circumstances you and I can't control at all, God protects us in such a way. This is a really interesting one. The terrors of the thoughts that undermine the peace that we have in our hearts. You know, you your situation may not be that bad from a circumstantial scenario. You may have everything in a good place on paper, but internally it isn't so. You understand what I'm saying? It's like a person who has a good position in life, but internally they are plagued with all kinds of internal turmoil and trouble. In verse number four, he makes a very interesting statement. He says, his truth shall be thy shield and buckler. He's not talking about in that verse someone who is in danger of dying from a pandemic or someone who's in danger of being killed by an enemy Or someone who cannot defend themselves from some circumstances completely outside of their control. He's talking about God protecting them from what's going on in their own heads. Do you understand what I'm saying? His truth is going to confront the lies that are in the heart, and it's through that that the person is going to find a rested soul. In other words, not all the things that terrorize people are things that can actually hurt them. Sometimes it's what they think can, but actually is no danger to them at all. It's what's going on inside their own heart And so he says, God's sovereign even in those situations. And then he mentions the final, the terror of the unknown When life is out of control. He says, A thousand shall fall at thy side, but it shall not come nigh thee. Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked. We don't know what it's like to live through what these people would have lived through. But if you lived in Jerusalem, and let's just say that You look at Jerusalem's history, or I know it's some people that traveled to Europe recently, how many different kings ruled in some of these these uh castles like every fifteen years is like somebody came in and plundered the capital and then They established it as theirs and then, you know, fifteen years later somebody else came in and did the same thing. A terrifying thing. So people lived through what it was like to have an invader come in and just like just decide who are they going to take and who they're going to let live. And what does he say? He says, God is even in control in defending his people in the midst of those circumstances. What's the point? No matter your desperate situation, you can rest in the compassionate care of God. Now you may not feel that way, but you can. And I'm here to encourage you that you can. I want to conclude with this final thought. God is in charge and we can trust him in all circumstances. Do you believe that? I don't know the trials or the afflictions that are weighing heavily on your heart. I don't know how you're processing the difficult circumstances that may be running through your mind. I don't know. But I have a sure word from the scriptures this morning This is not like I'm just gonna encourage you, I know it's gonna get better. I don't know that. I'm not God, I'm not a prophet, I don't have that kind of information. But here's what I do know God is compassionate. Towards us in our desperation. I can tell you that. No matter what you're finding yourself in, he genuinely cares. He has a heart of compassion towards you. The scriptures just lay it out. And number two, the God who has compassion towards you in your circumstances is in charge. Does that make sense? He's compassionate, and he's the one who's in charge. Now, you may have some people that are intervening in the process that believe they're in charge, but they're answerable to him ultimately. He's in charge. And so God calls all of us this morning to do what Philippians 4. 6 says. Let me read it to you. He says, be careful for nothing. That means don't be full of care, don't be anxious about anything. But in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds. to Christ Jesus. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true. That's important. Whatever is true, and honest, and just and pure and lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue and if there be any praise Think on these things. The scripture is not saying decide what you can and can't think about based on this. He's saying think about this. Think about what's true. If your mind is full of things that are all hypotheticals, then obeying this truth is thinking on what you know to be true. Whatever is just and lovely, of good report, virtue and praise, think on these things. God can and desires to comfort us in our circumstances. And I pray that this will be an encouragement to you this morning. Let's bow for prayer, please. Father, I'm so thankful that when we read these verses, we see the character of our Savior. Christ is compassionate. He rules and reigns. And I pray that you would help us in the midst of whatever circumstance we find ourselves in this morning. That we would fix our minds on what is true. You are good, you are kind, and you're in charge And I pray that our minds would be settled as we think on these things. Father, if there's anyone here that doesn't know Christ's Their Savior, I pray that you would open their heart to the gospel. I know that wasn't the focus of this message, but the reality is the greatest demonstration of your love for people is the cross. And so I pray that you would help us this morning to reflect deeply and consistently with great discipline on what is true. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. I want to encourage you, if we could, take out our hymn books, turn to hymn 81. If you are visiting with us today, I hope that when we close our service you'll come by and just greet me. If you didn't get a welcome packet, I hope that you'll let me know that so I can get that to you. And in it there's a little gift if you uh would like us to uh connect with you, follow up with you, just fill out that card and put it in a little box in the back, and we'll make sure that we do that. If there's anybody that's got an issue going on, you just need to talk to a pastor about it, set up a time. We can talk this week. We can even talk this afternoon or after the evening service. Just want to encourage you uh with that. I also want to mention that um I know it's the summertime it's a little bit harder to be consistent with choir but uh our desire is to run the choir through the summer and so tonight we won't have choir rehearsal because Because Ian is uh is with family. Um his grandmother passed away. But um we will be uh continuing on with that, um, Lord willing in the next week. So if you're interested in participating in the choir, let us know. We meet at 5 o'clock each Sunday night and we practice for about an hour before evening server. Let's go ahead and stand together. Hymn number 81, A Mighty Fortress is Our God. We'll sing the first, the third, and the fourth verses. My chief fortress is our God that never failed me. Our helper, he amid the flood of mortal is prevail, for still our ancient full judge. Seek to work out 's more, its craft and power And dark with rule hate Honour this not his equal And though this world with devils still should pretend We will not fear for God till History The Prince of Darkness Maybe can endure for all his to misclock. One word your word shall above all earthly powers, no things to them of eyes. A spirit and the gifts are our students with a side Latkin 's morning. My fold the body they make our true It comes forever I hope that that song is on your heart this afternoon as we think about uh just a great text of scripture and some wonderful truths. Brother Ralph Pridget, can you close us in prayer? Good to have you guys back. Lord and Heavenly Father, we do thank you that we could gather together today and study from your word, Lord. We pray that your spirit would uh sort out the truth from the the silliness that our mind comes up with, Lord. We pray that That you would give us each an opportunity to go and share with a world that needs it so bad the truth that we heard here today. We give you all the honor and glory in Christ's name. Amen.