Turning your Bibles to Isaiah forty. And what a joy it is to be with you on the Lord's Day. Your pastor is a man of faithfulness and character, and it's an honor to be in his pulpit this morning. We go back many years as church interns at a little Baptist church, knowing nothing other than wanting to serve the Lord Lord Jesus Christ. And what an honor it has been for me to see the Lord use him tremendously, both in Ghana, West Africa and now here in in Maryland. We are missionaries to the Tsonga-speaking people in Lumpopo, South Africa. We have prayer cards in the back if you'd like to grab one. It tells us uh tells you more about our ministry. It has our website, our email address, and ways that you can be in contact with us. We love to lock shields with like-minded churches, to partner with like-minded churches that help us do the Great Commission work around the world. Please pray for us as we endeavor To see more tsongas gather one day around that heavenly choir where we'll sing to the Lord Jesus Christ forever and ever. and ever. Before we look into the text, I'd like to begin with a word of prayer. Blessed be your name, O God, for ever and ever You are full of wisdom and you are full of might. You change the times and the seasons. You remove Kings and you set up kings, you give wisdom to the wise, and you give knowledge to those of understanding. So this morning we ask you to give us wisdom. We ask you to give us knowledge. Open up our minds and our hearts that we may understand the Word of God. Reveal deep and hidden things to us that we may be changed and conformed into the image of your blessed Son, Jesus Christ. And we ask these things. In his name. Amen. Have you ever endured suffering That was unbearable. Have you ever suffered beyond what you thought you could endure? The title of the message this morning is Incomparable, Finding the Comfort in God. And this morning we want to look at the incomparable God 's superiority over seven things that will bring comfort to the hurting. Perhaps you're hurting this morning and you need comfort. And the Bible answer is to look away from yourself and look to the incomparable God William Carey is regarded as the father of modern missions and one of the great missionary titans in church history. He sailed to India in 1793 and experienced severe trials over the next 40 years. But there was a two-year window from 1821 to 1823 when he endured what seemed to be suffering that was unbearable. First, his wife, Charlotte, died. She was crippled for three years, in which William had to carry her literally from place to place. Then Krishna Paul died of cholera. Krishna Paul was his famed first convert after spending Seven years evangelizing until finally, after all those years of toil, one person had come to Christ, and now his first convert had died Then Felix, his 37-year-old son and colleague, died as well. And the dominoes continued to fall John Ryland, who is his most faithful pastor and supporter back home, died. How did Carey survive this avalanche of suffering? Where did his comfort come from? Well, perhaps we can find it in his own words. Quote, when I left England, my hope of India's conversion was very strong, but Amidst so many obstacles, it would die unless it was upheld by God. Well I have God and his word is true. And though the superstitions of the heathen were a thousand times stronger than they are, and the example of the Europeans a thousand times worse, Though I were deserted by all and persecuted by all, yet my faith, fixed on the sure word, would rise above all obstructions. And overcome every trial, listen for it. God 's cause will triumph. Where did Carrie's comfort come from? Well, when Christians suffer And when they hurt, and when we are miserable, and when we are in pain, which is so often common in this fallen world, belief in a big, triumphant God that knows all and controls all is what will bring us the greatest comfort. And if you are distressed this morning, the solution is not self-help. And it's not self-esteem, because that will let you down. The solution is not looking inward, it is looking outward to the great, incomparable God God 's superiority over every aspect of our life is what will bring us comfort. In fact, that is the theme of this passage today. Because if you look at Isaiah 40, you'll find the first two words, the first three words, the first four words are words of comfort. Come ye, comfort ye, comfort ye. There's a gigantic shift From Isaiah 39 to Isaiah 40. In fact, some people say that Isaiah is like the Bible in miniature. The Bible has 66 books. Isaiah has 66 books. Books. The Old Testament has 39 books. The New Testament has 27 books. The first part of Isaiah has 39 chapters. And the second part of Isaiah has 27 chapters. And just as in the Bible, when there is a shift of new hope from the 39th book of Malachi to the 40th book of the New Testament, Matthew. There is a shift in Isaiah of new hope from the 39th chapter of despair to new hope in the 40th chapter of Isaiah. In fact, if you go back to chapter 39, you'll find a story of a man named Hezekiah. Well, the king of Babylon had sent him greetings because he heard that he was on his deathbed, but then he had been healed. Verse 1 says he heard that he had been sick and was recovered. And Hezekiah is kind of excited about this. He's a part of the cool kids now. And the king has reached out to him. And so he's glad, verse two says. And he is in a sense opens up the vaults for these pagan people to see was which was against God's rules. Let's be very careful when The world gives us praise. And so here comes the prophet Isaiah. And he says essentially, King Hezekiah, is this true? And his answer is shameless. Yes, it's true. He has a new kind of bravado since his life has been spared. And verse six says , Behold, the days come that all that is in thine house and that which thy fathers have laid up in store until this day shall be carried to Babylon. Nothing shall be left, says the Lord. There's going to be great misery. There's going to be great suffering. There's going to be tragedy in the life of Israel. And then there's a gap between chapter 39 and 40. That's just a little white space in your Bible, but there's a There's a great gap between here. And in between chapter 39 and 40, there is misery, there's Babylonian captivity, there's terrible leaders, there's death. But if then we come to chapter 40, and so God comes back after all those trials and sufferings, and he says he will not forget his people. If God be for us, who can be against us? And so he begins chapter 40 with comfort. He says it twice for emphasis. And emotional intensity. We think of holy, holy, holy. Here he says comfort, comfort. There was suffering and there was sin in the past. But God God forgives. God is a God of comfort. In fact, the Trinity, every member of the Trinity gives comfort 2 Corinthians 1:3, we find comfort from the Father. He's called the God of all comfort. We find comfort in the Son. 2 Corinthians 1:5, through Christ we share abundantly. We find comfort in the Spirit. He's called the Comforter in John 14 through 16. If you're downcast this morning, you must find comfort in God. But perhaps you feel as though God has forgotten you. Perhaps you feel it's as though your prayers have not been answered for years. In fact, chapter 40 is a response to that very mindset. If you go to verse 27 of chapter 40, you'll find an argument from the people of Israel. Because they believe that God has forgotten them. They say this, Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel, my way is hid from the Lord, and my judgment is passed over by my God. My God, it says. Perhaps even a little bit of self-righteousness there. As though Israel is saying, God, you're my God, but obviously we're not your people. people. Obviously you've forgotten about us. And so Isaiah 40 is given to turn their eyes away from their suffering and from the themselves and from their trials and to a God that is incomparable. That word is important. It means without equal Beyond compare, unparalleled, matchless, peerless, second to none, unequaled, unrivaled, transcendent, unsurpassed. The world says, find comfort in yourself. The Bible says, find comfort outside yourself. One man has written about this glorious chapter in Isaiah forty. He says, Isaiah forty is one of the most fantastic series of declarations and reassurances that one can find in all of Scripture. Few passages have been of greater help and comfort to me personally than Isaiah 40. It is, by all accounts, my favorite chapter. Well, let's look into the text this morning of Isaiah 40. And let's begin in verse 12. Which begins with the word who. And here's our first point. We're going to find seven areas where God's power is superior. Number one, God's power is greater than nature. God's power is greater than nature, verse 12. Verse 12 begins with the word who We'll find that word six times in the chapter. It's a rhetorical question. A rhetorical question is just a question that you know the answer. And the obvious answer is no one but God. Who is able to do these things? No one but God So let's look at verse 12. It says, who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand? That's just the inner portion of your palm. 70% of the waters planet is water. It's powerful. Water is so powerful that it can it can rip apart the Red Sea. It can Tear people's homes apart. And yet the Bible says every river, every stream Every ocean, every brook, the 10,000 lakes in Minnesota, God created and he could take Take them and place them in the hollow of his hand. Who has measured the water in the hollow of his hand and meted out heaven with the span? Now the span is the distance from the thumb to the pinky, and it's as though God went to the universe and said, that's about Right? The size of the heavens is incalculable. And God says, I can measure it from my thumb to my pinky It goes on and says, and in and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure. This is like a roller coaster ride. Going up from the heavens and then down to earth. The measure is about a gallon. God says, no problem. All the dust. All the dirt in this world, I can just take a little gallon bucket and scoop it up. Then he talks about balances or scales and weighed the mountains in scales. Mount Ebaris is about five and a half miles high. God says, I can put that on a scale. Well, who's this verse speaking about? It's speaking about Christ. When the Mormon says Jesus was created, the New Testament says Jesus Christ, through whom all things and through all things exist. And when the Jehovah's Witness says that Jesus was created, we take him to Colossians 1 and says that. All things were created by him. And when the Muslim says that Jesus was a great prophet, but he was created, we take him to Hebrews 1 verse 2 and says that Jesus Christ created all the world. The one who held the world in his hand was placed in a manger for your sake and for mine. That's Jesus Christ. There are four hundred billion stars in the Milky Way today. Do you know how much forty forty 400 billion is. That's four with eleven zeros at the end. There are one hundred twenty-five billion galaxies There are one billion trillion stars. That's one times ten to the twenty-second power. And yet if you look at verse 26, the passage says, Lift up your eyes on high and behold who has created these things. that bringeth out their hosts by number, he calls them all by their name by the greatness of his might. 100 billion trillion stars in the world, and the Bible says God knows every single one by name. How small seem our sufferings in light of that. Are our trials and difficulties unimportant to this great God? No. They are important. But our trials and sufferings are incomparable to God 's greatness. And so the response to this is not to complain. It's not to turn to human methods or solutions. Our response to these verses is one of praise. Like Psalm 148 says, praise the Lord, praise the Lord from the heavens, praise him in the heights, praise him all his angels, praise him all his hosts. Praise him, sun and moon, praise him, all the shining stars. Praise him, you highest of heavens, and you waters above the heavens. And if the sun and the moon and the stars are to praise God because of his greatness, how much more should you or I stand back in the midst of our sufferings and say, You are great. God is incomparable. God's power is greater than nature. Second, God's power is greater than man's wisdom. In Babylonian mythology, Marduk was the creator god, but he couldn't proceed with creation without consulting the other gods. He needed advice from the other gods to help him know what to do. But notice what our passage says here in verse 13. Who has directed the Spirit of the Lord? Or being his counselor has taught him. Who does God consult before he makes a decision? Verse 14. With whom took he counsel, and who instructed him? Oh, before a tragedy happened in our life that God allowed to happen, that God was behind it, did He consult you to say, is this okay? This was a favorite passage of Paul, verses 13 and 14. He quoted it twice in the New Testament. I remember little children teaching me how to speak Sangha. Quite embarrassing. You're coming to a village and there's no there's no Rosetta Stone, there's no learning helps, and so you have to sit down with six-year-olds and they teach you How much more foolish is it when we think we can sit down and teach him what would have been the best Thing to happen. No one teaches God. God is incomparable. He is great. No one comes to him for counsel, this passage says, and taught him knowledge and showed to him the way of understanding. One of my favorite authors of the past is a man named Stephen Charnock. Stephen Charnock was born in 1628, and he was a brilliant young man, even from his youth. Graduated from Cambridge at 14 years old and he graduated at 18. He was a medical doctor and he was a preacher. And he wrote a book called The Existence and Attributes of God. They started out as journal entries that he just wrote on his own in his diary. And it ended up being 1200 pages trying to Describe the attributes of God. And at the end of his life, this brilliant man who had written twelve hundred pages to describe the attributes of God, he said this. It is visible that God is. It is invisible what He is. We can never fully comprehend who God is. No one teaches God and no one instructs him. And that is comforting in our suffering, knowing that God is in control. Psalm 115, verse 3: Our God is in the heavens and he does whatever he pleases. You say, well, I don't teach God. That's foolish. I've never sat down and tried to teach him. Well, let me give you three ways that sinners in a roundabout way you and I often teach God. Number one, we try to teach God when we complain to Him. Because aren't we really saying that we know better? Second, we try to teach God when we don't ask Him for things in prayer. Because aren't we really saying that we know what we're doing? Thirdly, we try to teach God when we demand things in prayer, because aren't we really telling God what He must do? I remember before I went to South Africa, my first field of service was supposed to be gone to West Africa. I had my bags packed, I had my cards printed, I had everything in line, and then Something happened on the field outside of my control where all the doors were closed and I could go. I remember thinking, God, are you sure? Sure, this should have happened this way. I mean, could you have maybe consulted me? This seems like a mistake, and yet I think of all those in our village now who have come to Christ who humanly speaking never would have heard of Christ had that door and gone and not been closed I never would have met my wife, I never would have had my children had that door not been closed. So we have comfort that God's plans are not subject to the incomplete knowledge of man. God knows everything at once. He always does what is best, and he never consults us for advice. Psalm 135, verse 6. Whatever the Lord pleases. Well, not only is God's power incomparable to individuals, it's also incomparable To nations. And that's our third point. God's power is greater than the nations. Beginning in verse 15. Behold, the nations are as a drop of a bucket. Here we're going to find that God sweeps up the nations Into dust bins. And we ought not to put our trust in government. We ought not to put our trust in nations because they will collapse and fall. It compares the nations here to a a drop in a bucket. North Korea, who lifts lifts their fist to God every day 25 million people, where the only religion is essentially Kim Il-sung Ism, which is a cult to the dead leader, and it's the most persecuted country in the world where hundreds of thousands are killed for their faith. It's called the Hermit Kingdom because of it is a repressive nightmare Where people are kept ignorant of the outside world and they follow bizarre doctrines and policies, worshiping their leader. If we think of the appalling wickedness in our own nation, the rank materialism, the affection for sodomy, gender confusion. The Bible says that this nation is like a drop in a bucket. When I was in the village, I had to carry my water for the first two years. We were very careful after filling up those 25-liter containers, not to let any water spill. Sometimes I'd put it in the back of my truck, and there was anxiety when some of the water would spill out. That's what the comparison here is. A little drop out of the bucket. How can a drop splashing from a bucket limit God when He fits the oceans in the palm of his hand. He goes on and says, the nations are counted as the small dust of the balance. You know what nations are like today? They're like the powdery residue on the scales. Dust does not move scales. Now, this doesn't mean that nations are unimportant to God. God loves the nations. Jesus with his blood ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation. But nations do not determine what God ultimately can and cannot do. He is sovereign, he is incomparable, he is in control. Verse 15 says, Behold, he takes up the isles as a very little thing. That means don't be too comfortable in America's place in the world scene today. Because God can just pick up America like this and smash it down. To display one displace one nation in one region and simply place it in another is God's prerogative. It's like moving a piece of dust to him. Then we even get religious in verse 16. And it mentions Lebanon. That's very significant. Because here it says even the largest religious endeavors fall short of God's dignity. Lebanon was known for its mighty forests. It's large cedar forest. They were prized. And the author here says, if you took these beautiful trees and you took every tree and you lit it on fire for an offering, even that would not be sufficient. He mentions the beasts in verse 16. And he says, if you got all the animals, it would still not be sufficient. to please God. Nothing can completely satisfy God except the ultimate sacrifice, Jesus Christ, who later on in chapter 53 and verse 10, we're told that it pleases Please the Lord to bruise God his son. Verse 17 says that the nations are nothing, in fact, they're less than nothing. They're negative zero. All nations before him are as nothing. In comparison to God, the nations are zero Number four. God's power is greater than idols. Verses eighteen twenty To whom then will you liken God? Or what likeness will you compare unto him? The workman melts a graven image, and the goldsmith spreads it over with gold and casts silver chains He that is so impoverished that he had no ablation chooses a tree that will not rot. He seeks unto him a cunning workman to prepare a graven image that shall not be moved Here we're going to find the pathetic inadequacy of idolatry. Unless we take a little break right now and say, all right, I can Let us remember that idols are anything that you worship in place of God. God. I can be a person , possession, an idea. What the heathens around the world may have in wood, we in our day today have it in our opinions. and in our own self-righteousness. Verse 18 says, Who will you liken God? Now, there's a sense in which we are like God. We're made in God's image. There's a way that we're like God, that animals are not like God. We know right from wrong. We have spirits that will live forever. We're able to fellowship, and that's why the death penalty is wrong for humans and not for animals Because there is a sense in which we are like God and we are created in his image. But the point here is that God is not like us. We don't draw him and we don't make idols of him. Creation should lead us to God, not away from God. The heavens declare the glory of God. And yet the Bible tells us in Romans 1 that though we've been created for a desire for a higher being, we take the creation instead of the creator. Worshiping the creature instead of the creation is like falling in love with your wedding ring instead of Your bride. The creation ought to point us to the great God who is incomparable. Instead, these people are making things out of the creation to worship the creator. I think of the idols on the island of cannibals on the New Hebrides The missionaries thought that surely if they came to these abandoned islands that no one had been to, they would perhaps find a people that had no idea of God. It would be free of any kind of religion. In fact, they found the exact opposite They said, quote, the natives, destitute of the knowledge of the true God, were ceaselessly groping for him, that they might perhaps find him And when they could not find him, and when they were not able to live without some kind of God, they made idols almost out of almost everything: trees, rocks, stones. Streams, insects, beasts, departed spirits, hair, fingernails Volcanoes clearly proving that the instincts of humanity prompt man to worship and lean upon some kind of higher power outside of himself. The Bible says God is greater than our idols. I read a book recently called We Are, We Become What We Worship. We often are shaped into what we find most valuable. We take on the characteristics of what we worship. You think of Lot's wife. She looked back at Sodom and Gomorrah that was destroyed by sulfur and she became a pillar of salt herself We think of the idol of church in the world today. It's no surprise that our worship services often resemble the world We think of the idol of the pastor is often the business model. And therefore the pastor looks like a business model. Businessman. The idol of the average American today is self. It's no surprise that self-esteem is so emphasized. Today. You know, sometimes idols can even be good things. Even here today, maybe an idol in your life is being married. It's good to want to be married. It's become an idol. It's all you can think about. Since the Lord's not given you a spouse, you become cynical, critical, though who do have spouses or maybe the idol in your life is to have Christian kids. You desire to have Christian kids, but now it's become such a priority to you that you've even tried to manipulate your kids. So that they'll be Christian kids, like your friends have Christian kids, and we get angry at other parents who have godly kings and kids, and we set up certain idols that we worship more than anything else God is greater than our idols. We want to worship a God outside of ourselves instead of the true God. People in pagan lands hold tightly to idols of wood and stone, and we hold tightly to our own Idols. This leads us to our fifth point. God's power is greater than world leaders. Verses 21 through 24. He says, Have you not known? Have you not heard? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? He that sits upon the circle of the earth That means God is sitting on his throne. He upholds all things. And the inhabitants thereof are as grasshoppers. The Bible compares us to little insects. The greatness of God is seen in the minuteness of people Then look at verse 23. That brings the princes to nothing. God is active in this world today. You've heard that some of our founding fathers were Christians when in fact most of them were deists. A deist is someone who believes that God kind of created the world He wound up the clock, and then he just lets it go. He's a hands-off God. He got it started, and then he lets it do its thing That's the opposite of what we find here. Here we find that God is active in the day-to-day affairs. He brings the princes to nothing. He's involved with all of our daily affairs. And the day the nations may appear today to have power. And your enemies and your boss. May appear to have power, but all of them are under God's authority. John 19. So Pilate said to Jesus, You will not speak to me. Do you not know that I have authority to release you and the authority to crucify you? And Jesus responded to Pilate. Perhaps in the way an elephant would respond to an ant. And Jesus says this: You would have no authority over me at all unless it has been given you from above. God's in control. And anyone who has authority today has only been given that authority by God Almighty. In fact, God says at any moment he can just blow And remove nations. Look at verse 24. Yea, they shall not be planted. Yea, they shall not be planted Yea, their stalk shall not take root in the earth, and he shall also blow upon them, and they shall wither, and the whirlwind shall take them away as stubble. It's like the rulers are barely in their seats, and God simply blows them away. He changes the times and the seasons, Deuteronomy. He says. He removes kings and he sets up kings. Remember King Nebuchadnezzar? He was the most powerful king in the world. But he became prideful, and God humbled him by making him like an animal. It's as though the incomparable God says you might be the most powerful ruler in the world. But I am in control. Sixth, God's power is greater than our trials. Starting in verse 25: To whom will you liken me, or shall I be equal, says the Holy One? Perhaps this is the way that God is most incomparable, and that is, He is holy, and we are not. Verse 26. It says that not one of them is missing. Not one of the stars are missing. God names billions upon billions of stars, and he doesn't forget a single one. And Jesus Christ, the Bible says, knows the number of hairs on our head. Is God too great to care about our trials? No, He is too great to fail in the midst of our trials. I love verse 27. We read it before. It says, and why do you say, O Jacob? Now who is Jacob there? It's Israel. Why does God call them Jacob and not Israel? Do you remember the story in Genesis 32? When God wrestled with Jacob, and Jacob thought he was powerful, and then somewhere along the line he realized, you know what? I'm not gonna win this battle. And then his name is changed. It's as though Isaiah is pointing back the readers to that story. And he says, Remember then Remember when you thought you were powerful and you knew what was best? And now he comes back to them again and he says, Why are you talking this way again, as though I've forgotten about you? Again, look closely at verse 27. Do you see that word hid in verse 27? My way is hid from the Lord. That's in the perfect tense, which means it's settled. In their mind, they think that their place is settled. They're hid from God, and it will never change. And then you go further in the verse and it says, and my judgment is passed over. That's in the imperfect, which means continual experience. In other words, they're thinking, I'm hidden for God forever, and my continual experience of prayer is that God will not answer me. So he comes back in verse 28 and he gives us four truths that ought to comfort us about God. First of all, we're told that he is everlasting. That means God is not limited by time. He watches over us constantly In verse 28, he's called the Creator, which means he's not limited by space. He's everywhere Thirdly, he's omniscient, which means he's not limited by fatigue. Some people sleep on the job, not God. He who keeps Israel will neither sleep or slumber, Psalm 121. And then we're told he's incomprehensible. That is, he's not limited by the human mind to understand him. God can be known, but he can't be fully comprehended. We see through a glass darkly. And then finally, God's power is greater than man's strength. Verse 2 29 and 30. He gives power to the faint. Are you faint today? Are you tired? Are you weary? Are you exhausted? Are you suffering? God gives strength to you to overcome those circumstances. He gives circum Power to the faint and to them that have no might. He increases strength. If you're weak today, then look to Christ. You say, I'm not as strong as I used to be. That's probably a good thing. Because it says in verse thirty, even the youths shall faint and not be weary. The youths there are the The strongest physically. These are the people that we draft into the army. These are the people that are chosen for the Olympic Games. These are the people in their prime. And the Bible says even these people People get tired. But though those in their prime will faint and get tired, and though they shall fall, verse thirty, verse thirty-one They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. He's contrasting the strong ones with the waiters upon God Those that wait upon the Lord are stronger than those young men in their prime. And if you're weak today, the Lord will use your weakness, and in the midst of your weakness, he'll show himself to be strong. Those who are suffering today and wait on God and look to the incomparable God will soar high above their difficulties like eagles. When they wait for God's purposes to be played out. So today I urge you. In the midst of your suffering and in the midst of your pain, to find comfort, not in yourselves, but in our great God. God's power is greater than nature, than man's wisdom, than the nations, than idols, than world leaders, than trials, and man's strength. Turn to God today for comfort If you are an unbeliever today, comfort will always elude you outside of Jesus Christ. So look to Jesus Christ. He says, All you are weary and heavy laden, I will give you rest. He did for you on the cross what you cannot do for yourself. So trust in Christ, turn to him in faith and repentance. He will give you comfort that passes all understanding. And today, if you are a believer and you are suffering, I urge you to find strength and comfort. In the incomparable God. As a great pastor once said, affliction may be lasting, but it is not everlasting. Let's close in prayer. Father, we thank you for Isaiah forty. And we thank you for the comfort that comes from an incomparable God. Help us to turn away from ourselves and to Jesus. Jesus Christ. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.