Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our morning service and it's so good to have each of you this morning and uh thankful to have the Wagners with us today. And if you were in our Sunday school time, uh you're able to hear from them and he will be preaching This evening, we have a couple of announcements, and then we will open up our service with our scripture reading. I don't know if you guys are coming in off of east-west from veterans and you start seeing some of those trees changing colors. I was beautiful, something to see it this morning. This evening we have the Teens Inspiration. So Teens, you'll be with Pastor Josh following the evening service. Thursday, we have our senior luncheon and Friday college and career. Next week we have another missionary in, but that evening I want to make special note that next Sunday night we have the International Dinner. There is a sign-up for different food items that we're looking for, or if you would like to bring special items themselves is there on the All Church Bulletin board just down the hallway. On that near it as well is also our fall workday, which is a couple weeks from now. So just kind of looking ahead of different events going on. The fall workday, one of the big things that's going to be preparing for you know, just the fall regular stuff. But we also have lit conference that's going to be going on in November this year. So there's a lit sign up as well, volunteers, food. Lit's a little earlier than we have done it in the past. So Don't want to catch you guys off guard with that, but um just exciting things that are going on and just having to help prepare and different opportunities for you to get involved. Pastor Josh. And we're going to continue with our opening scripture reading out of Isaiah 40, and we will start with verse 28. Isaiah 40 starting in verse 28. Hast thou not known? Hast thou not heard that the everlasting God, the Lord, the creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary. There is no searching of his understanding. He gaveth power to the faint, and to them that have no might he increaseth strength Even the youths shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall, but they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Our theme for this morning's worship is let us be committed to God's program for taking the gospel to the nations. Please let's all bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to bless our service and really speak to our hearts in a very special way. Lord, we're so grateful for the local church and we're thankful for this church and every person that's here this morning And as the Word of God is opened, I pray that you would speak to our hearts in a very special way. Father, help us to be tender to your word. Help me as I preach. this morning to communicate it with great clarity and I pray that that you would use it to uplift us and to shape our thinking and to challenge us. I thank you for those who are visiting with us today for the first time or for the first time in a long time. I pray that they would feel very warmly welcomed. And that we would just be a blessing to them. And we thank you for those who have joined us in the live stream. I pray that as they uh hear the Word of God preach and as they uh are able to sing these hymns with us, I pray that their hearts should be encouraged by that. And Father, we pray for those who are dealing with great affliction and those who are dealing with great heartache right now in our church. Be with those who have recently lost family members. I pray that you would provide tremendous encouragement and comfort to them. And I pray for those who are dealing with major health issues that you would strengthen their bodies. And we just ask that your hand would be at work in all of these individual situations. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Acre Baptist Church and visitors. Good to see you all out on this soon-to-be balmy fall day. So boy, it's gonna 30 degree uh temperature swing. What do you wear in the morning versus in the afternoon? So wear layers So, okay, gonna be 80 some degrees, 50 this morning, 80 sometime this afternoon. So Okay, but we're gonna praise the Lord in song at this point in time. in your missions booklet if you've got it. I believe these we're going to have a couple songs out of that, but otherwise, follow along on the screen. We're going to sing before the throne of God above, and please stand with me. As we sing praises to our Lord before the throne of God above Amen. Okay. Now we're going to go to the red book, page 14. Page 14. 14, 14. There he is. Worthy of praise. Sing out. I now abroad and went in the law for you Please be seated. Now turn back to page five Page five. Oh, for a thousand tons to single. Amen. That's good singing this morning. Go to the scriptures again, once more. Going to be in the book of 2 Timothy. 2 Timothy chapter 2. And we'll read the first seven verses. 2 Timothy 2, verses 1 through 7. And the scriptures say, Thou, therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. Thou, therefore, endure hardness, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life. that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. And if a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned, except he strive lawfully The husbandman that laboreth must be first partaker of the fruits. Consider what I say, and the Lord give thee understanding in all things. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Amen. All right, for our next song. We're going to turn to page 530 in the red book. I'm going to ask you to stand because in between the third and fourth verses, we're going to do our morning meet and greet. So when we get done with the third verse, turn around and greet one another Go snifferously. I think I'm not really wondering we don't know what they want. Okay, come on, start making your way back, use these. Okay, last word. When you on the first on the first person? Get you know where we go , people now. All right. Remake the last one for the Are special in the message. Page four oh two in the rejoice book, but you should be able to see it here. Again, if you've got your um missions booklet, I believe the song's in there, so You got the words real close for those of you way back there that have a hard time seeing the screen like me because I sit up front so I can read the read this music. Okay For the sake of his name, we'll sing the third verse, a cappello. Okay? Call to the world for the sake of his name To every nation his glory proclaim Pray that the spirit-wise will open darkened eyes Granting the right to display Jesus faith in Jesus power preaching Christ to the Lord for Jesus glory count all else but lost Gather from every place, trophies of sovereign grace Let us life be wasted exal Jesus Christ Valdviana for the sake of his name Some of the so we pray with God again. But ours for children try to rise. We cross the infrace and brought up on our love. The birthday control is that we 're alive. One nature, one reason to begin. You wave the cross of sea done, and I will We tried , the winter divide, and from the red we only one who has our strength. We are the voice that might not be late, and while the through, we will never be understandable. But the changing word was to bring up our words to speak and take the laws Shoot me the neighborhood, Grandboy and July We bring life , could crucify and bread, and from the bread we bring life, we only want to have the strength today. Our blessings we proclaim with the power of God is dead. So we live the name of the house for all the world to see , some that we will be made. Be the only one who has the strength. We should find our vision from the great we return The only one who has the thing to say Come and we run Everyone Well amen. Our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back, and the rest of you I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles. Let's all turn together to 2 Timothy chapter 2 this morning. 2 Timothy chapter 2. And the text that we're going to be looking at this morning is one of my absolute favorite passages of scripture in the New Testament. I love this text because It really is the heartbeat of the future of the church. And what people do not realize as they sit in a church service is that if all you focus on is what's going on today, There is a generation coming behind you that will not know what you know right now. If all you do is focus on your life today and you do not think about the future and the generations that are coming behind you, then your children and your grandchildren and your great-grandchildren will not know what you know right now. They will not hear songs sung like that. They will not hear the preaching of God's word in the same way that you hear it, because we have failed to recognize the importance of the moment that we're living in. And so the text in front of us will help draw our attention back to God 's plan of making disciples. So take it 2 Timothy 2, verse number 1 says this. Thou therefore, my son. Be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses The same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that worth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. And if any man also strive for masteries, Yet is he not crowned except he strive lawfully. The husbandman that laboreth must be first partaker of the fruits. Consider what I say Lord, give the understanding in all things. Please let's take a moment and ask the Lord to really settle our hearts and help us to focus in on his word today. Our Father, as the Word of God is opened, I pray that you would open our hearts. Father, if necessary, bring conviction where we have stumbled. Father, if necessary, bring tremendous encouragement where we are laboring in a faithful position. Help us to get up if we have stumbled. Help us to have eyes that see beyond the moment that we're sitting in right now. Help us to think about the fact that your plan for all of human history is that one generation passes The truths of Scripture on to the generation following them. And that generation takes the truths of Scripture and passes it on to the generation following them. And it goes on until the day that you call us to glory. And so, Father, help this text to really resonate in our hearts today. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Text in front of us is a great text. In fact, if I summarize it, I'll put it like this. Ministry leaders have to pour their lives into the next generation and those who have received this investment must passionately embrace their future duties Now, as soon as I make that statement, there are people in this room that say, well, I'm glad that I'm off the hook because I'm not a pastor. I never have been a pastor. I never will be a pastor. And if that's the way you're thinking, you're wrong. When we talk about Christian ministry, Christian ministry is not just the person who gets up on a Sunday morning and opens up the Bible and preaches it Christian ministry is what you do in your homes week in and week out. Christian ministry is what you do when you take a young Christian under wing and you teach them the word of God. Christian ministry is when you have a hurting believer and you come alongside of them and you begin to invest in them and pour your life into them when they're experiencing a lot of heartache in life. Christian ministry is when you have a mother who's about to pull her hair out because she doesn't know how to deal with those little kids, and you come alongside of her and you talk to her and you say, Hey, I know what it's like to be in your shoes. Let me talk to you about some things that can be a help to you. Christian ministry comes in lots and lots and lots of different shapes and sizes. What it really comes down to is do you know the gospel? Have you embraced the gospel? Are you growing into Christ's likeness? Do you understand the doctrines of the Word of God? And are you presenting them in every opportunity that God gives you? That is the sense. So when we say Christian ministry leaders must pour their lives into the next generation, I'm not just talking about someone who's going to be a pastor of this church 30 years from now. I'm talking about dads and I'm talking about moms and I'm talking about Sunday school teachers. I'm talking about people who have raised their children and now your grandchildren are going to college. I'm talking about every person in this room who has professed faith in Christ. God wants us to pour our lives into his great work of making disciples. And so the question we're going to answer this morning is how do we do that? How do we pour our lives effectively into making disciples? Well the text in front of us is really going to help us because that is the heart behind what Paul is writing to Timothy at the end of his life. So let's dig right into the text and look at this first truth. Every leader will experience generational transition. Say that again. Every leader will experience generational transition. That is true for pastors. That is true for missionaries. That is also true for you when you're raising your kids and they go to college or they go to tech school or they go and they get a job The fact is that we have a limited period of time to invest in the young people that are coming behind us. There will be a generational change no matter what we do. And either it's going to be a good one or it's going to be a bad one. Either we're going to well equip those who are coming behind us or we will fail to do it well. And so we've got to think about it from the standpoint of the text in front of us. In verse number one, he says, Thou, therefore, my son. That word therefore tells us something. Paul is going to make all of this instruction on the basis of something he has already said. And he's also going to make it on the basis of the fact that he loves Timothy as if he was his own child. And by the way, we don't know of anyone that the Apostle Paul was a biological father to. We don't know anything about Timothy except for the fact that he was raised by his mother and his grandmother, and that he was not circumcised because he did not have a Jewish father. And so we really don't know a whole lot about him other than that. But what we do know is that Paul viewed him as his son. He took him under wing, he mentored him. He taught him. He demonstrated how to do the work of ministry very, very well. There's a lot we could take from that. But let's think for a few minutes about the immediate catlass for Paul's instruction. The first thing I want to show you is what he says at the end of the book in 2 Timothy 4, verses 6 through 8. In fact, really, if we want to understand why Paul is saying what he's saying here. We can look to the front of the book and think about the things that he says there. Then we go to the end of the book and see what he says there and go, okay, this sits right in the middle of what he said at the beginning and what he says at the end. What was the immediate catlist? Well, the immediate catalyst is that he understands that he's at the end of his life. In 2 Timothy 4, 6 through 8, he says this: I am now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me in that day. Now not everyone who lives their life comes to this season where they know this is the end. Some people do not come to this stage. The fact is that they die before that period of time. Sometimes people are in this stage for a very long time, but for the Apostle Paul He was in this stage for really two reasons. One is he was getting a bit older, but that really wasn't the main reason. He was in prison. And he knew he was going to be executed. And he knew that his days were numbered. In fact, the people that knew Paul very well also knew that his days were numbered. And we see it in verse chapter 1, and then also a few places in chapter 4. that Paul had experienced the abandonment of some of the closest people that he had ministered to. I mean think about how betrayed you would feel If your own child who you took care of from the time they were a little little child, when they get later on in life and you are in a very desperate situation and they just kind of walk away from you and they don't want to deal with you because you're old Because of some health issue that you have, because of some petty little issue. That's how Paul felt. The reason they had abandoned him is because they were afraid. They did not want to end up in prison like him. They did not want to be executed like him. And so in chapter 1, verse 15, he says, All they which are in Asia have turned away from me. And he names two people by name who he had ministered to. People that Paul and Timothy both knew. In 2 Timothy 4. 10 he says, Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world. In verse 16, he says, At my first answer, no man stood with me, but all men forsook me. I pray God that it may not be laid to their charge. Interestingly, while Paul is being abandoned and he knows he's about to die, and he knows that all of his friends that he had associated with are afraid to come in contact with him to be identified with him. His attitude is not one of anger. It's one of God have mercy on them. Don't hold this to their account. But Paul is writing this because he knows his time is short. In fact, he knows in the back of his mind, because of the disposition of Timothy, that Timothy is probably going to really be affected by his death. He's really going to be affected by that man who he had followed in his shoes for all those years, someone that he looked up to, someone that he had prayed with, someone that he had labored with. When that man dies and all of his friends have forsaken him, Timothy in the back of his mind is really going to struggle to carry on the way that he should. And you and I would be in the same position. He wanted Timothy to carry on in his absence. And so we see this in chapter 4, verses 1 and 2 and 5. He says, I charge thee before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and at his kingdom, to preach the word. To be instant in season, out of season, to reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine. And then he says, watch in all things, endure affliction, do the work of an evangelist, make foolproof. of thy ministry. To put it in the simplest way I can, Timothy, follow my example. Chapter 3, verses 10 and 11, Thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, long-suffering, charity, patience, persecutions, and afflictions. And so what is the catlass for this? Paul is concerned that if he hands the baton to Timothy, that Timothy will not stumble out of the gate He wants him to take that baton and he wants him to run his leg of the race diligently and faithfully, even better than Paul has run it. That's his burden. And the big picture, our lives are just a small part of God's story. One of the things that I love about church history is I read the stories of people. And I hear about their struggles and I think about the areas where they didn't exactly get it right. And sometimes in the back of my mind I go, not that anybody's gonna write about me when I'm dead or write about you when you're dead, but if they did, they'd have a lot of Hopefully good, but also some bad. But here's what's amazing. The story just continues. The gospel goes from one generation to the next generation to the next to the next to the next. One church goes through a season where it begins to decline, and then God in his mercy raises up someone to step in there, and the church is strengthened again. And then the church begins to decline, and then God raises up someone and they're strengthened again, and we see one generation after another after another after another. What is missions? Missions is taking the gospel to a place where it once was thriving, but it is no more, and there's a great need for the gospel to be reintroduced. And churches to be restrengthened and there to be a spiritual movement in that place. I asked the question, will people send missionaries to this country? In 40 or 50 years? They might. If we don't do what the text is going to tell us to do, they may very well. And so we think about the big picture. Christ has promised to build his church in Matthew 16. I will build my church. The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Then in Matthew 28, he appoints his apostles to take the gospel to the uttermost parts of the world. He says, All power or all authority is given to me in heaven and earth. Go therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you Lo, I'm with you always, even unto the end of the world. What is that telling us? Making disciples was the commission that God gave to the apostles. And then when we come to 2 Corinthians chapter 5, we see that that's exactly what Paul is doing. But Paul isn't just thinking about himself. He's thinking about the perpetuation of truth from one generation to the next generation to catch this. The next generation. It's not just about one to two. It's one to two to three, to one to two to three, to one to two to three. That's what Paul is thinking. And so in Second Corinthians. Chapter 5, verse 17, he says, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, all things are become new. All things are of God who hath reconciled us. to himself by Jesus Christ. And then don't miss the next thing he says. And he, Jesus, has given to us the ministry of reconciliation. He has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ as though God did beseech You by us, we pray you in Christ's stead be reconciled unto God. Now, when we look at the we 's and the uses, I think Paul may very well be speaking primarily about we the apostles. But he's thinking beyond that generation. He's thinking about the one coming up. He's thinking about the fact that there are going to be people that are going to replace me when I die. And they're going to step into my shoes, and they're going to be an ambassador for Christ as well. And then somebody's going to step into their shoes, and then they're going to be an ambassador for Christ. And it continues on. So we see the first thing from this text is that the text teaches us there's going to be generational change. Second truth is this. There are two sides to a healthy generational change. Two sides. Now I want you to get in your head the picture of people running a race. We just had the Olympics this summer and so It may not be hard to remember this, okay? But when someone's running a relay, each member of the relay team has a leg that they're going to run. And the very first person, in fact, probably the strongest runner is going to be the last one. Why is that? Because if anybody messed up one of their legs, it's their job to catch up. That's what they're doing. They have to make up the lost ground. And so when it comes to this relay race, it's not just about how fast you run. How fast you run matters. But it's also about how smoothly you pass on the baton to the next runner. And it's also about how smoothly they receive the baton and how quickly they get into stride and they run their race and then they pass on the baton to the next person. So every single piece of that story is very important. Not just the running of the leg, but the passing of the baton and the receiving of the baton and the passing of the baton and the receiving of the baton. In other words, both sides can have a problem. Many times when there is a generational change that is very problematic, there's a problem on both sides. And Paul addresses that. And what keeps you from having a generational problem is obeying the Word of God, taking it to heart during some of the most critical moments. of that transition and that running of the leg of the race. Notice what he says carrying on in verse 1 into verse 2. He says, be strong. And the grace that is in Christ Jesus, and the things thou hast catch this, heard from me among many witnesses, the same commit to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also. Now there are several pieces to that. You see the running in that, you see the passing of the baton, and you see the running and you see the handing off of the baton and the receiving of the baton. It's all there. Christian ministry is like running that relay race. We have to receive it and run to the best of our ability. We have to pass on the baton to the next runner. We have to be successful in more than just the running, but also the passing and the receiving and the passing and the receiving. It's not always the fastest runner that wins the race. It's not always the strongest wrestler that wins the match. It's not always the quickest boxer that wins the fight. The fact is there is a skill and there's a determination. And there's a diligence and there's a willing to make up for lost ground. All of this pieces play together in the analogies that Paul uses here. So I think about the established generation first. That would be most of the people in this room. Now when I say generation, I really meant generations. Because the fact is, if I go to a pastor's conference, there are some pastors in that room who are 75, 80, and some would even be beyond 80 years of age that'll be at those pastors' conferences. The vast majority of the pastors are going to be my dad's age. And there'll be a couple in their 50s, and then there's like me and like two other people that are my age. And then there's like the assistant that comes with one of the younger guys. That's what a lot of these pastors fellowships look like. But the fact is that there are people who would be pierced to me as a pastor who are as old as my dad and some that are as old as my grandparents. And there are peers that I have in ministry who would be, you know, ten years older than me, and there are some that uh let's just say they were in diapers when I was in college, all right? I mean that's just the honest truth. And The guys that are 15 years older than me, they'd say, well, when you were in diapers, I was going into college too. That's what I mean by the established generations. Whether someone's in their 30s, 40s, 50s, 70s, if you're teaching the Word of God, if you're in a ministry type of role, you're a part of that established generation. You say, well again, I'm not in ministry. Oh yes, you are. Dad, mom , grandfather, grandmother, Sunday school teacher, you are in ministry. Your life is impacting the generations that are coming behind you. What you are demonstrating by the way you carry yourself, what you are demonstrating when you teach the word of God to people, what you're demonstrating when you sit down and you have that conversation with that hurting person. What you demonstrate when you give the gospel with clarity and you answer those difficult questions and you handle this person with grace, all of that is being processed by the generations coming behind you. This generation of established people has to do it right. These generations need to be well grounded. A lot of churches fail to ground their people. You say, how do you do that? Well, expository preaching? Instruction from the from the Word of God week in and week out. That's where it starts. One-on-one discipleship with young Christians, classes where you teach Bible doctrine, having Sunday school where people are able to sit down and And they're actually to engage in a conversation where someone teaches and people can ask questions and you can get into all kinds of issues. This is where a generation gets grounded, and a lot of that grounding happens in one-on-one conversations. How many in this room, I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand, but how many in this room have actually personally been involved in the discipleship of a younger Christian? Do not raise your hands. I hate to say it, but there's probably some in this room that have never been involved in that. I mean, you were never being discipled by someone else, and you've never discipled someone else. If you've raised your children, I hope that you realize that you were discipling your children when they were young. When they're six, seven, eight years old, the things that you are teaching them, the things that you are demonstrating in front of them, that's a part of discipleship. In fact, the role that a parent plays in teaching their children is probably more impactful, for good or for bad, than what a person is taught in this building. There are a lot of kids that walk away from the church because of what they saw in their homes. There's a lot that walk away from the church because of what they saw in the church. There's also some that couldn't imagine walking away no matter what they encounter because of what they received in the church and what they received in the home. Because their lives were so grounded on the truth because dad taught the word, mom taught the word, they heard a good example of biblical preaching and teaching. Older Christians actually took time to spend with them. They've learned. Two sides. We will pass the baton on, but will we pass it on well? It's not just what we teach the next generation, but it's what we demonstrate before them. Notice when Paul is talking here, he says, you've known my manner of life. And he mentions things that Paul or Timothy knew. Paul wasn't just telling Timothy what to believe, he was showing him the practical results of that belief system. And how the gospel grounds people in reality. And it gives them a firm footing. He demonstrated it by how he lived his life. They need to teach what they have learned and they need to live what is true. That would be the majority of the people in this room. But then there are also future generations. He says in verse 2, he says, to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. Now, I sort of find myself in really two roles when we talk about this text of scripture. There are older pastors that if I have a very difficult situation. I will call them and I will have a conversation with them. And I preferably someone who doesn't know anybody in this church, the name doesn't mean anything to them, they don't need to know a name But I can ask them a question in this situation. Have you ever encountered something like this? And they'll be like, uh, kind of. You get those kinds of things I'm really at a loss for how to approach this. And they'll share some things. They're very helpful. They'll share with me some things from the Word of God. They'll they'll just encourage me and pray with me. So in that sense, as a younger pastor I'm learning from them. And then there are people that are younger than me, or we could say they're peers to my age. I would be like teaching them. And then there's some that they're like brand new Christians. So when you're talking about somebody like my age, which is a lot of people in this room as well, you kind of find yourself on both sides of that equation as well. The future generation has to be faithful with what they've been receiving. What they've received. These generations have to purpose. I'm going to be faithful with the truth. I need to absorb the things that I'm hearing. I need to observe the things that I'm watching so that I can be as well grounded as possible. They need to look for others to invest in as they mature into areas of leadership and influence. There comes a point when a person goes from being the learner to learning, yes, continuing to learn, but now they're giving a lot of information. And now their focus is less on the learning side and more on the teaching side and more on the investing side. They should never get to the place where they're not continuing to learn, but the emphasis changes. That's the future generation. They have to prepare the next generation to effectively replace them at the right time. Now when we talk about missions, I think it's a lot easier to think in these terms with missions. And here's the reason why. The kinds of missionaries that we like to support in our church are missionaries that believe that their job is not to go to a foreign country and to plant a church and to stay in that church for 50 years. They believe that their goal is to go and to plant a church and then to win people to Christ, disciple them, teach them the word of God, and invest in who's going to be the next generation of pastors. And the next generation of deacons and pastors' wives and deacons' wives. And so it's all about investing, investing, investing, stepping back, stepping back, stepping back, and at some point God begins to make clear it's time to pass the baton on, and now you've got to decide what's next. But here's the simple fact: pastors in the states need to think that way too Why is that? Because we're all going to die one day. And if we die and there's nobody to replace us, question what happens? We may not die for a while, but we may not be very strong physically. We may go through a point where we're not able to effectively minister the way that we once did. And if that void is there and there's no one to fill it, what happens to to the congregation where that's going on. And so whether someone is a missionary or someone is a pastor in the United States Their goal from day one should be, I'm preparing the next generation. I'm ministering to this one. I'm serving this one. But I'm preparing the next generation because one day I don't know when they're going to take the baton I think the breakdown of the family in our country has really made people not realize that there's a great need to pass on one generation to the next generation to the next generation because people aren't getting married as as often as they used to. People are not having children like they once did. The birth rate in this country is really, really low compared to what it was just 20 years ago. People are getting married later and later and later and later and later. And guess what? When people get married later and they have fewer children, they do not get the sense. Of this generational change, how I invest in my kids. I'm not having my kids, so I don't even think about these things. And so I'm investing in my kids as a five-year-old, just teaching them how to obey. Teach them how to eat foods they don't like. Teach them that they they gotta do some things around the house for responsibility. So what's child labor? No w putting stuff in a dishwasher is not child labor, folks. It's called teaching responsibility. Getting your boys cut in the grass and having them rake up leaves and helping them fill laundry with mom. Helping them learn how to iron their own clothes. Teaching them they have to get up at a certain time and they have to go to bed at a certain time and they have to get their schoolwork done and stand on top of those things. You know what you're teaching your kids as a five, six, seven, eight-year-old Believe it or not, is shaping them because when they become a 28-year-old, 38-year-old, a 58-year-old, what you put into them is going to have a lot to do with what they are And some of them can be frustrated with you because you didn't do a very good job when they were young. And they have to learn these things the hard way. So when we talk about The generational problem, it's on both sides. It's the established generations, it's the up-and-coming generations. We could drop the ball in what we teach, we could drop the ball in in how we demonstrate, we could drop the ball in our own willingness to listen. It can go on either side of the issue. Truth number three. The church must develop resilience, focus, and patience. We are living at a time in our culture where people are mentally weak. I'm serious. Just working a 40-hour week people think is too hard. Very basic things that past generations, the struggles they had. We have no concept of that. We have so much ease in our time compared to past generations. We also have unique challenges too. But one of the reasons that Americans are not as mentally tough and physically strong and resilient as they once were. It's because what you learn in your home has a lot to do with what you become as an adult. And the fact is that the church has to Do a better job. Now when I say this, I'm not saying this because I think as a church we're doing a horrible job. Okay, I'm really not. I think we're doing a pretty good job. I mean you look around, there's kids all over this church. There's teenagers all over this church. There's parents that are very engaged. But this is a principle that we've absolutely got to consider when it comes to this issue of passing on the baton to the next generation. He says in verse 3, he says, Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that worth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. If a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned except he strive lawfully. The husbandman that laboreth must be first partaker of the fruits. Consider what I say in the Lord, give thee understanding in all things. Now, when Paul thought about preparing the next generation for life and ministry, there were two illustrations that he presented. And these two excuse these three illustrations and these three illustrations were very common illustrations that Paul used. They might even be illustrations that make some modern Christians cringe a little bit. The soldier? Soldiers of Christ arise and put your armor on people like, ooh. Well, that's a biblical concept for crying out loud. He presents these three illustrations because the people understood them, but because they help us to understand something about life. Life is not a picnic, folks. Life is not a fairy tale. Life involves struggle, and life involves real disciplines, and life involves investing in something And sometimes it takes time for you to see the blessings of that investment. And so I show you these illustrations. The first one that he mentions is the soldier. He says, endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that worth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, then he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. What do we learn from the soldier? Let me give you some thoughts. First, Soldiers lose their individuality to assume a role in a unit. I think a lot of people don't realize that. But the reason you go to basic training, there are many reasons you go to basic training. But one of them is so that you realize your individuality doesn't matter. Why do they all get the same haircut? Why do they all go through the same stuff? Why is it if there's one person who slacks, everybody pays for it Why is it if one person makes a mistake, everybody pays for it? Because you're not an individual. You're a part of a unit. And the fact is that when the soldier steps into that role, what matters is that they accomplish their mission. Which is a part of something bigger than themselves. And this is something that the Christian has to understand. We are a part of a story That goes from one generation to another for thousands and thousands of years. We're just a small piece of that. The soldier loses his individuality to assume the role that he must play in that unit. They must have an absolute commitment to victory. Folks, the reason something goes to war is because you have a person on this side. You could say individuals on this side who want to impose their will on the people on this side, and they realize that, you know what, if we don't push back and push back with force and actually win this confrontation, we're going to be in massive trouble. And so war is there is no substitute for victory. We have to win. Our lives are at stake. Our livelihoods are at stake. Our children and our wives and our grandchildren, their lives are at stake. And so it goes to war. The fact is, when we come to these issues of spiritual struggle, You can't accept a cheap substitute. This is life or death. People's lives are in the balances. These people cannot allow themselves to become distracted by civilian pursuits. The truth is that as Paul uses this illustration, people knew it is like to watch the military in their location. The Romans ruled the world. And they maintained that rule for over a thousand years. And they did it by force. And they did that by keeping a presence in all of these locations. They understood. But the part that is probably the most intriguing of all is their highest goal is the pleasure of one. The pleasing of one who has chosen him to be a soldier. Who is that? It's Jesus. And so when he uses this illustration of a soldier, Paul is telling Timothy. That's the mentality you have to take into the work you're called to do. And this is the mentality you must pattern before the people you invest in. And this is the mentality that they must absorb because they're going to step into a new time with new challenges, but most of them at the base, they're all the same. Be a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Second illustration he uses. And by the way, we see this in other places. Excuse me, 2 Corinthians 10. He says, though we walk in the flesh, we do war after the flesh. The weapons of our warfare are not carnal or physical, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. Ephesians six, put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. We wrestle not against flesh and blood. But against principalities and powers, rulers of the darkness of this world, spiritual wickedness in high places. What's the point? We've got to learn from the soldier. Second illustration he uses is the athlete. In verse 5, he says, if a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned except he strive lawfully. Now I know in our time period people love sports in the United States. I love football. I watched football with my boys yesterday I I I love what goes on in the trenches where the offensive line is trying to block and the defensive line is trying to take them out and get to the quarterback. And all of these struggles that go on. I love these sports because they picture for you this intense combative struggle on a field. Nobody gets killed. They might get hurt, but it's entertainment. The truth is that the athlete has a lot to teach us. And Paul borrows from this illustration a lot. And in the ancient world, athletics was even bigger than it is today in the United States. Athletes have to discipline their bodies. They have to discipline their minds. They have to train to excel in competition. It's not how you practice. It's what your practice produces and how you perform when you step into the arena. That's what matters. And so it's about developing toughness, and it's about developing discipline, it's about developing skills. The athlete teaches us a lot. The athlete strives to win a prize. And one day we're going to stand before the Lord Jesus and give accounting for how we have served him. Have we served well or have we been wasteful? They have to know the rules and follow them, or they will become disqualified. He is not crowned except he strive lawfully. So we learn from the soldier and we learn from the athletes. And then we see in 1 Corinthians 9 that Paul uses this illustration again. He says, Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth a prize? So run. that you may obtain. Every man that striveth for mastery is temperate in all things, now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible. I therefore run not with uncertainty, so fight I not as one that beateth the ear, but I keep my body. and bring it into subjection, lest that by any means, when I have preached others, I become a castaway. Ask the question. Have you learned the lessons of the athlete and the soul? Are you patterning those for the people coming behind you? When you tell your children that they have to develop discipline, do they look at you and go, like you do? What do they think? It's not just what we tell them, it's what we show them. And then thirdly, we see the farmer. In verse 6, he says, the husbandman that laboreth must be first partaker. I love this concept. The farmer cultivates life. And when he cultivates life, he labors in many different stages of development before he enjoys the harvest. And failure at any level of cultivation will result in a loss of harvest. Now, if you uh were growing uh a garden this year, It was a tough year for our gardeners. At least it was for this gardener, all right. You know, everything looked really good early in the summer and then it got like really, really hot. And then it like rained for uh what, three weeks in a row? Is that what it did? You know, it's like every day rain and rain and rain. I had toadstools growing all over my yard and rotting tomatoes and cabbage that looked great before it started raining and now it's all rotting. The truth is if we fail at even one level, guess what? It affects the harvest. And so this is a great illustration of how ministering to people works. We labor at lots of different stages. If we fail in one area of cultivation, it's going to affect the harvest. It takes time, it takes labor, there are setbacks, there are frustrations, but there's incredible satisfaction for the one who stays engaged in the process and gets to bring in the harvest. And that one tomato means a lot to you. The endless hours to get it, right? That one cabbage you cut, that one sweet potato. Yesterday we were we were pulling out sweet potatoes. And peanuts and we we boiled peanuts. Yes, I ate boiled peanuts yesterday. It was amazing. Some of you wouldn't appreciate that, but as a southern boy I really did enjoy my sweet uh my sweet potatoes and I enjoyed those uh those those peanuts. But the truth is there was a lot of work that went into that one little thing of boiled peanuts. A lot of work that went into uh Essentially a bag of sweet potato chips, okay? I mean that's really what it was. A lot of work went into that. Yet we learn a lot from that struggle about life. about investing in the next generation. 1 Corinthians 3. 5, who is Paul? Who is Apollos? But ministers by whom you have believed. He says, I have planted, Apollos watered, and God gave the increase. Neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth, but God who giveth the increase. He that planteth and he that watereth are one, every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labors. You know, Paul used these illustrations in a lot of places Because these are the qualities that we've got to embrace, and these are the got the qualities we've got to pattern, and these are the qualities we've got to put into the next generation. And when we get frustrated with the generation coming behind us, we maybe should do a little soul searching and ask how did they get that way? We ought to realize that we contributed to the problem. And we've got to be cautious. So, how do we apply these truths? I want to give you three very simple thoughts that I hope will help you this morning. The first is this we have to consider the pressing need of our day. I'm going to give you some statistics from an article I read that was published about a year ago. In this article, it said one in four pastors will retire in the next five years. The average age of a pastor is 52. You might say, well that's that's good. I'm 75, so uh that's that's like my kid's age. What's the big deal with that? Well that 52-year-old ten years from now is gonna be his sixties The question is, are there people coming behind him? Only 16% of current pastors are 40 or younger. In 1992, 33 percent. We're that age bracket. In 1968, that was fifty-five percent. Now you can look at these stats a couple different ways. And I want to be fair. I don't know that a 25-year-old is uh very well placed to uh pastor a church. There's a lot of ministry experience they don't understand, and they're dealing with a lot of people that are a lot older than them, and they're gonna be challenges. But that's really not the issue. It's not about the age. It's about the fact that as people age, there are not people replacing them. That's the problem. It's not the age of the pastors, it's the lack of pastors following in their shoes. And the problem isn't just a pastor problem, it's a church problem, it's a family problem. Nearly 80% of pastors in this poll said they are concerned that their churches are not rising to the responsibility to trade up the next generation of church leaders. I would attribute this to a breakdown of family, a breakdown of, or would I say, a failure of churches to intensively disciple the rising generation And the antidote to this problem is churches properly investing in their families and the next generation. For those who are raising kids, it's important that we do as good a job as we can and that we get the feedback of older people. Those of you who are just starting to raise young children, please don't do it entirely alone. Reach out to some older people that can give you insight that can be a help to you. As a pastor, my goal is to help you as much as I can in those areas. But I'm in the middle of it too. My oldest child's only 14. I don't know what it's like to send someone to college yet. There's a lot of insight I don't have practically in that area. There are people in this church that do. But we as a church, and by the way, I'm not saying this because we're doing a horrible job. I'm really not We're doing a pretty good job. But the churches all around this country are not as as a whole. And we need to pray for churches. We need to do the best we can in our environment. We need to be faithful in this area. The second is this. We've got to realize how easy it is to fail to do this well. Few people fail to do this well because they don't care about the next generation. Most parents don't want to see their kids struggle when they become adults. Now there are some that are irresponsible parents. I know that's the case. But in this church, we have people that are engaged in their kids' lives. You love your children. You want them to be a success. You want them to live for Jesus. You want them to make good choices. The failure is not because of a lack of desire. It's because we fail to properly prioritize in the little things of life. When we have opportunities to sit down with our kids and talk to them, we're on our phones. We're watching social media videos. We're watching television. When we really should say, hey, we got to get ready for church. I'm tired today. I am too. But we're going to be there. Let's just miss Sunday school today. Well guess it. You miss it this week, you miss it next week. And eventually it becomes a lot easier to not be here than be here. Our children are not just learning by what they hear, they're learning by what they see. And so prioritizing is a big problem. We often fail to I'll put it this way, we look at what is around us and we kind of accept that that's like that's the good way to do things. We cannot look at the standard of culture and say we're doing a great job. We've got to look at the scripture. We fail when we get distracted and put the responsibility to shape our children on other people. This is something that I think was an especially big problem when I was growing up. I don't mean in my family. But it's very common for families as they're raising their kids to say, you know what? I send my child to Christian school. They're getting all the Bible they need at that Christian school. I take my kids to Sunday school. They're getting all the Bible they need in Sunday school. And a lot of parents who sent their kids to Christian school, sent their kids to Sunday school, did not sit down. Night after night after night with an open Bible and teach their kids the Word of God. They didn't ask their kids, what are you learning in Sunday school? And actually have a conversation about that. They disciplined them when things got bad, not incrementally before they got to that place. And the fact is, when one generation struggles in that area, guess what? The next generation struggles more. And the next generation struggles more. We've got to tighten it up. Those who are raising children. We've got to think ahead so we don't miss the most formative seasons of our children's lives. We start having conflicts with kids because we missed very important seasons of their life. And we didn't do it well. We fail to get up when we stumble. The truth is that There are many times that I've looked as a parent at something that happened with one of my kids, and I go, you know, my son did that because I failed to be faithful in this area. I'm struggling with my daughter or my son in this area because, and I can look back at what is causing that. And I could do one of two things. I could excuse it, or I could accept, yes, I have stumbled and get back up. And so every single one of us at times we have to reassess and step back up. Thirdly, we've got to purpose to do things. We've got to purpose to do this in every sphere of life. When it comes to this issue of church leadership, there's a reason that I'm doing ABVI classes. It's a lot of work. But the truth is that I want our church family to get access To good, well, as good as I can do teaching. Alright, I'll put it that way. We start doing something in our staff. We we do a little preaching cohort where we talk about the Sunday morning sermon. The truth is this is something I want to start or have started, but as time goes on, I'd love to have lots of guys who maybe they're not going to be pastors. Maybe they will be pastors, but they might be Sunday school teachers. But they're in that context and they're talking about how to approach a sermon and learning about how to approach it in a very practical way. One of the things that I hope to start in the spring is on Saturdays doing ministry talks on different topics. The reason is because in the back of my mind, when I read a text like this, I say, you know what? We've got to start thinking about our future. I'm talking about 12-year-olds, I'm talking about 10-year-olds, I'm talking about 14-year-old But I might be talking about thirty-four year olds Or 40-year-olds. I don't know. It's all what God does. But as a church, we have to think in this way. With young Christians, we've got to do discipleship studies. This is what freedom that lasts is. This is why midweek prayer time is so important. These are opportunities for older Christians to come alongside younger Christians and encourage them and help them to grow. But the one that I'm really concerned about is our children. We've got to faithful bring up our children in this church context. We've got to be actively engaged in their education. No matter how you educate your children, you've got to be engaged. There are homeschool parents that are not engaged. They just put on a video and they let their kids do it. We can't do that. We've got to know what they're being taught. We've got to discuss these issues with them. We've got to engage with them on these areas. We need to organize a regular practice of family worship. There might be a dad in here that says, uh Pastor, I don't know how to do that. Meet with me and I'll tell you some things that you can do. Very, very simple stuff. I don't mean a sermon. I mean a talk for five, six, eight minutes. That you really talk to your children and teach them the Word of God. We've got to be engaged in the character development of our children. I ask this question. Has God stirred your heart in this area? You might say, well, the the best way I've been stirred up is I just need to pray. If that's the case, then do it. Pray for moms and dads who are raising kids right now. Pray for your pastor. Pray for our staff guys. Pray for those who teach Sunday school. Pray for us to do this very, very well. Pray for your children who are raising your grandchildren. Look out for young Christians and come alongside of them. May God help us to be committed to his work of making disciples. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we think about the word this morning, it's a lot of practical stuff. Some things that probably sting a little too. Father, I pray that our hearts would be comforted where we have stumbled, that they will be strengthened where we need to be encouraged, that they'll be shaped and guided where we have deficiencies Father, my greatest burden is that we will do a good job, a faithful job of mentoring young Christians in this church. Especially those who are born in the families of this church. May we be very faithful in this area, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Please let's pull out our hymn books and we'll turn to page 524. 524 saved by the blood. And we'll sing the first and the last verses. We'll stand together, please. Let's sing this song out. Five hundred and twenty four Saved by the blood of the crucifix wild new work before. I didn't know I didn't want to. Aren't you thankful that you're saved by the blood of Christ? I'd like to ask you if Brother Sean Lewis can close us in prayer, and I'm so thankful that uh Sean and Han were able to be here with their two children and uh what a great blessing. We prayed a lot for you guys, and we continue to pray for you as you raise up these two little boys. So please close us in prayer. Father, thank you for this Lord's Day that we can gather together as a church. Thank you for the sermon that we just heard. And just thank you for uh the the children and just the uh ministry opportunities you provide to us. Just pray that we would be faithful in uh raising up uh the next generation and uh uh preparing them to uh to love you and serve you and to uh even prepare the generation after them. Uh we just uh thank you for all that you do for us. Keep us safe as we go home. And uh I bring everyone back here safely tonight in Jesus' name. Amen.