Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we took a little bit of time off this past weekend And looking forward to getting back into our study in the book of James. If you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and turn with me to James chapter 4. We're in James chapter 4, and today we're looking at verses 6 through 10. Again, that's James 4, 6 through 10. I'm going to go ahead and begin reading. But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud. But giveth grace to the humble. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to heaviness. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord. And he shall lift you up. Now we come to this passage of scripture. Again, we are looking at super practical passage, and really what this passage is dealing with primarily is how we have communion or fellowship with God. And so let me give you a simple a simple summary statement of this of this section of scripture. James wants people to know how they can have fellowship with God. with God. It's that simple. He wants people to know how they can have fellowship with God. And part of that is he's going to say here are steps you need to take so that you can have fellowship with God God. And here are things that hinder fellowship with God. So if you take those active steps and you remove those obstacles, then you're going to be in a position where you are communing with God. That's such an important part of our lives. So let's look at a couple of simple facts or truths, observations from this text that will help us to understand what steps we need to take so that We can have a close fellowship with God, and then things that hinder that close fellowship with the Lord. The first observation we find is in verse number six: God fellowships with those who are humble. Very, very important for us to recognize. If we are proud, we are not in a position where we're walking in fellowship with God. In fact, he's actually resisting us, and that's an important thing for us to understand. He puts it like this, he, that's God, giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. To put it in very simple terms, a proud Christian is not currently walking with the Lord. Now, it doesn't mean that a person couldn't go through a season of walking with God and growing as a Christian And then over the course of that time their heart becomes hardened and they begin to become proud and God has to humble them. But if we are walking in a position of pride and arrogance, we are not walking in fellowship with God. That's what he's saying. God resists people when they're in that place. And so when our hearts get into a place where we are proud, God is going to have to bring things into our lives that are going to humble us. So we're in a position to begin and continue communing with Him. We see that there's a contrast. We have God's resistance versus us receiving God's daily strength. And so that first observation is extremely important. If we want to have fellowship with God, then we have to have a humble heart, because that is where a heart has to be in order for us to really commune with him. A second observation is this. Victory over Satan's attacks begin with resisting him through submitting to God. He puts it like this in verse 7. He says, submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Now when he says, submit yourselves therefore to God, he's kind of going back to the statement that he just made where he says God resists the proud. I think his point is that when we are proud, we are ultimately not submitting ourselves to God. We're not seeing ourselves under his authority. Instead, we're seizing that authority and trying to govern ourselves. And that's basically what he's saying. You need to submit to God. And through submitting to God, you're one, humbling yourself, and two, you're resisting Satan. In other words, it's impossible for a Christian to play both sides in a conflict. It's sort of like you have two people that they're fighting with one another and you walk into the situation you try to resolve it, you say, well I have your side, and then you come and you say, I have the other side. By the end of the uh the conflict resolution, neither person is happy with you because they say, you really haven't taken the side of truth here Well, we cannot play both sides of this conflict between God and the world. Either we're going to be serving this world system in opposition to God, or we're going to be serving God in opposition to Satan and this system. system. Since God in this kingdom and his kingdom are in direct conflict with Satan in this world system, we cannot embrace both at the same time. Embracing one is resisting the other. We then come to a third observation. Our fellowship with God deepens as we root out sinful patterns that have established in our lives through repentance and confession to God, and then replacing those sinful practices with godly virtues. He puts it like this in verse 8. He says, draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to have to heaviness Now, when he says, draw nigh to God and he will draw nigh to you, I want to just kind of make a little important observation here. He's not suggesting that when the Christian is walking in in pride or when a person is distant from God, that God doesn't care about them and God just leaves them there and he doesn't pursue them. We look at lots and lots of scriptures that indicate that God constantly pursues people. So when I was an unbeliever, God was constantly pursuing me through the gospel. He was bringing people into my life and circumstances so that I would begin to see the truths of the gospel and ultimately repent and trust in Christ. So God didn't just abandon me. When I'm a Christian and I'm beginning to walk in pride and God's resisting me, it's not like he's walking away and saying, I don't care about this Christian. I've abandoned him to his own devices. No, his resistance is his active work to bring us to humility so that we'll be in a position to enjoy fellowship with him. But the point that he's making here is not only is God pursuing us, but we need to pursue him. We need to come to a place where we take active steps. to put into place those factors that are so important so that we have fellowship with God. In other words, I don't just through osmosis or some situation like that, begin fellowshiping with God. I have to actually set aside time. I have to set aside time to pray, to study the word, to reflect, to think. And as I take those steps, And as I draw near to the Lord, he's going to draw near to me. And that's how we begin to have fellowship, communion with God. So he's emphasizing the fact that we have to take steps so that we can have this close fellowship with God. We have to develop patterns that sort of cultivate that relationship But notice what he says. We need to cleanse our hands. The idea is God wants our bodies that belong to him to be used for his honor and glory. Well he says cleanse because when we sin, it's like we're defiling this body. And God wants us to use this body for his honor and glory. He says, purify your hearts, you double-minded. The idea is a person that has a divided soul. In fact, it's interesting. He used this term earlier in the book when he was talking about godly wisdom versus worldly wisdom. wisdom. And he was saying that a double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. A person that has a divided heart, they say, I want to serve God and I want to follow his wisdom and I want to follow his ways, but I also want to follow this world system. And so I'm caught between these two tensions here. God says you can't do that. You can't be double-minded. You have to purify your heart. In other words, root out all of those passions and desires to follow the world system. to pursue and live after world a worldly wisdom. You have to remove those and have an undivided attention and heart for God. You know what's interesting, a lot of what James says really does refer back to the sermon on the mount. And I think about that beatitude that says, Blessed are the pure in heart, they shall see God. That's exactly what he's saying here. If you want to have communion with God, if you want to have fellowship with God, you have to have a pure, undivided, not double-minded heart. Then he mentions this, be afflicted and mourn and weep. And you say, well, what is he talking about here? Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Well again, he's referring back to the Beatitudes, and he talks about those who are poor in spirit and those who mourn being comforted The idea is that James is saying, just like Christ taught, that a person has to see the reality of their sin, they have to recognize how serious it is and how offensive it is to God. And they should mourn over their sin. They should be broken over their sin and confess it to God. That is a prerequisite for having fellowship with God. Seeing our sin, confessing our sin. He's saying that's what you need to do here He's really talking about repentance in the heart, where our thinking is confronted with truth and we recognize where we've fallen short and we confess it to God. And I do want to make this statement. This is not a perpetual state of morbidity, and we have this introspection all the time. I don't think that's what he's suggesting. And I think sometimes Christians do get to that place where they're constantly analyzing every single little detail of this thought and that thought and this action and that action. That's not the point that he's making. The point that he's making is that there should be a moment where we face our sin, we confess our sin, and when we confess our sin, we accept the fact that God's forgiven us. and cleansed us and restored that communion. And then we walk in joy in that communion with God. So he's not encouraging Christians to be in this constant state of morbid introspection, but he is encouraging us to take time to reflect on our lives, to confess our sin to God, and then to have a restored sense of fellowship with God. And it's interesting. We go back to 1 John. In 1 John, he talks about the fact that the way that we have fellowship with God bringing us joy. In other words, this morbid introspection is not what James is shooting for here. The end result is cleanliness of heart so that we have joy and fellowship with God. That's his point. Then we come to a fourth observation. God lifts up those who voluntarily near before him. In verse 10, he says, humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. One of the things that we need to remember is that God would much rather you and me humble ourselves then Him have to bring circumstances into our lives where He has to force us to humble ourselves. God wants us to recognize our faults when they're small. God wants us to recognize patterns of thought and attitudes that are wrong, that are small, so that we can address them early. And we can be humble in spirit so that he doesn't have to bring radical things into our lives to humble us and to get our attention In other words, James says, listen, rather than God constantly resisting you and having to bring in serious things to get your attention, humble yourself In other words, by daily spending time looking at our lives and that looking at that sin and confessing it to God and being humbled by it and enjoying the sweetness of renewed fellowship with God, we need to do that on a daily basis. because that'll keep us humble. So humility is a really a prerequisite to having a communion with God, to having a close relationship with Him. And one of the things that we see in the scriptures too is that really humility is a prerequisite for God exalting people. You might say, well, why is that? Why does God do that? Why does God want us to humble ourselves? So that He can bless us and give us the things that really He ultimately wants to give us. Well, one of the reasons is that we will not handle God's good blessings the way that He intends for us to. proud. In other words, we won't see that as a blessing from God's hand. We'll begin to develop this entitlement attitude. We'll begin to feel that we deserve those things. God wants us to realize that these are from his good hand, and these aren't things that we're entitled to. God doesn't want his good gifts to ruin us. He wants us to be able to enjoy them as gifts from his hand. And so when we come to this passage of scripture, we're reminded that communion with God really is something that we can't have if we're arrogant or proud or if we're holding on to our sin. But we've got to daily confess and deal with the So we come to this last little section. How do we apply the passage in front of us? Let me share with you a couple things that jotted down today, and I hope that they'll be a help to you The first thing is this. Let's take the active necessary steps to draw near to God. There are certain spiritual disciplines that we have to develop if we are going to have a close walk with God. We have to be willing to set aside time in our days that are very busy and have so many things crowding for our attention. We have to find time to set aside to get alone with God. Where we listen to his voice. And what I mean by that is we don't hear an audible voice, but we get into his word and we read it and we see what he's saying in his word So we internalize those things. It's not just about reading it, but it's about meditation. So it begins to settle into our souls, begins to take root, and becomes a part of us. We have to take the active steps to set that time aside, to commune with God, to fellowship with Him, to confess to Him where we have sinned, and to have the joy and satisfaction of God's renewed fellowship. A second thing, let's daily spend time in personal reflection, humbling ourselves before God. Now, I'm not encouraging this morbid introspection. where we're always depressed because we've seen all of our faults. That's not the point. The point that I'm trying to emphasize is there needs to be a time in the day that we sit down and we acknowledge to God, here is where I have failed. Here is where I've fallen. Here's where I've sent. And the purpose of that confession is so that we feel the weight of that sin and we're reminded again that that's why there's a cross. That's why there's an empty tomb. That's why we needed Christ's righteousness to be imputed to us so we could stand in God's presence In other words, the confession of our sin has both the side of mourning, but also the side of joy, because we're reminded that God does accept us on the basis of Christ's work. We are reminded that God has forgiven us, that God does cleanse us, that God does restore us. And so when we confess our sin to God, it's not just a morbid introspection. But it's a reminder, a renewed sense of why the gospel is so important. It's a renewed sense of the fact that we are complete in Christ. A third thing, a major part of this personal reflection will involve confession of sin and seeking to replace those fleshly patterns with the gracious tools God has provided to mature us. And so it's not just that I'm confessing to God my sin, but I'm trying to replace wrong patterns of thought, wrong patterns of activity. I'm trying to replace those things with what God wants to be there. And so where there is sin, I replace it with godly virtue. And it's really a matter of putting off what is wrong and putting on what is right. And so that's a major part of that as well. A fourth thing. Let's not allow ourselves to think that we can walk with God in pride. And God is going to humble us. He's not going to let his children just continue in arrogance. He's going to bring things into our lives. And God doesn't want us to be in a position where he has to resist So let's be careful that we don't allow ourselves to get into this place where we think, you know what? I can come to God on my terms. I can think and act any way I want. The fact is we have to be humble. And God wants us to humble ourselves so that He doesn't have to bring drastic measures into our lives to get our attention. And then the last thing I'll mention is this. And one of the things that we have to learn how to do as Christians is let God be the one who gives us position and God is the one who ultimately gives us the opportunity to influence and exalt us rather than we doing it ourselves. God does exalt his people. God does put his people in places of influence. And he does it because he because he wants to give the gospel to people. He wants people to be drawn to himself. God does exalt his people But we need to be careful that we aren't the ones pressing ourselves into these positions. We just let God do that. As we think about this passage, James chapter 4, 6 through 10, I think there's a lot that we could chew on. I hope that it's been an encouragement to you this morning. If it's been a blessing, I hope that you'll just jot down a little note of encouragement, perhaps share it so that another person can be blessed by it. And Lord willing, we plan to be back. Again tomorrow, same time to go through the next portion of James chapter four. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. It's been good to see each of you this morning. Father, thank you so much for the opportunity to study your word together. Father, help us to be a humble group of people who are not resisting you and being resisted by you, but are confessing our faults to you. And then having this renewed sense of joy as fellowship with you has been restored. Father, help us to be reminded daily of the beauty of the gospel. And how wonderful it is that we stand complete and fully accepted in Christ, and that even though we are sinners still, we can commune with a perfect and holy God through Christ I pray that you would bless our day today. Be with those who've joined us and those who will listen later in the day. May they be encouraged through your word. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well it's been good to see each of you this morning and we will catch up with you again next time. Bye now