We'll turn together to 2 Chronicles and we are in chapter 18 tonight. 2 Chronicles chapter 18, and last week Pastor Josh was dealing with The story of Ahab and his desire to take Naboth's vineyard and how his wife Jezebel was able to create a scheme and through that scheme ultimately A man who appears to be a very just man was falsely accused. And then with that false accusation, his life is taken. And then Naboth's vineyard is stolen by Ahab. Well, the question that we should ask in our minds is this, what happens to people who choose to do such things? What is the end of those individuals? In fact, sometimes one of the things that we really struggle with in life is that we look at evil things injustice and we go, God, why do you allow those things to happen? Why don't you stop those things? Why don't you step in and reverse the course of action before it takes place? And the truth is, we don't always have the answer to those questions. But what we do know is that God is just We know that God will always do right. We know that God is righteous in all of his ways, and the text in front of us is going to give us Tremendous insight into how a just and righteous God deals with evil people. And so 2 Chronicles 18, we're going to look at a passage dealing with compromise, self-deception, and then the tragic end of an unjust man. Here's what it says, 2 Chronicles 18, verse 1. Now, Jehoshaphat had riches and honor and abundance, and joined affinity with Ahab. After certain years he went down to Ahab uh went down to Ahab to Samaria, and Ahab killed sheep and oxen for him in abundance, and for the people that he had with him, and persuade and persuaded him to go up with him to Raymoth Gilead. And Ahab, king of Israel, said to Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, Wilt thou go with me to Ramoth Gilead? He answered him, I am as thou art, my people as thy people, and I will be with thee in the war. And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Inquire, I pray thee, at the word of the Lord today. Therefore the king of Israel gathered together of prophets four hundred men, and said unto them, Shall we go to Ramoth Gilead to battle? Or shall I forbear? They said, go up, for God will deliver it into the king's hand But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the Lord besides that we might inquire of him? The king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of the Lord, but I hate him, for he never prophesied good unto me, but always evil, the same is Micaiah. the son of Imlah. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say so. Let's bow together for prayer and really ask the Lord to speak to our hearts through this text of Scripture. Lord, as we dig into this passage, I pray that you would help us to see your ways. Help us to see that when men are unjust. When men do evil, there's coming a day that they will face the hand of God against them. No matter how they plot. No matter how they scheme, no matter how they may work to dupe man, they will face you And it's not just justice on this side, but in fact it is ultimate justice in eternity that people should fear most. And Father, alongside this, I pray that you would give us insight into the tragedy of godly men, righteous men, who do not walk consistently before you. who compromise in their ways, who open the door to make league with those whom they should not. And I pray that we would receive great insight from this text into that dynamic as well. So speak to our hearts. Use your word. In Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a very interesting passage. I've already kind of mentioned that when we dig into this passage, there are lots and lots of different ways that we can go into this. For instance, we could focus specifically on Ahab and exclusively Ahab and see the just and righteous end of Ahab. And by the way, his end is not as bad as his wife's end. We could look down that. We'll see part of that story. We could also kind of pause and look at the way that God works behind the scenes. And in fact, there are some very fascinating statements. in this text where basically what's going to happen is the prophet is going to open the door for Ahab and Jehoshaphat to see what is going on in the courtrooms of heaven. And how God allows evil forces, demons, to go and to move these two men to go into battle. Very, very interesting. We could also look at another side to this and we could see the tragic compromise of Jehoshaphat. And we could look at what happens not just in his league with Ahab, but also when he allows or encourages his own child to marry into the family of Ahab, and the end result of that is absolute tragedy Can you imagine Jezebel being your mother-in-law? Well Jehoshaphat made the suggestion. And that's exactly what his son did. His son married the daughter of Ahab and Jezebel. What a shockingly foolish decision. Well, what we're going to do is try to get the big picture tonight. And so with that, I want to give you a simple summary of what's in front of us. Little lapses in judgment. Can develop into long-term painful, might I add, tragic consequences. As we read to this text of Scripture, I'd like us to really focus in specifically on Jehoshaphat. Because Jehoshaphat was a very faithful man. In fact, most of what we know about Jehoshaphat was positive. But Jehoshaphat, in this particular moment in his life, had a tragic lapse of judgment, and we will see how it plays out. And we see that God preserves his life, but in fact this is one of those tragic moments in his life. And so as we dig into this passage, we're going to see the need to be committed to a consistent walk in all areas. And I'd like to kind of put it like this to you, especially to our dads. Are you a consistent, faithful example to your children? Are you consistently demonstrating before them the kind of man that they should be? Are you showing them an example of righteousness or are you teaching them that it's okay at times to compromise? And when you compromise, it'll all work out in the end. Which example are you? The truth is that Jehoshaphat was a man who had a godly heritage. But there were a couple of moments in his heritage that created some cracks. And Jehoshaphat follows in the example of his father. So the first thing I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look at some of the background to this man, Jehoshaphat, and I'd like us to look at the destructive compromise that's discussed in the passage in front of us. So look down in your Bibles at verses 1 to 3 and notice what it says. It says, now Jehoshaphat had riches and honor in abundance. That is because God blessed him. In fact, if we step back and we look at some other passages of Scripture, we're going to see that God blessed him. Because he was a hardworking man. He was a faithful man. He was willing to put out evil in his nation. He was a good example of a king. He received riches in honor and abundance. But the very next statement is this, and he joined affinity with who? With Ahab. One of the most godless kings in all of the northern kingdom's history, this man Ahab, who is well known for his evil ways, Jehoshaphat and Ahab become friends. And it is through that friendship that they enter into league, and through that league that ultimately we're going to see the story that's in front of us this evening. And as Ahab approaches Jehoshaphat about Jehoshaphat says to him, he says, I am as thou art My people as thy people, we will be with thee in war. Now there is a sense in which what he's saying is true, and a sense in which it's absolutely not true. Now the sense in which it's true is this. They are of the same We could say the same heritage. The Northern Kingdom and Judah, they have the same father, their father Abraham. They trace their roots all the way back to David and Solomon. They have split into two different kingdoms, but they have the same heritage. In that sense, they are the same. But in another sense they're tragically different. And that difference is that one is aligned with the God of Israel, that would be Jehoshaphat in the southern kingdom of Judah, and the other is the worshipper of Baal. And that is Ahab. And he is one of the most notorious of all the kings when it came to this issue of worshiping Baal. Let's notice a couple of things about what the Bible says about Jehoshaphat. If you were to go back a couple of chapters into chapter 17 Jehoshaphat is described as a generally strong king with a generally godly lineage. It says this in 2 Chronicles 17, verse 3. Now the Lord was with Jehoshaphat because he walked in the first ways of his father David. Isn't that an interesting way to put it? David, when he was a young man, David, when he was walking in the ways of the Lord, he walked in the first ways of his father David. He sought not unto Balaam. And walked in his commandments, and not after the doings of Israel. That would be the northern kingdoms of Israel. Therefore the Lord established the kingdom in his hand. And his heart was lifted up in the ways of the Lord. Moreover, he took away the high places and the groves out of Judah. If all we had about Jehoshaphat was what I just read to you, you'd say, Wow, he's one of the greatest kings after David and Solomon. But that's not all we have about the man. If we were to go back even a little bit further in the 2nd Chronicles 14, we see the story of his father, Asa. And in chapter 14, verse 2, he is described as a faithful man for most of his life. It says, Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of the Lord his God. He took away the altars of the strange gods and the high places. He broke down the images. He cut down the groves. He commanded Judah to seek the Lord, God of their fathers, and to do the law and the commandments. What an amazing statement about Asa. He was a man that was passionate for the things of the Lord. But 2 Chronicles 15 says the following: But the high places were not taken away out of Israel. Nevertheless, the heart of Asa was perfect all his days. And so what you see about Asa is he's a man that is generally doing what is right. There's one little area where he left opportunity. And you know what that area was? He did not remove the high places. These are the places where the people would go and they would worship the gods of the Canaanites, the gods of the peoples all around them. Jehoshaphat says, don't do it, but he did not remove it utterly from the country And then in 2 Chronicles 16, we see at the end of his life that there is a lapse in judgment. It says, Asa in the 30th ninth year of his reign was deceased in his feet. until his disease was exceeding great. Yet in his disease he sought not to the Lord, but to the physicians. So what is the point of all these verses? The point of all these verses is to say this. Asa was a generally good king. Jehoshaphat was a generally good king, but there are a few negative things that are stated of both of these men, not much, but a little. And those little things are the things that are going to end up being tragic in the end. What is Asa remembered for at the end of his life? We were reminded that instead of seeking the Lord at the end of his life, he sought physicians only. We're reminded that instead of removing the high places, he left them there. What do we find out about Jehoshaphat? Two great compromises. The first one is what we're reading in this text in front of us, chapter 18, verses 1 through 3. He made a military alliance with Ahab and his people He says, I am as thou art. My people are as thy people. We will be with thee in war. Be careful. Who you make alliances with. Be careful when you enter into allegiance with others who in fact do not have the same worldview that you have. Because of that decision, we will see some significant consequences. We also see the second great compromise in his life, and that is in his son Joram In chapter 21, verse 5, it says, Joram was 30 and 2 years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem, and listen to what it says. He walked in the way of the kings of Israel like as did the house of Ahab. And the question is, why did he walk in the ways of the kings of Israel like the ways of Ahab? Answer, because he had the daughter of Ahab to wife, and he wrought that which was evil in the eyes of the Lord. Do you see how this guy Je Jehoshaphat who was a godly man, he loved the Lord, he did so much good in his life because of some simple little compromises, he saw the long-term effects in his family. I'm just going to pause and say it like this. I am convinced that the reason we are in the state that we are as Americans today is because of that issue right there. If you were to go back into the American culture 50 or 70 years ago, there were lots and lots of people that were attending church. They were worshiping the Lord, going to good churches nonetheless. They were teaching their kids the Word of God. But over the course of raising those children, they made small compromises along the way. And you know what's amazing? Those compromises made in the home as children are being raised manifested themselves in ways that became very detrimental down the road. Because what ends up happening is you have a generation that loves God, there's no question about it. And they're trying to teach their children the Word of God, but they're they're making little incremental compromises here and there And then their children take that and guess what? They raise their kids a little bit step down this way. And then their kids are raised and they're just a little bit step further this way. And guess what you have a few generations later? Family that doesn't believe in church? Kids that aren't opposed to it, they don't hate it, but it's just not a priority. It's not important to them It's not something that's central to their lives. And the question is, how did they get that that way? It started with decisions made in home number one that translated home number two that translated home number three Compromise, small compromise, incremental compromise, you're going to pay the price down the road. And we see that in the story of Esa, Jehoshaphat, and Jorah. But then the story gets a little bit more interesting, and I'd look like to look secondly at a half-hearted appeal to truth. Now what's very interesting about these verses is that when Jehoshaphat talks to Ahab and Ahab says, let's go together into battle, Jehoshaphat says, well before we go , Let's inquire of the Lord to know if this is a good idea. That makes good sense, doesn't it? In fact, when we read through the Old Testament, we see lots and lots of the kings, the godly kings in Israel, they did this often. This was their way of saying, God, is this what I'm supposed to do? Is this what I'm supposed to be involved in? Jehoshaphat correctly, wisely decides, let's inquire of the Lord as to whether or not this is a good idea. By the way, I would say this. He almost didn't even need to ask the question. It should have been really clear to him if it was a good idea or not. But he did take the step and ask. And so when we look at verses 4 all the way through to verse 27, we see the story of what unfolds after that appeal. Look down in verse number four. First of all, we see Jehoshaphat 's request. It says this. And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Inquire, I pray thee, at the word of the Lord today. Now, don't miss the details of how that's written. Ripp he says, inquire at the word of who. What does it say? The word of who The Lord. Alright, now we have two different kingdoms. We have the southern kingdom of Judah. They are worshiping the Lord, the one true God of Israel. The northern kingdoms are not worshiping the one true God of Israel. Who are they serving? Does anybody remember? It's Baal, all right. Why are they serving Baal? Well, they're serving Baal because of the influence of Jezebel and the influence of Ahab. So When Jehoshaphat suggests to Ahab, would you inquire of the Lord for me? One thing should have popped up in his head. How is Ahab going to do that? Because Ahab doesn't worship the Lord. Ahab doesn't listen to the prophets. All of Ahab's prophets are false prophets. And so, what do we see in verse number five? It says that Ahab gathers his spiritual advisors By the way, these are the 400 prophets of Baal that replaced the other four hundred that got killed when Elisha was up there at Mount Carmel, I guess. It doesn't really specifically state if they were prophets of Baal or not, but notice how the wording is very careful. He says, the king of Israel gathered together of prophets 400 men. Doesn't say if they were prophets of the Lord or not, does it? He gathers 400 prophets and said to them, Shall we go to Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up for God Will deliver it into the king's hands. You know what's interesting? The name Lord isn't used there. You say, does it matter? I think it does. And the reason I think it does is because Jehoshaphat recognizes these guys are not prophets of the Lord. So Jehoshaphat says, let's ask the Lord. What does Ahab do? He gathers 400 prophets. It never says if they are prophets of the Lord or not. They say, go up, you're going to have victory. By the way, you can always find people who will tell you what you want to hear. It's true. There were 400 people that were ready to tell these two men, go up and you're going to be victorious. But we know the rest of the story. That's not how it played out at all. But they were ready to tell him exactly what they wanted to hear. And so in verse number six, we see Jehoshaphat 's concern and an additional request. It says this, but Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the Lord besides? That we might inquire of him. It's almost as if Jehoshaphat 's sitting back and he's like, I know these guys aren't prophets of the Lord I know that they're not speaking on behalf of the Lord. They're telling you what you want to hear. Do we not have a real prophet, one who's going to tell you the truth? And Ahab says, well, actually there is another guy, but I don't like him. And the reason I don't like this guy is because every time he prophesies, it's bad. I wonder why it's always bad when he prophesies. Maybe it's because Ahab was always on the wrong side So what do we see in verse number 7? It says this, there is yet one man by whom we may inquire of the Lord. Notice how there's a change here. He knows that this guy is a true prophet. These other guys are going to tell him what he wants to hear. This guy is the real deal. that we may inquire of the Lord, but I hate him. He never prophesies good unto me, always evil, the same as Mekiah, the son of Imlah. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say so By the way, one of my children's middle names is Micaiah. I love this guy. He is a he's an Elijah kind of a guy. We're going to see this in just a moment. But I want you to just pause and look at what we're seeing what we're seeing here. We have Jehoshaphat who has a lot of sense. He loves the Lord. He's done a lot of good. He's making a poor judgment decision. He's coming in league with Ahab. He knows that they need to ask The Lord, through his prophets, if this is a good idea. Ahab says, No problem, I can get 400 guys that'll tell you what we need to hear. And as soon as he hears that word, he says, This isn't true. Get me a real prophet. So what do we see? We see Jehoshaphat, who is a godly man, but he is reluctant and he is compromising. And we say see Ahab, who is a self willed and as we learned last week, a very petty and a very immature individual who wants people to tell him what he wants to hear. And by the way, he was used to it. It's pretty obvious he was used to it. And so what do we see is the message from Micaiah? Verses 12 through 16 is where the story unfolds. And this is where the story gets really fascinating. It says, and the messenger that went to call Micaiah spake to him, saying, Can you see this? Behold the words of the prophets. Declare good to the king with one assent. Let thy words, therefore, I pray thee, be like one of theirs, and speak thou good. Did you catch that? They send a guy to call Micaiah. And when the guy comes aside Micaiah, he says, hey, let me give you a little word of encouragement. Just a little word of encouragement. 400 people have just gotten in front of these two men and told them, they're going to be victorious. You don't want to be the odd guy here. You want to tell him what he wants to hear? You better tell him he's going to be victorious. And I love what Micaiah says Micaiah said, as the Lord liveth, even what my God saith, that will I speak. Did you catch that? This sounds a little bit like the story of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego King, we're not careful to answer you. Whether our God saves us or not, we're going to only do what is right. And that's what Micaiah says. He tells this man in confidence, I will only say what God has said. That's what real biblical preaching is. That's what a true speaker is. I'm going to tell you what is true, not what you want to hear. And so this is the sense in which Micaiah is going into this meeting. But Micaiah knows everything that's going on. And here's where it starts getting even more interesting. Here's what he says. And when he was come to the king, the king said unto him, Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? He said , go ye up and prosper, and they shall be delivered into your hands. Now somebody might be going, hold on a second. That doesn't seem like the way it ends, does it? No, you're correct. But I want you to notice something about what he said and what he didn't say. Did you hear him say, thus saith the Lord? Do you know why he didn't say that? Because he wasn't yet speaking for the Lord. And so he simply walks up and he says, I know what you want to hear. You want to hear the same thing you've heard from 400 people. Go ahead. Go up. You're going to be in good hands. And you know what the response is? Tell me the truth. The king said unto him, How many times shall I adjure thee that thou shalt say nothing but the truth to me? In the name of the Lord. That little statement is so very important. Because this king knows for a fact Micaiah is not a false prophet. Micaiah is not like these other guys. Micaiah is not there to just tell him what he wants to hear. He knows that when Micaiah says, Thus saith the Lord, what's coming next is true. And Micaiah has not yet said, Thus saith the Lord. And he wants to hear it from him. He says, tell me nothing but the truth in the name of the Lord. And then he said Then I did see all Israel scattered upon the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherds. And the Lord said, These have no master, let them return therefore, every man to his house in peace. Guess what? He's telling him what God has revealed. And you would think that the kings would go, well, thank you for letting us know this. We're gonna go ahead and we're gonna table that military engagement this time. That's not what happened. Micaiah actually steps in and he says even more, and this is where you go, what? Listen carefully to verse number 17. Therefore, hear the word of the Lord. I saw the Lord sitting on his throne. All the hosts of heaven standing on his right side and on his left. And the Lord said, Who shall go and entice King Ahab, king of Israel, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth Gilead? One spake saying after this manner, another saying after that manner. Then there came out a spirit and stood before the Lord and said, I will entice him. The Lord said unto him, Wherewith? He said, I'll go out and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. The Lord said, Thou shalt entice him. Thou shalt also prevail. Go out. Do even so. I want to ask you a question. Was God trying to deceive Ahab If the answer in your mind is yes, then I want to ask you a very simple question. Then why did God tell him this? If his intent was to deceive Ahab , Then why in the world would God say, Let me explain to you what's going on in the courtrooms of heaven? In fact, you know what's really interesting about this text compared to a text like the book of Job, at the beginning of the book of Job. You have Satan coming before the Lord. And God says to Satan, he says, have you concerned Considered my servant Job. There is nobody like him in all the earth. One who fears God, he eschews evil. And Satan says, that's only because you have set a hedge of protection around him. If you would remove that hedge of protection and you would allow him to experience suffering and hardship and misery, he would curse you. And God said , Why don't you give it a try? Go ahead. But here are your limits. Now that's a little bit of a difficult thing for us to wrap our minds around, but here's what's interesting about that story. We have no indication that Job was aware of what was going on behind the scenes. Have no idea. But what we do know is this. God permitted Job to experience suffering at the hand of Satan himself. God did not inflict that evil on Job. God has the power, if he chooses, to restrain evil and not to permit it. But God also has the power to permit with limitations. And that's what he did in the story of Job. And by the end of the story, what do we see? We see that God demonstrates his kindness, his mercy, his grace, his faithfulness to Job. He restores Job. He blesses Job. And what does Job do? Job is a matured, strong individual by the end of the story. He's been humbled. God used even Satan's evil schemes to accomplish good in the life of Job. But you know what's really different about that story versus this story? And this story, we see a very similar scenario. However, Ahab is told everything that is here. And the question is why? Why would God permit Ahab and Jehoshaphat to hear all of this information? What was concealed from Job was revealed to them? The answer is very simple in my head. The reason God did this was to simply explain how 400 prophets could come and lie to him. And it was God's way of saying, Ahab, Jehoshaphat, these men are here to deceive you, and I'm going to allow them to do it. But I'm going to tell you what's happening in the process. God 's not trying to trick these men. God's not trying to hide this information from them. He's putting it all out into the open. He's letting them examine the facts. And here's what's amazing about this scenario. It didn't matter. You say, why is that? The answer is simple. Ahab was a hardened man. And Ahab could care less what God was going to reveal to him. Ahab was going to persist in his folly. He was going to hear what he wanted to hear. He was going to tune out what he didn't want to hear. And Jehoshaphat in this moment was not strong enough. And principled enough to look at Ahab and say, you know what, God has revealed something here. I'm not going to be a part of this. You're on your own. Good luck. Jehoshaphat went along with it. And in verses 25 through 28, what do we see? We see Ahab's willful Arrogant, presumptuous disregard for the word of God. It says in verse 25, then the king of Israel said, Take Micaiah , Carry him back to Ammon, the governor of the city, and to Joash, the king's son, and say, thus saith the king, put hit this fellow in the prison. Feed him with bread of affliction, with water of affliction, until I return in peace. Did you catch that? I'm going to punish Micaiah. And when I come back, I'll deal with him. And Micaiah says, you won't return. You catch that? You will not return. Micaiah said, if thou certainly return in peace, Then hath not the Lord spoken by me? He says, hearken all you people. So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, went up to Ramath Gilead. Guess what? At that point, God's word is on the line. We're going to find out who the real prophet is or prophets are. We're going to find out which word the Lord has actually spoken. And guess what? One man stood alone, and one man spoke for God. And as he spoke, so it fell out. Third thing I want you to notice is the presumptuous scheme of Ahab. And this is totally mind-blowing that Jehoshaphat goes along with this. This is incredible. In verse 28, in verses 28 through 32, he gives us the rest of this little section. It says, in verse 29, the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat , I will disguise myself and go to the battle. Now, you know what's really funny? I don't know if funny is the right word It appears that Ahab believes that there is some merit to what Micaiah has spoken to him. Why else would he disguise himself? He believes that something is going to happen and something bad is imminent. He says, I'll disguise myself, I'll go to the battle. I will but put thou on thy robes so the king of Israel disguised himself and they went into the battle. What is Ahab really doing here? Ahab is basically saying this I know Micaiah said something bad's going to happen, but it's going to fall in Jehosaphat, not me, because I'm smart enough to disguise myself and he's not. What a good deal, right? What a nice guy. Actually, what a scoundrel. Shows you the character of this man Ahab. Ahab believes that somehow he can dupe God. He believes that he could even use Jehoshaphat to get around the system and get what he wants. But he's not correct in his assessment. In verses 30 through 32, we see that Jehoshaphat nearly is killed in the battle, and it is God's mercy and grace alone, his intervention. That spares his life. It says this in verse 30. Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains of the chariots that were with him, saying, Fight ye not with the small or the great, save only with the king of Israel. In other words, go kill him, don't worry about the little guys. By the way, who do they think is the king? They think it's Jehoshaphat Why? Because he's dressed like he's the king. Who do they not think is the king? Ahab. Why? Because he's dressed like a commoner. It just appears for a moment in these verses that Jehoshaphat is going to get killed in the place of Ahab, and Ahab's going to get around what God has said, but he's wrong. Came to pass when the kings of the chariot saw Jehoshaphat, they said, It's the king of Israel! Therefore they compassed him about to fight. But Jehoshaphat cried out, and the Lord helped him. God moved them to depart from him. For it came to pass when the captains of the chariots perceived it was not the king of Israel, they turned back again from pursuing him. Now at this point in the story, we see how evil, how manipulative this man Ahab is. He seems to be getting away with it. And by the way, a lot of times in life, when people do evil, it looks like they're going to get away with it. But that's not how it's going to end The last thing we're going to see is the tragic yet, should I say, appropriate, end of this man, Ahab. In verses 33 and 34, we see God's providence on display. Notice the way this is worded. This is fascinating. It says in verse number 33, and a certain man who remains unnamed. Drew his bow at a venture. I kind of get in my mind this picture. Here's this guy. He's like, I'm gonna be here today. I'm just gonna Get my bow ready and I'm just gonna shoot this arrow up in the air and wherever it lands it lands and we'll just see what happens. A certain man drew his bow at a venture, does not appear to be a person who's gonna be successful in the battle that day However, that certain man who draws his bow out of venture does not know that the hand of God is going to guide that arrow in the same way that as David throws that, swings that. stone at Goliath and it sinks into his forehead, that arrow is going to meet its mark. Not because of the skill of the archer. Not because he knew what he was doing, it's because God rules in the affairs of man's lives And it says in verse 33 that that arrow smote the king of Israel between the joints of the harness. What an amazing shot! If that guy had tried that 20 times, he wouldn't have gotten it once. But what God said stands. And so here's this guy, he just randomly pulls this arrow out, he shoots the arrow up into the air, and it just so happens that here is Ahab, who thinks he's duped God, he's gotten away with it, and it finds this little, little space. space in his armor and it meets its mark and it sinks into his flesh and that arrow, random arrow, is going to be the end of Ahab. Isn't that crazy to think about? In verse 34 it says, the battle increased that day, howbeit the king of Israel stayed himself up in his chariot. against the Syrians until the evening. And about that time the sun went down and he died. Why did Ahab die? Because God said, Your time has come. Ahab tried all of his ways to get around it, and guess what? God said, it is not going to happen. Now when we read these verses, this is a fascinating story. And it's not just a story, it really happened. One of the things I love about history is that when you read history, it's not what could happen, it's what did happen At least so long as the people are telling the truth about what they're telling you and they've really done the research. This is an example of how God governs in the affairs of humans. Here is Ahab and here is Jehoshaphat. They get into league. Jehoshaphat goes into the battle dressed like the king. Ahab is hiding like a commoner. And what happens? God spares Jehoshaphat 's life and Ahab dies when a random arrow flings through the air and it sticks right there in the chink in his armor. Why? Because God said it's your turn. Well, what do we learn from this? There's so many things to learn from it. One of the things that we learn from this text of Scripture is that presumption and compromise. End in terrible tragedy. And I want you to go back in your mind and just think about some of the things that we've read about in these verses. The first thing that really stands out to me is how these little lapses in judgment. These little compromises, specifically in the life of Jehoshaphat, what did they lead to? A devastating, disastrous outcome. Why did his son marry into the household of Ahab? It's because he began to be friends with Ahab. Why was his life nearly lost in the battle? It's because he decided to go into battle with Ahab. When the prophet of the Lord is standing before him and saying, Let me explain to you what God wants you to hear today. Don't listen to these 400 prophets. They're lying to you. I'll speak the truth. Jehoshaphat stood there in silence. And he said, I'll go with you in the battle. And you know what? Sometimes we do the same thing in our lives. We make little compromise. I mean, we're not Jehoshaphat and Ahab, all right? It's a totally different scenario. But there'll be areas in our life where we know in our gut, this is wrong. I know it's wrong. Especially as a dad or as a mom. You have a choice to make that's going to affect your children and and you know that the easy thing to do is to make this decision, but in your gut you know it's wrong. You don't even need to ask anybody you know it's wrong. And you go with the flow and you make that choice, which leads to another choice, which leads to another choice, and down the road you look back and you say, what did I do? What did I do? Little lapses in judgment, compromise, disastrous outcomes. The second thing I mentioned here is that the compromise of parents often lead to greater tragedies in their children. Now I am thankful that just because your parents maybe didn't do things the right way doesn't mean you have to do them the wrong way. The Bible is filled with examples of people who did far better than their parents did. Their parents were tragedies. I mean, look at the difference between a Jacob and a Joseph. Who do you think was the more godly individual in that arrangement? I mean, Joseph was an amazing man. We can look at examples of people who grew up in terrible situations and they overcame them by the grace of God. But if you want to look at a general rule of life. The compromises that parents make are exaggerated in the lives of their children. I know the walkers were in ministry for many years. I haven't asked you this, but I guarantee if we were to sit down and ask the question, you'd say, yeah, it's true. You see it play out in the lives of children. When parents are are not careful, it's going to affect them. So we have Asa, a godly man, we have Jo Jehoshaphat, a godly man, and then we have the grandson who's a wicked man. And it was those little compromises along the way that led to that tragedy and that folly. Be careful what you do in your homes, the decisions you make, what you permit. Thirdly, when God gives ample warning, we should heed those gracious warnings. The reason that Micaiah lays this information out, in my opinion. Was more for Jehoshaphat than it was for Ahab. Basically, God is saying, let me explain to you what's going on behind the scenes. I'm not trying to trick you. I want you to know the truth. What does Ahab do? Let's do it. What does Jehoshaphat do? Alright, let's go. Let's throw Micaiah in prison. Let's see what happens. When God gives you warning after warning after warning, do not ignore those warnings. When people talk about someone just fell in a moment, it's not true. People do not just fall in a moment. They lean for a long time. And they lean and they lean and they lean and they lean. And then one day, crash. You don't crash without lean. That's the way that it works. I think about the book of Ecclesiastes. He says that in the direction that a tree lands, that's where it falls. And when it falls, that's where it stays. I know I totally explained it in a very simple way right there, but basically what he's saying is this you look at a leaning tree, it's gonna fall on the ground. And when it falls on the ground, you're not gonna move it. That's where it's gonna be What does God do? He gives us opportunity to turn. And Jehoshaphat could have turned, Ahab could have turned. They didn't. And you see how it ended. We cannot ignore God's word without serious lasting consequence. We do not choose the consequences of our actions. We live with them. Be very careful. Be very careful that you do not make compromise decisions that you will have to eat the bitter fruit of the rest of your life. And lastly, I'll say this. God's grace is the only hope for those who have compromised. You know what's amazing about this story? Jehoshaphat survived it. Why did he survive it? One answer, God's grace. If it was left in the hands of humans, he was a dead man. If it was left in the hands of circumstance and chance, he was a dead man. But God said you have more time, and he spared his life. May God help us as we think about this text to not forget these very, very important lessons we find here. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we think about your word and we think about this text, I pray that you would speak to our hearts through it. I thank you for your grace and your mercy. When we have stumbled, you lift us up. But Father, I'm also sobered by the warning of compromise. When you are working to get our attention, may we not ignore it. May we be sobered by your gracious hand of intervention in our lives. I pray for every mom and dad in this room, every parent. Father, help us to be principled husbands and wives, moms and dads. Help us to love our kids enough to do what is right before them. Help us to love them enough to restrain them properly, to teach them, to give them a godly example. Father, help us not to compromise when in our gut we know what is right. Help us to do it. Help us to be diligent, students of your word, and faithful in obedience to your word. May these truths stick in our hearts throughout this week in Christ's name. Amen.