Hope everyone's doing well. Hope you had a good start to your week. And let's go ahead and we'll get started with a word of prayer. Then we're going to get back into Matthew chapter 7 tonight. So let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, we're so very grateful for this opportunity to gather as a body. And I pray that tonight as we open up your word, that you would speak to our hearts, help us to understand the truths that are in this text. Help me to communicate it consistent with what is in front of us. And then I pray that we would think about this very practically. I think about the topic that is being addressed in this passage. It's so important for us to get a good handle on this and recognize how we are to live our lives as believers. And so I pray that you would really just work in our hearts tonight. Please bless our time together in prayer. Help our fellowship to be very sweet together. And pray that you just give strength to those who are weary, just uplift them, and help us to be able to focus on your word tonight. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, let's turn together to Matthew chapter 7, and we are looking at verses 1 through 8 tonight, and this is the second part. We started this last week. And I'm going to just kind of remind you of what we talked about last week, and then I really don't know for certain if we're going to get all the way through it tonight or not. But I think it's really important that we work kind of methodically through this passage of Scripture. It is one that is often very much misrepresented, especially in our culture. And it's misrepresented on sometimes more than one side. So let's read it together, Matthew chapter 7, verse number 1. Judge not that ye be not judged. For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged, and with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? And he says, How wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the moat out of thine eye, and behold, a beam is in thine own eye. Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye, and then thou shalt see clearly to cast the mote out of thy brother's eye. Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before swine, lest they be trampled, lest they trample them under their feet. And turn again and rend you. Ask, and it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that receiveth findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened Now the passage in front of us, the reason that I'm dealing with such a large section is because, in my view, it is it's really dealing with one main topic. Now there are subtopics that are under this one main topic. But what it's actually talking about is how we're supposed to address issues when we have to go to someone and confront them about an issue. And so the passage is not teaching us that it's wrong for the believer to uh look at a situation, make a judgment about that situation, and then go and address an issue with a person. That is sometimes the way that the passage is communicated in our popular culture. They say, well, you know, you're a Christian, so judge not. You're not supposed to have an opinion about something. And that is not what the passage is talking about. And one of the reasons we know that is because we see in verse 1 he says, judge not that ye be not judged. And then in verse 5 he says, first Cast out the beam out of thine own eye, and then thou shalt see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye. So what that's showing you is that the purpose of this text is not to tell you don't judge, it's to tell you that before you make a judgment and before you try to address an issue with another person There's a process that you need to go through. And it's a personal process. It's an internalizing before you go to address an issue at someone. And so we can summarize the passage this way. Christ warns his disciples against harboring a critical spirit that is dismissive of others while refusing to address his own sin And so there were three concepts that we talked about in our introduction last week. We talked about the concept of concern, and concern is a genuine desire to consider the needs. And the struggles of those whom we value, we saw that the Scripture teaches us as believers we should have concern for one another. The second concept that we talked about is the concept of discernment. It is the ability to determine what is right and what is wrong and the best course of action, understanding what is right and wrong, the best course of action to address a complex situation. So that's what we mean by discernment. God wants us to be discerning Christians. And so we talked about that concept in the introduction. And then the third concept is the one that we are not to have, and that is a critical spirit. The idea is a condescending preoccupation with others. that does not consider our own faults and struggles objectively and looks down on other people. And it is true that there are Christians, many Christians, That really, really struggle in this area. And when I say many Christians, maybe I'll just put it this way. All of us, all of us, struggle with this concept at times. And if it's not for the grace of God working in our hearts, if it's not for us thinking biblically continually, we are going to find ourselves in this place. And by the way, I will add this. It's not just Christians who have critical spirits. The world has a very condescending attitude towards believers as well, or towards unbelievers of a different stripe of thinking. So this is a human problem. This isn't just a Christian problem, though that is sometimes the way that people present it, like, oh well Christians They're very condescending. They hold their views very arrogantly. Some do, yes, sometimes we all struggle with this, but this is a human problem. We all have an issue with pride. It's something that we deal with. So last week we talked about, first of all, we talked about several commands that we find in the text. And you're going to see them up there. The first command is this: do not Set yourself in the place of God. And that is what I believe he means when he says, judge not, and then you consider the rest of the flow of the passage. His point is do not put yourself in the place of God and make judgments as if you are in charge rather than God is in charge. Rather than Him being the standard, you are presenting yourself as if you are the standard. And so we talked about the need to remember our place. to consider our jurisdiction and to not deviate from God's standard. So God is the standard, not us. Not our opinion. It's the Word of God. The second command we talked about last week was that we are to address our sinful actions, attitudes, and patterns before we address issues with other people. And this is critically important. Before we go to address an issue with a person, we need to pause and we need to take personal account and ask the question. Am I guilty of the very thing that I am so bothered about with this other person? I'm to look at myself first. And we're going to talk about why that's so important, but that's the second command. Third command we found in the passage was do not waste your energy on counterproductive confrontations. The way he puts it is, give not that which is holy unto the dogs. And so the idea is that not every single issue is one that we have to get into. There are not only judgment calls about how we are to address an issue, but there are judgment calls about which issues we need to get involved in and which ones we don't. And it's not our job to get into every single potential problem that other people may have. Even as a parent. You know, we cannot address every single little issue that our children have. We have to address the big issues. We address things as they come up. But the fact is that there are some things that we we choose to let let them go. We let them pass by. Not because we're unwilling to address those issues, but we recognize that everything is equally sensitive or equally important. And in this particular issue, we're talking about someone who has no heart to hear this matter, no heart to learn, they do not desire it, and so sometimes you just let it go. Command number four. We'll get into this here. Command number four: seek God's wisdom when considering a confrontation. And we see this in verse 7. He says, we are to ask. And then he says we are to seek, and then we are to knock. And the idea is we're to find out what we need to do why we need to consider this and then how we're supposed to go about it. And that is what we mean when we say ask and seek and knock. One is I need God to give me the answer. One is that I'm going to have to do some work to find the answer. And then the last one is I have to be persistent. So those are the four commands that we talked about last week. What I'd like to do now is I'd like to dig into the warnings that Jesus gives in this passage of Scripture. So the first warning that we find is in the statement, that ye be not judged. Right there in verse number one. So before Jesus gets into all of these things that he's going to say, he says, the reason you are not to judge is so that you will not Be judged. Now, he's not suggesting that a person who goes through life and just lets everybody do what they want to do, they never address an issue, that there's not going to be a judgment day for this person And the reason we know that is because he's going to talk about how the way that we make judgments about others and the way that we address situations with other people, how that works itself out and how God deals with us when it comes to issues of judgment But here's what the warning is. You and I will be held to a higher standard if we hold others to an illegitimate standard. That's a really interesting concept. Let me say it again. You and I, we will be held to a higher standard if we hold others to an illegitimate standard. Now someone might say, well, so you mean that God would actually hold me accountable for something that isn't necessarily something that I'm not allowed to do? The answer is Yeah, actually he would be. And let me give you a reason, an example of this. Think about the situation when Paul is writing about issues of conscience. One of the things that he says on this issue of conscience is, if your conscience is offended, then don't violate it. Now why is that? Because if your conscience is violated, that is a simple way of saying, in your mind, you believe that this is wrong. Okay? And you're willing to say, even though I believe it's wrong, I'm going to do it anyway. When you hold another person to a higher standard than God does, then you are simply saying, I believe that you are responsible for this, and I would have to turn that exact same measure to myself as well. Now I want you to think about several passages that Jesus addresses this issue of judgment and how on the judgment day some will be held to a higher level of culpability than others. Now most of these examples are people who are unbelievers. The last example would be believers. So listen to what it says in Matthew 10. Matthew 10, chapter 4, chapter 10, verse 14, says this Whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your words, when ye depart out of the house or city, shake off the dust of your feet. Verily I say unto you, it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in that day of judgment. than for that city. That's a pretty amazing statement. So just so you understand what's going on in these verses, this is when Jesus is sending out disciples two by two, and they are preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and they're saying, Repent. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. The Messiah is here. You need to meet the Messiah. You need to turn to Him. You need to trust in Him. So He sends out all of these evangelists, these disciples, and their job is to preach that message. And they weren't supposed to go and sit in the city for months and months and months and months and plead with people and beg with them, please listen, Jesus is really here. Their job was simply to go to the city, let people know he's there, and what they did with that information was entirely on their head. That's what he's saying. And so he basically says, if you go to a city at this time With all of these verifications, Jesus is performing miracles. You have all the Old Testament prophecies that are leading up to the time of Christ. You have these apostolic signs that are actually being done, miracles to validate the claims of Christ and the apostles. If people reject that, they are going to be more culpable on the day of judgment than people in Sodom and Gomorrah. Pretty amazing. Christ's words. Matthew 11, 21, he says this, Thou Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven shall be brought down to hell, for if the mighty works which had been done in thee had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. It shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at that day of judgment than for you. What an amazing statement. What's he saying? What he's saying is that part of God's judgment of people, one of the determinations will be how much access they had to the truth. That's not to say that a person who rejected the gospel and didn't get a hundred opportunities doesn't die without Christ and be separated from him forever in hell. That's not saying that. But what it is saying is that a person who had a lot of opportunity and rejects that opportunity is more culpable. You know what's interesting? Even when the Bible talks about apostasy, one of the things that Peter says in 2 Peter is he said, it would have been better for a person that had access to the truth. And turned away from it, it would have had it would have been better for them to have never come in contact with the truth than to have at least made some kind of statement about belief in this and continued down this road for a period of time and actually experienced certain benefits materially as a result of the message of the gospel and the truths of scripture and then the turn away from it, it would be better for them to have never come in contact than for them to apostasize. Why is that? Access to the truth. Matthew 11, 24, Thou Capernaum. Sounds very similar to what was just stated. Thou which art exalted shall be brought down. I say unto you to be more tolerable in the land of Sodom on the day of judgment. Now I've given you several examples, but here's one that should also warn us as believers because I know this is a Wednesday night and the vast majority of us, maybe all of us, we've trusted Christ as our Savior, and we say, well, I'm just glad I'm not going to be there at the great white throne judgment. I won't have to worry about this Well, there is a judgment seat of Christ. And the judgment seat of Christ is something that we need to consider. We are going to stand before our Savior on that day, and He is going to evaluate the quality of the way that we served Him. This is not about heaven and hell, but this is about reward. And this is about the potential for loss. Listen to what it says in James 3. Be not many masters. And that word master there isn't like a servant master, but this is someone who is a teacher. Okay, this is like like a schoolmaster. This is someone who spends time teaching God's word. Be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation. In many things we offend all. And then he goes on to talk about the fact that we cannot tame the human tongue, and the more that we talk, the more that we say things that we shouldn't. And really what he's saying in James chapter 3 is he's warning us within the church context, don't be quick and rash to put people in a teaching position. who are not ready for that position, they're not taking it seriously, who are going to say things that they shouldn't say, and people may very well follow their thoughts and their instructions. Be very cautious. Because a person who teaches the Word of God says a lot about it and is going to be more culpable than those who don't teach. So the point of this text is to warn us that we need to be very cautious about the standard we hold other people to. Second warning. God will handle us proportionate to how we handle others. He says, with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged And with what measure you meet, it shall be measured to you again. Now that word measure, I think the idea is it's a standard that we use for judgment. So it's almost as if God is saying, you know what, if you take a standard of judgment that is not biblical, and you hold other people to that standard. then you are held to that standard also, even if the standard was arbitrary. Even if it wasn't a biblical standard. Even if it wasn't something that you really were authorized to do. Now, in the context, let's remember that a lot of what Jesus is addressing is the religious leaders of the day who were masters of building rules that were very arbitrary. And so when we read the Sermon on the Mount, we see that a lot of Christ's instruction was pushing back against the mentality of the Pharisees. and those who were teaching the law in those days. Those who built all of these regulations on top of the law that they didn't find in the scriptures. But the simple fact is, even if a person becomes a believer, if that's in their ingrained in their mindset, guess what? It's going to come out in how they live their Christianity. And so it's something we need to be very cautious about. In Psalm 18, 25 it says this: with the merciful, thou wilt show thyself merciful. With the upright thou wilt show thyself upright. Matthew 5, 7, blessed are the merciful, they shall obtain mercy. 1 Peter 5. 5, this is a fascinating passage. He says, Ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another and be clothed with humility. For God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. Now, what is consistent in those verses? God relates to us proportion to how we relate to other people. And that's something that can give us great comfort if we are compassionate with other people. It could also be a great warning if we're not. Warning number three. Some people and situations need to be left alone. And notice what he says later on in the passage in verse number six. He says, give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast years your pearls before swine. And then here's the statement that I want you to catch here. Lest they trample them under feet and turn again and rend you. Now that warning kind of has two pieces to it, okay? And it's interesting that he uses the statement of dogs and Pigs, okay, these are this is a Jewish audience, and so when he talks about dogs, he's not thinking about the sweet little puppy that you play with in your living room. He's thinking about A nasty dog that wanders around the street and eats junk, okay? That's what he's thinking about. And I know that might make some of you upset, but that's just the truth, okay? That's the way people in the ancient world look at dogs. These were street animals. They were digging around in trash. They were not clean animals. And when he talks about a pig, he's talking about an animal that was forbidden to be eaten by the Jewish people. So I mean you think about the story of uh this this boy who goes off into the far country and he wastes his substance in riotous living and then he's starving and he goes to work in a pig pen and we look at it we're like well that's so gross you know pigs are so nasty and the these Jews people are like whoa he was working with pigs I mean like that's the part that they really fixated on So when he uses this illustration of dogs and pigs, believe it or not, he may very well be talking about Gentiles here. People that were outside of God's covenant people and were known to be against these truths. But we also know that Jesus had tremendous compassion on the Gentiles. We see lots and lots of examples of this. But I think what he's ultimately saying is these are people who have no heart for the truth. But notice those two words. Trample and rent. What does he mean by trample? They're going to take the truth and they're going to crush it. They're going to attack it. And when he talks about rending, he's not talking about what they're going to do to the truth. He's going to talk about what they're going to do to the one who gives the truth. They're going to rend them. They're going to tear them apart. And so the picture is here is something that is valuable, pearls, in front of the pigs, and the pigs are just crushing it, and here are these dogs that you're trying to feed, and what do the dogs do? They turn around, they bite you. And so what he's trying to communicate is that there are some situations you just leave alone. You don't have to get into every single situation. There's a need for a judgment call, and you say, well, how do I know when to do it and when not to do it? Well, that's the whole point of ask and seek and knock. That's the part of the wisdom. We'll get to that in just a little bit. But there are a lot of scriptures that talk about this concept. Proverbs chapter 9, verse 7. Here's what it says. He that reproveth a scorner getteth himself shame. He that rebuketh a wicked man getteth himself a blot. Reprove not a squander lest he hate thee. What is what's Solomon saying? There's some people you just need to leave him alone. You say, but they're going to continue down that path. Yep, and they don't care. Let them do it. That sounds kind of harsh, but it's the truth. This is what Solomon says. This is what Jesus is saying. Proverbs 26, 17, it says this He that passeth by and meddleth with strife belonging not to him. is like one that taketh a dog by the ears. Now, sometimes uh our dog he's a little he's a little restless and we'll we'll wrestle around with him, we'll kinda grab him and spin him around and and he ah you know he's trying to get you and stuff like that. But you know he's playing and we're playing. But you have a mean dog that you find on the street and you don't know anything about this dog, and you go and mess with that dog and you grab him by the ears, guess what? You better not let go. Because he's doing everything in his power to bite you. And he's eventually gonna get you, and you're gonna have to hang on to that thing a lot longer than you anticipated, and in the end you're gonna get bit anyway. That's really the idea. And so what Jesus is communicating is that there are some situations that that's exactly what would happen if he got involved with it. And we need to understand that there is a line that people can cross. Now, every single situation is a little bit different. We need God's wisdom to know when a person has gotten to that point. And we need to also recognize that sometimes a person persists down the way and you leave them alone and then one day God humbles them and you have an opportunity to re-engage with that person. But it's important for us to recognize that this is at least something that can happen. Alright, now let's move on to five assurances that he gives. So we've looked at some commands. We've looked at some warnings. Now we're going to look at some assurances. Assurance number one. If you follow Christ's commands, you will have the ability to make discerning judgments to help other people. Now, remember that the whole purpose of this passage. is not to say don't make judgments, don't help people out, leave them alone, leave them to themselves. That's not the point of the passage. The point of the passage is If you're going to help somebody, there's a way you've got to go through the process in order to get to the point that you can actually do it. So he says this, then thou shalt see clearly to cast out the moat out of thy brother's eye. Isn't that a very comforting thought to think about? Even if you have failed in an area And you're willing to personally address the issue. Going through the process of addressing the issue is going to put you in a position to help a person down the road. And I think parenting is one of the great examples of this. There are some parents that they have made very poor decisions at points in their life, and in the back of their mind they say, I can't address my child with this because I'd be a hypocrite because I've done this myself. I'm not gonna ask anybody raise your hand, but I bet you there's a couple parents in here that feel this way. I mean I guess I'd put myself in that category at some point in time, right? So I can't address this issue because I've done that Well, isn't there a cross and and isn't there God's grace and forgiveness? And doesn't He cleanse us and If we admit that we have done wrong and we face it properly, doesn't that give us the ability to actually address an issue? The answer is 100% it does. And the fact is, you may have failed in certain areas. I say may. We all have failed in certain areas. All of us, it might be a little different. But the fact that we have failed doesn't mean we can't get past those things. Doesn't mean God can't forgive those things. Doesn't mean God can't cleanse us of those things. Does it mean that we've got to just let our children continue down those paths and make the same mistakes that we made? We don't have to do that. But what do you have to do? You have to look inside. You have to admit that you've done wrong. You have to be willing to remove the beam that's in your eye, which is going to be a painful process. Once you've done that, what can you do? See clearly to help them Because I want to give an encouragement, especially to parents, but I would also say to Christians who have maybe lived in the world for a period of time. Maybe even after you're a Christian. And then you have a young believer that you're working with, you're encouraging, you're mentoring, or maybe you say, I cannot get into that kind of an interaction because I feel like I have gone too far and I just Disqualified myself from being able to help other people. It's not true. Face the issue, address the issue properly. Draw on God's grace. Remember He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness when we confess it. And then you'll have the clarity to be able to help other people. And I could say it like this. Some of the most helpful servants of the Lord are people who have learned from their past. Have faced it honestly, and they're willing to move forward. Truth number two, assurance number two. If you seek God's wisdom with a genuine heart, he will give you the wisdom you need. He says, it shall be given you. It's just a simple question. He says, ask. Ask. Well guess what that means? That means that you're understanding you are not like the center of all knowledge. You have it all figured out. Anybody that says, well I just got this figured out and I'm good to go, like, that's a little dangerous. That's a little dangerous. God will give you opportunities to understand you didn't learn it all, figured it all out. But that's a isn't that such a great comfort? It shall be given you. If you ask the Lord for wisdom, he's going to give it to you? I mean, think about James. Well, we're going to come to that passage a little later, but I'll keep on moving. Assurance number three. If you are diligent, you will find a productive solution. He says, ask, it shall be given you, seek, and ye shall what? Find. Now God's not trying to hide the truth from us, folks. He's not sitting there going, let me bury it in the ground and you know you'll never find it. That's not the way God is. But there are certain things that we have to actually work to find. I mean, there are certain passages of scripture, if you just read them on the surface. You aren't going to understand them. It's just that simple. You're going to have to dig into the language. You're going to have to look up what the words mean. You're going to have to think about the context. You're going to have to Think about other passages of Scripture. You may need to go to a more experienced believer and say, hey, you know, this is a difficult passage of Scripture. Have you ever wrestled with this passage? What does it say? How do you understand it? How do you interpret it? You've got to work at it so that you can understand those things. But I think what he's really getting at here is this is a person who's in a situation where They need to know the best course of action to take. And in order to do that, they've got to work through the process of knowing the facts, knowing what the scripture teaches, and thinking through the issue. And perhaps getting some We could say some input from other people who can help them think through the issue. So number three, those who are diligent will find a productive solution. Assurance four. If you diligently seek the Lord's wisdom, he will establish your ways. He says, it shall be opened unto you. I'm not going to ask for a raise of hands, but I want you to think in your own head. Have you ever had a course of action that you were pushing down? And it seemed like every single step you took, God said, nope. Nope. Nope. It's like roadblock, roadblock, roadblock. And you just pushed and you pushed it. Roadblock. Push roadblock. Push roadb At some point you're like, you know what, I should stop doing this You understand what I'm talking about? And then there's other situations where you're even maybe a little hesitant, a little tentative to take some steps. And in your heart, as you study the Word of God and you think about what's in front of you, you say, this is what I believe I'm supposed to do. And it's like God just like puts the pieces together in ways that are entirely out of your hands. Now what's the difference between between those two scenarios? One is that God's working and you're walking in the direction he's working, the other is he's working, you're walking against the direction that he is working. And the idea is that when a person seeks the Lord for wisdom and they truly do it with a genuine heart, guess what God does? He establishes their paths. This is God's providence. Psalm 37 is one of my favorite Psalms. He talks about committing our way to the Lord, trusting in Him, and Him bringing it to pass. I mean that's an incredible passage of Scripture. You know what it's saying? God isn't against you, He's not your enemy. He's not trying to disrupt and make your life miserable. The fact is he wants you to obey him. He wants you to trust him. He wants you to seek him. And he can put things together in ways that are they're pretty amazing. And they're just testimonies to his kindness and his grace. So assurance four, you diligently seek the Lord's wisdom, he'll establish your ways. Assurance five, God will not discriminate against those who genuinely and persistently seek his assistance. He says, everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. Now are there some Christians you look at them you're like God seems to answer their prayers but he doesn't answer my prayers You know that it just seems like God's always working for them but not for me. And sometimes we get this mindset like like maybe there's like these classifications. God God's really kind to these people and then you know I'm uh I'm like on the other side of the tracks and I'm not getting those benefits. And we kind of can think this way. That's not what the scripture says. It says everyone. I mean, it doesn't matter your background, doesn't it matter how long you've been a Christian? Does it matter the circumstances of your life before you became a Christian, after you became a Christian? The fact is, if we'll simply take the Word of God at face value, ask, seek, knock, he's going to work. And we need to trust them to do that. So one of the things we find in this passage is we have all these commands, don't do it this way. We have all of these warnings. If you do it this way, here's what's going to happen. But then you have these assurances. In other words, Jesus is trying to be very positive here and to say, actually, there's a way to go about this. Next thing I want to show you. Is that there is tremendous continuity in Scripture on this point. So we can go to the Old Testament and guess what we'll find? What Jesus is teaching here, we find it in the Old Testament. And then we go to the epistles, and guess what we'll find out? What Jesus is teaching here? We find it in the epistles. I'm not going to dig into these passages very long, but I want to just draw your attention to them so you can see this. Proverbs chapter 2, verses 2 through 11. Listen to what he's saying, what Solomon teaches his son, and ask yourself the question, doesn't this sound a little bit like what Jesus is saying here? I wonder why that is. It's because there's continuity in the Word of God. He says, if thou criest after knowledge and liftest up thy voice for understanding, if thou seekest her as silver and searchest for her as hidden treasure, then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord. And find the knowledge of God, for the Lord giveth wisdom. Out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. He's a buckler to them that walk uprightly. I love this statement. He keepeth the paths of judgment and preserveth the way of his saints. Doesn't that sound exactly like what we just read in Matthew chapter 7? It's almost like Jesus is just teaching the same thing that Solomon taught. Because that's what he is. There's a consistency in the Word of God. He says, when wisdom enters into thine heart and knowledge is pleasant unto thy soul, discretion shall preserve thee and understanding shall keep thee. Let me give you another example. Turn with me to James chapter 1, verses 5 through 8. And you're going to say, well, it sounds a lot like what Jesus and what Solomon said here. He says, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. That give it to all men liberally And abrateth not. What's he saying? He's generous and he doesn't look at you with disdain and go, I can't believe you're asking me for wisdom. He doesn't discriminate against us in this area. He loves us. If you lack wisdom, ask God. He gives to women liberally and abrayeth not. It shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. He that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. Let not that man think he'll receive anything of the Lord. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. What's he say? When a person is in a position where they need wisdom, And they understand that there's a godly way to do this, and there's also the world's way to do this. Sometimes that person is divided in heart between which of those two approaches they want to take. And you know what a lot of people want to do? They want to take a little bit of this and a little bit of this and put it together in their own little way. And he says it doesn't work that way. You gotta be all in. A double-minded man is unstable. You're gonna be like a wave, driven with the wind and tossed. You've got to be all in in God's way. If you ask him for wisdom, you've got to really have a heart for it. That's what he's saying. Well look at Matthew 18, verses 15 to 17. This passage is well known because he's dealing with what we call church discipline. If someone says, well, you know, a believer could never confront another believer, well then why did Jesus teach this in Matthew 18? He says, if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between he and them uh uh between thee and him alone. If he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. If he'll not hear thee, take with thee three or more uh three with thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. If he neglects to hear them, tell it to the church. If he neglects to hear the church, let him be into the as a heathen and a publican. Do you see how there's a line that a person can cross? It's clearly laid out in this passage. If they don't hear you and they don't hear them and they don't hear the church, then leave them alone. Let them face the consequences by themselves. Do you see how he's emphasizing the fact that you go and you talk to the person alone? Why is that? Because it's not about making a scene, it's about helping somebody do what's right. And it's it's a very private situation that you need to address privately Why does he say bring other people? I know, because you want to put more leverage on the guy. No. So that if you're off base they can look at you and say, I think you're being a little too harsh here, my friend. I think that the way that you're seeing this is wrong Those two people can be objective about the issue. They can establish the facts. They could say, you know, let's take it this way. Let's take it that way. Do you see the continuity between these passages? We see the same kind of thing taught. And then the last one I want to mention is Galatians 6. He says, Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, You which are spiritual, restore such a one. What does he mean by that? The kind of people that aren't walking around with beams in their eyes That's what he's basically saying. You say, well, if I am walking around with a beam in my eye, could I end up being in that position? Of course you can, but you gotta dress the beam first. That's what he's saying. If a man's overtaken in a fault, you which are spiritual, restore such a one. And this next statement is important. In a spirit of meekness. Considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Doesn't that sound exactly like what Jesus is saying? Bear ye one another's burden, so fulfill the law of Christ. If a man thinks himself to be something when he's nothing, He deceiveth himself. The simple fact is what you see in the Proverbs, what you see in the Sermon on the Mount, and what you see in the Epistles, it's the same. The same warnings are there, the same assurances are there, the same encouragements. They're all there. So how do we apply it? Let me give you some final thoughts. First of all, this. God wants us to develop discernment and a compassionate heart. This is something that should be a distinguishing mark of every Christian. You know, Christians that have this mindset, like the more godly you are, the like the harder you are around other people, and the more like militant you are, like, that's not godliness, folks. That's a lot like the Pharisees, okay? The concept of meekness and compassion. Meekness isn't weak. It's controlled. You can be meek and you can hold a really strong line, but you're not doing it the wrong way. And you're not doing it for the wrong reason. And you're only being as tough as you need to be in the situation. Secondly, he wants us to walk conscientiously, regularly considering our thoughts, motives, actions, and patterns. Now, we're not supposed to do this so that we can confront other people. We're supposed to do it because it's the right thing to do. I mean, like, we should we should live lives that are conscientiously considering what we're doing, where we're going, why we're doing it. He wants discernment to shape when we address certain situations. You don't have to address every situation out there. You don't have to address every situation immediately. You don't. I'm just gonna let you know this. On Sunday mornings, I do not bring my phone into this. room here. And you know why that is? Because I've had people text me about something that was really pressing that I did not need to think about before I went up there to preach. So I I don't bring it. In fact, I actually don't even have my phone on my list today Sunday. If somebody hands me a note, I'm not gonna read it before service. You say, well that's so rude. I wrote that because I want you to see it. I'm not gonna do it. Why is that? Because I have no idea what she wrote. It could be very encouraging, it could be very bad. It could be really hard. The truth is, I don't need to address the issue. I mean I'm going to need to eventually address the issue But the fact is that there's a right time to address something. There's some things we don't need to address. And so wisdom, discernment helps shape when we go into a situation. He wants the sermon to shape what we say in those situations. You know, sometimes we do need to say something, but the things we say are not helpful. We get into a situation and Yeah, it was right to get into it, but not the way we did it. He wants compassion to shape why we're motivated in those situations. You could be right about having the conversation. You could be right about what you say, but the reason you're doing it is totally wrong. And it's a problem. He wants compassion to shape how we approach the situation. This is more of like the heart behind it. You know, when somebody's looking you in the eye and they're saying a hard thing, but you could see in their eyes That they're saying it out of genuine love and concern for you. It goes a long way. That's why text messaging is so dangerous Because when you see it, when you send a text message, you don't see a person's eyes. You don't see how their face is looking at you. All you see is Words on a screen and you don't know if they're human angry, you don't know if they're feeling compassion, you have no idea. So it's a really dangerous way to get into these kinds of conversations. Compassion should be shaping how we go about it. He wants us to avoid the common pitfalls that accompany blind spots. And he wants us to be genuine in all that we do. I think that when we look at Matthew chapter 7, that's what Jesus wants. He wants us to be people that when we get into a situation We did it at the right time. We said the right things. We did it the right way. We did it for the right reasons. It's about a genuine concern for someone in a godly way. May the Lord help us to do that. Let's pray. Father, as we think about the word, I pray that it would get into our hearts and that it would really shape the way that we approach people and situations. Father, help us not to be timid and passive as Christians. Help us to be strong, but help us to be wise and compassionate, and help us to engage in situations the right way at the right time for the right reasons. with the right heart. Pray that you would just help us to think clearly about these things and to do what is right in these areas in Christ's name. Amen.