All right, well let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then we have a song that we're going to sing, and then we'll get into the word of God together. So let's bow for prayer. Lord, we are so grateful for the opportunity tonight to open up the Word of God. And as we dig into this passage of Scripture, I pray that you'd help us to have clear minds. Help us to have hearts that are tender to what the Word of God says, and help us to have just clear thinking about this issue. And help us to think about how we practically live in the light of the truths in front of us. And then as we spend time together in prayer, I pray that our prayer time would be very encouraging. As we lift up these requests and bear others' burdens, I pray that our hearts would be knit together. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, 391 is where we're going to be tonight for our song. And we have Drinian at the piano. This is going to be good. So 391, I am resolved, we'll sing the first and the last verses together. Resolve no longer to leave your chart by the world's divine. I think that one we did , no, I win. Jesus , great as high, I will come to thee on the last. I am resolved to enter the key. Kingdom leaving the past area. Great singing. Thank you, Judy. That was excellent. All right. Well, we are in the Sermon on the Mount, working our way through this passage of Scripture. And so please take your Bibles and let's turn to Matthew chapter 7. And we have been at this for a while, and Matthew 7 is the last chapter that we're going to look at in the Sermon on the Mount. And we're going to dig off a pretty good section right here. We're going to look at verses 1 through 6. And I think it's possible that we might go into two parts. It just depends on how quickly we move through it. But I really want us to spend some time reflecting on the text in front of us because it is a misused passage of Scripture sometimes, a misunderstood passage. And in fact, it's a really practical and important text for us to understand. So, Matthew chapter 7, we're reading verses 1 through 6 together. Here's what the scriptures say. Judge not, that ye be not judged. And most people stop there and don't read anything else. There is a little more than just that statement. For that word's important, with what judgment ye judge. Ye shall be judged, and with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. And why beholdest thou the moat that is in thy brother's eye? Considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye. Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the moat that is in thine eye, and behold, a beam is in thine own eye. Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye. And by the way, that's a really important statement. Verse number six, give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before swine. Lest they trample them under their feet, and turn again and rend you. Ask, and it shall be given you Seek, and you shall find. Knock, and it shall be open unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. Great passage of Scripture. Three statements, or there are several words I want us to think about this evening together as we dig into this passage of Scripture. The first word is the word concern. Concern. Second word is the word discernment. Maybe I could have said concern, discern. Alright? Concern and discernment. And then the last thing I want us to consider is a critical spirit. Those three concepts, concern, discernment, and a critical spirit, these are some things that we need to understand as we dig into the passage in front of us. And so I want to first of all give you a summary, and then I want us to think about a little bit those three concepts before we jump into the passage in front of us. So The summary of the text goes this way. Christ warns his disciples against harboring a critical spirit that is dismissive of others. while refusing to address his own sin. Let me say it again. Christ warns his disciples against harboring a critical spirit that is dismissive of others while refusing to address his own sin. Now whether people realize this or not, when they come to the text in front of us, The point of this passage of Scripture is not to tell us we're not supposed to make discernment kind of decisions. That is not the purpose of the passage in front of us. The reason we know that is because when he starts in verse 7, judge not that ye be not judged, by the time he comes to verse 5, he says, first Cast out the beam that is in your own eye, and then you will be able to see clearly to help your brother. In other words, the whole point of the passage is not to say, ignore the things going on around you, just keep your eyes focused here, and don't worry about other people's issues. That's not the point. The point is, if you want to help other people and you should desire to help other people, well, you've got to be in the right place first. That really is the whole sense of the text in front of us. And so it's important for us to keep that in our minds. So the first word that we're to talk about is the word concern. And I don't mean like Oh, I'm a concerned citizen and I put in a complaint kind of a concern. I'm talking about something that's slightly different. Here's what what I mean when I use the word concern here. It's a genuine desire to consider the needs and the struggles of those whom we value. Again, it is a genuine desire to consider the needs and the struggles of those whom we value. That word concern means I'm actually caring about another person. It's not just I want to prop myself up. I want to feel good about myself. I want to push my values on somebody. That's not what we're talking about. We mean a genuine desire to see people be In a good place. And so we're concerned about their struggles. We're concerned about them because we value them. And this is a quality that should distinguish every single child of God. If you're a Christian, God wants you to have this kind of concern for other people. I want to give you a couple of passages of scripture to keep in your mind on this topic. The first is Matthew 5. 7. This has already been stated earlier in the Sermon on the Mount. It says, Blessed are the merciful. They shall obtain mercy. What is a merciful person? A merciful person is someone who has concern for other people. There is a compassion for someone in their misery, in their difficulties, in their burdens. It's another way of saying, weep with those who weep. Be able to bear one another's burdens. That's what we mean by mercy. It's someone who is considering other people. Or Philippians chapter 2, verse 1. He says, if there is any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, and the next statement is important. If any bowels and mercies. Now that's a really odd statement if you don't see it as an idiomatic expression. But the idea is that this is a person who feels very deeply in their person a compassion for other people. That's what he means by bowels in mercy. So when he's talking to these people, he's assuming that they're Christians and he states it as this Are you comforted in Christ? Are you comforted in love? Do you have the communion of the Spirit? Do you care about other people? That's what he's saying. You know what that tells me? Christians are supposed to have this kind of a concern for other people. And then the third text that I want to mention is Colossians 3. 12. He says, put on, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of mercies. Kindness, humbleness of mind , meekness, long-suffering. So another way to put that is because you are a Christian and God loves you and He has set you apart to Himself. You are to put on certain qualities. Bows of mercies, this deep-seated compassion for other people. Kindness. Kindness is a quality That is in relation to other people. So you don't just say you're kind and then you, you know, don't deal with other people. I mean a kindness kind of a quality is a in-relationship kind of quality. And when he says long suffering and meekness, again, these are qualities that are are revealing that this is a person who cares about other people. So that first word is very important. Concern. God wants us to be a people who have concern for one another in the sense in which we're talking about Where because we value them as God values them, and we love them because God loves them, we desire what is best for them. We desire what is good for them. So this passage of Scripture is in no way suggesting we don't have that kind of concern for other people. The second word is the word discernment. Discernment. It is the ability to determine what is right. What is wrong and best according to God's standard in complex situations? What is right, what is wrong, what is best according to God's standard in complex situations. In other words, God wants us to be a people who have the ability to say, that's right, that's wrong, this is the course of action that God would want us to take. And this is all from God's perspective. This isn't like my opinion versus your opinion, or let's do an opinion poll and see what everybody has to say. That's not what we're talking about here. We're talking about what God says. We take all of what He has to say about this particular issue, and we say, This is right, this is wrong, here's the best way to approach the issue. That's what God wants us to have: discernment. And God calls all of us as his children to be discerning. He doesn't want us to get pushed around with every single flimsy idea that's out there. He doesn't want us to get driven by our emotions. He wants us to be steady and solid and our mind is fixed on truth. That's what he wants. So how do you know that? Because there's a lot of scripture that talks about it. Let me give you some examples. 1 Thessalonians 5. 21. Prove all things. Hold fast to that which is good. A teenager's favorite verse, right? Prove everything Why? No, I'm just I'm just messing with you guys. Prove all things, hold fast to that which is good. What he's saying is be discerning about what you come in contact with. That's what he's saying. In other words, analyze it. Give some care if careful consideration to what has been stated and what is true. Embrace And what is false, reject. That's what he's saying. Another way to put that is be discerning. Prove all things. Hold fast to what is good. You have to make a choice about what is right and what is wrong. Philippians chapter 1, verses 9 and 10. I love this text. Paul writes, This I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge. and in all judgment, and that ye may approve things that are excellent. Let me say it again. I pray that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment, and that you would approve that which is excellent. Now, wisdom doesn't come in a vacuum, folks. Wisdom starts with facts. That's why he says, I pray that you would grow in knowledge. You cannot make good choices if you don't have all the information that you need. You know, a lot of people they think that good choices is just following their emotion. If God gives me peace about this, then I'm going to do it. That is not how you make decisions. That is a careless and foolish and destructive way to make decisions. Another way to put it is follow your emotions. That's what that is. Why do you need knowledge? Because wisdom starts with information. You got to know facts, and then from that knowledge comes judgment. You're able to take the facts And what you know to be true, and you align in such a way so that you can understand this is good, this is bad, this is best. The next statement is fascinating, and that you will approve the things that are excellent. In other words, you'll want to do what's best. That's really what he's saying. So what is this? This is discernment. Acts 17, 11 These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, that they received the word with all readiness of mind, and searched the scriptures daily whether those things were so. I love that statement. They did not take Paul's word at face value. Now they took it seriously. Why do I say that? Because they received it with readiness of mind They soaked up everything that he said, but they did not embrace it until it was proved. Isn't that amazing? So Paul says this and this and this and this and they just they absorb it and they absorb it and they absorb it and they say, now let's go tech and see if it's true. Let's go see if what he's saying is consistent with the word. And so they search the scriptures And then they embrace it. What is that? It's discernment. So God calls us to have concern for other people, and God calls us to be discerning. The text in front of us, judge not, lest that you be not judged, is not suggesting that we shouldn't be concerned about other people, and it's not suggesting that we should just be flimsy and not discerning. But there's a third concept, and that is this concept of a critical spirit. You say, well, what is that? A critical spirit is a condescending preoccupation with others that does not consider our own faults and struggles objectively and looks down to others. Condescending it is a condescending preoccupation with others that does not consider her own faults and struggles objectively, and it looks down on others. The idea is that when I look at other people Rather than me looking at them in a fair-minded way, I'll put it that way, where I see my own struggles and my own weaknesses and my own limitations and my own vulnerabilities. And I see that we are we could say on the same level having these kinds of issues. Instead I kind of like prop myself up and I look down. I mean that's really what it comes down to. Prop yourself up, look down, ignore your own sins, ignore your own struggles, ignore your own failures. That is exactly what Jesus is saying, don't do. That's what he means in this text. Why do you behold the mote in your brother's eye, but consider not the beam in your own eye? How can you say to your brother, Let me pull the moat out of thine eye. Behold, there's a beam in your own eye. Hypocrite. That's what he's talking about. This idea of a critical spirit. This is a fleshly response. And scripture consistently, and I'll even use the word aggressively, condemns this. I could have given you so many examples, I'm just going to give you three. Luke 18, 9. He spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves, that they were righteous, and the next statement is exactly what we're talking about, and they despised others. By the way, there's a certain theological mindset that is setting you up to be this kind of a person A person that has the mindset that God accepts me because I'm good, and God accepts me because I'm smart, and God accepts me because of how much I've given him, and God accepts me because of something that I've done. That is a mindset that is setting you up to be critical and proud and condescending. And so what does Jesus do? He speaks a parable to people who trusted in themselves, they were righteous, and they were despising other people. Romans 14. 3. This is an example I think kind of can really hit hard where we are at our own personal walk. Romans 14. 3 says this. Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not, and let not him which eateth not judge him that eateth. For God hath received him. Now that little verse doesn't mean a whole lot to you if you don't understand the context. And so the context is talking about issues of conscience. What I mean by issues of conscience is there are certain things in the Christian life that if we could see it from God's perspective 100% And all of the uh all of our backgrounds were able to be put to the side and we didn't have to uh bring all that baggage into the conversation that we all really we do bring baggage into these conversations. If we could just see it from God's perspective, we would see that there are certain things that God clearly says are areas of freedom. And some Christians say they're absolutely not. And others say, you better believe that they are. Now, in those two scenarios, if from God's perspective it's an area of freedom This guy who says it's not is wrong. Okay? Clearly he's wrong. This guy who says that it is, he's right But this guy right here could look at this guy and start saying, because you are okay with this, I have a problem with you. And this guy over here could start looking at this guy and saying, why can't you wake up and see you have freedom here, my friends? And guess what? You could have a condescending spirit on both sides of that issue. It's very easy. I mean, another way you could put it is those who are extremely conservative and those who are a little bit looser. Okay? And so some people say, well, you know, very conservative people, they're very condescending and they look down on others. And sometimes that's true. I could say it's a problem on both sides. People that don't hold the line very hard, they look at others and they say, I can't believe you'd hold such a s stiff line over there and these people over here are like, what's your problem? Why can't you guys step it up? And what does Jesus or what what does Paul say in this text of scripture? He says, don't despise your brother. You're both looking at this from the wrong angle. Your attitude towards one another is a problem. Romans 14, 10, later on in the same text, he says, Why dost thou judge thy brother? Or what if thou said it not thy brother, we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Now, in the Luke eighteen passage, Jesus is addressing A critical spirit with someone who's not a Christian. They're not a believer. They are trusting in their own righteousness. And the reason they have this critical spirit is because the simple fact is they don't understand the gospel. And they view themselves as righteous before God based on what they're doing. But when Paul writes about it in Romans 14, he's not talking about non-Christians. He's talking about believers. He's talking about the people that Would find themselves in the same kind of situation we're in ourselves right here. Those who look down on people who look at a debatable issue different than they do. It's not about what they choose to do as much as their attitude towards the other person. Who doesn't see it the same way? And so this is exactly what Jesus is addressing in this passage of Scripture. He's addressing the issue of a critical spirit. He's addressing the issue of how we actually work to resolve problems between people in a godly way. That's what he's talking about. And so the passage has to be interpreted with these principles at the forefront of our minds, and it has to be considered carefully. And if we do it carefully, guess what? We'll see that there's a consistency between what we see in the Old Testament leading up to what Jesus has to say, what Jesus has to say in his earthly ministry in connection to what is written here, and what the Apostle Paul and John and James and others have to say in the New Testament. So let's jump into the text together. I know that was a long introduction. That was almost the entire message. That's okay. That's why we're going to do it in two parts tonight. Alright, so I want us to observe the passage, and I broke it down this way. The first thing I want us to look at are the commands that we find in the passage. So there are several commands that we find, there are several admonitions that we find, there are several encouragements, several warnings. And actually there are also some questions. I'm not really going to emphasize the questions as much. But the reason that Jesus asks the questions is he he wants those who are listening to his teaching to be processing it. He wants them to think about it. Like the way that we tend to to teach in our you you say American and Western mindset is, all right, let me give you an outline and let me give you 14 propositions. and just write them down and memorize them. That's not the way that Jesus taught. Jesus told a story. He asked the people some questions. They didn't understand the story. Some walked away, and some said, Jesus, what are you talking about? What do you mean you don't understand what I'm talking about? Okay, let me explain it to you. And he tells them they're like, oh, I get it, I get it. That's the way that Jesus taught But I want you to notice the commands of the text first. So command number one, the statement we see in verse number one is this: judge not. Judge not. What is the command? Do not self-set yourself in the place of God. Do not set yourself in the place of God. And as we work our way through this passage of Scripture, What you're going to see is that Jesus' emphasis is not that you are never able to make a judgment about a matter involving another person. That is not what he's saying here. His suggestion is you do it in a certain kind of way. And you do it when you have a certain kind of authorization to do it. And you do it with a certain kind of motivation. Why is that? Because we as Christians are never to put ourselves in the place of God. It is not our place to act like we are little deities that walk around and tell people, here's what you do, and here's what you do, and I'm the standard. That's not how we're to live the Christian life. By the way, that's exactly how the Pharisees lived their religious experience. You say, well, why do you say that? Well, because all of the rules that they established were not out of the Torah, they were out of their heads. Okay? So they established themselves as the standard. And so they would have arguments, well, this school of thoughts is this, and this school of thoughts is that. And it was all about the teacher. Well, guess what? We have the same problem in our Christianity today. We really do. There are a lot of pastors, they get up and they might give you the impression they're saying, thus says the Lord, but there's not a lot of Bible in what they're saying. It's a lot of their opinions. And so this is something that is very important for us to consider. Do not, do not set yourself in the place of God. We need to remember our place. We are all vulnerable to sinful passions and struggles. And as much as the other people struggle, we struggle. We need to remember that. There is an absolute equality at the cross. Whether a person has lived an absolutely reprobate life for decades and decades and decades, or a kid grew up in a Christian household and they were taught from the time that they were a little child The Ten Commandments, Jesus died for their sins, he rose from the dead, and they have been learning the Bible from the time they could speak. Both people get saved the exact same way. Through the cross. One person doesn't have a greater advantage when it comes to whether or not God will accept them. He accepts them on the basis of Christ's death, resurrection, and righteousness. That's it. Remember our places. We also need to consider our jurisdiction. Is this a matter that we're obligated or authorized to address? This is a really important question for us to ask. We should ask the question, before we jump into a situation, we should ask ourselves, is this something that I actually have the right before God to jump in and to address? And then if we have the right, then maybe we should ask the question, do I really have the responsibility to address it? Now if I do, then I need to take that step. And and I may actually struggle to take that step. You may start struggle to take that step because it's not going to be easy. I think it's a better scenario that we're hesitant, but we recognize we're obligated and we're very conscientious about it, then that we just jump into an issue and we never give a second thought to it. We need to consider jurisdiction. Thirdly, we should never deviate from God's standard. Are we imposing our opinion and usurping God's articulated expectations in an era? Now, just to be totally frank with you, that might mean that there are certain things that some people are really dogmatic about that we're actually not going to be dogmatic about. You say, well that makes me look kind of weak and soft. Who's the standard? Your neighbor, you or God? It's the Word of God. So we've got to be very cautious that we do not set ourselves in the place of God. We remember our place, remember our jurisdiction, we do not deviate from God's standard. And I think that that is really what's bound up in this command. Judge not, and then he goes on, for with what manner you judge, you will be judged, and what m measure you meet, it will be measured to you again. Command number two Address your sinful actions and attitudes and patterns before you address an issue with someone else. Notice what he says. He says, first, verse number five, cast out the beam in thine own eye, and then thou shalt see clearly to cast out the moat in the thing. That is in thy brother's eye. Now, the word moat and beam, okay, some of us go, what does he mean by this? I'll put it like this. You're looking at a speck in another person's eye. But you've got a two by four in yours. That's what he's saying. That's kind of the illustration that he's saying. And so not only are we to remember we're not to put ourselves in the place of God. But we're reminded that before we take any action on our part to address an issue, we've got to look in and ask the question, am I in any way guilty of the very same thing that I am judging another person on? I am so burdened by this person's sin. Am I burdened and doing the same thing? Now what is it saying ultimately if I'm concerned about your sin and I'm doing the same thing and I'm ignoring it? It means I'm a hypocrite. And that's why Jesus says Hypocrite, first cast out the beam, and then thou shalt see clearly. We have to recognize that when we harbor sin in our hearts, it affects our ability to help out a situation. In fact, this is just a very practical reason why when we talk about the qualifications of those in church leadership, there are pastoral qualifications and there are deacon qualifications. The fact is if a pastor gets up and he preaches the word of God and you're sitting there going, well, I mean, you're talking about your marriage, you know, the kind of marriage I'm supposed to have and how I'm supposed to teach my children and You're talking about honesty and don't lose your temper and you're talking about all these issues, but I'm looking at your life and I'm like, do you believe that yourself? Guess what? Anybody under that kind of a preacher ought to ask that question. And then they ought to say, why would I be a part of a church that's going to be like that? Compromise on such a level It's such a practical thing. Nobody is going to have the ability to address areas properly if they themselves are making allowments in their own life. There's another side to this as well. Not only that you're going to have people that are going to struggle with you when you come to talk to them, but the fact is you won't be able to see clearly. And that really is the emphasis of what Jesus is saying. You're concerned about a speck in your neighbor's eye and you got a beam in your eye. And if you've got a beam in your eye, guess what you don't have the ability to do? See clearly. You cannot see clearly because your view is being blocked by your sin. That is his point. And so it's easy for us to justify sin. And when we justify sin, it's arrogant, especially when we know it's there. It's dangerous. Because when you justify sin, guess what? You make allowments for you to go further and further and further down this particular road. And by the way, sinful actions and sinful patterns, like they're not neutral, folks. When we make allowance, it continues to move. There's a direction that we will go. That's why in James he says, when lust has conceived, it brings forth sin, and sin when it's finished brings forth Death, do not err, my beloved brethren. His point is that it's not going to stay here. It's going to move from here to here to here to here. And the bondage of the enslavement becomes stronger and stronger and stronger. It's a huge problem. But his point here is that justifying sin distorts our perspective. And I'll tell you, one of the greatest examples of this will be when we raise our children. If we raise our children in hypocrisy, one day they will rub it back in our faces. I'm not saying it's right that they do that. There might be some situations where by God's grace our kids overcome that. But the bottom line is we should not be surprised if we have been an inconsistent and we have been presumptuously inconsistent and our kids know it. And we say, do this, do this, do this, and we don't do it, we don't do it, we don't do it. We should not be in any way surprised when they look at us and they say, Dad, you've said this for 20 years, I don't believe you. Mom, you've said this for 20 years, I don't believe you Why should I value what you value? You don't value it. It shouldn't surprise us at all. And so the point is that we must address our issues first. Commandment number three, do not waste your energy on counterproductive confrontations. If you look down at verse number 6, he makes an interesting statement. He says, give not that which is holy unto the dogs. And by the way, you know, we have dogs and we think of dogs as these cute pets that we enjoy in our homes and and I mean, you know, what does it say, man's best friend? I mean my dog, I don't know if I'd say he's man's best friend, but my dog is a troublesome dog. But uh But I will tell you this uh in a lot of cultures Especially in ancient cultures Dogs were kind of seen as these dirty animals that roamed the streets That got into the trash and you did not want to take one of those animals into your house. That's what he's thinking in those terms as opposed to the way that we You think of like, oh my sweet little pet. And that's not the way Jesus is talking. He's saying don't give something that is valuable and consecrated and holy to a filthy dog. That's what he's saying. And then he says, Neither cast your pearls before swine. Now, this is a Jewish audience he's giving this teaching to, and what was a pig? It was an unclean animal. So when Jesus talks about the dogs and he talks about the pigs, he's talking about animals that In the Jewish mind, these were dirty animals. We don't. He's saying, why are you wasting your time? Now this could be actually misunderstood. But I think the main point that Jesus is making here is that there are certain times when you are wasting your time to keep pushing an issue with somebody And I know that Jesus was like that with people because there are times that he gave opportunity and he walked away. I know that this is a fact because Jesus taught him parables. And it's interesting what it says about his parables. We tend to think of parables as he gave these illustrations so that people could understand. And that is half of why he taught in parables. But he also taught in parables, the Bible says, to conceal these things from those who didn't want it. In other words, teaching in a parable was Jesus' way of helping you who want to know learn and you who don't care just go That's what a parable was. That's why people had to ask him, what do you mean by this? What are you saying? Or it says, they perceived that he spoke this parable against them. They're like, you didn't just come straight out and say, we're against you. You gave this story and I know I can tell by the way this is crafted that you're speaking to me about this, and I don't want to think about it, so I'm just going to walk on my way. In Proverbs chapter 26, verse 4, this is what it says. It says, Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou be like unto him. What does that mean? Well that means that there's a time when a person has crossed the line. You say, you know what? I got nothing else to say. I don't have anything else to say. If you want to come back and talk to me later, no problem. I'd be glad to engage that conversation with you. But I'm not going to push this any further. Proverbs 26, 17, he says this: he that passeth by and meddleth with strife belonging not to him. is like one that taketh a dog by the ears. Now, this is a proverb, and I Think we have to think about this for a little bit to try to figure out what he's saying. But there are two things that come to mind. If you grab a dog by the ears, number one, he's gonna bite you And number two, while he's trying to bite you, you gotta keep holding on to the ear because you're trying to pull, you know, because he's going after you, right? And so what he's basically saying in this proverb is, you know, when you get involved in a situation that's beyond you, it's not your jurisdiction, there is no value in you getting involved in it, you're gonna get bit And you're going to have to stay in that issue longer than you wanted to stay in that issue, and longer than you intended to stay in that issue, and you're still going to get bit while you do that. And so Christ's point is that there's a time that you don't engage in a situation. Well Luke chapter 9, verse 5. He says, Whosoever will receive you when you go out of that city, shake off the whosoever will not, very important word, not receive you. When you go out of that city, shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them What's he saying? He's saying you give people an opportunity, and if they say no, go to the next one. the next one. And so the second of excuse me the third command in this text is dealing with the fact that there are some situations you need to leave alone. Command number four. Seek God's wisdom when considering a confrontation. In verse number seven, he says, Ask. Seek, knock. Ask, seek, knock. Now those three words have, they're kind of all in the same area, asking, seeking, and knocking. Yet they're a little bit different. Asking is like I'm asking a question. Seeking means that I'm gonna have to do a little bit of work, and knocking means I'm persistent. Okay? So I'm asking the question. I'm doing some work. I'm pursuing the issue. And I continue to. I am persistent in that thing. So when he says seek God's wisdom when considering a confrontation, he's not saying, you know, pray this little prayer, hey God give me wisdom and then jump right into it. Ask, seek, knock. In other words, ask God for the wisdom and then do the work to dig into the word. And be persistent at it. And work through the issue carefully until you understand what God would have you to do in that issue. That means you're going to have to work through some some scriptures. That means you're going to have to get the input of some godly and wise people. That means that you don't just react, but it means that you are considering a matter before you jump into it. This is extremely important. When we jump into an issue without following God's wisdom, we bring into ourselves lots of unnecessary pain and frustration. Not just for ourselves, but sometimes for the person that we are attempting to help. How many times have we tried to help a person And we got to be a little bit too much like Job's friends. Like what was the problem with Job's friends? They uttered things they didn't understand. They assumed things that were not true. They were following a pattern of thought that was common in their time, but it wasn't consistent with reality. That's the whole point of the book of Job. That there are times that we think we've got it figured out. And we think, okay, if it's if it's this and this and it's going to end up this, and there's just this formula to life. And what does the book of Jeb say? Not true. Not true. God's ways are beyond us sometimes. Sometimes God allows very godly and righteous people to suffer. And people that are doing the wrong thing, they seem to get away with it, they get away with it, and they get away with it. Doesn't mean that God isn't just Does it mean God isn't going to address the issue? But God doesn't operate on some formula. We plug in the numbers and then we get what we want. That's not the way it works. He's a sovereign God. He does what he pleases. And we need to learn to trust him and walk with him. And so we seek God's wisdom first. And there are three words I want you to remember. The first word is the word what, and that is we need to have a firm grasp of what is true before we seek to address an issue. It's like somebody who gets up and preaches on a Sunday, but they don't know what the text is saying They don't know what it's saying. Guess what? You'd be better off to just handle a text you uh you think you understand than to jump in there and say some things that are absolutely ridiculous. You need to have a firm grasp of what is true before you try to address an issue Know the facts, know what God says, work through the issue. Proverbs 18, 13 says this: He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly and shame unto him. There's a lot of ways we can do this. One of the ways we do it is, okay, this person says their side of it, and we just immediately react to it. And we assume that everything they said is true, and so we go off on this other person. This other person's like, well actually there's another side to that story. And then we hear their side and we're like, oh, oh. That changes things up. Guess who's the fool? The guy that jumped in too soon. Okay. And sometimes we hear their side, and we hear their side, and we go, ooh. That's a mess. I'm not sure what I'm supposed to do. You know what we might need to do? Find a friend. Get into the word of God. Talk to somebody that's got a little bit of experience. Dig into it. Get all the information first. Get into the Word of God. That's how we can help people. There is no value and there's no virtue in jumping the gun on these things. Second word is the word why. We need to consider our motives for addressing the matter. Galatians 6:1 says this: restore such in one in a spirit of Meekness. Considering thyself. Why is a person getting involved in this issue? Is it because they like being a know-it-all? I'm just a really good marriage counselor. People always come to me. Okay, well, so are you trying to help them or are you just trying to build your credentials? I mean that's a really fair question sometimes. I'm just the uh I'm the counsel the counseling guru. Everybody should come to me. Are we trying to help people because we genuinely love them and care about them We really want to invest in their lives. We see that there are things that God can do through them, but they are limiting his work because of their stubbornness. Because of their folly? Because of their lack of self-control? Whatever it is. They need somebody to walk through this with them? Why are we doing this? Is it for ourselves? Or is it for them? A lot of people do Christian ministry for themselves. I'm very convinced of that. A lot of missionaries they go to the field because they think it would be really cool to be a missionary And you know what's great? That's gonna get tested. At some point, they decide I'm either I'm either here because God wants me here and I love people, or I'm here because, you know what, I'm tired of being here. They're gonna make a decision. That's what happens. A lot of people, you know, why do people get married? Well, you know, I just I think it'd be really great, you know, get married, I'll have all these benefits And they get married and they find out, well, they got a lot of expectations on their side too. And all of a sudden, guess what? You gotta recalibrate. And then you start to actually approach marriage with maturity. And so why we do things is really important. And our motives are going to be tested when we get into an issue. And the fact is, if we're in in a thing for the wrong reason, the input we give people is not going to help them And when they don't get, they're not very happy with us, guess what? We're going to get really upset at them. And all of a sudden, we're going to have a lot of problems that are revealing motive. So the what is important and the why. The third word is the word how. Sometimes we know what's right, and sometimes we really do have the right desire, but the way we go about it is not good. Not good at all. We need to consider the way we approach a matter that we've determined we must address. And I mean I I've I've most definitely found myself in this position before. Okay? I think I have a good handle of what I'm supposed to say, what people need to hear. I'm doing it for the right reason. I really love this person. I want to help them. But the way I go about it. It's like watching a little kid learn how to ride a bike. It's not pretty. And thank God for his grace, but the bottom line is how we go about it thing is very, very important. James chapter 3, verse 13. Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. It's a really amazing statement. James 3. 17, the wisdom that is from above is first pure and peaceable and gentle and easy to be entreated. full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, without hypocrisy, the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace with them that make peace. You want to know how you're supposed to approach people who have problems and you're trying to be the counselor? James 3, man. That's it right there. There. The wisdom that is from above is pure, peaceable, gentle, easy to be entreated, full of mercy, good fruits, without partiality, without hypocrisy, the fruit of righteousness sown in peace to them that make peace. That is such an important text of scripture. And so when it comes to this issue, before we dig into the rest of this passage, because I I'm looking at my time. We're going to look at the warnings another time. Now that we look at the warnings, we're going to look at the encouragements. And then we're going to see how other passages of Scripture deal with this issue. But I don't want you to forget those warnings. So let's go back. Let me just rehearse them one more time so that we don't forget them. Commandment number one, do not set yourself in the place of the Lord. Commandment number two, address your sinful actions and attitudes and patterns before you address an issue. Command three, do not waste your energy on counterproductive confrontations. Commandment for seek God's wisdom when considering a confrontation. It's very important that we understand this is at the heart of what Jesus is saying. Teaching. Let's ask him to help us to do that. Father, as we think about your word, as we think about the teachings of our Lord, I pray that the things that we have read this evening. The things that we have considered are things that would settle in our heart. It's my firm conviction that every person in this room who knows the Lord as their Savior. Should be competent in their ability to help other Christians. Every single one of us should know how to help other people, growing in the Lord, discipling, mentoring, encouraging And it starts with these principles. And so I pray that these principles would become very evident in our lives, that we would grow in these areas, that we would be well practiced in these areas. And that you would use us as effective servants, especially in our homes with our kids and our relationships that are very close to us. I pray that you would help us to pattern these Commands. We ask these things in Christ's name, amen