Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And uh if you're if you're joining us today, I'd like to ask you to take your Bible and turn with me to 1 John chapter 2, and we are looking at verses 3 to 6. Again, let's go to 1 John chapter 2, and we're looking at verses 3 to 6 together. Let's read the passage together. And hereby we do know that we know him, if we keep his commandments. He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. Him. Whoso keepeth his word in him verily the love of God is perfected. Hereby know we that we are in him. He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also so to walk. even as he walked. Now when we come to this passage of scripture, it's very important to begin with a summary statement and then dig into the details a little bit. So here's our summary statement this morning. The purpose of this section was to reveal how walking with Christ strengthens our confidence that we are in Christ. And I want to remind you again of the main point of the book of 1. John. John is trying to indicate or trying to help us to understand how we can walk in close fellowship with God. And when we have a close fellowship with God, it's going to give us it's going to give us a greater sense of joy and confidence that we're in him. And so really the whole book of 1 John is about how we can have a close walk with the Lord. And this passage is going to talk about this issue of confidence. How can I have confidence that I'm actually a Christian? And so we're really going to get into a very important discussion about this issue of assurance of salvation. And so let's look at the first truth that we find in this passage. The first truth is it's possible for me to have confidence that I know God and that I'm in Christ. Let me say that again. It is possible for me to have confidence that I know God and I'm in Christ. Christ. Look at what he says in verses 3 and 5. He says, hereby, or we could say by what I'm about to say, we know that we know him. If we keep his commandments. Whoso keepeth his word, in him the love of God is perfected. Hereby we know that we are in him Now there are two important phrases in those verses we just read. The first phrase is, we know that we know him. Now he's talking about the fact that a person has a relationship with God, that he has fellowship or communion with God. This knowledge is dealing with the fact that he's growing in a relationship. The second phrase that stands out is that we know that we are in him. Now that phrase has the idea of relationship That I have a position in Christ. So he's talking about fellowship and he's talking about position. And basically what he's going to say is in these verses When a person is walking with God, that's an indication that one, they're a Christian, and two, they're growing in fellowship with Him. And that relationship with God, both positionally and as a fellowship, is going to strengthen that person's confidence that they're in the Lord, and it's also going to change the way that they look In other words, it's possible for a person to have confidence that they're a Christian or to really doubt that they're a Christian. And so there are a couple of different scenarios that I wanted to mention This morning as we dig into this conversation. The first is this it's possible for a person who's not a Christian to believe with confidence that they are. You say, well, how is that possible that a person who's not a Christian Could believe that they are one with confidence. Well, really, it comes down to a misunderstanding of the gospel itself. If a person doesn't understand God's holiness and his righteousness if they don't understand the way of salvation, and they're comparing themselves to the people around them, they may have confidence That they're saved because they say, I'm not as bad as the person next to me. I'm a genuinely good person. So it's possible for someone who doesn't understand the gospel, doesn't understand God's holiness and righteousness and justice. To have confidence and not actually be a Christian. On the other side, a person who's not a believer will probably lack confidence that they are because they don't understand the gospel. And it's something that it's not very clear to them. So most of the people that we interact with who are not saved will not probably think that they're saved because they don't really understand. We could have a third group though That's a person who is saved, but really doubts. And the idea is that a person has come face to face with the gospel. They've trusted in the finished work of Christ. But because they're very introspective, because of sin that they're dealing with, because of a lack of growth, a lack of maturing, that person can have doubts. And so God wants us to be a Christian who has a firm confidence that that we're saved. And so this passage is going to talk about the fact that literally there are two sources of assurance that a person can has. And I'm going to talk about that in just a moment. So that really moves us to our second truth. There are really two sources of assurance. And one is very objective. And one is subjective. Now what's interesting is in these verses, John is focusing more on the subjective side of our confidence. Not so much the objective side of our confidence, but really both are addressed in the book of 1 John. Notice what he says in verse 3. Hereby we do know that we know him. Hereby we know that we are in him. That word know is emphasized in the fact that we are that I feel that I'm saved. I feel that I'm walking with God. I feel that I'm growing in a knowledge of the Lord. I feel that I have a relationship with That is subjective. Okay? In another passage we go to later on in the book, verses chapter 5, verse 1 he says This is the record that God hath given us eternal life. This life is in his son. He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God. God hath not life. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life That ye may believe on the Son of God. This passage is dealing with the objective side of our confidence. The idea that God has made a promise And his promise is sure. And so I have confidence, not because of what I'm doing, or not because of something else that's going on in my life. I have confidence because I know that God has promised So there is an objective standard of confidence. What we see in the book of 1 John is that he really emphasizes both the objective side and the subjective side. And you say, well, why does John do that? Well he does that because a person who's resting in the gospel and has an objective standard of confidence Also has other factors that affect whether or not he feels that he's saved. In other words, I may know objectively that Christ died for my sins and rose from the dead, and I'm trusting in that message. But there are things that can affect that confidence that can kind of diminish that confidence or strengthen that confidence. That's really what John's focusing on here. The subjective side of our confidence is that I know that Christ died for my sins and I see the effects of how my new position in Christ is changing me. That's dealing with the subjective side So let me kind of put it like this. A person should have absolute confidence that they're saved if they've responded to the gospel the way that God says they need to. Repentance and faith. If my heart has been changed, where I recognize the fact that I'm a sinner and that I can't save myself and that Christ died for my sins, and I turn to him and I trust in the finish. work of Christ and my the heart of my my focus is on the finished work of Christ I should have confidence objective assurance of faith But on the other side, I need to recognize that when I'm not walking the way that I should, it's going to affect that confidence. And so we see in John chapter 2, or 1 John 2, 3 to 5, he says, hereby we know. that we are in him, if we keep his commandments. Whoso keepeth his word in him fairly the love of God is perfected. Hereby know we that we are in Him. The point is, if I'm not growing in a knowledge of the Lord and I'm not being changed by the indwelling Holy Spirit, then I am going to have a lack of confidence because I'm not growing in as I should. It doesn't mean I'm not a Christian, okay? conf It doesn't mean that I've lost my salvation. You are secure in Christ. But the feeling and the sense of that position is going to be demanding. But Because the gospel is not changing you the way that it's meant to change you. We come to a third truth that's interesting here. Knowing God is more than simply a superficial acquaintance with God or an academic knowledge of God. Notice what he says in verse 3. He says, if we keep his commandments, Why does John indicate that we need to keep his commandments? And part of our confidence that we know God is that we obey him. Why does he connect those two things together? The reason is because when John talks about knowing God, he's not just referring to something academic. He's not talking about something that is a casual acquaintance. He's talking about something that actually changes us. And you know what's interesting? The people that we are very close to are the people that most shape how we think and most shape what we want to do. And the truth is that if I am growing in a knowledge of God, a real, intimate, close relationship with God, that fellowship with God is going to change what I think It's going to change what I love. It's going to change what I do. And so John's basically saying, listen, a knowledge of God that is more than superficial acquaintance. is a knowledge of God that changes how I live. It changes what I do. And so when John talks about knowing God He's talking about intimate knowledge. , He's talking about fellowship. He's talking about a communal relationship. Very, very important. We then come to a fourth truth, and that is that this knowledge of God and the change that it produces in us is something that expands or it matures over the course of our Christian experience. He says it this way in verse 5. In him, verily, the love of God is perfected. Now, when we talk about a love for God, we're talking about something that involves my mind, and it's something that involves my emotions. And so basically what he's saying is, as when I become a Christian, I'm a baby, okay? I don't really know God all that well. I know him well enough to understand that Christ died for my sins and he rose from the dead. And if I place my faith in Christ, that God gives me eternal life. I know him to that extent. And that's important. That's the starting point. But I don't know him in a very personal way. I don't really know him where I have confidence in in his judgment and his wisdom, what he says is right and wrong, and how he works in my life. I don't understand all of those things. So as I go through life, what does God do? He helps me to grow in my knowledge of him. As that knowledge expands, so does my love for him. As my love for him expands, so does my commitment to walk in his ways. And so he's emphasizing the fact that not only does our knowledge of God expand over the course of our lives, lives, but our commitment to obey him and our love for him also expands. We then come to a fifth and final point that we'll look at this morning and that is that false teachers who claim to know God yet disregard his word reveal that they actually don't know him. One of the things that's very important about this passage is we have to realize that the reason John writes these words is because there are people in the church who claim to know God and they're preaching a false gospel. They're giving a message that's not consistent with the gospel and what has been presented by the apostles. These are false teachers. And one of the ways that John points out that we can know that these people are false teachers is he says you can observe the fruit of their ministry. and the fruit of their belief system. If that person is teaching a message that doesn't change them at all to become more like Christ, that's an indication that there's a disconnect That's an indication that the message they're preaching does not have the same power as the gospel because it's not changing them. It's not shaping them. He puts it like this in verse 4. He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. Now, when we read these verses, we need to notice that there's a change in reference when he's talking. You know, in the verses before and after, he's talking about us and we, and he's talking about how We know that we know him. When he talks about this group of people, he says, he that saved. He doesn't say we who say. Why is that? Because John's indicating that there are people in the church who he's writing the letter to who are believers, who know the Lord, and he wants them to have confidence in their position in Christ. And their growing knowledge of the Lord. On the other side, there's a group of people within the church that are not Christians, that are not teaching the truth, and he's setting a difference between them. He's saying we versus them. These people were dot were teaching that Christ didn't come in the flesh. They were They had a casual attitude towards sin. They're promising a knowledge of God that was not rooted in the facts of Scripture, but was rooted in this Gnostic spiritual And he's basically saying, look, you can know that these people are not teaching the truth. One by the content of their message, but two by the fact that their message is impossible. It's not changing them at all. It hasn't made them more godly. It hasn't made them more like Christ. So when we look at this passage of scripture, what are some practical things that we could take away from it? Let me share with you just a few that I jotted down today. The first is more of a question than an application. Do I have a confidence that I'm a Christian and that I'm growing in that knowledge? Do I have a confidence? Do you know for sure that you're saved? And do you have confidence that you're growing in the Lord? I hope that you can say yes. If you can't say yes, you need to ask this question. Why don't you have confidence? Is it because you don't actually understand the gospel? Or is it because you understand the gospel, but you're not growing in that knowledge of God and growing in that intimate relationship with God the way that God designed for you to. And because of a lack of change, because of a lack of growth, that objective confidence is being weakened by the subjective side. of our confidence. Is it possible? I want to ask you why do you doubt confidence? On the other side, if you truly are a Christian, then here are some thoughts for you. First Is this. You need to focus primarily on the promise that God has given of eternal life. The objective standard for our confidence is the work of Christ. When I doubt my salvation, I need to look at the look at the promise of God. It says, whoever believes on him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. It says that this is the record that God has given to us eternally. I need to look at the promises that God has given of how a person becomes a believer and say, hey, I have and continue to trust in that Message. God has saved me. On the other side, I need to give attention to my daily walk with the Lord so that I'm growing in a knowledge of the Lord As I'm growing in a knowledge of the Lord, he's going to change me to become more and more like himself. And as that change is accomplished, what's going to happen? I not only look at the objective side of my salvation. But I can see that this message has changed me and is changing me. And what does that do? It strengthens that sense of confidence that I'm Christian. This morning I want to remind you how important it is that we continue to grow in a knowledge of the Lord. I hope that the things that we've looked at this morning have been a blessing to you. And I If this has been a blessing, I hope that you'll just jot down a note and say, hey, Pastor, here's how this was an encouragement to me. Perhaps share it with someone else, and we look forward to the next time we'll be together. Hope you have a great day. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will catch up the next. Father, thank you for this passage. Help us to be a group of people who are saved and are confident of that position in Christ. Confident because we're focused on the message of the gospel, that it is an objective promise from God. And also confidence because we are growing in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. And we are being changed moment by moment by the indwelling Holy Spirit. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. We hope that you have a wonderful day, and we will catch up with you next time. Bye now.