Okay, well let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to the book of Isaiah. And uh very excited about what we're going to be starting tonight. Uh Pastor Josh and I are looking forward to this series. I know for quite some time we've been working our way through Old Testament passages and we've been talking about all the different kings in Israel's history. And now what we're going to do tonight is we are going to be starting a series that's looking at The prophetic ministry of a man who lived a very long time. In fact, his ministry would have spanned 60 years. And so if you think about how long people tended to live in this time period, it's not just that he lived to be 60 years old, but he ministered for 60 years, so that means that when he finished his ministry, went to be with the Lord, he was a fairly old man. And so let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to Isaiah chapter 1, and we're going to start in verse number 1 and we're going to look at an introduction to the book. And how God confronts people with his righteousness. And you've noticed the theme, I hope, tonight, as we've been looking at these songs, we've sung Jesus Paid It All. We've sung wider than snow and at Calvary. And you know what they all have in common? Our sin stain is removed by the cross. And if it wasn't for the cross of Christ, the shedding of his blood on Calvary, we'd have no hope. Our sin would stand between us and God. There would be this dark red stain between us. And it's been washed clean because Christ has laid down his life for us. So let's talk about that tonight. Isaiah chapter 1, verse number 1. The vision of Isaiah, the son of Amos. Which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth. The Lord hath spoken. I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled against me. The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib, but Israel does not know my people. Do not consider Ah, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children that are corrupters. They have forsaken the Lord. They have provoked the Holy One of Israel into anger. They've gone way backward. Why should you be stricken anymore? Ye will revolt more and more, the whole head is sick, the whole heart faint, from the sole of the foot even unto the head, there is no soundness in it, but wounds. and bruises and putrefying sores. They've not been closed, neither bound up, neither mollified with ointment. Your country is desolate. Your cities are burned with fire, your land, strangers devoured in your presence. It is desolate as overthrown by strangers And the daughter of Zion is left as a cottage in a vineyard, as a lodge and a garden of cucumbers, as a besieged city. Except the Lord of hosts had left us a very small remnant, we should have been as Sodom, and we should have been like unto Gomorrah. Hear the word of the Lord, ye rulers of Sodom, give ear unto the law of our God, and ye people of Gomorrah, to what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices unto me, saith the Lord? I am full of burnt offerings, of rams and the fat of fed beasts. I delight not in the blood of bullocks, or of lambs, or of he got. Could you imagine a guy getting up, sticking his bony finger in people's faces and saying that? You're Sodom and Gomorrah, your leaders, your people. If it hadn't been for God's mercy, there would just be no nation left, but I've left a small remnant Very, very in-your-face and controversial message. But as we work our way through this first chapter, what we will see is it's not just the message that confronts people. But it's also a message that gives hope. And that is the biblical way of preaching. Preaching from the Bible starts with the bad news. And as we work our way through the bad news and we're confronted with the reality of how God sees our sin, we have right beside this the grace of God. And the gospel and what God has done so that we can be reconciled to Him. And so along the bad new alongside the bad news comes the good news, and that is the preaching of the gospel. So I hope that as we work our way into this text tonight, And then as we start working our way through many, many passages in Isaiah, you're going to see that very simple pattern right before us. So let's go ahead first of all and let's talk about a couple of introductory thoughts. I know this is not a class. But I did want to give you a little bit of summary information to help you think about this book that we're going to be working our way with. So first of all, how is the book of Isaiah structured? We know that it is a long, long book. But really the book falls into three basic sections. The first section is verses chapters 1 through 35. And these chapters are primarily prophecies of judgment against the nation. And so if you're reading to the book of Isaiah and you just read the first 30 chapters, you're going to be like, what a dark and gloomy and miserable book. And if you only read the last 40 uh the last 20 chapters, chapters 4 through 66, you're going to say, what an exciting book, what a positive book, what an encouraging book. And in fact, you actually have to have both of them. There is a very dark and heavy message in the front of the book, and there is a very hopeful and encouraging message at the end of the book, and then right in the middle. Is it a story of history? And this is a little parenthesis of chapters 36 through 39. And that's during the life of Hezekiah. So that kind of gives you a basic overview of the book. And by the way, one of the reasons we're not going verse by verse, chapter by chapter, is because I don't want to lose everybody because all you have is these dark and gloomy passages of judgment for, you know, three years in the book of Isaiah, and then it's like, all right, are we ever going to get to this more hopeful and encouraging point? I think it's helpful to kind of see all of it together. So as Pastor Josh and I work through this tact these texts We're going to kind of work through both of them together. Second thing I want you to notice is the theme of the book. And the theme could actually be found in the name of the person that God used to give this message. And his name is Isaiah. And Isaiah means salvation is of the Lord. By the way, that's what the book's all about Here is this nation who has sinned against God, the recipients of so much grace and so much kindness and so much opportunity, and they've said, no, no, no, no. And then God says, here is comfort and hope. If you will repent, if you will turn to me, salvation is available. That is really the same with the book. So the first section talks about why we need it. The last section talks about how salvation is possible. It is possible because of the Messiah, who's going to come, he's going to die for our sins so that we can be reconciled to God. Third thing I want to mention is the timing of the book. And really that's mentioned here at the beginning. We have the names of Uzziah, Joseph, Ahaz, and Hezekiah. During this time period of 60 years, Isaiah is going to preach to the nation and to these kings, and he's also going to write this book during this time period. Sixty years is a long time. It's a very long time for somebody to be laboring in ministry Especially when you realize that for most of that time the nation was not very receptive to the things that he had to say. It was also a time where the nation was going through a lot of change. So if we look at the the life of Ahaz, we see that Judah is in is in, or if we look at the life of uh Uzziah, we see that the nation is really at kind of the pinnacle of its power after the dividing of the kingdom. But then during the time of Ahaz, there's this massive decline. And then during the life of Hezekiah, there are many, many reforms that are mentioned. In fact, out of all of the kings that we talked about, During our study on the kings, I think Hezekiah was one of the most encouraging, saved the end of his life, of course. But Hezekiah was someone who led huge reforms and there was a resurgence, there was a change. But it was simply a counter to the trend. A hundred years after Hezekiah is dead, the nation is completely devastated by the Babylonians. And so that tells you a little bit about the nature of what's going on when this book is being written. The last thing I want to mention is that this book is a very rich prophetic book. And there are two details that I think are very important. When Isaiah talks about the destruction of Judah, he is writing these things, he is preaching these things during a time when the nation is strong. People don't believe that the nation is going to be taken over. They don't believe that the nation is going to decline and their enemies are going to triumph. They don't believe that. He prophesies those things. That's significant because it shows you the nature of Scripture. It's not just a book of men, but it is God using men to give us his word. We also see that this book is written about 700 years before the messianic prophecies that are going to come to fulfillment. And by the way, Some of the prophecies in the book of Isaiah have not yet come to fulfillment because they are still yet in the future in relation to the kingdom of God So with that in mind, let's look at the content of chapter one, and we are walking into a courtroom setting. God is calling his people to give an account of what they have done before him. And so we see this in verses 2 through 15. What exactly is going on? Well, God is establishing that he has a problem with this nation. And this is a nation that God had a covenant with. The word covenant means that God has entered into an agreement. In fact, uh Frank used that word chesed, and the idea is that God has put his word on the line. He's established a covenant with his people, and because he has promised, he's going to be faithful to fulfill his obligation to the covenant. So this nation is a nation that's had the law, the prophets, a rich history. But they still are not a godly people. Look down at verse number two. Here's what it says. Hero heavens. Give ear, O earth, the Lord has spoken. We just had a mission. Where people went and flew around the moon. And they were sending back some pretty incredible pictures of the moon, of the earth, and then out into the expanse. And so here is God saying, heavens, listen, earth, listen, I have spoken. Why does God do that? Well, you and I are only on this planet for a short period of time. 50 years, 70 years. Some of you are going, let's go a little further than that. How about 80, 90? I don't know. Maybe somebody in this room will live to be 100 years old. I have no idea But when you look at how long this planet has been around, a hundred years is nothing. In fact, when you think about that hundred years in light of eternity, it's nothing. It's a grain of sand. And so when God established this covenant thousands of years before the prophet Isaiah comes onto the scene. God calls the people to hear the terms of his agreement, and he calls a courtroom to listen and to be a witness on that day. And you know what that witness is, it's heaven and earth. While one generation will come and it'll die and their and their children will replace them and their children's children will replace them, and then that generation will be gone, and the next generation comes. And we have this cycle of generation after generation after generation. The heavens and the earth stand. And they're there to testify. And here's what he says, Deuteronomy chapter 4, verse 23. I'll take you back to that day. He says, Take heed to yourselves, lest you forget the covenant of the Lord your God, which he made with you and to make you a graven image or a likeness of anything which the Lord God hath forbidden thee. The Lord thy God is a consuming fire. He's a jealous God. When thou shalt begilt children and thy children's children, you shall have remained long in the land. And shall corrupt yourselves and make a graven image of a likeness of anything, and shall do evil in the sight of the Lord thy God to provoke him to anger. I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day. That is how Isaiah opens the book. Thousands of years have passed, but God remembers his word. His word still stands. So let's look at the charges that God brings against the people. And by the way, they're fairly heavy charges. Listen to the first one, verse number two. I have nourished and I have brought up children, and they have rebelled against me. I have nourished and I have brought up children, and they have rebelled against me. One of the great tragedies of life is how ungrateful children can be when they get older. It's true. By the way, one of the greatest blessings of life is when children get older and they realize how much their parents have given them. And they go back and they're like You know what? I know that there were a lot of times that I gave you grief as a teenage boy mom, or whatever the situation. And uh and you think about those times that you really were not um The greatest example as a child, and you say, hey, thank you for putting up with me and being kind to me and loving me and all of those things. But the truth is that that doesn't always happen. Sometimes parents give a lot, and their kids don't appreciate it And so when he touches on this particular issue, can you imagine how some of the people living at that time would have felt when he says, God just said I'm an ungrateful child that does not does not appreciate what my Parents have done for me. He says, Yes, I'm talking to you. You do not appreciate me. I've taken care of you. I have nurtured you. And you have rebelled against me and you don't care. His second charge, verse number three. This one I find to be very, very fascinating. He says, the ox knows his master. His owner. The ass, the master's crib, Israel does not know. My people doth not consider. What is the difference between a dog and a cat? A cat loves whoever feeds them. And a dog loves you unconditionally. Now some of you are like, I I don't like that illustration. I'm sorry if I've offended you. But the point is this an animal knows where it gets food. An animal knows where to go. If you start feeding deer in your backyard, you're gonna have deer that just keep coming and they keep coming. And some of you are like I do have uh deer that come that come. I don't feed them. They just eat my bushes, the ones that are supposed to flower and look really pretty. But this is what God is saying here. He's saying an animal that does not have the intellectual capacities of a human, not an image bearer , they know their owner better than you do. Isn't that a pretty in-your-face statement? You're an unreasonable people. That's what he's saying. Third thing he says, verses 4 through 6. Ah, sinful nation laden with iniquity. Seed of evildoers, children are corrupters, they've forsaken the Lord. They've provoked the Holy One to Israel of Israel to anger. They've gone backward. Why should you be stricken anymore? You revolt more and more, and the whole head is sick. The whole heart is faint. This is a graphic illustration. From the soul even unto the head, there is no soundness in it. Wounds and bruises and putrefying sores. You know what a bed sore is, right? Imagine that all over a person's body. The person that comes to my mind is Job. And God basically says, you as a people, from head to toe, from the body to the heart, you are completely corrupt people. You're like not very nice. Number four. Don't worry, there's only seven. How would you feel if he's calling you out, right? Number seven, your country is desolate. Your cities are burned with fire, your land, the strangers devoured in your presence. It is desolate as the next Verse here, overthrown by strangers, the daughter of Zion is left as a cottage and a vineyard, a lodge in a garden of cucumbers as the besieged city. He says, you are proud. Here is a nation that had been brought to its knees, and they still don't submit to God. They have been dominated by their enemies. God has permitted them to be overrun and they still look at God and they say, I'm not going to say. That I want to repent. I don't care. And you know there are people that live that way. Their lives are literally getting plowed over by circumstance. The choices that they make are burying them And they do not say, you know what, there's a God in heaven that I need to turn to. They don't do it. And that's what he's saying about these people. Verse number nine. They were unfaithful, except the Lord of hosts had left us a very small remnant. We should have been as Sodom. And like Gomorrah, hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom, give ear unto the law of your God, you people of Gomorrah. You know, in all the Old Testament there are no more infamous people than the people of Sodom and Gomorrah. And that's what God said his people had become. The rulers, the nation. Verses eleven through twelve, he talks about their hippo hypocrisy. He says To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices, saith the Lord? I am full of burnt offerings of rams and the fat of fed beasts. I delight not in the blood of bullocks or of lambs or of goats. When you come and appear before me, who hath required this at your hand to tread my courts? He says, all your sacrifices are pointless. I don't know It's like a person who somehow thinks that they can do whatever they want, but then if they give their money to God, somehow they like tie his hands and he has to like do whatever they want him to do. People think somehow they can bribe God. They can twist his arm. They can make him look at them differently because of what they've given. And he says, not true. And then number seven, they were so self-righteous. Verses 13 through 15 he says, bring no more vain oblations of incense. It is an abomination to me. The new moons and the Sabbaths and the calling of assemblies, I cannot away with it. It is iniquity, even the solemn meetings, your new moons and your appointed feasts. My soul hates them. They're a trouble unto me. I'm weary to bear them. And when you spread forth your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. Yea, when you make many prayers. I will not hear. Your hands are full of blood. Now, when we read these verses, these are very heavy verses. And as I said, Isaiah has some very heavy sections. And it's really easy for us to look at these people and say, well, it's a good thing we're not like them. But here's what the scripture says in Romans three. It says there's none righteous, not even one. There's none that understandeth, there's none that seeketh after God. They're all gone out of the way. They're together becoming profitable. There's none that doeth good, no, not one. Matthew 19, I think of the story where this man is talking to Jesus, and he comes to him and he says, Good master, what good thing can I do so that I can have eternal life? And he said unto him, Why callest thou me good? Jesus says, you know the commandments. There's nobody who's good but God. Now, what's the point of this? Jesus says, your view of yourself is wrong. What's amazing about the nation is as Isaiah writes these words, they believe they're okay. They believe that God accepts them. They believe that going through the motions of their religious sacrifice was enough for God. And God says it's not true. I know your heart. I know that your practice is complete hypocrisy. It's complete self-righteousness. Luke 18, verse 9, he spoke this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others. Here is the point. There are times that God needs to interrupt our lives with the truth. And when we go out on evangelism and we take the gospel to someone, before we talk about what Christ has done for us, we need to talk about what we've done before God. And people need to hear the bad news that when we go through the Ten Commandments, we break all of them We're not close. We fall so far short. In fact, when the Bible compares us, when we're compared to God's righteousness, we are filthy rags before Him. And we need to be reminded of this. Second thing I want you to notice here is how God calls the people to respond and turn to him. And by the way, this is very, very important. This is setting up for what is going to be the gospel appeal a little bit later. In verses 16 through 17, he says this, wash you. Make you clean, put away the evil of your doings from before my eyes. Cease to do evil. Learn to do well. Seek judgment. Relieve the oppressed. Judge the fatherless. Plead for the widows. You know what he's saying? He's saying this. Turn to me and do what is right. But here's the question. Did the nation have the ability To cleanse themselves and live different. I would say that the harder they tried, the more they realized their only hope was God's grace. He says, be cleansed, wash you and make you clean. Do what is right. Put away the evil of your doings. But here is the problem that people have. That problem is that we do not meet the standard that God calls us to. In Romans chapter 8, it says that the carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be, so that they that are in the flesh cannot please God. Here God is calling the sinful nation to turn to him, and as they try, they will realize they fail. Romans 3. 19, we know that whatsoever things the law saith, it saith to them that are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. By the deeds of the law no flesh is justified in his sight. By the law is the knowledge of sin. We don't have the ability to make ourselves clean. We don't have the ability to remove our former guilt. We do not have the ability to change our broken, fallen nature. So the question is, what's the solution? Well, the solution is we need God to save us. In Romans 8:3 it says, What the law could not do, and that it was weak in the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin condemned sin in the flesh. That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. Galatians 4, it says that when the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his Son. Made of a woman made under the law to redeem them who were under the law that we might receive the adoption of sons. Now what's all this say? Our only hope is the gospel. And you know what's wonderful about these verses? He's going to tell them that in fact there's a way that they can be cleansed. And they can be washed clean. And that is God's grace. Look down in your Bible at verse number 18. He says, come now, let us reason together, though your sins be as scarlet. By the way, scarlet is red. So we were singing whiter than snow. It's a great song, right? We were singing about it. He says, though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. The question we should all ask is how? How is that possible? Our sins are a stain that we don't have the power to remove. The very best that we can give to God doesn't wash away our sin. How can we be cleansed? And the answer is somebody's got to do it for us. Psalm 103, verse 12. As far as the east is from the west, so far as he removed our transgressions from us. us. God did it. Hebrew, excuse me. Hebrews chapter 10 verse 17. Their sins and their iniquities I will remember no more. The way that God is going to remove the guilt of these people is through the cross of Christ. And by the way, as I mentioned earlier, the first half of the book is the judgment portion. The second half is grace. And listen to what he says in Isaiah 53. I know that we know this text, but I want you to think how this Explains how Isaiah chapter 1, where he talks about our sins being washed away, how that is accomplished. Listen to what he says in Isaiah 53, 3. He, the Messiah, will be despised. And he'll be rejected of men. Verse 5, he'll be wounded for our transgressions and he'll be bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was on him. With his stripes we are healed. Verses ten and eleven, he will make his soul an offering for sin. He will see his seed, prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord will prosper in his hand. He'll see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. By his knowledge, my righteous servant will justify many. He shall bear their iniquities. How does the sinner be washed clean? How do the sins that stand between us and a holy God, how do they get removed? There's one answer. It's Isaiah 53. Christ would be despised. He would be rejected. He would be bruised. He would be wounded for our sins. He would be punished for our sins. He himself would become our peace. He would literally become an offering for sin. And when God sees that offering, there is 100% satisfaction. We are justified because he bears our iniquities. We are not clean because we go to God and we say, okay, I'm going to do better today and I'm going to do the best that I can. I'm going to wash my sins away. Then what's the point of the cross? The point of the cross is to do it for us. That's why salvation isn't through the law, but by faith alone in Christ. By turning to Him as a repentant sinner and placing our faith in what He has done for us, God washes our sins. He calls us righteous. He makes us his child. In the New Testament, he talks about this in Hebrews, Hebrews 1 verse 3. Christ being the brightness of his glory, the express image of his person, upholding all things by the word of his power, when he himself purged our sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. Purge our sins. That's Isaiah fifty-three. Or Hebrews nine twenty-six, now once in the end of the world he has appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself, as it is appointed unto man once to die, after this the judgment, so Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many, and unto them that look for him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation. That's the gospel. So we step back for just a moment. We need to think about what we just looked at here. We look at the first part of this chapter, and it is so dark. And it is so heavy. And he lays out accusation after accusation after accusation. And he says, you're guilty, you have no hope. Turn to me. Cleanse yourself. Do it, you can't. But I will wash you. I will cleanse you. I will forgive you. Because I'm going to send a savior. That's where the book starts. You could almost say that Isaiah chapter 1 gives us the whole book in a nutshell. Here's the problem. Here's the solution. It's Christ. What I love about the book of Isaiah as we work our way through it is we're going to see Christ exalted over and over and over and over again from the Old Testament. We 're to see all these passages that show us the problem and point us to the solution who is Christ. So how do we apply this? We need to see ourselves the way that God does. And we need to glory in what God has done for us. It's all about the cross. We need to pause and ask the question, do we really realize the depths of our sin? Do we realize how holy God is? I mean it's it's like we look at we look at this passage of scripture and we're like wow God really called them out but it's like we don't stop and think well he kind of should call me out too I'm in the same position. I mean, yes, different time period, different circumstances, but the same heart problems. We need to ask ourselves: have we been gripped by how broken and unworthy we are? You say, well, that's so dark. That's so discouraging. Well, it leads us to the light. If we examine the truth and we accept the truth, it brings us to repentance before God, which does what? It gives us the hope of salvation. Do we see ourselves as people who have no ability to earn God's favor, to appease his justice, to remove our sin debt? We need God to do that for us. Do we realize how great his love for us is? This morning we we we looked at the text in Ephesians chapter 3 and Paul prays that we would understand or comprehend the depths and the breadth and the height, and that we would know the love of God which surpasses is all knowledge. Well, how do we do that? Well it's by reflecting on how broken we are and how great his mercy is. It's seeing those two things side by side. Do we realize that the incarnation in the cross was our only hope? I hope everyone in this room has come face to face with the gospel and placed their faith in Christ. But it's possible maybe someone hasn't. Maybe there's somebody here. Maybe it could be a kid, a teenager. Maybe you've gone to church here for all these years and and it's just been a tradition for you. I don't know. Maybe every person in this room is a person We have people that join us in the live stream regularly. Maybe you're on the live stream and you're you're hearing this message and you're like, you know what? It's just been a tradition for me. I've never taken it seriously. Well, turn to Christ. Place your faith in him. Allow his grace to remove your guilt, to wash you clean, as you turn to him and place your faith in the cross. And I leave you with one final thought. We need to actively delight in him and live in the light of this great grace. I know that it is easy for us because of circumstance to get discouraged. We look at our failures sometimes. You know, that actually defines us in our thinking. But it doesn't define us in the courtroom of God. We need to get back to the basics. We need to remind ourselves of who we are in Christ. And let that be what shapes our joy. We have peace with God, but do we feel that peace? We are forgiven, but do we embrace that forgiveness? He does love us and he does accept us. Do we actually believe that that is true? May God help us to leave this place tonight with joy in our hearts because we realize what God has done for us. If he would tell these people, your sins can be removed, he'd say the same thing to you and to me. Let's bow together for prayer. Lord in heaven, we thank you so much. Father, we are so grateful for what you have done for us. We thank you for the cross of Christ. That he shed his blood, offered himself as a once-and-for-all sacrifice for our sins. That through the shedding of his blood our sins have been remitted. We've been washed clean by the blood of Christ. We have been forgiven. Our sin debt has been canceled, paid in full through the sacrifice of Christ. We are declared righteous because we have been united to Him. Not through anything that we have done, but through who He is. We stand before you forgiven. And we are so grateful. Help us never to get over this great grace and rich mercy. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.