Turning our Bibles to 1 John chapter 2. 1 John chapter 2. I'll read the text, go to the Lord in prayer, and then we'll dig into this passage. 1 John 2, verse 25. And this is the promise that He hath promised us, even eternal life. These things have I written unto you concerning them that seduce you. But the anointing which ye have received from him abideth in you, and ye need not that any man teach you, but as the same anointing teaches you of all things things, and is true, and is no lie, and even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him. And now little children abide in him, that when he shall appear we may have confidence, and not be ashamed before him at his coming. If ye know that he is righteous, ye know that everyone that doeth righteousness is born of him. Let's put our hearts together in prayer and then dig into this passage. Father, we thank you so much for the various hymns that we have sung this morning and the music that has pointed our attention to you. We think about the doxology where we were reminded to praise God from whom all blessings flow. We think of the song that Tory just sang, Lord, send me anywhere, only go with me. Father, help us to remember that every circumstance that we walk through. You don't leave us. You walk through those things with us. You come alongside of us and you strengthen us and you give us the wisdom that we need to address those issues. You mature us and you shape us and you grow us. I pray that this morning as we open up this passage and as we think about what John is saying, and then we try to keep it in correct proportion with the rest of Scripture that you will continue to shape our thinking about how we grow as Christians, how we mature, how we become discerning. How we become more like the Lord Jesus. I pray that as I open up this passage and preach it, that your spirit would strengthen me and speak through your word this morning. Stir up our hearts. Move us in our affections and strengthen us in the inner man. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. As I come to a passage like this, I get in my mind two young men who are in Bible college or in seminary having a discussion. Maybe any of you guys that went to Bible college can maybe you know you know what it's like to be in a situation like this. All these guys are sitting around a table. Maybe Tori and I at one time were at a table kind of like this. And we're having a discussion. about theology. We're having a discussion about biblical questions. Maybe we just came out of a class. We just came out of some kind of format where there was a lot of discussion. And we're sitting down at this table, we're eating our lunch, and we're debating about how to approach that issue. One of the guys begins to quote from a commentary that he just read. Another guy begins to quote from a book that he just read. And another guy looks at them across the table and says, what's the big deal with these books, guys? We've got a Bible. We've got the Holy Spirit. Don't read those books. Don't read those commentaries. Don't do that. And then they get into this very heated debate about the use of books and commentaries and all those kinds of things. Well, when we come to a passage like this, I want you to realize that this passage has the potential to bring up that kind of a debate amongst people. John has a very specific purpose for stating what he states, but I think that when we understand that, we need to put it in proportion with other aspects of God's instruction in the New Testament. So when we think about how we grow and how we mature and how we relate to one another within the body of Christ, we have a balance and a correct view of how to look at those things. John has just stated in this passage a very sobering fact to these Christians. You live in the last days. I want you to be encouraged. There are false teachers around you. Some of those false teachers were even in your congregation at one time. They were people you knew. You saw them profess faith in Christ. You saw them get baptized. You saw them join the church. You saw them fellowship with the church. You saw them rise through the church into positions where they could influence people, and at some point those individuals drifted to the side and they've now left us. And he says the doctrines that they're teaching and the doctrines that they're preaching are false doctrines. So be very cautious of these people. You are living in the last days. You need to be wary Christian. That is the sense of which John is saying in 1 John chapter 2. But he wants to encourage these people. He wants them to know that they have all the tools that they need to be able to discern truth from error. One of the big things that was going on at that time is that some of these false teachers were saying, yes, I know that the apostles are teaching you these things, but that's not enough. There's an experience that I've had, you need to have it. There is a voice that I'm hearing, you need to hear that voice. You need to follow my instruction. And they were beginning to give them them the impression that they had something that these Christians did not have. And because they had that thing that these Christians did not have, they were not able to have the same level of knowledge and deaths and the same kind of Christian walk in quotes, if you will, that these false teachers were having. And so John is just trying to point to them. Look, you have everything that you need to make right discernment about what is true and what is false. God wants us to have a right view of how we develop discernment. And this text is a very important text. and us thinking correctly. But this text needs to be brought to bear with some other texts as well that will give us some warnings lest we take this passage and take it in the direction that John never intended it to go. You might say, how in the world can you and I have a biblical view of how we develop this thing called discernment? Three truths I'd like us to look at this morning. Let's begin with truth number one. God has given me, and God has given you all the tools. That we need to recognize and reject false teaching. Christian, today as you sit here, you have what you need to know what is right and what is wrong. We have emphasized this in some other messages. That doesn't mean that you will determine between what is right and what is wrong. Just because you have the tools does not mean that you'll pick up those tools. Just because you try to use those tools doesn't mean that you'll use them skillfully. You have to pick them up, you have to use them skillfully, but God's given you everything that you need to make right judgments about truth and error Notice what he says in the text. Verses 20 and 21. He says, ye have, and ye know all things. The anointing which you've received of him abideth in you, and ye need not that any man teach you But as the same anointing teacheth you of all things, and is true, and is no lie, even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him. Now we talked a little bit about this the other week, and I want to kind of bring back to your attention the main point of the passage that we looked at, verses 20 and 21. He describes these people as people who are anointed for service. Notice the phrase, ye have an unction from the Holy One. That word unction can be translated anointing. That's what it means. And the idea is something that you have been given by God to equip you and to empower you to a position of service in God's economy. So we go back to our Old Testament and we see people who were anointed. We think of Samuel, we think of David, we think of Saul, we think of the high priest. What was the point of that anointing of that individual? The priest would stand before the people, and God's man would come and pour oil on the head of that high priest, Aaron the first one. And when that oil was poured out on him, it was symbolic. The oil didn't change anything about Aaron. It was a symbol of something that was going on that they could not see, but was very real, and it was happening. God was setting aside this man, Aaron, to be the high priest. And as the high priest, he had a great responsibility to lead the people into the presence of God. He was going to perform the things that God told him to perform. He had a very sacred duty, a very holy calling. When God called Saul, the first king, to be Israel's king, what happens? Samuel goes and he anoints him with oil and he says, God has separated you out, Saul. You have a great responsibility. But I want to ask you a question: what happened to those men? What happened to Aaron? Did Aaron fulfill his duties perfectly? Nope, he certainly didn't. What about Saul? Did Saul fulfill his duties perfectly? We then come to God telling Samuel, go and anoint David. And he anoints David. Yet in my my scripture reading, I've come to a section where it's talking about David's darkest days. When David commits adultery, when David murders, when David basically uses his power to abuse those under his authority. And so God can set apart an individual for service. He can empower him. He can equip him. He can give him all the tools that he needs to do that work effectively. But that does not mean that he'll do that. When he says you have an unction from the Holy One, he's saying God has set you apart, Christian, for a specific task. Not to be a high priest, not to be a king. But to be a royal priesthood. Listen to what Peter says in 1 Peter chapter 2. Ye are a chosen generation. a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Every single person in this room who has trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ, you are God's child. You have that That's anointing, that's unction. And you are in a position where you are one of God's priests, if you will. We talk about this in our Baptist distinctives. We believe in individual soul liberty and we believe in the individual priesthood of the believer. There's a reason that in our church we have congregational votes. It's because we believe if you're saved, then you have the Holy Spirit inside of you and you have Soul liberty. And you are a priest in the eyes of God. He has set you apart. He's given you what you need to make good and right choices. Doesn't mean you will, but you are equipped to do so. He then makes this statement. He says, you have a complete understanding of sound doctrine. Now when he says you know all things, And I have written unto you, because you do not know the truth, but because you know it, don't think that John's saying you have this exhaustive knowledge of everything that there is to know. He has something very specific in mind. He's talking to a group of people who have false teachers saying you don't have enough information to be a good Christian. You need this additional information, which, oh by the way, I have that information. I can give you that information. What you have is deficient. And he's basically saying this. That's not true. That's a lie. That's a false teacher. What you have is sufficient in the Word of God. When John writes in 1 John 1:3 That which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you, that you may have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus Christ. And we've written to you so that your joy might be full. He believes that everything he's given to them is sufficient. It's enough. They can have what they need and what God wants them to have. This is why we say that God's word is our sole authority or faith and practice. This is why we believe in the sufficiency of Scripture. What we're basically saying is everything God wanted you to know about doctrine and faith, it's in the good the Word of God. there and we have it there and we need to take it up and we need to use it correctly. But this is interesting He then goes on to contrast them with the false teachers. Notice carefully what he says in verse 26. These things have I written unto you concerning them that seduce you. He's basically said, they're false teachers. They don't have an anointing or an unction from the Holy One. They do not have knowledge that you need to be a good Christian. They are false teachers. They should be identified. They should be rejected. They're not to be followed. They're not to be given a voice in the church. He says, but that's the contrast, the anointing which ye have received of him abideth in you. Do you see how he's making a distinction between these two groups? He's saying you want to follow these people because you think they have something you don't have. But you're wrong. You have something they don't have. It's kind of ironic, isn't it? He's basically saying you have what you need Don't be duped. Don't be discouraged. Don't be drawn to the side. Keep your eyes focused on what God has given in His Word. We have everything that we need, Christian, to know what is right and to know what is wrong. That doesn't mean that you're going to pick up that tool and use it correctly. It doesn't mean that you have discernment automatically, but you have what you need. Truth too, my equipping directly combats vulnerabilities to false teachers. My equipping directly combats vulnerabilities to false teachers. Whether you realize it or not, every person in this room has areas of vulnerability. And our vulnerabilities are not the same. Some people are extremely emotional and guess what? They're very easily duped in the area of emotion. Some people are very non-emotional and they're very tempted to become proud and pompous. and focused on the mind and emotion is not even a factor in any decision that they ever make. It's true. We're all different in our personalities. In our makeup, in our backgrounds. And so every single one of us, whether we realize this or not, has certain vulnerabilities that are unique to us. And my question is, how does that vulnerability get exploited? A false teacher comes in and preys on that vulnerability and you don't even realize that's what he's doing. Think about when I go fishing. You know, I walk out there and I kind of assess the time of the year, where the sun is in the sky, the time of the day. where the fish are, what they're feeding on, and I go into my tackle box and I pull out exactly what I think is going to dupe the fish on that day. And I try it, and if that one doesn't work, then I go into my box and I get something else. And I just keep moving and I keep trying until I find exactly what's going to work. Satan knows what works for you And he's going to go after that area. He's going to exploit that area. He assesses where you are vulnerable and he's going to target you in that area. We have some people that their job is to assess vulnerability in a system. That's what they get paid to do. And what do they do? They secure that system and they get paid lots of money and they feed their families off of assessment and addressing those problems. That's what they do for a living. You know, think about a farmer. Let's say he's trying to raise tomatoes, and I've been told tomatoes in Maryland grow naturally without anybody helping them. Not totally true. Let's say you really want to have a good crop. Well you're going to think about how that plant can become vulnerable. When that plant falls on the ground, it can start to rotten, it can start to have problems. So what do you do? You stake it up. You get a cord and you you tie it up and you let it grow up or you let it grow down. When you see that there are parts of that plant that are starting to get unhealthy, what do you do? You just you cut them off. When you see that the plant's showing a nutrient deficiency, you start putting more nutrient in the soil and lots of different ways to do that. When you see that it's too dry, you apply water. When you see that it's too water too wet, you say, how did can I make sure that this area drains well? You go to that plant, you assess where it's vulnerable. And you address that vulnerability so that it can be healthy and strong and vibrant and produce the fruit that you want it to produce. God 's word assesses us where we are, and God points to areas of vulnerability that you don't even realize are there, and His word meets those needs and strengthens you in those areas. So that you do not become prey to false teachers. When we set aside God's word, when we neglect the tools he's given us, we remain vulnerable. We're like a person that's assessing a system and they say that area right there is a vulnerability. It's weak. It can be exploited. They know it's there and they don't deal with it. That's what happens when we neglect the Word of God. God's Spirit, through his word, directly confronts the problems where we are susceptible. And I want to just go through a couple of passages to show you exactly what I'm talking about. And when we talk about those passages, realize You may very well, in your natural disposition, be very prone and vulnerable in these areas. I think of the first category, the person who's undisciplined. Anybody here struggle with discipline? Being disciplined, guess what? That is a vulnerability. In 2 Timothy 3, verse 6, Paul tells Timothy, he says, there are false teachers who creep into houses And lead captive silly women laden with sins, led away with diverse lusts. I'll put it in real simple terms. They're not disciplined. Now, of course, he mentions ladies, but there are men that are just like that too. I 'm not. We all can go through these places where we are not disciplined. And so a false teacher can focus in on that. And you don't even realize that's what's happening. But you're vulnerable there. Another category, those who are untrained in their conscience. We have folks whose conscience become dull to what is clearly wrong, and they can do that, and it doesn't even affect them. On the other side, we have folks that their conscience becomes so sensitive that areas where they have complete liberty in Christ. And God says there's nothing wrong about that issue. Their conscience is burdened down in an unnecessary and in an unhealthy way. In Colossians 2. 16, he says this, let no man judge you in meat. or in drink or in respect to a holy day or the new moon or the Sabbath days. He's talking about a specific problem that was plaguing the early church. And within the Jewish aspects of those congregations, those people's background was making their conscience unnecessarily alert in areas of freedom. They believed that they could be judged in the foods they ate, the things they drank, the holy days they observed or did not, the new moons and the Sabbath days. And so what happens when a person's conscience is untrained They can be exploited in that area. I think a lot of times false teachers go after that major vulnerability. A third area is that is being doctrinally uneducated. It's staggering to see how many young people who grow up in churches that on paper are doctrinally sound. Who go out and end up in a cult group when they're in their 20s and their 30s. It's shocking. It's scary. How is it that that happens? They never became grounded in the faith. 2 Peter 2, 1 through 3 says this. These false teachers will bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them. Many will follow their pernicious ways, by reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of And so what they will do is they will attack sound biblical doctrine and they'll twist it in just a little way. And because a person's not sound in doctrine, they won't recognize what's going on there. This past week I was doing a Bible study at one of the area community colleges. And it was a group who all of the folks there were professing Christians. I know that they were. And so after going through the study, I open it up to question and answers, and it was shocking the kind of discussions The kinds of questions, the kinds of opinions that were being laid out on the table, and the thing that I was convinced of was none of these young people are even remotely grounded in doctrine. They have come to be a part of this study because they want to be a part of something where they're going to learn the Bible and they don't have the ability to recognize truth from error at all. It was shocking. It was so sad to see. But when someone is not doctrinally sound, they're vulnerable. Deeply vulnerable. Another category, and this is an interesting one, is those who are wounded. 2 Peter 2. 18. It says they will allure you through the lust of the flesh, through much wantonness. They promise liberty. They make you servants of corruption. You are brought into bondage. You've escaped the pollutions of this world and become entangled and overcome. Imagine that. Sometimes a person gets into the church setting, and you know what happens? They become wounded. Hey, we're all sinners. I'm a sinner. You're a sinner. And if your standard for the Christian faith is me, or the person sitting next to you, or somebody views you as the standard, They're in for some really serious disappointment at some point in your experience with them. It's gonna happen. And you know what happens? People become wounded because of unrealistic expectations of church life. What they think should be there, and it should be there on paper. But we are sinners living in a fallen world. And when they get wounded, they react against soundness. And they become very vulnerable. And somebody comes along and says, Hey, you were in such a terrible place there. Those people were so domineering, so demeaning. They were this and this and this. And they pull you into their little system. And you know what happens? You end up being trapped. You end up being overcome. You think that you have come into a position of liberty. Rather, you have become the bait and been you've been trapped. When people are wounded many times, they become very vulnerable to false teaching and false teachers. In Colossians chapter 2, it talks about people whose education and their knowledge becomes a stumbling block to them. In Colossians 2, he says, beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy. Through vain deceit after the traditions of men and not after Christ. You know, some people are not easily trapped by their emotions. They're not wounded, but they're very f f philosophically astute. And because of their education and because of their knowledge, they get sucked into a system that kind of is attractive to them. They might not be attractive to other people at all. It's a potential vulnerability. And by the way, I'm not suggesting that we should be dumb. I'm not suggesting that we shouldn't be educated. I absolutely believe we should educate ourselves. But realize that it's possible to become sucked into pride and an elitist attitude and philosophical in our approach to the Christian life. The last thing I'll mention is this is superstition. Colossians 2. 18 says this, let no man beguile you. Through the worshiping of angels, intruding into those things which you have not seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind. This really sticks in my mind this week as I was talking to these young people. There was a young man, the question posed to him is, you know, where do you stand when it comes to Christianity and Bible doctrine and all those things? He made a statement kind of like this, I believe in God, but I'm not sure about the Bible. But kind of my assessment is out of all the groups out of there This particular group within Christianity and Buddhism, they're probably the closest together. And I was like, what? That's what he said. Can you explain that, please? Well, you know, Buddhists believe in like reincarnation. I don't even know if they actually believe that. But he's going on, he's explaining These systems. And what I realized was that this young man, he didn't want doctrine, he didn't want soundness. He didn't want the faith. He wanted a philosophical system that went into areas that were intriguing to him. A lot of Christians professing so to be are very much allured by the occult, are very much allured by superstitions. We really experience this in our time in Ghana. People who would claim to be Christian, they would carry a Bible into a church, they would seem to be very, very devout, yet if you got down into their real belief system, you would find out that there was a tremendous amount of syncretism going on below the surface. And whether we realize this or not, it's also going on in this country as well. There's a lot of syncretism that goes on. There are a lot of incompatible views. Worldviews that can never be put together, yet people believe somehow that they can. And that is an area that a false teacher can exploit. The point of this whole little discussion here is that God has given you everything that you need to address those vulnerabilities. I don't know where you are, where you are vulnerable, where you struggle. Each person can be different. But I ask you the question: that area of vulnerability, how will that be addressed? Only the Bible is going to give you the information and the instruction that you need to address that issue. We then come to a final truth, and that is this. My equipping should never lead me into isolation. My equipping should never lead me into isolation. Think about those two young men sitting at that table discussing theology. The one who said, All I need is my Bible and the Holy Spirit. I don't need any books, I don't need any commentaries, I don't need anything. Is that the right way to approach things? I think on the other side we have the person who doesn't read their Bible. All they read is commentaries and books. Is that the right approach? Let me give you this illustration that I think really, to me, illustrates very well what we need to be like in our lives. You know, in in our country we don't grow bananas. But in Ghana we grew a lot of bananas and plantain. And I love growing bananas. This is one of those plants that really fascinated me. Let's say that you want to get bananas. What do you do? You go into the forest into an area where there are lots of different banana trees. And you just cut off the base of a big tree, one plant, and you take that plant and you plant it where you want the tree, and you leave it for like 10 months. You know what happens after 10, 12 months? You come back, and there is a pretty large banana tree, and at the base of that banana tree are all kinds of little feeder banana trees. That's what's going on. You can go and you can cut down that initial tree and it'll just keep coming. You can cut it down and it'll keep coming. Until it begins to produce a fruit, that tree will keep coming. It's like pruning. When that tree produces its first bunch of bananas, it becomes vulnerable because the weight of those bananas begins weighing on that kind of weak tree, and at some point the tree will snap. And the bananas will be hanging down by the ground, and that tree will snap off, and eventually the tree will just die. It'll die. And you know what's interesting about banana trees? You can take the leaves and cut them off, put them in a compost pile and leave them for a year and come back and they're still there. But the stock is opposite. You take that stock and you put it in a compost pile and six months later you won't find it. It breaks down into this rich, black, nutrient-rich compost. And so what ends up happening is as those trees develop and mature, and they produce their fruit and you cut off the fruit and the tree dies and it falls and it begins to rot and decay. That dead tree begins to fertilize and strengthen the trees that began at its base. And this is how the tree multiplies. So each one puts out its little feeders, and eventually, over a period of years, that one tree produces an entire grove of banana trees. And you know what's feeding those trees? The ones that died before they came. Do you know where they came from? They came from a parent tree that right before it produced its bananas, it put out all these little feeders. In other words, the trees that are existing and that are vibrant and that are strong and that are producing fruit are producing on the trees that went before them. That's how we all are. We are standing on the shoulders of the past generations of Christians. We grow and we thrive and we go to the places that we go because they laid foundations for us. You know, there's so much about biblical theology that I know only because I grew up in a home where my parents Love the Lord, took me faithfully to church, and taught me read your Bible every day. Just a real simple little thing. And I remember getting up in the morning and watching my dad and my mom reading their Bibles. Where I am Is to a very high degree built on the shoulders of those who went before me. And I think that it's so foolish for us as Christians To think that we are self-made individuals, that we can stand in isolation, and that we can grow and we can thrive without those who've gone before us. We're all dependent on somebody in our Christian growth. Somebody says, well, you know, it's just me and my Bible. Hey, guess what? How'd you learn how to read? Somebody taught you. How'd you get the Bible in your language? Somebody translated it. How did they have something to work on? Well, they had to go and collect the manuscripts and do the work and do the translation for you. Oh, I'm going to just learn the Greek and the Hebrew and I'm going to go back. Well somebody's got to teach you that too. And oh you've got to get a dictionary out and you've got to look up words. And by the way, your knowledge of Greek and Hebrew might become more of a detriment to you. Because you think you know how to study it. And you find out that you make a lot of kind of silly mistakes that are based on you have less knowledge than you think you have We are all dependent on somebody. We all need mentors. We all need godly Christians who have walked through life and have gone through experien experiences that we haven't gone through. You know, how many times does someone who's raised their kids, they're retired, look at young people and say, these young people don't listen to anybody. And those young people ten years later are like, hey mom and dad, uh this is a little bit different than I thought. And they're asking all these questions and you're like, okay, you came around. Well you did that too. We all do that. The Bible warns us about making ourselves an isolated group. Even in Proverbs, when Solomon talks to his son, he says, listen, in the multitude of counselors there's safety. So go to people who've walked through life and know something. And learn from them before you take a step out there. There's safety in that. You know, that's why we need the church. That's why when I study and I dig into the passage, I'll pick up a commentary because I should be saying something that's similar to something some other Christians have said about that passage. I shouldn't be the only person who's ever seen it this way. Because if I'm the only person that's ever seen it that way, that's an indication that I'm wrong. Okay. You mean two thousand years of church history and nobody's seen it that way before? And all of a sudden you're the standard. I mean, we get this mentality. We back ourselves into isolation. And the way that we see things is really wrong. First Corinthians chapter 10, verse 12, let him that thinketh he stand, take heed lest he fall. Whenever we open up our Bibles, we are fully equipped to understand what God has said. And if we will read the Word of God carefully, If we will analyze what is there, the Holy Spirit helps us to understand the word and he drives home those points and he convicts us and he convinces us. But let me tell you something. When you talk to godly Christians who see it exactly like you've seen it, you know what that does? It reminds you of something. That's what it says. These people walking with God doing their research have seen the same thing because that is what it says. And when you are constantly hearing something that's different than what seems to be very obvious, take note. James 4:6, God resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. If you and I want to be discerning individuals, then we need to rub shoulders with godly people. That's how we can move forward. And that's how we can grow. And that's how we can thrive. We can learn so much from those who've gone before us. Not that they become God to us, a secondary Holy Spirit to us, no. But they help strengthen us in our understanding. They point us to things that we overlooked. Think about some passages that talk about the need for us to be dependent upon one another in community. Hebrews 3, exhort one another daily, lest you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. You and I, if we pull back and we isolate ourselves and we have this mentality, it's just me and my Bible, you know what, you're going to become a very hard and callous person because nobody can ever push back and say, that's not true. What you're saying there is not accurate. What you're doing there is wrong. You will lose your ability. to be confronted and to be humble and to be gentle. Hebrews chapter 10, consider one another and provoke unto love and to good works You will lose your passion and your zeal and your love for the Lord if you pull back in isolation because those people around you When you're struggling, they're strengthening you and they're encouraging you and they're refocusing you. We grow in community. Ephesians 4. God gave us leadership so that they can point us to the Word of God for the perfecting of the saints the edifying of the body of Christ, the unifying of the faith, so that we come into the knowledge of God, so that we come to maturity. We need people who've walked through light ahead of us to say, this is an area you need to grow in. That's why God gives us all parents. Because as we're growing up, if we didn't have a mom and a dad, if we didn't have a parent, if we didn't have somebody to say, that's wrong, don't do it, imagine what we'd become And as we mature and as we grow, we don't mysteriously get to a place where we don't need other people to influence us. We continue to need that. Even pastors. Need other men, godly people, to have those sharpening relationships with them. Proverbs 27:17, iron sharpeneth iron So a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend. You need people to sharpen you. I need people to sharpen me. Every conflict is an opportunity for you to grow. It's an opportunity for me to grow. It's an opportunity for us to mature. We grow in community. Galatians 6. Sometimes we need to be restored. Sometimes we need people to bear our burdens. Sometimes we need that interaction with other people to remind us we are nothing, we are self-deceived. Community is important. When we come to this text, there are three things that I think we need to recognize from the passage. The first, we have all the tools that we need as Christians to live in a godly way. You have an unction from the Holy One. You know all things. God's Spirit and His Word have given you what you need to be a godly Christian, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. And that tool that God has given you, his word, is there to address those personal areas of vulnerability. Where you are open to Satan's attacks, you are vulnerable to those who would dupe you and deceive you and guide you in a way you shouldn't go. But these truths should never cause us to become isolated. The rest of Scripture is so clear: we grow in community Yes, we as a church are individual priests. Yes, we believe in soul liberty. And we also believe that we're a part of the same body that comes to the Lord's table on a regular basis to remember we have a bond together in Christ. Very, very important. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer this morning. Father, this text is so important. We have what we need, but oh help us to guard our hearts against isolation and pride. Help us to be people who recognize we are all vulnerable. There is no exception in this room. And your word was given to address the specific areas where we are so open to Satan's attacks. Father, would you strengthen your people through what was presented this morning? Would you be magnified and glorified in our midst? We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.