Turn to Philippians chapter four, please. Philippians chapter four. Philippians chapter 4, and we'll be looking at verses 10 to 13. A very familiar portion of Scripture. But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at the last your care for me hath flourished again. Wherein ye were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity. Not that I speak in respect of want, but I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content I know both how to be abased, and I know how to abound everywhere and in all things. I'm instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things Through Christ which strengtheneth me. Now, as we get into this portion of Scripture, I want us to focus in on the entire section, but I want to comment on verse 13 before we get into it. Ephesians 4 or Philippians 4 13 is a very very popular, very well-known portion of scripture. In fact, I remember back when I was in college, I was on the wrestling team and I had one of these T-shirts that, well, it became a a cutoff t-shirt because after a lot of practices it got kind of threadbare and then the sleeves ripped and then I thought it was a really cool shirt So I remember that one day I got the bright idea that I wanted to get a little motivation when I went to practice and to the gym. So I got one of the, you know, this torn t-shirt, no sleeves, and I got black marker and I wrote, Philippians 4. 13, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. And I would go in the gym and I would be pumping weight and it was like my motivation verse. I had a question. Do you think that Paul Would have ever dreamed that a college kid in his cutoff t-shirt, pumping in the gym, you know, head this big would be using that passage to encourage him. I think Paul would uh I don't know if he'd chuckle or if he'd look at me and say, boy, what are you thinking? But the truth is that that is not what Paul had in his mind when he wrote this section, Philippians 4. 13. I can do all things through Christ with strength, it is me. The fact is that if we take it from its context, we don't understand the weight and the value of this particular statement. And so I want to start with the purpose. Why did Paul write this little section? Well, Paul is writing to express his appreciation to the church. because there of their desire to minister to him in his time of need. And if you look at verse 10, he says, I rejoice in the Lord greatly that now at the last you cared for me. Your care for me hath flourished again, wherein you were careful, but you lacked opportunity. The idea is he's saying, I know that you want to help me. In my time of need, it's bubbling up in your heart, and you want to be a blessing to me, and I really appreciate that. But he says this: I want you to understand that I'm content. in spite of these difficult circumstances. In other words, he's saying, I'm so glad that you have a heart to give, but I'm okay. I'm okay because God has taught me how to be a contented person no matter what I'm dealing with. And so that's what Paul's doing. He's expressing appreciation to people who really love him, and he's saying, but I'm okay. Don't worry, I'm fine. What does God want us to do based on what we will read in this passage? God wants us to be content in all circumstances like Paul was. That's his desire. That's his will. That's his expectation for us. But I want you to realize something. Contentment is not something that we're born with. It's not something that comes easy. It's something that takes Time and difficulty. How can we be content in all circumstances? How can we be what God wants us to be according to this passage of Scripture Well, I'd like us to look at a series of truths tonight, and I have one word that I want you to remember with each of these truths. The first word I want you to remember is the word process. Can you say that with me? Oh, that was a little weak. Can we say that together? Process. Process. Contentment is something that you learn. Contentment is something that develops. Contentment is part of our maturing process. Look down in verse 10. He says, not that I speak in respect of want, but I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. Don't miss that phrase. I have learned. He says later on in the same section, he says. I know how to abound and how to be obeys. I can do all things through Christ what strengthens me. And when he says I know, it's interesting. We don't really see this in English, but in the Greek language, it's a perfect tense The idea is that in the past there was something that went on, and the effect is where I am today. In other words, Paul is saying I went through a series of events. and circumstances and through those events God strengthened and he matured me. He taught me how to be content. And that's why I'm here today in that position. Not because I became that by nature, but I went through a process. Jeremiah Burroughs wrote a book called The Rare Jewel of Christian Contentment. Some light reading for you if you're ever interested. Jeremiah Burroughs, this is what he says about contentment. Christian contentment is that sweet? Inward, quiet, gracious frame of spirit. Think of those words. Sweet Inward, quiet, gracious frame of spirit. I love the way that he describes that. In other words, what's going on inside is not turmoil. It's not busyness, it's not fear, it's calm, quiet, it's not edgy, it's gracious. I think he really hits it well. It's sweet, not bitter. He then goes on to say this, which freely submits to and delights in God's wise and fatherly disposal in every condition. He says that he submits and delights The idea is that the person recognizes that God has me here for a season. I'm not saying that everything that I'm going through is easy. But I'm willing to submit to what God has for me in this season of my life. And I'm going to delight in God's fatherly care. I realize that there's a process involved. Going back to the athletic illustration, you know, if somebody wants to be a good athlete, there are some natural abilities that they have. But really, a lot of their ability is going to come in the training process. It's going to take a coach teaching them and pushing them and striving to make them work harder and to learn. And he says, no, you did that wrong. I need to get teach you the fundamentals and do it right again. And he drills and he repeats and he pushes and he presses. And that's how that individual develops. And so if a if a kid is wanting to learn how to be a good athlete in a certain field, he's going to listen to his coach. Even though he's sweating and he's in pain and he's hurting. He says, my coach, he has experience. He understands what to do. He's helping me to get better. And so I'm going to submit to that. And I'm glad he's doing that. And God does that in our lives. Fatherly disposal. God relates to us as a father to a child. Now He knows what we can handle. He knows when we need to be pressed. He knows when it's time to let up and give us something that's a little bit easier. God's very compassionate, very tender with us. And Jeremiah Burroughs, he states that so very well. I love the statement that's there. Sweet, inward, quiet, gracious frame of spirit, freely submitting to the delight and delighting in God's wise fatherly disposal. in every condition. Really good statement. Really good statement. So let's talk about this process. The fact that contentment is something that comes by process means number one, that it's not something that's natural to us. Anybody in here naturally content? No, you're not. Nobody is. We are naturally very uh well we want to be in the next stage of life. Remember back to when you were a kid? You know, when you were in the first grade, you wanted to be in the third grade. When you're in the third grade, you want to be in the fifth grade. When you're in the fifth grade, you want You didn't want to be there anymore. You wanted to be in high school. Got into high school. Wanted to be in college. At some point you stopped wanting to go to the next level, though. I mean at some point you go, I know that I want to go to the next one. But you know, we live a lot of our life that way. We want to be at the next stage in life. We are by nature very restless. And God has to calm us down and slow us down. And He has to mature us and He has to teach us and He has to develop in us those graces and those disciplines. That help us to be contented in our heart. It's not automatic, it's not natural. It's a process. And there are tools that God will use to develop our heart as we become contented. Our growth and the grace of contentment is something that happens a little bit at a time. We could say it's by degrees. In other words, when I'm ten And then when I'm 15, and then when I'm 25, and I'm 35, and I'm 55, what is God doing? God is just a little out of time. He is stretching us. And he's making our ability to be settled a little bit stronger. And the more we go through life, the more we should grow in this area. I'm going to ask you, are you growing in this area of contentment? Or are you a restless person? God doesn't want you to be that way. He wants you to be settled. He wants you to have a calm spirit. He wants you to be completely trusting him and just delighting in whatever he's doing in your life. We come to a second truth, and that's this. The word is limitation. Limitation. Now, I gave a small illustration at the beginning of the of the message talking about when I was in college. Wearing my cutoff shirt with Philippians 4 13, I can do all things through Christ's strength, and it's me. And and obviously as a as a college kid, I I I think I had no clue what Paul was talking about. I want to ask you, is there any limitation to what is being stated here? I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Let me put it in a very practical way. Is this passage teaching that you could walk out on the Bay Bridge, quote this verse, jump off, and start flying? Don't try it. It won't go well. Of course not. Is this passage teaching us that we should tempt God by our carelessness? No. In fact, it's interesting. There's a a section in Matthew where Jesus is going through his temptation in the wilderness. And Satan comes to him there in the wilderness, and listen to what it says. The devil taketh him up to the holy city and set him on a pinnacle of the temple, and said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down. For it is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee, and in their hands they shall bear thee up lest at any time thou dash thy foot against the stone. Jesus said unto him, it is written again, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. Now this is really interesting. When we look at this passage where Jesus is having a conversation with Satan, and Satan is trying to tempt Christ. To go outside of his father's will. In this section right here, he actually quotes Scripture to Christ. And he says, if you're the son of God, in the Psalms it says that God's going to take care of you. So go ahead, jump off the temple, and let him save you and prove who you are. Kind of interesting. You know what that is? It's taking the Bible and twisting it to use it for a purpose it was never intended to I don't think when the psalmist wrote that, he was thinking, oh, stand on top of the temple, jump off, and fall to the ground, and God will save you. That's not what he's thinking. And when Paul is talking about doing all things through Christ that strengtheneth strengtheneth us, he is not thinking about jumping off the Bay Bridge. He's thinking about a very specific set of circumstances. And if we understand what Paul is saying, then we are going to apply it correctly. It's not a cliche. It's not some blanket statement that says, no matter what you want to do, if you want to do it, you purpose to do it, God's going to make it happen, it's going to work out. That's not what he's saying. It's limited to the context. Paul was learning to stay humble and dependent on God, even when life was good. Paul was learning to be patient and content and humble. And depend on God when life turned difficult. Notice what it says in the next verse. I know how to be abased. I know how to abound. Everywhere in all things I'm instructed both to be full and to suffer hunger, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ who strengtheneth me. That's what's on Paul's mind. Paul isn't thinking, I can just do anything that I want. It's a cliche. It's some life verse that I put on my arm, which is getting to be real common today. Okay? What he's thinking is, if God lets me pass through very difficult circumstances, I'm going to be okay. If God allows me to go through tremendous positive time, everything's going really well. And I start getting proud. You know what? God's going to give me the grace to think and to act correctly in that set of circumstances. Circumstances. So no matter what set of circumstances I'm walking through in life, God can carry me through those things. That's basically what he's saying. I can have what I need no matter what God and His providence brings me. That's how I can do all things to Christ, who strengthens me. It's not about us presuming against God and saying, here's what I want to do. It's about us passing through circumstances, and God says, that is what you will deal with for this season. But you can walk through victoriously, because you can do all things through Christ who strengthens you. We then come to a third truth. The third truth is the word flexibility. Flexibility. He says, in all circumstances. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Now let's walk through this little section and just catch some of the details. He says, I know both how to be a base. I know how to abound everywhere and in all things. I am instructed to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. What's Paul saying? The first phrase I want us to notice is the phrase, I know. He's basically saying that there was a time that I learned this lesson and it stuck with me to this point. I know how to go through this set of circumstances. And this set of circumstances. And it's because God taught me in the process of life. You ever gone through that? A thing like that? You deal with a situation today A year ago, six months ago, two years ago, you went through a situation you didn't do so well. But you learned some lessons. And now when you're passing through it today, you have some tools. And all of a sudden you're able to make sense of what you're dealing with. You're able to have the right spirit. You're able to say the right things. You're able to handle that situation with grace and kindness and in a godly way. Why? Because you learned over there through some difficulties. Anybody ever had that happen? That's what Paul's saying. He's saying, you know, there was a time I passed through some waters. And that was the learning stage. And as I went through that, as I sit here today. I'm where I am because of what I went through there. And so when he says I know, that's what he's saying. I learned there, and that's why I'm here today. He says, I know how to be abase. That means he he knows how to be humbled. Now, when you are abased, it doesn't mean that you humbled yourself. It means God humbled you. And maybe he did it through some very uncomfortable circumstances. Maybe he did it through individuals. When you are abased, that means that somebody comes and they put you in your place. Nobody likes that, and I don't like it, you don't like it. But Paul says, I've learned and I know how to be abased. The first time that Paul went through a situation and he went through something like that, I bet he didn't handle it well. But what happens? He learned He passed through that situation, and when he walked through, he picked up some things and he said, I'm not going to do it that way next time. And he matured and he grew. He says, I know how to abound. Now, when we talk about abounding, he's talking about the fact that he's prospering. You know, prosperity is not something that you can make happen sometimes. You can work hard and sometimes the work that you put into what you're doing just doesn't seem to amount to much. And then there are other seasons that you don't you don't know how to explain it. But God blesses it and it prospers and it ends up becoming something you didn't anticipate. And what happens in that time? Well, the temptation is For your head to start going like that, you start saying, look what I've done. Look what I'm doing. Look how smart I am. Look how strong I am. Look what's going on. And all of a sudden, you have a test You know, when you're being humbled, that's a test. And when you are prospering, that's a test too. Because all of a sudden you don't feel like you need to trust God anymore. You forget who it is that blessed you. You forget about other people who had a huge factor and why you were able to do well. You forget about all of it. And you know what Paul says? I know how to abound. There were times that I didn't do so well. And you know what God did? He taught me in his school. You know, it's interesting in another portion of Scripture, Paul says that God gave him a thorn in the flesh. And it was something that irritated him and was difficult. And he pleaded with God, take it away. And God said, No, my grace is sufficient, you. My strength is made perfect in weakness. And why did God give him that? It was so he didn't become full of proud pride. He had to remember who he was. Sometimes God lets us fall on our faces so that we'll remember what we're made of. And so Paul knew how to be humbled. He knew how to prosper. He says, I know how to be full. He says, I know what it's like to have need of nothing. Everything I need is provided. Well, sometimes you forget to ask God for your daily bread because it seems like you don't need to. He says, I know how to be hungry. And this is interesting. He says, I'm instructed both to be full and to be hungry. Basically, what Paul is saying is there are times that if I will obey what God tells me to do, then I'm going to be hungry. I'm going to go through tremendous need. I'm going to pass through difficulty. And so it's a it's it's a it's God's will. It's not gonna be my entire life, but through a season of life, I'm gonna suffer Because that's what God has for me at this time. And he said, I've learned how to deal with that. Flexibility. I want to ask you a question. Are you a flexible person? Are you someone that when you pass through the hard times, you have learned how to trust God? And when you go through those times of plenty and prosperity that you have learned that God gave you that and he could take it away and it's not about you, it's about him. And you learn how to stay humble and teachable. That's what Paul's saying. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. It's not about motivation in the gym, guys. It's about learning how to suffer. It's about learning how to deal with prosperity biblically. It's about learning how to be humble, how to be abased, how to abound, how to be hungry. That's what it's about. It's about learning how to deal with your circumstances. that God has allowed you to pass through in a godly way. The fourth truth is this: Grace. Humble dependence on God 's gracious strength. What was the source? Of Paul's growth, where he was a person who could pass through all these different circumstances and he was okay. How is it that he could be victorious when he abounded and he could be victorious when he was abased? It was because of God's grace. God 's grace is what strengthened and enabled him to pass through these things the way it was supposed to be. 2 Timothy 2 verse 1 says this, Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that's in Christ Jesus. I want us to think about that word grace because it's really important. Grace is something we don't deserve. Sometimes we kind of get in our heads that if God's going to make me go through a hardship, then he owes it to me. To make me be victorious in that hardship. I have the right to get what he gives me. Let me tell you something. That's not the right way to look at it. If it's called grace, that means you don't deserve it. There's a baseline here, okay? The baseline is we're all sinners. We all deserve God's judgment. We all deserve to die and be separated from him in eternal punishment forever. That's the baseline. We live in a fallen world and a lot of our problems, not all of them, but a lot of our problems are because we bring it upon ourselves It's what we said, it's what we didn't say. It's what we did, what we didn't do, how we responded, how we didn't respond. A lot of our problems are rooted in our own sin. And we have complicated situations in our life many times because of our own sin. Does God have an obligation to bail me out of those things? Of course not. He's not obligated at all. If you made a mess, you clean it up. Isn't that how it works in the house? Well, if your kids are old enough. Mine you say make a mess, clean it up, and and you just sit there and watch. You're like, uh, I think I'll just work on this. Well let them get a little older and then they'll get it. God doesn't take that approach with us. He's really gracious. He's so kind. He is so patient. He is so loving. He's so merciful. When he says that he's strengthened by God's hand, you know what God was doing? God was coming alongside of Paul when Paul was not doing well. And God was very tenderly giving him what he needed to make right decisions. And he wasn't obligated to do that. He didn't have to do that. That's why it's called grace. He comes alongside of him and he strengthens him and he helps him. He does not deserve that. It's interesting in the Proverbs, Proverbs 30. This is what it says Remove far from me vanity and lies. Give me neither poverty nor riches, feed me with food convenient for me, lest I be full and deny thee, and say, Who is the Lord? Lest I be poor and steal and take the name of my God in vain. Accuse not a servant unto his master. It's kind of an interesting proverb, but basically what what what the man is saying is if you have a lot of money There's a tendency to do wrong with that. If you have nothing, there's a tendency to do something wrong with that. Guess what? You want the middle road so you don't have the temptation of riches and the temptation of poverty. And that's just an observation of life. But God's not obligated to give you what you want. He's not obligated to give you a lot of money. He's not obligated to make you a middle of the road. He can do what he wants. It's about grace. How does God pour His grace into our hearts and strengthen us in the seasons of life? I want to just make a couple of comments. Now, these are not like this is not an exhaustive list. This is just off the top of my head thinking about situations that I've dealt with, that I've dealt with other people, biblical examples. How does God pour grace and strength into my heart? You know, sometimes God sends people to encourage us. You're walking through a very tough time. We've got a lot of people in our church right now who are in poor health. And um they really need your prayer and they need encouragement. How does God show grace to those people? When they're discouraged, they feel like quitting, they feel like I'm at a point in life where I've got no value in what I'm doing. This is horrible. I can't take it anymore. There's no question those kinds of thoughts are going to hit people's heads when they're going through affliction. How does God show grace to that person? He brings you into their living room and sits you down in front of them and you start talking to them. And as they pour out their complaints, you show compassion. You listen to what they're saying. You try to have some empathy. Have some mercy. What is going on? You are an instrument of God's grace. He's bringing a person alongside of that person who's suffering, and he's encouraging them. Sometimes God brings people into our lives to rebuke us. We do something so foolish and we can't even see it. And they look at you and they say, What are you doing? Like, that's so harsh. Why'd you have to do it that way? Grace God needed to speak truth into your head and to use that person. Sometimes we just need people to listen to us. There are times that it's not so much that we need to hear something said, we need to get out what's inside. So that that burden is on the table and that person can talk us through that and they can direct us to scripture and they can encourage our heart. And even sometimes as we say what we're saying, we start hearing it and we go, that's really I shouldn't say that. That's not true. That doesn't make sense. That's a lie. That's not truth. But sometimes that's what we need. We need a compassionate person to just hear us out. And that's one of the ways God shows us grace. He sends people to walk alongside of us. There are times that a person can't tell you anything that's going to change how you feel Or change what you look at a situation. You know in your head what is true. Them saying it doesn't give you information you didn't have. They can't give you a false hope. The only thing they can do is walk with you. They walk through that set of circumstances with you. They cry with you. They hug you. They say, I love you. And God is going to give you the strength that you need. Grace. God does that. Sometimes He sends scripture, theological concepts. You might be sitting in a sermon. And it's not the whole message that hits you. There's just one little point. And you grab onto that because the Spirit of God is driving that into your heart. And that concept strengthens you and it helps you. And the pastor who's preaching doesn't have any clue about what you're dealing with. He doesn't know. He's just dealing with the next passage. And God uses it, and it's his grace. He's coming alongside of you. He's teaching you, he's strengthening you, he's encouraging you. Sometimes God allows us to pass through unexpected circumstances. You know, we are convinced it's going to be terrible. And then it changes like that. And out of nowhere you say, where did that come from? And God said, I I I know you're weary and I I needed to give you a break. I'm not saying I was obligated to. I did it. Because I care about it. God does that. Sometimes God pulls away all human dependencies because He knows we depend on other people too much. And we're the only he's the only one we can depend on. He does that. Sometimes God, just in an unexplainable way, I don't know. How to really explain this, but he just strengthens our heart. It may not necessarily be connected to a scripture, it might not be connected to a conversation, might not be connected to a series of circumstances, but God he just presses and encourages and strengthens your heart. That's what he does. Folks, it's God's grace that helps us to grow and become contented people. God wants you to be content in all circumstances. And my encouragement to you tonight is let him work through the tools he has to make you the kind of Christian he wants you to be. be. May the Lord help us to have this kind of a heart. Let's bow together in prayer. Father, I thank you so much for Paul's transparency as he says, I've learned. I know because I've passed through the waters. Father, help us to be people who learn and grow and mature, become godly people. Father, there's so many burdens that are being carried in this church building. I'm sure of that. There's no way that people sometimes can't even express what's on their heart Yet you know about it. You love people. You're going to come alongside each person. And in the way that they bet best need it, you're going to strengthen and increase I pray that this text will be a real blessing to souls tonight. Bless our time of prayer. May it be very encouraging. May we have a real burden for the people in our church who are going through. tremendous need. Bless during this holiday season. Help people to have a good time with family and friends. Give safety. Encourage those who struggle with the loss of family. Be a comfort and encouragement to them. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen