Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we're in Psalm 35 this week, so if you have your Bible, please turn there. And uh we read the first two sections on Monday and Tuesday, so this morning I'd like us to read the third section because Psalm 35 really breaks into three nice parts. And then we're going to dig into the structure of the psalm because this is an important piece of understanding how to interpret the psalm and then how to apply it. So Psalm 35, and we'll begin in verse 19. Let not them that are my enemies wrongfully rejoice over me, neither let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause. For they speak not peace, but they devise deceitful matters against them that are quiet in a land. Yea, they opened their mouth wide against me and said, Aha, aha, our eyes have seen it This thou hast seen, O Lord. Keep not silence. O Lord, be not far from me. Stir up thyself and awake to my judgment, even unto my cause, my God and my Lord. Judge me, O Lord my God, according to thy righteousness, and let them not rejoice over me. Let them not say in their hearts, Ah, so have we have it Let them not say, we have swallowed him up. Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion together that rejoice at my hurt. Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor that magnify themselves against me. Let them shout for joy and be glad. Let favor my righteous cause. Yea, let them say continually, Let the Lord be magnified, which hath pleasure in the prosperity of his servant. And my tongue shall speak of thy righteousness, and of thy praise all the day long. Now, as we've read through this psalm, now we've read the entire psalm together, there are three words that really summarize the whole piece of this psalm. And I want you to remember those three words because they will help us to interpret the psalm. The first word is the word petition. The second is the word lament. And then the third is the word praise. And when we look at the progression of this psalm, it splits into three pieces. The first section will be petition and lament, and then that will be coupled with a statement of praise. And then the second piece will be crying out to God, petition, lament, and then another statement of praise. And then the third is petition, lament, and then coupled with a statement of praise. And as we look at these three sections, I'll draw your attention to kind of the beginning and ending of those pieces, but I want to talk about what a petition is and what a lament is and what praise are. We use the word petition, what we're saying is David is crying out to God and pleading with him to intervene. Now, there are a couple of things that David could do when he has a difficult situation. One thing he could do is he could run from his problems. Another thing he could do is he could fight for himself and try to get revenge. But the third is actually what he does. He cries out to God. He says, God, intercede on my behalf And David was a warrior. David had the power to defend himself, but this is not a military situation where we have uh the warring of uh two groups of people in battle. We're talking about individuals. We're talking about people who have interpersonal relationships. The second word is the word lament. Lamenting has the idea of crying out to God and expressing the pain and the frustration of our situation. Again, David could just internalize those things and conceal them and hide them. And ultimately it'd be like a pressure cooker where all these emotions are pent up inside and he's boiling inside, he's fearful, he's anxious, he's angry, he has all these things. He could do that. Or he could go to someone who has absolutely no power to help him, and he just complains to them about what's going on, cries out, says, here are all of my struggles, all my frustrations. Or the third thing he could do, which is exactly what he does, is he turns to God. He pours out his heart to God. He says, God, this is what I'm experiencing. This is the pain, this is the misery, this is the sorrow, these are the emotions. Again, he comes to God with his petition. He comes to God with his lament. But then the third piece is praise. He chooses to lift up God's name. He praises him for his greatness and his goodness, despite the painfulness of his situation, and the vulnerability that he's experiencing for a few minutes or seasons in this situation that he's dealing with. And so we see the petition, the lament, and the praise all in this passage of Scripture. Now I want you to notice the progression, because I think it gives us a good sense of the psalm. The petition is found in verse 35, or chapter 35, verse 1. Psalm, not not chapter, but Psalm 35, verse 1. He says Plead my cause with them that strive with me. Fight against them that fight against me. Again in verse 11. False witnesses have risen up against me, and they have laid to my charge things that I knew not. And then we see in verse 19, let them that are my enemies wrongfully, let them not wrongfully rejoice over me, neither let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause. So you see the lament and the petition. Now that we see the praise in verse 10, he says, My soul shall be joyful in the Lord. It shall rejoice in his salvation, all my bones shall say to the Lord, Who is like unto thee which delivereth the poor In verse 18, I will give thanks unto thee with great in the great congregation. I will praise thee among much people. Verse 28, My tongue shall speak of thy righteousness, and thy praise all the day long. So what we're seeing in this psalm is this pattern. We see petition, we see lament, and we see praise. And so the question we should ask ourselves is, well, what do we take away from this? And what we need to take away from this is that when it comes to issue of petition, it is what we need to do when we are in these situations. Rather than trying to take matters into our own hands to get revenge, fight people through manipulation, through force, whatever it may be, we need a crowd to God to intervene on our behalf. rather than internalizing all these things and complaining in our own souls and just burying our emotions. And rather than going to other people and complaining to people who have no ability to help in a situation, we need to cry out to God, express our pain, express our frustration, and let God carry that burden. And we need to praise him. We need to choose to uplift his name, praise him for his greatness, praise him for his goodness, even though we are experiencing vulnerability and pain for a season of life And so I want to encourage you this morning, wherever you find yourself, if you are in a situation like this, cry out to God, pour out your heart to Him. And praise him in the midst of that. May God help us to do that. Have a blessed morning. Lord willy tomorrow we'll meet again by now