Well, I'd like you to take your Bibles tonight and turn with me to 2 Samuel chapter 11. 2 Samuel chapter 11. And the passage of scripture that we're going to deal with tonight, in fact, it is It is a tough passage to address as a pastor, and I think on a night where we're going to be partaking of the Lord's table together, this is a very pertinent passage of scripture for us to deal with. And this is perhaps one of the most tragic, the darkest, the saddest of all periods in David's life. This is a time when David did not live like a man after God's own heart. In fact, it's a time when he departed deeply from the way that he had walked as a young man. And we have a lot that we can learn from this text in front of us. So tonight we're going to look at David's treachery and God's mercy. 2 Samuel chapter 11, verse number 1. It says, and it came to pass after the year was expired, at the time when kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab and his servants with him. and all Israel and they destroyed the children of Ammon and besieged Rabbah. And David tarried still at Jerusalem It came to pass in an even tide that David arose from off his bed, walked upon the roof of the king's house, and from the roof he saw a woman washing herself. The woman was very beautiful to look upon, and David sent and inquired after the woman. One said , Is not this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite? And David sent messengers and took her. Let's bow together for prayer as we dig into this passage of Scripture tonight. Our Father, as we read your word, I pray that you would help us. To have clear thinking minds. Father, help us to recognize that when the Word of God speaks, it speaks so transparently about the lives of people. It speaks transparently about their sin. It speaks transparently about their faults. It speaks transparently about the consequences, the tragic, painful consequences of sinful choices. It also gives us wonderful testimonies to your rich grace and mercy, so undeserving when people sin against you. And so, Father, tonight I pray that you'd help us to understand your word, help us to have clear minds. Help us to see how David was very, very careless about the way that he lived his life at a time when he should have had such wisdom. And I pray that we would learn from it tonight. We ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a challenging passage. Not challenging because of us being able to understand what it's talking about. It's challenging because when we talk about David, we like to think about David as a great hero, which in fact Periods of his life, there's no question that he was a great man. We look at the story of David going out to kill Goliath. And here is Saul, he is afraid and he is unwilling to go out and fight the the the giant Goliath. And here is David, this young man, really a a teenage boy who's been taking care of his dad's sheep. And he says, how in the world can you allow this man to go and defy the armies of God, the armies of Israel, how can you go out and just ignore that this man is blaspheming the God of Israel? We see the story of David there, and we see this tremendous example of courage and a willingness to go when no one else will go out and fight and to stand up for the name of the Lord. And we see examples of David having the opportunity to take his enemy's life. We look at Saul and how Saul chased him and tried to kill him. And several times David spares Saul's life. And again, he is a tremendous example of a man who showed great restraint, great humility. He did not impose his own will, but rather he trusted God. Yet we also have examples in the Bible of David lying and acting like he's a crazy man so that he can escape one who's trying to kill him. And we see examples where he is about to go to war with the Philistines against God's people. And we see examples like the other week where David is taking the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem, not the way that God commanded them to take it, but instead put it on a cart. And as it is coming in on a cart, a man stops the cart and tries to steady it so that the ark would not fall on the ground, and that man dies instantly And so we see in the life of David high points and low points. David has some heroic tendencies, but he also has some tremendous areas of weakness. And areas where he sinned grievously. And so the passage in front of us is probably David's lowest moment. And it provides for us a sobering warning, but also comfort of God's mercy. despite the misery that we bring upon ourselves by our sin. And I want you to realize this evening that when we look at the life of David in this passage, we're really going to see both pieces of this. Where you see David's sin and David's arrogance and David's treachery, but also God's restraint And God's mercy and God's grace. Last week we read about one of the high points of David's reign. As Pastor Joshua's working through that passage, he talked about Mephiboshef, this man. who had nothing to offer to David. And David says, where is someone from the house of Saul that I can show kindness to? Is there anyone still alive? And what does David do? He shows mercy to this man who is lame from the time he was a little boy And it's a great example of how God is kind. Here is David who was showing kindness to Mephibosheth, and it's a great picture of how God is kind to us. And Pastor Josh dealt with that last week. When most kings would have likely shown no mercy, David did the exact opposite in that situation. In the next chapter, chapter 10. We read about David establishing his kingdom as a valiant warrior. In fact, if we were to look at the sections, chapter 7, 8, 9, and 10, almost everything that is stated is fairly positive about David. For instance In 2 Samuel 7, 1, it says that the Lord had given him rest from all of his enemies. Chapter 8, verse 15, it says David reigned over all of Israel. And David executed judgment and justice unto all his people. And 2 Samuel 9. 1, it says, And David said, Is there yet that left of the house of Saul that I might show him kindness for Jonathan's sake. And then in chapter 10 verse 19 it says when all the kings that were servants to Hadazar saw that they were smitten before Israel, they made peace with Israel and served them. So the Syrians feared to help the children of Ammon anymore. All of that is positive. David has established himself as a king. David is experiencing a lot of peace, a lot of prosperity. Their borders have been extended. He recognizes that God has blessed him. And over the course of David's reign, we are now working our way to a period where it's probably anywhere close to 15, maybe even 20 years after David initially becomes king in Israel. So here is David, who's a man probably close to 50 years of age. And that is when this story takes place. This text in front of us is completely different than what we read in chapters 7, 8, 9, and 10. And this is something that should give us great pause and warning. Just because God has blessed us, and just because we've experienced God's rich hand in our lives. And just because we have established a pattern of faithfulness does not mean that we become immune to fleshly temptations. There's no one in this room, not a one of us, who be who will at some point in our Christian experience become immune to fleshly temptations. And I want you to notice as we look at this passage, and by the way, I'm going to be fairly discreet about how I'm going to handle this passage because I know that we have young people in here and moms and dads I'd encourage you, have a conversation with your kids, ask they may have questions. But I would like us to see kind of the twists and the turns That show us how David ends up in this very, very dark place. First thing I want you to notice in the Word this evening is that David's sin started with an attitude of entitlement. Let me say it again. David's sin started with an attitude of entitlement. There's a passage that says, let him that thinketh, he standeth, take heed lest he fall. The scripture says that when pride comes, then comes a fall. And when a person begins to feel that they have reached this point where they're immune to temptation and struggle, They begin to develop an attitude of entitlement. And it's sad, but it's true. That as we get older in the Christian life, it is easy for us to become this way. In fact, my observation is that Christians kind of go one of two ways. As they get older, they become sweeter. and more gentle and more patient and more godly and as you interact with an older person who's walked with the Lord for many years you sit down and you're like how in the world did this person become such a uh such a godly person and it's Because they lived life and they walked with God. But I also see Christians who do the opposite. The older they get, the more entitled they get The more arrogant and proud, vindictive, sometimes very callous. You go, a Christian can become that way? Of course a Christian can become that way. In fact, a Christian can become a very entitled person. And David is a prime example. Here's a man who early in his reign, when he was a young man, he said, God said, I'm going to choose a man after my own heart, not like Saul. Yet here David is becoming like Saul. And here's what it says in verse number one. It says, And it came to pass after the year was expired. at the time when kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel, and they destroyed the children of Ammon and besieged Rabbah, but David tarried still at Jerusalem. Now this did not catch you as kind of an interesting statement. Who does this remind you of? It reminds us of Saul. Saul was the one who would send out the troops and let them do the dirty work and then he'd take all the credit and he'd take all the glory. Think about that story where David goes and he kills Goliath, and as as the the ladies are there in the streets, they say Saul is slaying his thousands and David his ten thousands and Saul's like, ooh, what's going on here? Now why did Saul have that attitude? It's because he wanted to have all the glory and all the credit as the king. And so here is David when traditionally the king would lead his army into battle. He would be with his troops. He would be experiencing the same hardships, the same difficulties. He would be the valiant example in battle. Instead, he sends out Joab, he sends out the troops, and he sits back at home. Do you see what that is? It's an attitude of entitlement And it's something that was one of the first steps toward what David is going to do in this passage. By this point in David's reign, he's probably around 50. He's been a king for 20 years. He has a lot of experience. He knows how to manage a nation. He knows how to lead troops. He knows how to handle conflicts. But he doesn't know how to guard his own heart. He'd established himself as this violent, valiant warrior and capable leader, but he'd also experienced some very dark and low moments. And he had compromised many times, and those compromises had caused him a lot of pain and suffering. At his finest, he was an amazing man. At his lowest, he was capable of horrific dishonesty. And abuses of power. David had established a pattern of compromise in his relationship to women And has had a complete breakdown in his first marriage with Saul's daughter. Now I want you to step back and want you to think about this. The scripture is so clear that God's plan for marriage is very simple. One man One woman covenanted till death separates them. Very simple. How do we know that? Well, because the Bible tells us this God creates Adam, he creates Eve, and then he says, For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, cleave to his wife, and they too shall become one flesh. That's God's plan. In fact, one of the first things that we see in the Old Testament as far as rebellion and the descent toward when we come to the flood is that the statement is made that men chose as many wives as they wanted. So the first statement of polygamy is actually right before God destroys the world in a flood. What's the point? The point is that rather than people embracing God's very simple and good plan for marriage, there were men who said, you know what? I'm going to take as many wives as I want. And one of the things that we tragically see in Scripture is that some of the men who were very well known in the story of Israel's history were men who were polygamous. David is one of them. He was not the worst. His worst was his son. And so as David compromises in this area, we see that his son takes it to an even greater level than he does. But I want you to think about some of the things that David said after the issue of the ark being brought into Jerusalem. I want you to remind yourself back a couple of weeks, and that day that they are bringing the Ark of the Covenant the right way, the people are celebrating and they're excited. And David is dancing in the street. And his wife is sitting back in the shadows watching this and saying, what is my husband doing? Now you know the scripture doesn't comment a lot on what was right and wrong about that situation, but it's very interesting what is stated. When Saul's daughter confronts her husband. David becomes very angry. And in the text it says this. He rebukes her and she never had a child. Now, I don't know if you really caught that when you were reading that passage of scripture, but it shows you something about David's attitude towards his wife. And might I add his first wife and the only wife he was supposed to have? His attitude was one of anger and bitterness. And guess what? An angry and a bitter spirit manifests itself in all kinds of ways An anger and a bitter spirit is something that portrays itself with an entitled attitude. And so here is David, a man who has established a pattern of compromise when it comes to how he relates to women. This would be the worst example of all of them. But in fact, it's not the only sinful example of how David relates to women. This bitterness against his wife may very well have been a factor in opening the door to a greater compromise. Again, it doesn't state that explicitly in the text, but there are lots and lots of scriptures that talk about the danger of a bitter spirit, especially within a marriage between a husband and a wife, and how that can become a catlass. for greater sin. Second truth I want you to notice is that his sin took a deeper root when he failed to guide his eyes. Now in verse number two, it states the following. It says, It came to pass in the eventide that David arose from off his bed and walked upon the roof of the king's house. And from the roof, he saw a woman washing herself. Now, I've heard people say all kinds of things about this particular situation. But in my opinion, and this is my opinion and I could be totally wrong, I do not think that David walked down onto the roof that night to go and see a woman bathing. I don't think that was his purpose, his intent. And I don't think that Bathsheba was on her housetop in the middle of the night washing herself trying to entice the king. I think that when this issue occurred, initially it was something that could have easily been remedied by one simple fact David could have walked back into his house. And said, I have no business thinking about this matter any further. Could have been that simple. All he had to do was remove himself from the situation. Walk off of the top of his roof and go back into his room and go back to bed. That's all he needed to do. In fact, I would have to say That there are many, many times that we find ourselves in temptation situations, and the wisest thing we can do is just leave the situation Get out of the room. Get out of the scenario. Leave those individuals behind. That's all David had to do. But that's not what he did When David saw her, he needed to control his passions, leave the rooftop, go back to his room, go back to bed, and ignore the situation. That simple choice of walking away could have saved him so much grief. Could have saved his family so much grief. Could have saved her family so much grief. Could have literally saved the entire nation a lot of misery. But that's not what he did. David had no idea that by looking and gazing and deciding to take action to pursue a sinful passion. That he would bring so much misery to himself, to her family, and to the country. Third truth I want you to notice is that his sin took a treacherous turn. when he lusted after another man's wife and took steps to take what was not his. And verses 3 and 4 says, And David sent and inquired after the woman And one said, Is not this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite? Now there is no comment on anything else that was said between David and this person. If I was to guess, I would assume that as soon as this man tells David, well, that's who it is, his assumption would have been David would go, okay, all right. I know who Uriah is I actually know who Bathsheba is. There's a reason that I'm going to say that. Uriah was one of his most faithful soldiers. In fact, when David records all of his mighty men of valor, Uriah the Hittite was one of those people that was mentioned In the same way that Saul would have known who David was, David would have known who Uriah was. Interestingly, Bathsheba's grandfather was a man named Ahithophel. And when David talks about Ahithophel during the insurrection of Absalom, and there's a civil war going on in the nation, David says, There is no wiser man in all the land than Ahithophel. His wisdom and his instruction, his guidance is better than anybody's. How could David say that? Because he knew the man. He knew Ahel. But the fact is that rather than David leaving the situation alone, David took more steps. And by the way, when we talk about people falling into sin, people don't just like randomly fall into sin. People set themselves up. After decision, after decision, after decision, after decision, they pave the road that leads to the ultimate fall that brings the most pain and misery to the person's life. But David sinned way before he brought Bathsheba to his palace. Though David had sinned in his heart, he could have easily ended the process toward greater sin. Think about the story of Cain and Abel. There's this story of Cain looks at his brother and he's angry and he's bitter and God tells him, he says, Cain, you better be careful. There's a greater sin crouching at that door than your anger. And what does Cain do? Blows it off, kills his brother. So David has already sinned in his heart. He has with his eyes committed adultery. His intent is clearly wrong. But David could have stopped the process. That's not what he did. He didn't do this. Instead, he took steps to pursue what was forbidden. Here is this man. He's been a king for 20 years. He's 50 years old. I mean, just pause and think about it. I hope you realize That Bathsheba was young enough to be David's daughter. Do you realize that? Do you realize that? David was peers with her grandfather. It never talks about any other children that she's had up to this point in her life. That doesn't mean that she didn't have any, but the scripture never talks about her having any other children. So that would kind of give you the impression she was a pretty young woman. Probably hadn't been married very long. There's a massive difference in age between these two individuals. Yet what does David do? He doesn't care. Uriah was one of his most valiant soldiers, Bathsheba's grandfather, David's most trusted advisor. His sin was nothing short of treacherous abuse of power as a king. It was a horrific criminal act. Do you realize that David should have experienced capital punishment because of his adultery The fourth truth I want you to notice is that he took extraordinary steps to conceal his sin. Now, as we read through the passage of Scripture, it's obvious what takes place. Bathsheba becomes pregnant. And David finds out. And David is afraid, not of what he has done, but what is going to be discovered. And so David goes to extraordinary lengths to conceal his sin. In fact, it's interesting. A lot of times when people conceal their sin, they do it by themselves. Okay? Just real simple stuff. They don't include other people. They just conceal it personally, privately themselves. That is not what David did Lots and lots of people in that palace knew exactly what had happened. They knew exactly who was involved. They knew the story. Joab, when he gets this letter, And that letter says, send Uriah out to the fiercest of the fighting, and then pull back from him so that he dies in the battle. Joab knew exactly what David was doing. And so David's sin was something that involved lots and lots of people. This treacherous behavior was not confined to one individual, but it actually influenced a lot of people. In fact, the scripture never says, but you gotta wonder if some of the people around David might have said something like, Hey David, what are you doing? Obviously Nathan the prophet does that, but it's quite a bit later. The question is, what did he do to conceal it? Well in verses 3 and 4 it says That David is sent and inquired after the woman and one or excuse me, he he says all those things. And then as we move back to verses six and eight it says, And David sent to Joab saying Send to me Uriah the Hittite. Joab sent Uriah to David, and when Uriah was come unto David, David demanded of him how Joab did. How the people did. How the war prospered. David said to Uriah, Go down to thy house Now, as we read our way through the text, what we're going to see is that David's plan is to send Uriah home, assuming that because he's gone home and his wife is found pregnant, nobody's going to think anything of it. But Uriah doesn't do that. He doesn't go home. He sleeps in the street. And David says, What am I going to do? So instead he says, Well, why don't you wait another day before you go back to the battle and have a meal with us? And he gets him intoxicated. He sends him home again. And what does Uriah do? As a man in a drunken stupor, he had more virtue than David. He would not go to his house. And David realized he had a problem. He realized that this is going to be discovered. And so David writes a letter to Joab and delivers the letter by the hand of Uriah. Can you imagine such a thing? David knows that Uriah is an honorable man. He would not have sent that letter by his hand had he thought that Uriah was a man who would go, I wonder what that's all about. He knew the kind of man he was dealing with. And he gives Joab the order to expose this valiant man in the battle to the enemies. where he's going to be killed. At every single level, David demonstrated a cunning ability to deceive, manipulate, and was guided by selfish desire to conceal his sin at any cost. I asked this question. Have you ever seen yourself there? Have you ever found yourself in this kind of a place? I don't mean that you you were killing another person to conceal your sin. But you literally go at any length you could to hide what you're involved in because you know how embarrassing it would be When we cover our sin, we often demonstrate that same level of cunning, deception, and manipulation. And I tell you, it makes you uncomfortable when you read it. But that's within the heart of people. And that that that potential is in the heart of every person in this room. The fifth thing I'd like you to see is that though he appeared to be momentarily getting away with his sin, God saw all of it. And was deeply displeased. By the end of the chapter, verse 27, this is the way it states them. And when the morning was past, as in the morning of Bathsheba over her husband who had been killed in battle. David sent and fetched her to his house, and she became his wife, and bare him a son. But the thing that David did displeased the Lord. There would be untold consequences that came from David's treacherous behavior. The child would die. In fact, we could spend a lot of time talking about that. The point that I want to get into tonight is not so much to look at all of the consequences, but to give you a snapshot of those things. The child dies. David's house would become miserably divided. David would fail to address gross injustices in his own home. I'm not going to get into all the stories, but if you've read through the Old Testament, you know the life of David. David's family was an absolute mess. All kinds of bickering and all kinds of fighting and all kinds of sinful behavior. And because David had sinned himself, he didn't have the spine, he didn't have the backbone, he didn't have the discernment to be able to handle his own house appropriately. And I'll tell you that when we compromise, it affects how we manage our household. David's life is an example of this. The nation would go through a civil war, and Absalom, his son, would turn against them. Interestingly, Absalom's hatred and animosity towards his dad is directly linked to the way that David handled his household. He would become personally humiliated by the actions of his children. I'm not going to go into all those details, but they are quite humiliating the way that David's children related to him. Some of David's closest advisors turned against him and were doing everything in their power to ruin him. And he would see the sinful pattern repeated in his children. As I mentioned when we talk about Solomon, Solomon took David's polygamy to the nth degree He expanded on it. In fact, this is Solomon's great downfall, how he handled this issue of marriage. Where do you think Solomon learned to be entitled in this area? He learned it from his dad. He learned it in his home. And this ought to give us great pause and warning when it comes to this issue of how we relate to our sin. But there's a second side to this that I don't want you to miss. I think it's very important when we think about the fact that we're going to partake of the Lord's table shortly. And that is that God was merciful to David despite his sin. Now, when we read the Old Testament, it is clear that David deserved to face capital punishment for several reasons. David took a man's wife. That is adultery, and that was a capital offense under the Old Testament system. David murdered a man. Now, did he do it with his own hands? No, he did it under his own authority. He used someone else to kill this person on his behalf. What is that? That's a capital offense as well. The fact is that David involves lots and lots of people in his deception. Lots and lots of people in the cover-up. Lots and lots of people were affected by David's sin. But God showed mercy. And folks, when God shows mercy, it's not God saying your sin doesn't matter. It's God saying, despite the misery of your sin, I'm going to show you kindness that you don't deserve. That's what grace is. And that's what mercy is. And there was nothing in David that should have made God treat him with kindness. But God did it. But don't miss this. Even though God showed him grace and God showed him mercy, he still experienced horrific consequences for his sin. Those consequences continued in his life and not only affected his life, but literally affected generations. David's sin was something that ultimately led to the splitting of a nation. But God was merciful to him. And God gave David and Bathsheba a second child. And this child would be a source of great joy. Now that's not to say that what David did was okay. It's to say that God was merciful despite that. In fact, when we go through and we read the genealogy of Christ in Matthew chapter 1, one of the things that we see highlighted is is the stories of Rahab and Tamar and Bathsheba. What does this show you? The mercy of God. The grace of God. The fact that he can use broken and messed up people. This man would be a part of the lineage of Christ. He would also build the temple. God would use him to write portions of Scripture. What does this show you? The mercy of God. God hated what David did, but he also used it to accomplish good. And God still loved David. So the question is, what can we learn from this passage? I think there's a lot that we can learn from it, but I want to zero on just a couple of simple thoughts. The first one is this. We will never reach a point when we become immune to temptation. We have to constantly guard our hearts against sin. We have to constantly be in the Word of God. We have to constantly invite into our lives people who are genuine accountabilities and encouragements who help us to walk in a way that is true and right and noble. Number two, sin is never neutral. Could you see the progression of David's sin? Do you see how it starts with an entitled attitude and then it moves from a look? And then it moves from some questions, and then it moves to taking someone's wife, and then it moves to covering his sin and going at to great lengths to to lie and to manipulate and to cheat the situation, ultimately leading to the murder of a man. Sin is never neutral. It constantly moves from one step to the next step. Thirdly, we cannot allow Our sin to fester unchecked and get away with it. God never tells us to tame our lusts. He tells us to kill them. Did you catch that? He doesn't tell us to tame them. He doesn't tell us to manage them. He tells us to kill our loss. We need to deal with sin in its infancy, or we will pay dearly for it as it metastasizes. When we have sinned, we need to humbly accept the consequences of our action. And when we have sinned, we should cry out to God for mercy and rejoice in His kindness toward us when we don't deserve it. One of the most tragic things that a Christian could do when God has shown them great mercy. is to become proud and forget where they were. Think about First Corinthians where he says, he says, Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? And he goes through this whole list and he says, and by the way, such were some of you. But you're washed, you're sanctified, you're justified. Don't forget who you were. Thank God who you are now. That's the point. Let's take a few minutes this evening to remember what allows God to give us his grace. And that is his sacrifice. The fact is, the only reason God could accept David wasn't because David was a great man. It's because David was a sinner saved by grace. And the only reason God can accept you and that God can accept me is not because we're great men and women. It's because we are sinners saved by grace. And the only way that we become sinners saved by grace is through the death of Christ and his triumph over death in the resurrection. Let's take a few minutes to reflect on the weight of the cross. The tremendous sacrifice that was made on our behalf. And let's praise him with great gladness as we think about that. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, I thank you for your word. So transparent, so honest, so needed for us. And Father, I don't know what's going on in the lives of people here tonight But it might be that there are some people that needed to hear this, not just to prepare for their future, but because of their current situation. And Father, you know the hearts of every person here. If there's someone who is caught and enslaved in sin, I pray that you would use this message to turn their heart to you. to humble them so that they can turn to you and get the help they need. Be washed and cleansed from their sin and walk in communion with you and one another. Father, I pray especially for our young people, as they hear this message, I pray that they would recognize how devastating the consequences of sin are That they would guard their heart against sinful passions that start out so small and seem so innocent, yet are so destructive. can absolutely devastate a person's life. Father, I pray for those who've been believers for many, many years. May none of us become complacent in our Christian experience, but may we be humble and sober as we think about the fact that we are still made of the same flesh that we were on the day that we were converted. And so, Father, may we walk with a soberness of heart and may we walk in humility. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.