Well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you back to our evening service. Hope you had a good afternoon and we're really looking forward to what the Lord has for us this evening. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to bless our service tonight. Let's pray. Father, we're so very grateful for the Lord's day, and we're thankful for your plan to give us a time of rest and refreshment and a time to focus on you. And I pray that today would be that As we've heard the word preached, and as we've sung praise to you, and we have another opportunity tonight to do the same, I pray that you would use the word of God. to minister richly to our souls. And I pray for Josh as he preaches the word, help him to handle it with care and with passion. And help our hearts to be tender to what you have for us. As we sing praise to you, help us to think about these wonderful truths that we'll express in song tonight. And as we have opportunities here testimonies, I pray that the things that we were able to speak about would be a great encouragement to everyone that is here tonight. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Well, thank you all for joining us for worship this evening here at Anchor Baptist Church. Please open your hymn books to hymn number two hundred and ninety-eight. Satisfied, please stand as we sing. All three verses of satisfied All my life I had planted for I think was Great singing, please be seated as we turn to hymn number three hundred eleven. More, more about Jesus. We'll sing all four verses. And over to three hundred thirty-nine. Heaven came down and glory filled my soul. Bueno, yo no quiero solamente. And we are living in the cry , all these. With the last year and break the way we have When I was my dear. I have a story, and everything was everyone. And I think I was not a ball day, when I was like , When it means forever , I was like , what I'm like to me. I 'm glory with my soul with you. I never burned away and we are being. Great singing. I believe you may want me to lie, or me to live. What do you think? And what Forty four is a red one. He owned the cow on a thousand dollars. All right, Adam, have another one lined up for you. Well careful with these medlings. They take a long time, so. 558. 558. When I can read my title clear I like it. When I can bring in mind my thoughts where to Human sends and that side I bid them weeping and white my weeping eyes and white my I believe me that we need to. Alright, let's go to the fly leaf in the very back. My anchor holds. We'll see in the last verse. And it is on the first page of the, well, third page technically of the fly leave. Verse number four. Troubles almost well on the soul. All right, Adeline, you gotta back up Five oh one. All right. Got a few more. Got a few more. Blair Five oh six. All right, Judah. Five eighty seven. Five eighty seven. And one more Yes. Two eighty four. All right, five oh one Verily, verily I say unto you. Oh , no sé, ¿verdad? For me thy bonders, and he has set me free. He that believeth on the sponsor Happy at everlasting long. Beverly, beverly, I say I say Verily, verily message ever due. He that believeth on the Son is true at everlasting long Took me a minute to get warmed up to that one, but I remembered it quickly. 506. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say rejoice. We'll just sing it through. Rejoice in the Lord, always and again I say, Rejoice, Rejoice in the Lord, always and again I say I say rejoice, rejoice, rejoice, and again I say rejoice, rejoice, rejoice, and again I say rejoice, Rejoice in the Lord always and again I say rejoice. I was not about to organize the church into four rounds, alright Five eighty seven. She'd be singing that one for twenty minutes if you're not careful. Five eighty seven. Victory in Jesus. I heard an old story. Two eighty four. Some goal We'll stay and sing the first and the last. Please be seated. Three, three To all today , I need the valleys with my business, all these trusts. All that I need to walk I need to be who you want me to be. I want to follow wherever you be. We are well, we go away Please join me in turning in your Bibles to 1 Samuel chapter 27. And truly, as that song said, let that be our prayer Even as we come to read the Word of God this evening, teach us your way, Lord, from your word. 1 Samuel chapter 27. And I would like if you would also join me in putting a marker in Psalm 56. If you could find Psalm 56, we'll reference that later on in the sermon. But we'll begin here by looking to 1 Samuel chapter 27. And let us read the Word of God. We'll read verse 1 and 2. And David said in his heart , I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul. There is nothing better for me than that I should speedily escape into the land of the Philistines. And Saul shall despair of me to seek me any more in the coast of Israel. So shall I escape out of his hand. And David arose, and he passed over with the six hundred men that were with him unto Akish, the son of Maoch, king of Gaf. Let us pray. Father, we come humbly before you, so thankful for the freedom we have to open your word and publicly read it and proclaim the gospel in this land. And we know, Father, how desperately our country needs the gospel. But Lord, we also know that our world is in desperate need of the gospel. And even here tonight, each one of our hearts. As we humble them before you, we would say, Lord, I desperately need the gospel. And so we pray, Father, as we bring our hearts to you, that you would do what only you can do. That by your Spirit you would work mightily in opening your word to us this evening. That you would expose every thought and desire and attitude of our hearts Lay it all bare before you and show us what we ought to repent and confess before you. And then, Father, build us up in the truth. of what Christ has done and is doing for us and so encourage our hearts here tonight we ask. I thank you, Lord, that we can spend this time together opening your word. And it is in Jesus' name that we pray, Amen. How do you start your day What would be your daily routine as you get up in the morning? What are the first things that you think about? What's the first thing that your mind runs to Are there some stresses that weigh heavy on your heart? Are there decisions and deadlines or frustrations? or finances? Or are there certain relationships and issues that are just kind of in the background and they come to mind at um at various times? Are there trials or various temptations you struggle with, even when you get up in the morning? How do we start our days? Some of us would have to humbly say, I start my day running to my inbox. Checking my notifications and messages, seeing what the sports scores were Any number of things. And you and I know that if you're starting your day with those kinds of thoughts and those kinds of pressures or checking the news, your heart is not being fed in the way that it needs to. And as we come to look into the life of David here, we see into his heart at a very pivotal moment in his life But I want to suggest to you that we don't know exactly how much time passes between chapter 26 and this great moment in David's life and then chapter 27, verse 1. And I would think that it's not just he woke up the next morning and had these thoughts, but that slowly over time These kinds of pressures, these kinds of responsibilities, these kinds of thoughts began building up in David's heart. And the question we need to ask is, where do we go with such thoughts? There's a great proverb that speaks to this, and many of us know this by heart. Proverbs 3, 5 and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Great instruction, great direction, great promise, but only um something that works as we come and bring our hearts to the Lord and truly trust Him in our hearts. David has grown worn with weariness and fear. And we see in this text, his heart is opened up. And really the whole theme of the message tonight, the whole proposition would be this. We must daily preach the gospel to our hearts as we submit our lives and choices to God. We must daily preach the gospel to our hearts as we submit our lives and our choices. to Christ. So let us look here into the example of the life of David, and we do so with humility in our hearts, recognizing that no one of us would would want the story of our own lives to be to be under the microscope right now. Right? I'm thankful and humbled to be able to look into David's life because in those moments when he does well I say, praise be to God for his grace. And in those moments when he is weak, I say, praise be to God for his mercy. And just before we look at the text again, his grace, the undeserved gift of God's favor as he works for our good and his glory. And his mercy, the undeserved gift of God's faithful love , kindness, and compassion in our weakness. And so we come here and we see first of all in verses 1 through 7 that David chooses to serve King Akish. And we'll read our first verse here. And this is really where we're going to have to spend most of our time this evening. We will cover the whole chapter and a little bit into chapter 28. But look here with me in verse 1. And David said in his heart I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul. That's a really important statement. David is speaking from his heart, and the heart we know in Scripture is speaking of the very core of our being. At the very depths of David's being arises these thoughts. It is fear. It is anxiety. It is a feeling of My day is coming when Saul is gonna finally catch me and get me. My guess is imminent. There is the day coming when I'm not going to escape from the hand of Saul. Now, this is a timeless truth. No one speaks to you more than you. Right? No one speaks to you more than you speak to you. There's probably a better way to say that, but you get the thought, right? We have this dialogue going on within, and we get a snapshot into what's going on in David's conversation. He's speaking to himself, and is he speaking truth to his heart? No. He's gripped by fear. He's weary. He's probably s stressed out and overwhelmed and the burdens that he's been carrying leads him into this pattern of thinking where he's saying to himself over and over again You've got to do something, David, because one day Saul is going to get you Now, a comforting truth, that is a timeless truth, is that the Lord knows exactly what David is thinking in his heart and feeling in his heart For we're told earlier in first Samuel that when the Lord chose David as king, he said not to look on his outward appearance, for the Lord looks on the heart All of these thoughts, all of these fears, all of this anxiety, all of this stress, the Lord sees it and knows where David is at. In his fear, David forgets the promises of God, the character and attributes of God. In his fear, David forgets the providence of God, the power and protection that God has shown to him. In his fear, David becomes numb to the presence of God. in his life. If we went back from chapter 18 through chapter 26, we would see over and over and over again javelins thrown at David. The Lord spares him A plot for David to try and take out a hundred Philistines. The Lord gives him victory and gives him 200 Philistines, not just 100. Jablin thrown again. Assassin sent to David's house at night. David flees to Naoth. Saul pursues David's Teka. to the wilderness of Maom, to the caves of Adulum, to the wilderness of Hakilah. David is on the run over and over again for years. And time and again, what does the Lord do? Delivers David from the hand of Saul. That is the reality. That is what is going on. But here David repeats to himself, One day Saul will prevail, even though the last words that Saul spoke to David was this, Blessed be thou, my son David. Thou shalt both do great things and also shalt prevail. Saul himself said to David, You're going to win. Why? Because the Lord is with you, David. You will prevail. David in his fear comes up with a plan. There is nothing better for me. Nothing better. Not a single better idea than that I should speedily escape into the land of the Philistines, and Saul shall despair of me to seek me any more in any coast of Israel. David's plan. I will go to the Philistines. I will go to our enemies. And if I can go to our enemies, they will protect me in their land, and Saul will get tired of chasing me. Good plan? No, no, come with me to Psalm 56. We're going to read that in just a moment. What happened the last time David went to the Philistines? The last time David went to the Philistines, he went to the same city he's going to go to, Gas. He shows up in Gas alone. Desperate. The Philistines recognize him and they run to King Akish and say, Do you realize who just walked into our town with the sword of Goliath? David, the champion of Israel. And Achis must be thinking, that's gotta be a mistake And they bring Akis David and he's got spittle coming down his beard. He's scrabbling on the wall of the gate. Like a madman and Kate Akish says, What are you doing wasting my time? You think I need more madmen around me? It might be a little underhanded slight towards the Philistines. I don't know. But he's like, I've g I've got enough madmen around me. You're gonna bring me another one? That's essentially what he says back earlier in the story And what what happens there? The Lord delivers David in that moment, a merciful act of God to spare his life. I mean you don't walk into gas with Goliath's sword. Thinking that King Achaeus is about to turn around and say, hey, it's great that you're here. I'm glad that you joined us. What's different this time with David's plan is this. David has 600 crack troops, battle-hardened warriors with him. He's not alone anymore. He's got some power. He's a notorious outlaw. He is a force to be reckoned with. This time it will be different, he thinks. But notice this. When God saved David in a great act of mercy from Akish and Gath the first time, look at what flowed from the heart of David in Psalm 56. Be merciful unto me, O God, for man would swallow me up He fighting daily oppresseth me, mine enemies would daily swallow me up, for they be many that fight against me, O thou most high. What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. In God I will praise his word. In God I have put my trust. I will not fear what flesh. can do unto me. Every day they rest my words, all their thoughts are against me for evil. They gather themselves together, they hide themselves, they mark my steps when they wait for my soul. That literally happens when they're waiting outside his bed and he's asleep. Right? He goes on, Shall they escape by iniquity? In thine anger, cast down the people, O God. Thou tellest my wanderings, put thou my tears Into thy bottle. Are they not in thy book? When I cry unto thee, then shall my enemies turn back. This I know, for God is for me In God will I praise his word. In the Lord will I praise his word. In God have I put my trust. I will not be afraid what man can do unto me. Thy vows are upon me, O God. I will render praises unto thee, for thou hast delivered my soul from death. Will not thou deliver my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of the living? Now that's a lot to take in and process. There's a sermon there in and of itself in Psalm 56, but I felt we had to read this word. Because what if David returned to Psalm 56, which he wrote? And return to where his heart was at the first time, years before when he tried to go to Gath He would have preached this message to himself. God, you're merciful, you're greater than my enemies, you are for me, you are with me, you know my tears, they're numbered and kept in your bottle and in your book. You know what I am going through. You know my enemy surrounds me. You know they haunt my steps. You know these thoughts are welling up within me. But I will encourage my heart in this. I can trust you, Lord. You will deliver me, Lord. Your word is true, Lord. Your vows are upon me, Lord. You are my Lord, and you will save my soul. You have saved my soul This is the message, the good news that David must be preaching to his heart, or his heart will lead him astray. And he rests in his power, he rests in his reputation, he rests in the soldiers at his back, and he marches himself to Gath once again. And just to be clear, the revealed will of the Lord to David from the prophet Gad earlier in 1 Samuel 22, verse 5, was this. David, go dwell in Judah. At that time, David was in Moab. He had dropped his parents off there. He was in a stronghold in a fortress in the east. and Moab. And the Lord sent the prophet Gad, 1 Samuel 22, 5, and said, David, get out of the stronghold, go to Judah. No prophet has come to David and said, Now go to Gath. David has not inquired of the Lord and said, Lord, should I now go to Gath? David has made a decision based on his own reasoning. And notice the strength. so shall I escape out of his hand. No longer it is the Lord delivered David out of his hand. It is David saying, I will escape out of his hand Hand. Now the action follows in verse 2 that David arose and he passed over with 600 men that were with him unto Akish. the son of Maoch, king of Gath. And so David makes the decision and David goes his way and he goes to Gath And this must be a moment where we just zoom out for just a minute here and make this observation. This is a clash of worldviews. This is a war of worship. The battles and the conflicts between the Israelites and the Philistines all throughout the Old Testament is not just a political equation. This is a matter of worship. Whom does David serve? I'll let him tell you as he faces Goliath. Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword and with a spear and with a shield, but I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. This day will the Lord deliver thee into mine hand, and I will smite thee, and take thine head from thee, and I will give the carcasses of the host Of the Philistines this day, unto the fowls of the air, and to the wild beasts of the earth, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. And all this assembly shall know that the Lord saveth not with sword and spear, for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands. That's David's mighty statement before the hosts of the Philistines, before the leader, the warrior of Gath, Goliath. Do we not suspect that the king of Gath would be at such a battle? Do we not suspect that Philistines from Gath would be at such a battle with their champion? And now David comes showing up at Gath. And is this the message on his lips? No, it's the opposite Not the Lord is saving me, but I've got 600 swords behind me, and I will escape out of Saul's hand. Now I pause here for a moment to say what David is wrestling with, what David is going through here, resonates with me. Because I too have been weary and discouraged and burdened under responsibility and anxious and fearful And we too, as Christians, fall into a pattern of unhealthy thinking. Not governed by the promises of God, not drawn out of love for God and worship for God, but instead we fall into Patterns of unhealthy, unchrist -like, unbiblical thinking. And it's so dangerous and detrimental to our souls. Because when we do, we begin to doubt the promises of God. We begin to doubt the power of God. We begin to doubt his goodness. and his love and his faithfulness. And I have to say to you here tonight, if we're honest brothers and sisters in Christ, we know where David's at because we have walked the same road. And I want to encourage you tonight that there is hope and a remedy and a help for such hearts as ours. But we'll have to wait till we get there. Verse 3. We look to David's wives. Just briefly here. David dwelt with Akish Agath. He and his men, every man with his household, even David with his two wives, Ahineam the Jezreelitis, and Abigail the Carmelitis, Nabal's wife. Now David has stepped outside of God's plan for marriage. And it's not the main point of our text, but it is mentioned here so that later on in David's life we'll remember Earlier on, David had made the decision to step outside of one man, one woman in a covenant before God, and he is now married to two women, and his first wife, his three So he's three women he's been married to, is uh been given to another man. There's a lot of brokenness in David's um life at this moment. His choice of entering into two marriages at the same time here with Abigail and Ahinawam leads to future heartbreaking consequences for David, his family, and the kingdom of Israel. So stay tuned. That will come back at a later point. We could also say in this observation here, it's not just David and 600 men, but households. So wives and children. We don't know the exact numbers, but that's probably 1,500, maybe 2,000 They're following David into Gath, and verse 4. It was told Saul that David was fled to Gath, and he sought no more again for him. Now don't be fooled by that verse, because when you first read it, some of us are thinking, well, that's good. The problem to solve is fixed, right? The ends don't justify the means, right? David, your plan worked. Saul's not chasing us anymore. Good one. No, no, this is a moment of disaster for David, though he does not yet realize it. And it is only by the merciful intervention of God in the life of David that rescues him from this disastrous decision to go to Gas. We come to verses 5 through 7. We learn about David's town. And David said unto Akish, If I have now found grace in thine eyes, Let them give me a place in some town in the country that I may dwell there. For why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee? Then Akish gave him Ziklag that day, wherefore Ziklag pertaineth unto the kings of Judah unto this day. And the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines was a full year and four months. David goes to King Ashish and he asks for grace. He asks for favor. He asks for the king to give him a town, and he does so with such humility. I don't deserve, as an Israelite, to live in the royal city of Gas. Why don't you just give me a little town out in the countryside? And I'll just go get out of your, you know, I I I won't be a bother to you. Just give me a town out in the countryside, and I will be content. Notice what does David call himself? Thy servant, thy servant, the servant of Akish Living in Philistine land or the servant of God living in the promised land? Do you see the contrast? Seeking the grace of the king calling himself a servant of the king, dwelling in the land of the king. But which king? It is one year and four months that David lives in this town, and surely we wonder what this communicate to the Philistines. I guess David doesn't believe in the Lord of Israel anymore. What does it communicate to Israel? Is David truly to be our next king? The traitor? Maybe we're better off with Saul. What does it communicate to David's men? Well, we're happy we're not living in caves anymore. It's kind of nice to have our own town and our own houses. And certainly it is a place where one could become comfortable, content. and complacent. But we move from this first section of the text from David serving King Akish to David deceiving King Akish. Because there's a war within David. He's playing a game. He still loves the Lord, but he's playing a game in a dangerous way. Verse eight. We see David's activity. And David and his men went up and invaded the Gesherites, and the Gezerites, and the Amalekites, for those nations were of old the inhabitants of the land, as thou goest to Shur, even unto the land of Egypt. And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep and the oxen and the asses and the camels and the apparel, and returned and came to Akish And Achish said, Whither have you made a road today? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the Jeremiahites, and against the south of the Kenites. And David saved, neither man nor woman alive, to bring tidings to Gath, saying, lest they should tell on us, saying, So did David, and so will be his manner all the while he dwelleth in the country of the Philistines. So we here we have the next bit of the account, David's activity as he is there in the land of the Philistines. Now, interestingly, Zikwag is located further down southwest of Gath. Okay, it's still in Philistine land, but technically Ziklag was given to the tribe of Judah as their inheritance during the conquest. And you remember that during the conquest, many of the tribes did not fully drive out the Canaanites. And so what you begin to have is Canaanites, like the Philistines, begin taking more and more territory. So Israel is supposed to control all that region of land. but they haven't done what God gave them to do. And so now David is given Ziklag territory they should have already owned, territory that the writer at the time says, hey, we still have it to this day. It was given to David by the Philistines. It's not good. It's a mess. But David begins this campaign of targeting the peoples, and some of you have maps in the back of your Bible. You could probably find gas, ziklag. If you look further down towards Egypt, going southwest, he targets more Canaanite tribes and peoples in that region. Then if you came over on the map further east to Judah, you would look down south of there. Sometimes on the map it's called the Negev It's like this desert and wilderness region. And so David says to the king of Gath, I've been raiding the lands of Judah, the Kenites. And the ones that live there in the south of Judah, I've been raiding my own people. In reality, David has been killing Canaanites. And Amalekites, which is in accordance with God's law. God had said, drive them out God did not want Israel to intermarry with them. God was punishing those peoples for 400 years of child sacrifices and gross idolatry and immorality. And so David is playing this game where it's like, well, I'm kind of doing what the law says, and I'm taking this town that God gave to us, but who is he doing it under? Well, he's kind of doing it under Akish, and he has to turn around to Akish and say Well, I was actually attacking my own people. And here's some of the spoil that I've brought back. Here's a nice gift for you, King Akish. And as David goes through this process, as he reports back, the king begins to think more and more, I really like David. He's killing people in Judah. He's bringing me gifts. He is a powerful guy. I like this guy. Look at David's allegiance here in verse 12 and the first two verses of chapter 28. And Akish believed David, saying , He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him. Therefore he shall be my servant forever. And it came to pass in those days that the Philistines gathered their armies together for warfare to fight with Israel And Akish said unto David, Know thou assuredly that thou shalt go out with me to battle, thou and thy men. And David said to Akish , Surely thou shalt know what thy servant can do. And Achis said to David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of mine head forever. Wow. What a dialogue. What an interaction here. Where is D. David's allegiance here? He is in a mess, is he not? He has done such a good job of lying and deceiving and tricking the king of gas. This king thinks there's no way David could ever go back to Israel. They think he is abhorrent, he is repulsive, he is a stench to them. If any of you are dire sports fans and you ever had like a star player leave your team and go to the rival team, can you imagine the kind of thoughts uh th those kinds of sports fans have to that person. It's a much smaller scale, but it's a similar kind of idea that maybe you resonate with, maybe a a person comes to mind in that case. I mean Benedict Arnold is known, is he not? People don't like when you turn to the other side But Achish, sir, likes it. He likes it so much that he looks at David and says, It's time for the armies of the Philistines, the five kings. of the land of the Philistines to gather our armies and we're marching to war against Israel and David, you're coming with us. Bring your six hundred men In fact, David, and you can look at David what he says, you'll see what your servant can do. What a vague um statement. David is like, what is he supposed to say there? Well, you'll see what your servant can do. Have you ever been in a situation situation like that where someone's like talking you up and telling you like, yeah, it's gonna be great You'll see what your servant can do, and David's probably thinking, what am I going to do? You know what I mean? What am I going to do Akish makes David his personal bodyguard. He says, David, you will guard my head This is written in such a way that at this moment what should be ringing out in all of our thoughts is this. You mean the man who took the head of Goliath of Gath. becomes keeper of the head of the king of gas, something is wrong with this picture. And so I set the scene for you. David, giant slayer, warrior, anointed king of Israel, leader of six hundred mighty men, marches. under the banner of the Philistines, standing by the side of King Akish, guarding his life, preparing for war on God 's chosen people The future king marches to war on his own land, on his own people, with his own enemies. That is shocking. That is astonishing. A year and four months of relative comfort, but playing a game of deception. That leads David into this situation where only the awesome mercy and grace of God intervening on David's behalf. can rescue him from himself. And this is where we must pause. And I must tell you of another king The Son of David, the anointed king, the Christ. He never once submitted to his enemy In fact, when he is taken out into the wilderness, it says that the devil taketh him up into an extreme Exceeding high mountain, and showeth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them, and saith unto Jesus, All these things will I give thee If thou wilt fall down and worship me. Then saith Jesus unto him , Get thee hence Satan. For it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. Do you catch that? Jesus says this is a war for worship. It's not just about the kingdoms of the earth. Satan is saying to Jesus, bow down to me and escape the cross. Bow down to me and worship me, and you won't have to suffer and die for their sins. And Jesus says, Get away, liar, Satan Deceiver. For the word of God says, you shall worship the Lord only and serve him only. What's going on with David? A war for worship. Whom will he serve? Jesus says there's only one who is worthy of our worship and service. Not only did Jesus never submit to his enemies, but Jesus never lied. He always told the truth, for he is the truth. He came to bear witness unto the truth, so that every one that is of the truth would hear his voice. What is the truth that Jesus came to preach? It is this You and I are sinners with weak, broken hearts. And it is only through repentance of sin and humility before God and coming and putting trust in Jesus alone that our sins can be paid for. And that we can be granted life eternal with him. It is because Jesus defeated our sins on the cross And Jesus defeated death at his resurrection that you and I can have any hope. It is because of what Christ has done that our hearts can be taken from being stony and dead and cold and can be brought to life. and can be inflamed by his love and can be secured in his truth and can be granted eternal life with him. We must preach this good news to our hearts every single day. Because what you'll find is this. The gospel that you believed the moment that you were saved and born again is the same gospel you need to be reminded of. every day of your life. And guess what? That gospel message never gets old. You never grow tired of it. If anything, it gets better and better and better. And the love that you had for Christ when you see his love for you Only grows deeper because his love for you can only go deeper. It's an incredible truth. Nothing can exhaust the breadth and length and depth and height of the love of Christ as you go deeper into his love and marvel more at his grace and more at his mercy and more at his patience with you and his compassion for you and his um gentleness with you in your weakness and failings, the more we go deeper into that love, the more we revel and celebrate in the cross. And we look at the gospel and say, that is the truth that's going to guard this heart from faltering tomorrow morning, Monday morning, when I get up. I know we're out of time, but I wanted to read a prayer to you as we draw all these things to a close. Ephesians chapter 3, verses 14 through 21, and I'll encourage you to read this on your own time again, maybe even tomorrow morning. Paul teaches us how we as Christians can pray for the guarding of our heart and the directing of our lives. And Paul writes this. For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, that he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man, that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith. that ye being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height, and to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge. That ye might be filled with all the fullness of God, now unto him that is able to do extremely Exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us, unto him be glory in the church By Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen. Let that be our prayer. As we bring our hearts to Christ, as we think of the gospel each day, we say, Lord, dwell in our hearts, root us in your love. Help us to remember the love of Christ which surpasses knowledge. Fill us up with your fullness. Strengthen us by your spirit as we go into this day. Remembering that your power is at work in us, your grace working in and through us. so that as we go through our day, as we celebrate grace, as we marvel at his mercy, we say this, glory be to God and his church for all ages. He loves her and purchased her. Tonight we remember that God knows everything that's going on in our hearts. We remember that we must read his word to refresh our hearts in his promises and in his character. We are reminded that we must ask God for his comfort and wisdom and grace as we navigate the situations and relationships of life. We remember that our hearts must be encouraged to come and gather with God's people and sit under his word so that we hear from him in that way and we remember. That daily we must preach the gospel, our identity in Christ, to our needy hearts. Let us pray Father, I so thank you for this passage of Scripture. And I thank you, Father, for how you have used it and will use it. Thank you for the patience of your people as we went long tonight. We are so moved to behold the wonders and the riches of your love and grace of your patience with us, for we are weak and needy people, and we come to you day by day, recognizing we have not the wisdom, we have not the strength, we have not the plan, but you Do. And we ask, Lord, fill our hearts with greater love to you that we might trust with you, trust you, and walk with you in intimacy tomorrow. In Jesus' name, amen. Isn't that such a rich and vivid passage of Scripture? So gripping to think that a man who's about to go to the throne, who's going to be the next king of Israel, is in that mess. And it's also a great reminder that sometimes when life is really messy and complicated , we humble ourselves and turn to God, it's amazing what He can do. And so thank you so much, Josh, for opening the word this evening. And the Lord really can use that in our hearts this week. Please let's turn in our hymn books to 382 for our closing hymn. I think this is a great hymn for us to Close out our day and our evening service with Nearer Still Nearer. We'll sing the first and the last verses together, please. Let's stand and let's sing this. Reflective hymn together of praise of of prayer. Nearer still nearer. I haven't tried to have two time. Three person here. Draw me for my presentation All me , all me, all to my friends, shall me say In that way , umbrella Shall me today, in that cave. Sail same thing for me, my nature is safe. I want to remind you that tonight the teens have their sing spiration, so teens please quickly make your way to the back after the service of the fellowship hall if you are planning to go to that. And I'm going to go ahead and close us in prayer. And it's really been good to be in the Lord's house this evening. And Josh, thank you so much for bringing the word. Such a blessing. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you for this passage of Scripture that reminds us that when we drift away from you , The consequences of dishonesty and the consequences of relying on our own wisdom and our deceptive hearts can lead us into very dark and complicated places. And Father, as we think about this passage, may it grip our souls. And may we think very deeply about it. And if we find ourselves in this place, help us. To turn to you very humbly and to find your mercy and your grace and to rely upon you for the way out. And Father, I thank you for the great comfort of this text that shows us that in fact you did intervene for good and you accomplished your promises in his life. And Father, we thank you for how this passage points us to a greater King, the Lord Jesus, who will never leave us or forsake us, who will never let us down. who will always speak the truth to us and has purchased our redemption with his great sacrifice on the cross. Father, bless us as we head into this week. Help us to think upon these things and to walk in the strength of them. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.