We're continuing our study through 2 Samuel here this evening, and we're going to pick it up in chapter 19. Throughout the message, we will kind of backtrack a little bit. But uh we will start in 2 Samuel nineteen and we're going to look this evening at David's dilemma as a dad. David's dilemma as a dad, and I I will begin reading in verse one of Second Samuel nineteen. And it was told Joab, Behold, the king weepeth and mourneth for Absalom. And the victory that day was turned into mourning unto all the people. For the people heard say that day how the king was grieved for his son and the people gat them by stealth that day into the city as people being ashamed stealth away when they flee in the the battle. But the king covered his face and cried with a loud voice, O my son Absalom, O Absalom, my son, my son. And Joab came into the house to the king and said, Thou hast shamed this day the faces of all thy servants. Which this day have saved thy life, and the lives of thy sons, and of thy daughters, and the lives of thy wives, and the lives of thy concubines. In that thou lovest thine enemies and hatest thy friends? For what thou hast declared this day, that thou regardest neither princes nor servants For this day I perceive that if Absalom had lived, and all we had died this day, then it had pleased thee well. Now therefore arise Go forth and speak comfortably unto thy servants. For I swear by the Lord, if thou go not forth There will not tarry one of thee this night, and that it will be worse unto thee than all the evil that befell thee from thy youth until now. Then the king arose. And sat in the gate. And they told all the people, saying, Behold, the king does sit in the gate. And all the people came before the king, for Israel had fled every man to his Let us pray, Father. We are thankful for Scripture, how we have the privilege sometimes to learn from the mistakes of others. Others, how we can learn from those that have done right. And sometimes I'm just thankful that my mistakes and my low times are not recorded for all the world of all time to read. But Father, would you be with us here this evening? That the Word of God would speak to the hearts and lives of the believers that are assembled here And those that may be watching, we thank you and we praise you. Through the glorious name of your Son and our Savior, Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. So here in verse nineteen it's going into a very dark time for David. He has found himself running for his life kind of scattered around again, but this time And leading up to this passage, we're gonna see why David is weeping. In verse 1, it says David weeps and mourns for Absalom. There we read it in verse 1. And it says it was told to Joab, Behold, the king weepeth and mourneth for Absalom. Well, why was he weeping? Why was he mourning? Earlier, I don't have these verses up for you, but In 2 Samuel, earlier in chapter 18, David gave specific instructions to all three of the parts of his army. They were separated into three groups, and he told the leaders. You know, we're going to battle, but be careful with Absalom. May he stay safe. Clear instructions, don't take my son. Well, when Joab had the opportunity, he uh decided to take some matters in his own hand, which was very unique because Absalom was known for this long, beautiful hair. So him and I had a lot in common. Oh okay. That that was not so funny. But So Absal was known for his hair, and in the midst of riding from the from the enemies, or from the enemy, from from the armies of David and and Joab and company. His hair gets caught in this oak. And it's an interesting verse. It says he's basically like hanging between heaven and earth. I could never do that with my hair, even when I had it. But anyways, so Joab sees the opportunity, tells the young man, Hey, you sh did you take his life? I would have given you ten shekels. And the guy was like, Uh-uh. You could give me a thousand shekels. There's no way I would have touched uh the king's son. And Joeb's like, oh, okay. Well I'm gonna get right to the point. In fact, I'll take three of them. Three darts, and he took care of business with uh Absalom and killed him right there. Right there. Well, this message by two different messengers actually come back to King David. And we read that at the very end of chapter 18 in 2 Samuel. I have these for you. to read along with me. And 2 Samuel 18, the last couple of verses there says at verse 31, and behold, Kushai came And Cushai said, Tidings, my lord the king, for the Lord hath avenged thee this day of all them that arose up against thee. And the king said unto Cushai, Is the young man Absalom safe Now I don't have it here, but he asked the same question to the messenger before this. There was two messengers. David's concern was, is Absalom safe? I already said that he should be, to all involved, all the leadership should have known, everyone should have known. And here's Kushai. I would not want to be him right here to answer this question. But he answers: the enemies of my Lord the King, and all that rise up against thee to do thee hurt. Be as that young man is. And the king was much moved, and went up into the chamber over the gate and wept, and as he went. He said thus, O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom, would God I had died for thee, O Absalom, my son, my son. So here you have a dad grieving over the loss of his His son. life. Something I hope I would never have to do. It is unnatural. No father should have to bury a son. son. That's just the way it goes. You would it fully intend your children to bury you. So as a father, he is in a very hard place. He has lost a son. And to make a long story short, some of this is just overflowing from other sinful choices in the past and new challenges David knew would come, but this almost seems unbearable to him at this time. He is weeping greatly over his son. So much so that the victory, this great victory they had to deliver David and to try and restore him as king has just taken place. But it says, as it says in verse two, the victory was turned to mourning. The beginning of verse two of chapter 19. And the victory that day was turned into mourning unto all the people. For the people heard say that day how the king was grieved for his son. This affected everyone. They had a great victory, and they're coming back from a great victory, but it's unusual. When they heard him, David, King David, mourning for his son, they were mourning as well. And so much so it affected all that by verse 3 it says, and the people got them by stealth that day in the city. And the people being ashamed self away and they fled when they flee in battle. So basically what's taking place is these guys are entering the city. Instead of this great victory, we destroyed them all, we had a wonderful opportunity. We we saved the king, we saved the kingdom, things are going to be established and things are going to be made right. Instead, they're coming into the city As if they had just tucked their tails and ran from the enemy and suffered a great defeat. Because they already heard how the king was responding. And everyone knew clear instruction. That is one thing that David made clear before they went to battle: keep my son safe. So all are affected by this. And he continues on in verse four. But the king covered his face. And the king cried with a loud voice, Oh my son Absalom, O Absalom, my son, my son, absolutely grieved, devastated by what is taking place. place. And when I read this covered his face, in my mind as studying through this, another passage came to my mind about David's face. And if we go back a couple chapters in 2 Samuel 14, I'm just taking some so you can see. I hope we live on the screen for you. But it says, so Joab arose and went to Gesher and brought Absalom to Jerusalem. And the king said, Let him turn to his own house, and let him not see my face. So Absalom returned to his own house and saw not the king's face. Skipping down to verse 28. So Absalom dwelt two full years in Jerusalem and saw not the king's face. Therefore Absalom sent for Joab to have sent him to the king, but he would not come to him. And when he sent again the second time, he would not come. So when I read this passage about David mourning for his son, burying his face, I was reminded of the opportunity that David had previous to this. He had a minimum of two years where David could have made things right with his son. But David chose, according to Scripture, to just. Let it be as it is, did not, almost refusing. And there's other circumstances involved. You know, he tried to get his attention. Joab had a great way of going to him a clever way. We'll get to that in a little bit. But David David covered his face, and I'm reminded of the responsibility as a father. When you have opportunity, If things are not right, the only day we have is now. We're not guaranteed tomorrow We don't know what the future can hold. David knew that there was strife between him and his son. Joab tried to convince him back in chapter 14. Hey, why don't you bring him back into The town, and he finally convinced them in a clever way to do so, but then he wouldn't let him see his face. He did not let him do it. And so this passage comes to my mind. When we read that David is burying his face, basically in his hands, and he's crying with a loud voice for his son Absalom, it's almost as if David has this great struggle within of yes, losing your son, which should hurt. It should never be joyful. And yet, I imagine as he's burying his face, he may be reminded Possibly I could have done something about this. I would not want that responsibility So the guilt as a father, yes, he's getting restored as a king, but as a father, this is a hard thing to bear because now it is too late. And he doesn't have two days or two weeks or two months. Two years of his son being right in town And sadly, as I read a passage like this, I know families that have spent far more than two years that don't even talk to each other. It is very sad and is very hard. We can allow our own pride Selfishness, we get self-absorbed, whatever it may be, and sometimes we just cling on to whatever it was, to I'm mad at them for something, and I'm not going to be the one to give. Maybe that's what David is struggling with here as a dad. I mean, he is weeping bitterly, changing the whole kingdom. Everyone is mourning and weeping. They're even sneaking into the city as if they lost the battle. Incredible, it affected everyone. And by way of leadership, it affects other people. Whether you're a dad, coach, pastor, whatever area of leadership, you just have to be careful. Because what David is doing here is affecting everyone. So Joab is going to go to David and give him some counsel here in verses 5 through 8. Joab, as I read through here, sometimes I like the guy, and sometimes he's a guy I would have never wanted to known. I mean I he was just he was a literally he was like a military man on a mission. Accomplish the mission at all cost I was thinking in my mind when it comes to Joab that Joab, he was just really loyal to David, and he would just do all the dirty work for David. But then you read a passage like this, he wasn't loyal to David. He had a mission, defeat the enemy. This is the enemy, Absalom. He saw him as the enemy. And that's what I think is interesting, despite everything. I think that's the difference between Joab and David. Now this is David's son, but he treated uh Saul very much the same way. I don't think David being a man after God 's heart really saw these guys chasing him, trying to kill him. I don't think he really saw him as their enemy, as his personal enemy. That's just kind of my opinion, but I don't think David saw it that way. He didn't see Saul as his enemy. He just said, hey, this is a guy he's doing wrong, and given the opportunity, I'm not going to take his life, and we know that to be true. But Joab, not so much. Joab was definitely a military man on a mission. Objective win at all costs. Regardless of what happens, regardless of what gets in my way. So God uses Joab To kind of come to David and really, in my own mind's eye, I think Job 's going to him and is basically going to verbally just kind of slap him upside his head. Wake up. Hey. But let's get a bigger picture of what's going on here. You're weeping like a little baby. Um, but we had a mission we accomplished, and I'm gonna explain some things to you from the other side. So in some those ways, I kind of like Joab. He's just kind of saying it how it is. But yet, I don't like how he accomplished it. But let's continue on in verse 5 here. Joab's counsel to David. And Joab came into the house to the king and said, Thou hast shamed this day the faces of all thy servants. Which this day have saved thy life, and the lives of thy sons, and of thy daughters, and the lives of thy wives, and the lives of thy concubines. Joab said, do you realize what you're doing as king? These people put their life on the line to save you and all your family. And everything you possess and the process allowing you to be their king again. They're putting their lives on the line. And you're here. Crying in some back room over something that you could have avoided long ago. David, don't you remember? Don't you remember? I tried to get Joe or uh Absalom to come to you and make things right and you wouldn't see him It's possible. I mean, I don't know, reading between the lines here a little bit. But what we do know is earlier, we already looked at 2 Samuel 14, the latter part, in some of the first parts, in verses 1 through 3 of 2 Samuel. Joab was very clever. And we read in chapter 14 of verse 1. Now Joab, the son of Zariah, perceived that the king's heart was towards Absalom. And Joab sent to Koa and fetched thence a wise woman, and said unto her, I pray thee, feign thyself to be a mourner, and put now mourning apparel, and anoint not thyself with oil. But be as the woman that had a long time mourned for the dead, and come to the king and speak on this manner unto him. So Joab put the words in her mouth. So Joab has this plan. He's going to try and explain the situation by way of illustration through something he made up. Now this lady She must have had some nerve, I mean, to kind of make up this story and to sell it to the king. She must have really trusted in Joab. And have been a really great actress, but David did end up seeing through it by the end. He thought it seemed a little suspicious. And we see this by verse 19. And the king said. This is verse 19 of 2 Samuel chapter 14. And the king said, Is not the hand of Joab with thee in all this? And the woman answered and said, As I so liveth, O Lord the King, none can turn to the right hand nor to the left, from aught that my Lord the King hath spoken. For thy servant Joab he bade me, and he put all these words in my mouth of the handmaid. And the king said unto Joab, Behold, now I have done this thing. Go therefore and bring the young man Absalom again. So Joab has counseled David before, this time in chapter 14, with a little bit more, being more clever about it, a little bit more tactful. But David did listen. And what happened was Absalom brought him back into Jerusalem. And that's where we read he was there for two years. But yet David still did not see his face. He did not bring him to him. So Joab, at least, for this second time, gave good advice to David, and David did end up listening. But yet, how many times can we put in a situation? I know this is a father-son relationship here, or at least it was, but we have relationships that we're holding on. to whatever may be separating us. And then sometimes not even thinking of how that affects others around us. How it can consume you and your thoughts. It's kind of the being proud and bitter. It really hurts that person more as an individual than it does the other person. I've had someone come to me up in the past and they they said something and I was like, oh, I didn't know. And they were like they were getting mad at me for something that I had done that I didn't realize I had done or said. I forget the specifics now, but I had no idea. But this person was upset at me And once they expressed that to me, I explained to them, I said, oh, this is this is the what from the best I remember and this is how it went, and they're like, oh really? And I could tell it's like they were mad at me for basically no reason. They had imagined all this stuff and it caused the separation, but I didn't I didn't even know But they were like holding this against me, but never said anything. And then once they finally did, it was resolved. But sometimes we're just like David We don't get it resolved, and it just festers and it goes beyond and it spreads. This is part of his dilemma. He's a king, but yet he's also a dad, and he wasn't being father. And I really think the the challenge with David As I look at David's life, he was a great warrior, a great uh man of God, a God man God after uh man after God's own heart. But I think one of his weaknesses was he just didn't father his children. Oh, he may have been around. But I don't like especially with here Absalom and when you look at situations with Amnon and Tamar and different things David didn't seem to father very well. And that concerns me in our churches, our homes in this country around the world. It is important to have a mother And a father, not just present in the same building, because now a lot of our homes are becoming separate little dwellings where each says their own thing in their own room and they might as well have their own apartment. What are we doing as a father, as someone in responsibility, when given the opportunity to make things right. Are we doing this? And then because we didn't, David is really struggling now. Now he's dealing with the loss of another child. He's struggling greatly. So going back to Joab giving this counsel, he's verbally slapping upside his head, and by verse 6, he says. In that thou lovest thine enemies and hatest thy friends. Now this is coming from Joab's perspective. He says, For thou hast declared this day that thou regardest neither princes nor the servants, for this day I perceive that if Absalom have lived And all we had died this day, then it would please thee. He says, David, you're acting as if these men that wouldn't put their life on the line had they died? And if Absalom, who was acting like your enemy, who was trying to take your throne from you, do you remember that? He's trying to steal your throne from you, your own son. Now you're crying because he's dead. The people that put their life on the line, they're treating them like they're the enemy. He's like, David, you're getting this all backwards. This is not right. He says you're acting okay, yeah, you're supposed to love your enemy. Okay, we can get that idea from the New Testament. Be kind to them and the power of the end to do things. Okay, I got it. But is he he's treating the bad guys good and the good guys bad? That's almost how Joe is seeing this. And when Joab is saying this to David, I'm sure he was thinking about the opportunities he's had and listening to me. You know what, Joab, he's just a straight shooter. He's just tell me how it is. And then he gives them this advice. In verse 7, he says, now therefore, arise, go forth, and speak comfortably unto thy servants. And he says, For I swear by the Lord, that thou go not forth, there will not tarry one in thee this night that will be worse unto thee than all the evil that befell thee from thy youth until now. A slight exaggeration, I'm sure, but he is saying, you, if you don't do this, it is not going to be good for re-establishing this kingdom. You are treating these people horrible. And that continues David's challenge. Because of his family challenges that were unresolved, problems don't just go away. David was almost acting like an ostrich, bearing his hand, pretending like it wasn't there, and it'll all go away. And now when the opportunity is here to do something about it, he doesn't. And now when it's too late, then he grieves. And then he's challenged with, my son , you could have done that for two years, David. And I'm not just trying to beat him up, but I'm trying to look at the reality of how we can take this today And what we can do about it. And at least Joab was trying to help him through this difficult situation, but David in part kind of brought it on himself. And allowed these problems to swell and to grow, where you're allowing your own son to basically act as your enemy. He even tried to see you multiple times, and you wouldn't do it. So in part I think it is guilt on David's part. And I will say another thing that I have seen in parents dealing with their children. And struggling with your own personal guilt. As I've had parents , you know, we've had discussions and they'll say, well, you know, I can't tell them that they can't do that. I'm like, why? Why? I mean if you know it's wrong and you love them, why wouldn't you correct them about it? And they would say something like this, I've had this on several occasions. Well, because that's what I did when I was their age. I'm like, oh, okay. So they're supposed to run in the street and play with knives and you know hopefully they live to tell about it too? I mean you just said let your kids do wrong because that's what you did when you were their age? How about saying I was not smart growing up? I made mistakes. How about you learn from your father? But you know sometimes we struggle with that because We have pride. We want them to think of more highly, whatever it may be. But sometimes I think it's the guilt. Well, I can't correct them because that's what I did. Well yeah, but did you learn from it? So take that knowledge, learn from the mistakes, and use it as a teaching tool to your children. Don't feel so guilty. I've got to let them do it. I just can't correct them in this area Do you love them? And is it the word of God that you can use to help correct them and to do right? It's okay to lovingly go Don't pretend all pious. Oh son, that's horrible that you struggle with that. I mean, I couldn't imagine. But I'm not gonna do anything about it. If you struggle with that, well then you struggle with it. Correct them lovingly kindly. David I think here in part was feeling guilty because some of the same things that he had done is now the pattern that his children were doing. And so in part, I would think that David is struggling so much inside. He's in a great internal dilemma as a dad. And now he's being restored as a king, and he has a huge problem because the festering challenge of not taking care of the family issues is growing. He didn't take care of it. And now he is personally suffering in a great way. And so here, Joab encourages him, hey, you need to go talk to the people. You can't change the past, but you can do right from right now. So as a parent, as a grandparent, don't let the sins of your past drag you down and make you feel guilty where you can't lovingly carefully correct the children so that they would do better than you. Ah, but that might be another struggle. You mean sometimes as a parent I've seen mostly uh just to put it in context, mostly I've seen this in sports, where sometimes the parents will push their kids too hard, or sometimes I've seen where Sometimes the parent they want good for their kids, but it's like, but man, they they would be better than me and uh blood, I'd lose some of my bragging and you know, it almost becomes a pride thing. You know, like, well , if you did that, well, you know how much I benched, or you know, whatever. You know, you know how far I ran? Do you know how fast I was Come on, what's your problem? It's like it's on the macho dad. You know, okay, what really? Whatever the problem is, whether we're trying to be macho or whether it's guilt or pride. Regardless, are we going to take time to do and teach them right today? Don't allow the guilt of your past to stop you from teaching them to do right. Because if you take that thinking and pass it from generation to generation, we're going to be in a big mess. Oh, I can't I did that, so I can't correct them. Hey, we're all sinners. Saved by the grace of God. And it is okay to use the Word of God to lovingly Encourage those around us. And this is Joab. He's going to the king. And verbally slapping himself. Wake up, buddy. He's going to the king. I don't know if I could have done that. Just to be honest, I don't know if I could have done it. King David. But Joab, he's on a mission. Accomplish the mission. You're the king. Act like it. You messed up. Let's move on. That's kind of in so many words. I mean, I would have tried to be more gracious if I would have done something like that, but he's just pretty much saying it how it is. Then we get to verse 8. Then the king arose and sat in the gate, and they told all unto the people, saying, Behold, the king does sit in the gate, and all the people came before the king, and the Israel had fled every man into his tent. So what happened here is, thankfully David thought about these things that Joab had said, recognized, you know what, there is some truth. And in those reflection moments of him mourning, weeping, thinking about his son, and the fact that he could do nothing about it anymore and his own guilt, at least he recognized through Joab that you know what? But I do need to move on. I do need to do right now. And sometimes that is another challenge for us all. We always want to do right tomorrow. I'll change that tomorrow. It's kind of like the diets that we all started in January. New Year's resolution. I'm gonna start now. And then by Valentine's most of us are back to where we were in November and December. But we only have today. We only have now Just like procrastinators, they're always the leaders of tomorrow. We don't have to wait till tomorrow. Because we don't know what's going to happen Do you think David woke up that morning after giving instruction to all his people and think my son is going to be dead this day? I don't think so. I don't think that was his plan. And the reality of the guilt that he had carried and the things that he could have done, I am thankful that he had Joab to at least kind of correct him and at least get him to do right for the people that day. I messed up, I made mistakes. But you know what? For the sake of these people, I can try and do right and be their king. And in the rest of the chapter we see as that restoration uh process takes place. I'm not going to go through all that. There's almost another 30 verses in the rest of this chapter. But God is using David to reach out to other people. To try and reunite his kingdom. And so David's kingdom can be restored, not just for himself, but I think he was restoring it, trying to do his best. before the Lord. And I think that's what makes David a man after his own heart is he did recognize the error of his way. When Saul was confronted with wrong He didn't see it. David, it took him a little bit more, and yes, he should have grieved for his son. But I think the the intense mourning and weeping was potentially his own guilt, the knowing that I could have done something. I mean, as the king, he could have made it away. I know it takes two. But it seems like there were portions where even Joab, our straight shooting man on a mission type of guy, was saying, hey, you need to get this right with your son. And didn't do it. So David's dilemma as a dad was multifaceted here. Internal struggles, external challenges. And allowing his own sins of the past to probably weigh him down, and then it all comes crashing down when it's too late to do anything about it. Could we learn from David here? Could we just trust God today, obey Him today, and encourage others to Do likewise. Those close in prayer, Father. Many times of David, we think of glorious things, of him leading Israel to defeat the Philistines. Of him defeating the Philistine. Father, but David had some low points. He had some challenges And just as I observe, in my opinion, I think sometimes he just struggled as fathering his children, just being a dad to his children And if we're to continue down that path, Lord, we would not have families, we would not have churches, we would not have a country, society as a whole, if we just don't have dads that wanted fathers their children, to lovingly correct when they have opportunity, to have others to help encourage them to do right. David truly was in a challenge. He had a massive dilemma here due to his position as king, and yet not taking advantage of that when he had the time to do so. Father, help your people. Help us all to love you enough, to set aside selfishness and sin, and to serve our Savior. Dear Jesus Christ. And we come to you through his precious and glorious name. Amen