You want to open to Second Samuel sixteen fifteen. Second Samuel sixteen fifteen I do not get the opportunity to wrap up the story, but we are drawing very close to the end of all that's been going on through everything that's been happening with Absalom, but we still have a little ways to go. When we look at these chapters, one of the things we can really see is how sin has truly fractured the family. So far we've seen a lot of how death, a lot of if we could say Nathan's prophecy in verse 10, how death and violence would be a regular part of David's life. A sword would not depart from my house. It's really been very, very true. And as things have been going on, you can truly just see the family unit there really break down and start to fall apart. Where we left off last time, Pastor was walking through Absalom's Rebellion, a lot of the characteristics that is involved with Absalom's character that led to the rebellion. While he did not mention it specifically, one of the things you'll start to see is that David left Jerusalem. David was fleeing, kind of giving things over to let the Lord handle it as Absalom was going to move in. To Jerusalem and start moving in to avoid a conflict, it almost seemed like that David starts moving out. We get to six And as David leaves in chapter 15, a lot of the ark is comes to David. And then we start seeing that another man by the name of Ziba, the caretaker of Mephibosheth, he comes to David, and then Chapter 16 really begins almost a parentheses or a pause on the main characters of David and Absalom. They are the main characters of the story. Please don't miss that. But one of the things that becomes a little interesting in here is how two characters enter and seem to take the main spotlight for a chapter and a half. Those men are the names of Ahithophel and Hushai. And it's that these two men that we're going to spend the majority of tonight looking at. David's friendship and how it really broke down. So with that, let us read 2 Samuel 16, 15. And Absalom and all the people and the men of Israel came to Jerusalem and Ahithophel with him. And it came to pass when Hushai the Architect, David's friend, was come unto Absalom, that Hushai said unto Absam, God save the king, God save the king. And Absalom said to Hushai, Is this thy kindness to thy friend? Why wentest thou not with thy friend? And Hushai said unto Absalom, Nay, but whom the Lord and the this people and all the men of Israel choose His will I be, and with him will I abide. Again, whom should I serve? Should I not serve in the presence of his son? As I have served in thy father's presence, and so will I in thy presence. Verse 20. Then said Absom to Hithophel, give counsel among you what we should do. And I'm going to jump to verse 23. And speaking of the Hithophel, and it says, in the counsel of the Hithophel, which he counseled in those days, was as if a man had inquired at the oracle of God. So was all the counsel of Hithel, both with David and with Absalom. Let's pray. Father. As we look at these two men, we're going to see how sin branches beyond just our family and affects those around us, friends, and even a nation in this instance. But let us not miss that you are good even during these trials like this. Father, thank you for all you do and the opportunity we have just sent around your word this evening. Please let your word go forth and let it not be hindered. Praise the Him's Christ's only name. Amen. Tonight, as we look at the story, Davidson, while it is affected and causes around to feel pain and suffering. into a friend. But it's by God's goodness he encourages David through a faithful friend, encouragement of new friends. And what I'd like to look at tonight is God wants to see He is good even in the midst of our destructive choices. God is still good in the midst of our destructive choices. The first thing we have to look at, the first man that brings up, that pops up in here is Ahithophel. Ahithophel is actually, you do really see the first time he was mentioned would actually be in chapter 15. Some things worth noting, as you've already saw in verse 23, the council of Ahithophel. Ahithophel is known as the counselor. of David. He's no counselor. Wisdom of Ithophel was like a prophet speaking. He almost had direct access to God the way that he spoke. It says in verse 23, the counsel of Ithophel, which he counseled in those days, was if a man inquired of the oracle of God. This would have been, they're comparing it to going to the Urim and Thurium, having to As we view it today is almost like drawing lots, trying to see what God is going to do. We're going to a prophet just as direct access. He's such a wise person. In my studies, the only person I could think of and see that was compared to being so wise would have been Solomon, to have such wise access to God. So this counselor who seemed as if God was speaking through him, what happened that he turned away from David and started chasing after Absalom, a clear person who was not serving God. But before we get there, there's a few other details to know about who Ahithophel is. One of the things worth mentioning, he's the father of a lion. He's a lion's father. One of David's valued men. In 2 Samuel 23, there's a list of David's valued men, and one of them towards the end is Eliam. Now Eliam also pops up in another story. 2 Samuel 11. When David sees Bathsheba and he inquires of her, one of David's servants says, that is Bathsheba, Eliam 's daughter. You start to see that what we're ultimately saying is that Hithophel is Bathsheba 's grandfather. And the situation and how that starts affecting him, ultimately he gives allegiance to Absalom. That begins in 1531 It says, and so one told David, saying, Ahithophel is among the conspirers with Absalom. And notice David's prayer. And David said, O Lord, I pray thee, turn the counsel of Ahithphel into foolishness. We'll talk about that in a little bit. But we're going to start seeing how Ahithophel started turning away from and giving Absalom his allegiance. Even earlier when Absalom moved to Hebron to bring with her that he sent and inquired of Ahithophel in his own city, he was making sacrifices. He comes over and he joins Absalom. And you notice in verse 7, sorry, in chapter 15, chapter 16, verse 15. Absalom and all the people, the men of Israel, came into Jerusalem and Ahithophel with him. The author is drawing an important note to see what is going on. Ahissel's first advice though, we're going to start seeing some of the friendship, this destructive friendship of Ahithophel, where it starts seeing how it affected him. One of the first things is his first advice is to reveal his bitterness. His first advice reveals his bitterness. In 20 through 22, Absalom asks for, what should I do? And to summarize these passages here, he simply says, go and make the kingdom your own. There was a tradition that whenever a king would come into a nation and he would take it as own, that he would go in and make all that are still in the house. If I can use the a castle, I think that's the correct term, but we're gonna use the word castle. He would come into the castle and make all of theirs his own. They were his concubines, they became his concubines. There was a total ideology that they'd go in and to make it clear to everyone that is there in the nation, I am now in charge. But the way this bitterness is above and beyond what is expected. He says to make it public. Go to the roof and go there. Again, he goes to the roof. Ahithophel's making an important note to think about what happened to my granddaughter. It's believed that this is probably the same roofs that everything began in 2 Samuel 11. Ahithophel's bitterness started eating away Adam the way he wanted David to, or sorry, wanted Absalom to change the way that he was viewed. Rather than to make , he wanted to make a public ceremony for the nation to see, truly bringing to fulfillment 2 Samuel 12, 12. So read it here. For thou didst it secretly, I will do this thing before all Israel, before the sun. David's sin affected his friends. He also took David's actions personally. He wanted David. We get into the next section. We kind of see how it's Ahitho 's second advice shows his self-absorption through this. He took everything that David did personally. In verses 17, 1 through 4. Ahithophel is straight to the point to dealing with the advice that he offers. Let me choose out twelve thousand men, and I will arise and pursue after David this night, and I will come with him while he is weary and weak-handed. And will make him afraid, and all the people that are with him shall flee. And I will smite the king only, and I will bring back all the people unto thee, the man whom thou seekest as if all Sorry, the man whom thou seekest is as if all returned. So the people shall be in peace. And the saying pleased Absalom well and the elders of Israel. Did you catch that? The personal, the personal pronoun there, I, me. Let me read it again. Let me Now choose out twelve thousand men, and I will re-arise and pursue after David this night, and I will come unto him while he is weary and weak-handed. And will make him afraid, and all the people that are with him shuffle in I will smite the king only, and I will bring back all the people unto thee, the man whom thou seekest, as if all returned. So all the people shall be in peace. He wants to do the deed. He says, what David has done is unacceptable. I want to do it. Even more so, he sees all of David's men as innocent. He wants just David dead. The bitterness, the self-absorption begins eating away. The story continues. Well we're going to look at this in a second, but what happens is Kushai, or sorry, Hushai gives an alternate Advice. And Absalom likes it and he listens and he obeys. And we see Ahithophel's self-destruction, verse 23. One simple verse is left to it. And when Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed, he saddled his ass and rose and got him home to his house, into his city, the city of Gilo. And put his household in order and hanged himself and died, and buried in the sepulchre of his father. There's actually a couple very interesting details. That actually is portrays a parallel to Christ. One of those parallels is where David hears that Ahitha has betrayed him. Chapter 15, verse 31. Sorry. Verse 30. And David went up to ascent the Mount Olivet. The Mount of Olive. The same mountain that Jesus was portrayed by Judas. And again, how did the story of Judas end? He returned, threw the silver, and went and hanged himself. Very eerie similarities between the story here The sepulcher of his father. But just as David, this sin ravaged his friend and created bitterness. You almost can hear how David was mourning through this. Because it says in verse 30 that Wept as he went up and his head covered and he went barefoot, and all the people that were with him covered every man's head and went weeping as they went up. And when David heard this and said, and David was saying that was among the conspirators, David said, Oh, I pray thee, turn the counsel of Ahitha into foolishness. This has been a very low point in David's life. But it's also in this exact moment. God gives encouragement. God's goodness through encouragement, friends. There are two friends we're going to see. First one is one that seems as though it's they have a long heritage of friendship. Not much is known. This is the first time he appears in the story. It's the first time he's really mentioned that I can be aware of. And he's repeatedly mentioned with one defining characteristic. This is Hushai, David's. And we're going to read through here. We're going to read him in so many times. I want you guys to notice where, how many times the author makes the note, David's friend. The same to come pass when David was on top of the mount where he worshipped God. Behold, Hoshek the Architect came to meet him with a coat rent and his earth spread upon his head. Sorry, let me clear for where I'm at. I'm in chapter 15, verse 32. 15, verse 32. I'll read again as you join me. And it came to pass when David was come upon the top of the mount. where he worshipped God, behold Hishi the Archite , came to meet him with his coat rent and earth by said, And unto whom David said, If thou pass unto me, thou wilt be a burden unto me. Thou return to the city and say unto Absalom, I will be thy servant. O king, I've been thy father's servant hitherto. So will I now be thy servant. Then mayest thou defeat the council of Ahithophel. And they devise, in the next several verses, they devise a plan of how to communicate what's going to go on there. It's through Zadak and Abiathar and his sons, Jonathan. And Ahemaz, Zadak's son, uh, we're gonna see, and it says in verse 37, look there with me. So Hushai, David's friend, came into the city, which is that first mention. Now we're going to jump to chapter 16, verse 15. The next time Hushai appears, it says, and Absalom and all the people of the men of Israel came into Jerusalem and Ahithophel with him. And it came to pass when Hushai the Architect, David's friend, was come unto Absalm, that Hushai said, Absalm, God save the king, God save the king. Notice again how Absom responds. He seems to know who Hushai is. He responds with very particular words in verse 17. Absalom said to Israel, is this thy kindness to thy friend? Why wentest thou not with thy friend? Absalom knows the relationship with David. That Hushine relationship would have been very close. And this seemed as always a red flag to Absalom, saying something's fishy about this character. All right, he's here. Nothing's gonna happen, but we're gonna keep an eye on him. But when we see through David's friendship and this relationship that was constantly poured out I want to know how Hushai was a friend to David. One of the things is he came emphatically to David. He showed empathy ultimately. The way he came was through empathy. When Abe , it says in verse chapter 15, verse 32, when it came to pass, when David was come on top of the mountain where he worshipped God, behold Hushai the Archite. Came to meet him. Now notice how he came. His coat rent and the earth upon his head. The same way that David was. He came to comfort him. He had the empathy there, relating to David, dealing with it. By the way, he also almost came. The timing of it. The timing he came was as though he was sent by God and answered a prayer. If you look back just one verse, David said, O Lord, I pray thee, turn the counsel of Ahithpel into foolishness. And it came to pass. Almost as though God ordained Hushai would arrive. But he was not to stay with David. He was to go to Jerusalem. God was slowly beginning to encourage David through these circumstances. And it's through Hushai going back that they were going to have this, if I can call it a spy network through Zadok and Abiasar and their sons to reach David to let them know what was going to happen. But he also defended David when it came through. When Ahithaphel, so this is in chapter 17 Ahithophel gives his advice in four simple verses. , Most of those verses are actually Absalom's interactive, so almost half of that, two verses, roughly two and a half verses, Isabel gives, I'm going to go and take care of David. And you're going to spend the next ten verses of, if I can just put it bluntly, Hushai, laying it on real thick for Abson to listen. Whispering sweet things in his ears to flatter him to change his opinion. He's going to spend almost five times as much time to persuade that. him. If you notice the way that Ahitville described him, he's described so David is described as weak, weary, he's afraid. But that does not describe the David we're familiar with really throughout most of these stories we've heard. Actually, as Hushai goes through here, he's going to make some powerful references to the character of David. One of the things that he m he immediately makes mention of, though, is he says, as wise the hitfell is, he's wrong this time. In verse 7, the counsel of Ahithel is given not good at this time. There's other times he's been given good advice, but this is not it. For said Hushai, thou knowest thy father and his men. They are mighty, they are chafed in their minds. The idea that's also translated as bitterness. discontentment, other parts, the idea that they were at edge and they were ready for battle almost. This idea that they were fierce, ready to go because of the situation they'd been handed. As a bear robbed of her whelps in the field. A bear is a powerful story if you remember back to David and Goliath. One of the things he dealt with as a shepherd was a bear. Hushai kind of sneaks it in there. And thy father is a man of war, and will not lodge with the people. Behold, he is now in a pit or some other place, and will come to pass when other be overthrown at the first, that whosoever heareth it will say, There is slaughter among the people of Absalom. He's warning, saying, if you come in there, you're going to be slaughtered. Don't if you just do as the fellow said, it's not going to be good. Verse 10. In chapter 17, verse 10, it says, And he is valiant, whose heart is the heart of a lion. Again. Refers back, we can think back to David and Goliath. David dealt with a bear and a lion. Again, Hushai is trying to persuade David. He's pers he's de- that's David, persuade Absalom. He's defending David and seeing all that he's done. He 's shall utterly melt. And all this will know thy father is a mighty man, which they are , and they which be with him are valiant men. Therefore I counsel that Israel be generally gathered unto thee, from Dan even to Beersheba, as the sand is the sea of multitude. Now go to the battle of thy own person. Hushar wants him to go in his own way. Remember how I said he was laying it on thick. If you look here, he's going to begin telling him that, hey Absal, you should go to battle. You should kill your father. You should get the glory. Absalom likes the sound of that. That's the whole story of Absalom is pride. He wants it for himself. Let me continue in verse eleven. Therefore I counsel thee, go to Dan and Beersheba, as the sand is, the multitude, thou shalt go in the battle in thine own person. So shall we Come upon him in some place where he shall be found. And we will light upon the dew, fall from the ground of him, and all his men that will be dealt with much as one. Moreover, if ye be gotten into a city, then shall all Israel bring ropes, that is the city, and will draw into the river, until there be no small stone found there. And Absalom and the men of Israel said, the council of Ishai the Architect is better than the council of Ithel. Notice this in chapter verse 14. For the Lord had appointed to defeat the good counsel of Ahithophel, to the intent that the Lord might bring evil unto Absalom. All the thing that Hushai came at just the right time, the right friend, to deal with Ahithophel, someone that was so wise, it was almost as if God was speaking. You see through him that simple things begin working. And one of the things that immediately come to my mind is Proverbs 21, 1. The king's heart is in the hand of the Lord, as rivers water, he turneth whithersoever he will. The situation here, as dire as it was for David, did not catch God out of Off guard. He was ready for it. And he brings the right people at the right time into David's life to give him encouragement, to deal with this battle. The next several verses are actually beginning through the result there. War it's communicated to David what's going on. By the way, Dan to Bear Shiva means he's giving David time. If you're not familiar with the phrase Dan to Versheep, it's almost a Hebrew idiom to be from east to west, from the east coast to west coast. It would be everybody from Dan, the most north city. To beersheba the most south. I may have that backwards. But it's basically from the north to the south. Get everybody together to go to battle. He's giving David time to prepare for battle. And Absalom's saying, so he wants Absalom to take the time to gather everybody. So he does that. So Jonathan, Amahaz, they go, they share the information, they pass it on. David gets ready. Absalom starts getting ready for war. And he get David gets to the city called Mahanam. We've seen Hushra how he was a good friend. And these new friends that are going to now meet him. There many of the things are coming to do and offer. I want to draw a parallel to what Christ has done. Not to draw something that may not be there, but I don't want us to miss what they did and why they said what they did in light of what Christ has done. We've already seen a slow parallel parallel through Ahithophels to Christ. And the life that they're and how he had betrayal with Judas. We're going to look at these men and we're going to see what they did and how simple it was pointing to Christ as I see it. So we have these new friends that meet him at Mahanim. Mahanam has a lot of history through others. We had one of Saul's sons go there. It's popped up multiple times, over and over. But Mahanam is an important city. It says David came to Mahanam, Absalom, passed over Jordan, and he and all the men of Israel with him. Jump with me to verse 27. And it came to pass when David was come to Mahanim that Shobi, the son of Nahash of Rabath, of the children of Ammon That Makir, the son of Emil , of Lodabar, and Barzali the Gileadite of Rogalim, brought beds, basins. And earthen vessels, and wheat, and barley, and flour, and parch corns, and beans, and lentils, and par and parched pulse, and honey and butter, and sheep, and cheese of kine. And David for the people that were with him to eat. And they said, the people is hungry, weary, and thirsty in the wilderness. One of the things I immediately see as I look through here is that they sought him out. They he gets this location, they were aware of the need, and they go and they find David. They seek him where he was going, he gets this location, they're there. This, as I read through here, bears a resemblance to me as I read through the Cave Doulum. He's there in the Cave of Doulum and he looks out and he sees the debtors, the distressed, and the discontented coming down. him. But it's also there in the Cave of Dulam. He writes Psalm 57. And while just looking at a couple verses, verses 2 and 3, I want you to listen how David's cry is dealing with that. I will cry unto God most high, unto God that performeth all things. He shall send from heaven and save me from the reproach of him that would swallow me up. His men were in dire need. It says they were hungry, they were thirsty, and they were tired. They're weary. Can't go into battle hungry, tired, and thirsty. He comes in providing with what they need. He says they would reproach, they swallow me up. I would be swallowed up. But God would send from heaven to take care of him. The first thing that I see is these men as they sought him out, similarly, in Luke 19, 10. The Son of Man is come but to seek and save that which is lost. Christ came seeking and saving. But also, I want us to focus on the three things that they brought specifically. The first one they brought is food. Jesus said unto them, John 6. 35, I am the bread of life. He that cometh to me shall never hunger. He that believeth on me shall never thirst. Speaking of thirst, they came thirsty. They brought provided water, says basins and earthen vessels provided water. John 7, 37, 38. In the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink. He that believeth on me, as the scripture has said, out of the belly shall flow rivers of living water. Even as when you interact with the woman on the well, you'll never thirst again. And he says also, he provided, they provided beds for rest. Matthew 11, 28 through 30. Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me, for I am meek, lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light Interesting is this is one of the only spots these men are mentioned. But David never forgot the friendship that they offered. You were to jump with me to 1 Kings 2. 7. 1 Kings 2. 7. Just a few pages away. David's giving advice to Absalom. He says to watch out for a few people. But he also specifically mentions one man. Say, show kindness to him. 1 Kings 2. 7. But show kindness unto the son of Barzali the Gileadite, and let them be of those that eat at thy table, for they came unto me when I fled unto the abs of my father We don't know how many years went by, but this friendship, the kindness they showed, was a lifelong friendship. They came, they offered, and David on his deathbed says, take care of these man's boys, his family. Similarly, as I look to Christ, Hebrews 13, 5, let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things as ye have. For he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. The situation that David was dealt here, he has no one to blame but himself. That can be a bit hard at times to swallow is to think about what I'm dealing with, what's affecting this nation, I caused. But there's also a simple thread that's throughout all the story that we cannot miss, that God is good, even in the midst of our destructive choices. David's family was fractured. The line was still protected and carried out. David was still protected. And he died an old man of natural causes. Not of how you would have thought the story would end. God was still good. In our lives, the same thing could be said. Now we are we're sinners and we'll make mistakes and we're going to make sinful choices. We can look at our family lines, maybe mistakes that we have made, even the mistakes that our parents and our children are maybe making. But we can't miss that God is still good and He's still working in our lives, our families' lives, and those around us. Let us not forget that. Let us pray. Father, thank you for the example here. As we look at these two men's, and we let us not forget the cost of sin. Through Ahithophel and Absalom, that the story here, that hearts were damaged and broken. Families were disrupted because of one man's sin. But Father, no matter how great a sin, your grace is greater Help us to not miss that in the midst of sin, that you are still good, you are still working. Let us turn to you at these times. We thank you for all you do. For you are better than we deserve, Father. I just pray as we leave here and we go home, we have opportunity to spend some extra time this week as a family. Let that be a lesson that we will share with one another is that you are still good. Pray everyone is safe tomorrow as we leave here tonight. Praise in the present name. Amen.