Oh for tonight, we're going to be in 2 Samuel chapter 9. 2 Samuel chapter 9. And we'll be looking at David's kindness to Mephibosheth. David's kindness to Mephibosheth. I kind of had a second title sort of of showing the kindness of God. But we'll see this clearly here. And hopefully you found in your Bible. 2 Samuel. It's after 1 Samuel. And we'll be in chapter number 9. And David said , Is there yet any that is left of the house of Saul, that I may show him kindness for Jonathan's sake? And there was of the house of Saul a servant whose name was Zibah, and when he had called unto him David, the king, said unto him, Art thou Ziba? And he said, Thy servant is he. And the king said, Is there not y any of the house of Saul that I may show the kindness of God unto him? And Zibb said unto the king, Jonathan hath yet a son, which is lame on his feet. And the king said unto him, Where is he? And Zibas said to the king, Behold, he is in the house of Machar, the son of Amiel of Lodabar. And the king sent and fetched him out of the house of Machar, the son of Amiel from Lodabar. Now, when Mophibisheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, was come unto David, he fell on his face and did reverence. And David said, Mephibosheth. And he answered, Behold thy servant. And David said unto him, Fear not. For I will surely show thee kindness for Jonathan, thy father's sake, and will restore thee all the land of Saul, thy father, and thou shalt eat bread at my table continually. And he bowed himself and said, What is thy servant? Thou shouldest look upon such a dead dog as I am. Then the king called to Ziba, Saul's servant, and said unto him , I have given unto thy master's son all that pertaineth to Saul and to his house. Thou, therefore, and thy sons and thy servants shalt till the land for him, and thou shalt bring in the fruits, that thy master's son may have food to eat. But Mephibasheth, thy master's son, shall eat bread always at my table. Now Zibah had fifteen sons and twenty servants. Then said Ziba unto the king, According to all that my lord the king hath commanded his servant, so shall thy servant do. As for Mephibisheth, said the king, he shall eat at my table as one of the king's sons And Mophibisheth had a young son, whose name was Micah, and all that dwells in the house of Zibah were servants unto Mephibosheth. So Mephibosheth dwelt in Jerusalem, for he did eat continually at the king's table And was lame on both his feet. We shall pray, Father, we thank you so much for this passage of Scripture. We are thankful for your grace and your kindness. That we can see through this passage and how David was very kind unto Jonathan's son Mophibosheth. And Father, would you just speak to the believers here this evening to encourage them to see a glimpse of who you are and an illustration that we too can be kind to others? And Father, we thank you ahead of time for what you will do and ask that you would work in the hearts and lives of all that are here in Christ's name. Amen. So this chapter here, we read the entire chapter, which we normally don't do on a Sunday night, but it was only 13 verses. And it is a very simple yet profound understanding we have here of looking just at kindness. But in verses 1 through 4, we're first going to see David seeks for Mephibosheth. We've transitioned here. David, you know, he's been reigning now as a king for a little bit, and he is searching. For someone in Saul's family for the sake of Jonathan. And he asks this question in verse 1. He says, Is there any left of the house of Saul? Now, why would he ask such a question? Well, in 1 Samuel 36, as 1 Samuel is concluding, we reverse like this. It says, so Saul died. and his three sons, and his armor bearer, and all his men, the same day together. There was a great slaughter, and Saul and a lot of his men and his sons were killed. And as a king getting taken over by another nation, the nation would want to subdue and take care of any uh business or authority. So sometimes they would take out the leaders, trade them around with their dead bodies or whatever it may be, their heads sometimes. And so there is none left that were very common here. And we'll see how one was hidden here in a little bit. Then also in verse 1, I wanted to point out the relationship that Jonathan and David have and the covenant that they shared between the two of them. Because in verse 1, he says, is there any left of the house of Saul? That I may show him kindness for Jonathan's sake. So already in verse one you're kind of getting this in between of David, who's Saul was David's enemy, if you will. He was seeking his life. But then you also have David having such a great relationship with Jonathan. He's thinking, can I honor him? Can I show kindness to anyone in his house if there are any left? So that is kind of where David is here, between this rock and this hard spot of Saul, whom David tried to serve faithfully but was after his life. But then Jonathan, whom he loved, and I just want to take us back a couple of verses to remind ourselves of the relationship, the closeness that Saul and Jonathan had. It is a very unique uh relationship. And I'll just look at a couple of passages of Scripture from 1 Samuel, starting in chapter 18. And it came to pass. When he had made an end of speaking unto Saul. I do want to pause pause it really quick. Chapter 17 is the famous chapter with with David and Goliath, and David just obeying his father and goes out to take his uh brothers. Uh some Some food and things and to see what's going on and just obeying his dad and the older brothers, Oh, why'd you leave those few sheep? And then David hears Goliath and he's like, he's defying the armies of the living God and David's like, Hey, what's going on here? And one thing led to another and before you know it, David with his uh sling and saying no to Saul's armor, he ends up taking out uh Goliath and Goliath falls dead. And so these things are taking place. Then right after that is obviously verse 18 And it says, after these things, when it came to pass, he made an end of speaking unto Saul after Goliath had just been slain, that the soul of Jonathan in verse 1 was knit. with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. So because of David having great courage and being willing to take a stand to define this giant Beast of a man, and taken out for the Lord's name's sake, and to show that there is a living God in Israel, Jonathan saw this. When all else were cowards, when all else were scared. And rightly so, this is a big dude, okay? Very intimidating. But that didn't seemed to stop David. So because of this, Jonathan, his heart was knit with David. Said and loved him as his own soul. And then Saul in verse 2 took him that day and would not let him go no more to the house of his father's house. Well, yeah, this is a great guy. Man, what courage. He just wiped out the Philistines almost single-handedly and gave Kurds to all the rest of the armies. That's wonderful. I'm going to keep this guy around. I like him. Verse 3. Jonathan and David made a covenant. Because he loved him as his own soul. And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David and his garments, even his sword and his bow and his girdle. So Jonathan as an heir to the throne is giving these things to David. He just loved them so much with everything that he did and he accomplished and the the reason and the motive of why he did it was just wonderful. So that's where Jonathan and Saul really uh are coming together. And so they made a covenant one with another. A couple chapters later, in 1 Samuel 20, it says, And thou shalt not only, while yet I live, show me kindness of the Lord, that I die not. But also that thou shalt not cut off the kindness of mine house forever. This is Jonathan talking to David. No, not when the Lord hath cut off the enemies of David everyone from the face of the earth. So later Jonathan is talking with David, and it seems to continue. Hey, we want to help not just with each other, but he says, don't cut off those after me of my own household. Later in that chapter, in 1 Samuel chapter 20, verse 42, the word of God says, And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace. For as much as we have sworn, both in us in the name of the Lord, saying, The Lord be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed forever. And he rose and departed, and Jonathan went into the city. This is the part where uh Jonathan was trying to test the waters of Saul to see if David could hang around or if he needs to run for his life. The end of the story there is when they meet together, Jonathan's like, you need to run. You need to get out of town. My dad is seeking your life. He he wants to kill you. And so they make this agreement. But it's interesting they talk between my seed and your seed. So you get the feeling that these guys just were they were thinking they both loved the Lord, they loved their country. They loved each other, and it seemed to go just beyond just the two of us. It's like because we are friends, our kids are going to be friends. They're going to be close. And we're going to try and honor that, knowing they're now parting ways. This is not just between you and me. They just wanted to care for one another into the future. And we're going to see this take place as we get to chapter 9, obviously. So David seeks for Mothibisheth in verse 1 there, now looking down at verse 3 of 2 Samuel, going back to 2 Samuel. In verse 3 , we find Zibah, and he asks him, uh, you know, are you servant of Saul? Yes, and I am Ziba. And then we get to verse 3, and the king said, Is there not yet any of the house of Saul that I may show kindness? of God unto him. I like this question. David here, and throughout this short chapter. There is a lot of rich parallels of David and Christ. Characteristics of God and with David. throughout this entire chapter. I'm not going to point them all out, but when you see just the circumstances that take place and how David is treating Mephibosheth. And the things that take place. It is so great. This whole chapter is wonderful throughout that. But here, what you have is you have David trying to show and demonstrate the kindness of God to one of Jonathan's sons. And I'm just reminded of several passages here. We think often of these in the New Testament, but in Matthew 5, 44, but I say to you, love your enemies. Bless them that curse you, and do good unto them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. And I share that verse here again too, because it could have been easy for David to ask, Where are the sons of Saul? Where are the grandsons of Saul? I want to get rid of them all. They don't deserve to live. He was seeking my life, and I want to establish my kingdom, and I don't want any threat to my throne. That could have been a possibility. But he wanted to show the kindness of God. When you show kindness to someone else, as it says in verse 3, he said, that I may show kindness of God unto him. Sometimes do we show kindness to someone because of what we can get? We show kindness unto them because we want them to be kind unto us. Now, how often do we, when we show kindness to someone, can we ask the same question as David did? How can I show the kindness of God to this person? That could be challenging because you're doing it for something greater than just yourself. And I'm assuming that most of us this week are going to spend a lot of time with family, or some family, or friends. Family is great, most of the time. But sometimes you really do ask yourself, I need to show the kindness of God because my kindness has long gone out. Okay, we need to go beyond ourselves. And so when you're visiting with family and they're fighting over turkey or ham, which is a clear decision , It's a clear decision. There's no question about it. You can do whatever you want to that turkey. And it doesn't get close to a bad ham. It's just it's just the way it goes. I mean turkey is I mean it's dry. That's why you have gravy and you have to have you have to put all this stuff on it just to make it palatable That's my opinion, obviously. But the kindness of God towards others, okay, beyond Thanksgiving and a turkey versus ham, ham all the way, okay Here, how can we show the kindness love of God? I'm also reminded in 1 Peter 3. 9, talking of family and relation in this week. Not rendering evil for evil, oh, that's so easy and so desirable to do sometimes. Not rendering evil for evil or railing for railing, but contrary-wise, oh I have to do the opposite. Knowing that ye are hereto called, that ye should inherit a blessing. So we're not supposed to give evil for evil, railing for railing. Anyone can do that. Is that the kindness of God? No, that's your humanity and your sin nature coming out and you're just giving them back what you think they deserve and they're gonna do the same thing and you want to do back to them so every Thanksgiving and Christmas and family reunion you have this back and forth back and forth and it never ends That's why we need the kindness of God, even when we have challenges. And David here wants to demonstrate this, and he's going to use Mephibosheth. And I like this one in Proverbs 18. One of the last I think it's the last verse in Proverbs 18, verse 2024. A man that hath friends must show himself friendly, and there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. And another verse that my children know well is Ephesians 4. 32, and be kind one to another, tender-hearted. Sometimes the trickiest part is to forgive one another. So be kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. So who are we as another sinner say, oh, I can't forgive another sinner? When Christ, the sinless, hath forgiven you. This is what we have been kind of. And because of that, and we recognize that, it helps us to show the kindness of God and not just the kindness of yourself. And then it's emphasized several times in this chapter, or not several, a couple times, we see in verse 3 that Mophithesheth is lame on his feet He's lame on his feet. And going back to 2 Samuel 4. 4, why is he lame on his feet? This is interesting. Because in Samuel, 2 Samuel 4, 4, just a couple chapters before this, Jonathan Saul's son had a son that was lame on his feet When he was five years old, when the tidings came of Saul and Jonathan out of Jezreel, the nurse took him up, the news that they had just died, okay? took him up and fled, and it came to pass, as she made haste to flee, that he fell and became lame, and his name was Mophibisheth. Why is he lame? Because his father and his grandfather were killed in battle, and the the nurse, the lady who's helping taking care of him, heard the news. and she's thinking, this is an heir, I'm gonna try and protect him. So she goes to pick him up and get him to safety and in the midst of the scramble and in the the this moving around, you know how kids, you know, five year old, No, I don't wanna go. I don't know. You need to go now. I don't want to go now. I'm not doing it. You could picture, I mean, a five-year-old kid that doesn't want I mean he's probably enjoying his lollipop and you know whatever he's doing right there Yeah, today it'd probably be Xbox or whatever, you know, iPhone, whatever they're on iPad at 5 probably. Okay. And so he he's doing what he's doing and the nurse says, We're leaving now. And so whatever happens and they're leaving with great haste and and a and then a big hurry and in the midst of that sh sh Which probably fell, something happened, and he landed goofy, awkward, whatever, and from that point forward he is lame from his feet, which then kind of makes it challenging for him to even be uh a future king or anything that he could be now that he is lame. So that is how he is lame is hearing news that his uh father and that his uh great grandfather stolen jonathan had just been slain and being close to the throne she was trying to spare his life but he lost his legs in the process And I saw that to say that it mentions a couple of times here in this chapter that Mophibisheth was lame from his feet. But this is the one that David seeks after. This is who David continued to seek after. Go find me, this Mophibusheth. Bring him to me. I want to show the kindness of God unto him. Aren't you so thankful that Christ came to us and we were lame and weak and had nothing to offer but he would seek us out? Isn't that incredible? Sometimes, oh, God would love to use me or whatever. No, no, no. We are lame and we have nothing. And yet Christ wants to demonstrate the kindness of God through Himself towards us. Just one of those amazing many parallels we see in this chapter So in verses 1 through 4 we saw David seeks Mephibosheth. In verses 5 through 8, we're going to see David finds Mephibosheth. He finds him. Verse 5. And the King David sent and fetched him out of the house. And in verse 6, he says that he brought him unto David. And listen to this. I like this. When he comes before uh King David, Mephibosheth fell on his face in the middle of verse 6 and did reverence. And David said, Mephibosheth, and he answered, Behold thy servant. So when he comes before him, now think about this. This is interesting. You have a lame man. He's already probably very low to the ground. I don't know what kind of wheelchairs they would use or whatever, but he's already lame. He doesn't even stand upright, but he said he fell at his feet, and he's paying him reverence. And basically back on it. So probably he's already on the ground. So he's getting even lower, reverencing who David is. And probably for several reasons. One, he recognized that he is a descendant of Saul and Jonathan. And remember. Mahibish was only five when all this was how do you remember how much do you remember when you're about five years old? Probably not a lot. Do you remember how well your dad fought in battle? Do you remember that your grandfather was king? No, you've only heard stories. Okay, and he was you know running around in battles a little before that, he probably doesn't hardly remember a thing. All that Mo Mof Shev knows is this is the new king. He's not of my relation. I'm still the kingly line. I'm gonna serve this guy because my life may be on the line. That may be all he understands and knows at this point. And and the fact that David had to find him. Why do you have to find him? Because he was hiding. It's not like it was out and opened. Oh, hey, everybody, King David. Oh, by the way, Saul still has seed right here. I mean, this took a little bit. He'd been hiding for a time. And probably for fear of what David may or may not do. Ziba may have hesitated here. But is he going to lie to the king? But David finds him. And then Mophibisheth fell on his face and did reverence him. Which I find this very interesting because going back to 1 Samuel, in 1 Samuel, we see that when Methibish does this, David did this to Jonathan in 1 Samuel chapter 20. Listen to this in verse 41. And as soon as the lad was gone, David arose out of that place toward the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times, and they kissed one another and wept one with another until David exceeded. The point I'm making here is David before Jonathan fell down at his feet and bowed himself three times, paying Jonathan reverence. Now isn't it interesting how what Mephibosheth did do? Do you think that Mephibosheth knew about that? This was like a secret meeting before they went their different ways. I have no idea if Jonathan never told this to his children. But here, this is the respect that David had towards Jonathan. And now Mophibish, whether he knew it or not, he is doing the exact same thing. I just found that very interesting. that he is being very respectful and kind towards David. It could be out of fear, just plain reverence, but either way, I think it's very interesting. That this is how David treat others, and knowing it or not, how God put together that's what Mufibasheth is doing to David. Respecting him and bowing down to him. Then we get to verse 7. David said unto him, fear not. I think he had to say fear not Because he was probably scared for his life. This guy has my life in his hands. He's probably heard stories, at least possibly, of Saul seeking after David. I'm trying to seek his life. So when Mephibosheth comes here and he's bowing himself and I am your servant, David says, fear not. You kind of picture like an angel going before Mary or before anyone else. Hey, don't be afraid. Must have been a frightening sight. Very powerful sight. Here, David reassures him. And he says, for I will surely show thee kindness for Jonathan, thy father's sake. Right here, Mophibusheth is father going, I get to heat my head on my shoulders, okay? He's gonna be kind to me because of my dad. My dad must have been a nice guy. Do you think he was praising his father at this point? Probably. Probably. Wow, I'm glad my dad was nice to this guy. Who knows? But David here saying, I will surely show thee kindness. For Jonathan, thy father's sake, and will restore thee all the land of Saul, thy father, thou shalt eat bread at my table continually. A couple of quick things right here in this verse, in verse 7. One, he's going to show him kindness. But two, did you catch it? He said he's going to restore all the land of who? Saul. But wait a minute. Saul's the grandfather. He's going to restore Mophibisheth not just all of Jonathan's possessions and land, all of Saul's. And you figure with a king, and when you have land, so you have land, you divide it amongst your kids, and then they have kids and they divide it down so it gets smaller and smaller as it would go down. What David is doing is so kind and so generous. He is restoring all that were Saul's, not just Jonathan's. This is a massive, generous offer. This is wonderful. This is incredible. David is going above and beyond to demonstrate certainly the kindness of God towards Mophibisheth for the sake of Jonathan. Aren't you so thankful that God goes above and beyond to show his kindness to us that is undeserved? Above and beyond. This is incredible, and this is extremely nice and generous. And then on top of that, number two, at the end of verse 7, there, he says, And thou shalt eat of the bread at my table continually. He is inviting Mophibosheth to come and eat at the king's table. So he gives him all the land of his grandfather, who had a lot of land. Then he invites him to eat at his table. A high-ranking position to a lame man that didn't deserve it, whose grandfather wanted to kill this guy many times over. And the kindness and the generosity that is showed, I am so thankful that God is so kind towards us to allow us to eat at his table. to receive his blessing, to allow us to be adopted into his family. It is truly incredible. And with this Thanksgiving coming up this week, there ought to be no one more thankful in this country than believers, then Christians who are believing in Jesus Christ for everything that he has given to us. Yes, be thankful for our country. And be think that we are Christians that just happen to be born in this country. Maybe I'm kind of weird, but have you ever read that? What if I was born in another country? What would my Christianity look like? But I could have been a Christian. There's Christians all over the world. And Pastor made reference to this this morning. There are persecuted Christians all over. We just happen to be Christian in this country. That's something way to be thankful for, and God allowed all that for whatever reason. We ought to be thankful and praise him for that. And then on top of that, he allows us to have a home in heaven through his son forever, to eat his table continually. What a wonderful gift! What excellent kindness he's bestowed towards us who are unworthy, who are lame, who rejected him through Adam from the very beginning from eating of the fruit. So in verse 7 here, we see that there are several different reasons that David had telling him to fear not. But I will restore you all. In 1 Samuel 9, we see when he restores all the land of Saul. This just kind of gives us a little bit more background to this. In 1 Samuel 9 1, it says, Now there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zurar, the son of Bekshrath. I don't know why I did this to myself. The son of Aphaiah, a Benjamite, a mighty man of power. This is the line of Saul. And when it says mighty man of power, this is a well-known man. He probably was a wealthy man. It has all those connections to it. So he has connections there. And then later on in 1 Samuel 22, verse 7, then Saul said unto his servants and stood about him. This is kind of Saul almost having a bragging moment. You know, he's trying to chase down all these things and he says, Hear now, ye uh Benjamites, will the son of Jesse comparing himself to this Lowly shepherd boy, okay, I am the king, I am wealthy, I've got all this land, I've got all this stuff. Will this little Bethlehemite, do you think he will give you anything? And he says, This son of Jesse, will he give anything fields and vineyards Basically saying, I possess all this. I have the ability to give you far greater than what you have. Does this little shepherd boy, can he do any of that for you? Almost like in a sense of bribe. He says, and can he make you captains over thousands and captains over hundreds? Can he give you possession? Can he give you lands? Ha! I think not, but I certainly could. Look at what I can provide for you. So Saul, all that to say, he had a lot of land. At least according to this, he had fields and vineyards. And Ziba, which we look later, has a lot of servants. And sons, about thirty-five of them, if I counted correctly, just to work this land that they would have already been familiar with, because he's already a servant of Saul. That's a lot of servants to take care of the land. Zibbah can't do it himself. He certainly can't. So we see that verses 1 through 4, David seeks for Mephibosheth. In verses 5 through 8, we saw that David finds Mephibosheth. And then we've already alluded to this, but David gives gifts to Mephibosheth, verses 9 to the end of the chapter, verse 13. So the king called Zibah, Saul's servants, in verse 9, said, I give unto thy master's son. Sadbi Mephibosheth here. All that pertaineth unto Saul and to all his house. Everything that was Saul's has now by the king been given to your master, to Maphusheth. And he says, verse 10. Thou, therefore, and thy sons and thy servants shall till the land for him and shalt bring in the fruits. that thy master may have food to eat. So you're going to work the land so this layman can eat. You're going to provide everything and every need that you could possibly have for his benefit. And by the way, this is what the king desires. This is what the king has for you to do. There's no question about it. That's what he's going to do. And then at the end of verse 10, he tells him, Oh, and by the way. Muf Shep Mosh of Sheth here, thy master's son, he's gonna eat the bread at my table. And he could have been asking, wait wait wait a minute We are working the land so he could eat, but every night he's welcome to eat the king's table. What does he need this stuff for? He doesn't. He's being cared for by the king, but he has extra to give because you're going to continue to work for him as if it's his. And that's just how kind and gracious God can be. He has provided everything. Everything that we needed for eternal life has been done. We don't need to work for it. We don't need to try and be better than our neighbor, better than the next person in our family. Christ has provided everything for us. And we have blessings on top of this. And yet we could find time to complain, to mumble, and to be unkind towards others. This is incredible when you stop and think through just the simple kindness that David is showing. Yes, for Jonathan's sake. But also you gotta remember this is can kind of be hard too for David because Saul, his grandfather, hated his guts. But yeah, he's going above and beyond here. to a man even with all these lands and all these fruits and all these vineyards and all these things, but yet he is still invited to be at my house. And look at this. I love It says here, now Ziba had, here it is, the fifteen sons and the twenty servants. Then get to verse 11. And Zibah unto the, then said Ziba unto the king, according to all that the Lord the king hath commanded his servant. So shall thy servant do. As for Mephibosheth, the king said, This is like in addition, he shall eat at my table as one of the king's Sons. He goes from hiding for who knows how many years, from five years old to whatever he is here presently. He's at least has a son. He's got a son named Micah, so he's at least old enough to have a son. But here, he is not only invited at the table, he's treated as if he was one of David's own sons. David basically adopts him to eat at his table and to share the privileges of being a king's son. Aren't you so thankful that because of our faith, by God's grace, we can be adopted and be a child of God? Through what Christ has done for us on our behalf. Isn't that incredible to think what he has done for us? So here, he is treated as a son Very kind, very generous. Everything was given from Saul to Mophibisha. And Zubas' sons were servants that they had to work it for Mephibosheth. And then Mophibasheth in verses 11-13, he will eat at the table as if he was a son. son so this man went from hiding as a lame man to being a king and one that has so plentiful of things and now servants and lands he doesn't even know what to do with with it all. All because the kindness that David wanted to show, going back all the way back to Jonathan, because he respected Jonathan. They were knit together through the covenant and the relationship they had. And demonstrated great kindness and generosity towards him. Do you think this week that we can be a thankful people for the kindness and the generosity of our God that He has shown to us through Christ? That we could be thankful people for what he has provided in abundance. And hopefully we can take time and count our blessings and lose track of where we were counting. Because truly God has been very kind to us as David was here towards Mephibosheth. May the Lord help us to see death this week. week and for the weeks to come. Father, we thank you and we praise you for the kindness that David has shown towards Jonathan's son. Father, we ought to be a thankful people for what you have shown through us, through your Son, Jesus Christ. Help us to be a thankful people that we can show the kindness of God towards others. Sometimes it could be challenging. But Father, when we think about what you've done for us, it makes it much easier. Be with your people this week as we think about the nation that we're in, setting aside the day of thankfulness, ultimately towards you. And for the freedoms that we enjoy, and on top of that, for the Savior who we can know and draw close to each and every day, and be thankful for what he has done for us. for eternal life to come and for the blessings of serving him each and every day between now and then. And we come to you with thankful and grateful hearts through Christ's name. Amen.