We're going to continue our study in 2 Samuel. This is going to be our last message out of 2 Samuel. And we're going to find ourselves in chapter 23. of 2 Samuel and we're going to look at David and his mighty men. David and his mighty men. Only two major points. We're going to look at David's last words and we're going to spend a majority of our time answering the question and looking at what is a mighty man? What is a mighty man? But first, open your Bibles to 2 Samuel 23. We're going to look at the whole chapter, so I'm just going to read a couple little snippets towards the beginning, middle, and at the end, just to kind of get a flavor for this chapter. So we will start in verse 1 of 2 Samuel 23. Now these be the last words of David. David, the son of Jesse, said, And the man who was raised up on high, the anointed of God of Jacob, and the sweet psalmist of Israel, said The Spirit of the Lord spake by me, and his word was in my tongue. The God of Israel said, The rock of Israel spake unto me, He that ruleth over men must be just ruling in the fear of God. Skip to verse 18. And Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zariah, was chief among three, and he lifted up his spear against three hundred and slew them. and had the name among three. Was he not most honorable of three? Therefore he was their captain, how be it he anointed not unto the first three. He attains not unto the first three. And in the last verse of the chapter, Uriah the Hittite 30 and 7 in all. Let us pray. Father, we thank you so much for the Word of God that you've given it to us that we can read it, meditate upon it. Glean from it and help us to know more of you this day. And I just ask that you would be with all of us here this evening That we would draw closer unto you, you'd bring comfort and conviction where necessary, and that we would all just be tender and open to the Word of God as the Spirit of God uses it in each one of us tonight. And we thank you ahead of time for what you will do and come to you to the precious and glorious name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. So here we are going to look at the last words of David. Last words of David. And in verse 1, we're going to see a description of David. I would love to have a description like this. This is some great words. David has his ups and downs. But here we see some things are said about him. This is these are the last words of David, the son of Jesse, instead, and the man who was raised up on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob. And the sweet psalmist of Israel. Just some great descriptions, a summary, a little bit of David's life as he describes them. And then we continue on in verse 2. And it says, and the Spirit of the Lord spake by me, and his word was in my tongue. Here the Spirit of the Lord used David, as we know, to pen words, many psalms, as it just mentioned, he's the sweet psalmist of Israel. Which is kind of interesting to think about the sweet psalmist of Israel, as we're going to point out later, came from a great man of war. Very interesting combination. You wouldn't expect that. But as we look through some of these things and as we start answering the question later of what is a mighty man, it might make a little bit more sense as we unpack this. So you have this sweet psalmist being used of the Lord to give us these words. And a thought I had after the last message out of 2 Samuel 19, you know, when you think of all the ups and downs in your life. I would not want that to be penned in the internal word of God of my greatest mistake. This is great, but then there are also some struggles. But here we see some of the great part of this as God is using David as the great man that he was overall as he did his best to lead the nation. But then yet struggled greatly when it came to his own household. And then you see how it says there in verse 3, God said The rock of Israel spake unto me. He that ruleth over men must be just, ruling in the fear of God. And here we're talking about the rock of Israel. This has already been mentioned a little bit in We skipped over it in our preaching series, but in chapter 22 , chapter 22 of 2 Samuel, really it's it's a song of it's got praise. He speaks of judgment, mercy, strength. Deliverance, thankfulness. But yet in the midst of that, if you go back to the first couple verses of chapter 22 very quickly, We will see that David spake unto the Lord the words of this song in the day that the Lord had delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies and out of the hands of Saul. And he said , The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer. The God of my rock, in him who I will trust, he is my shield, the horn of my salvation. my high tower and my refuge, my savior, thou savest me from violence. And he continues on, like I said, with praise and judgment and mercy and how God is his strength and his deliverer, and he ends with thanking him at the end of Chapter twenty two. But we see how God truly is David's rock through the good times, through the bad times, when his life was in a line many times, and yet also into peace that he had from his enemies and even from Saul as mentioned. So here we have this great description of David And we see how the Lord is his rock and the Lord is using him to speak these words. Some of the last words of David. And they can be important words. Here you don't have the young little fearless courageous David getting ready to take on Goliath. You have a king who has reigned, who's made mistakes, and is seeing the grace and mercy of God, is overwhelmed with thankfulness at the end of his reign He knows his time on earth is coming to an end. And yet God is still using him, despite his failures, despite his mistakes. And what we see later in the rest of this chapter, it's not just that David was such a man after God's own heart. But he had great men with different strengths that were around him, that helped make him the king that he was, that helped point to the God of Israel. And so we will see this as we continue to go on. But in verses 3 through 5, as we already started, I'll just read verses 4 and 5. He shall be as a light of the morning. We have kind of the illustration of he that ruleth over men. He says, he shall be a light of the morning, and when the sun rises even in the morning without clouds, and the tender grass springing up out of the earth by clear and shining after rain. And then he gets real here for a second. Although my house be not so with God, yet he hath made with me an everlasting covenant. ordered in all things and sure. For this is all my salvation and all my desire, although he made it not grow. So here, as he reflects upon what a ruler should be, there's two things he mentions specifically in verse 3, and he kind of sees how he has done well and yet was lacking in some areas. But some things he pointed out here is, I think, very good for us, for any type of leadership, that he that ruleth over men must be just. And you think, as David would understand this more than most, to do what is right, to be just. And in his ruling over men, needs to fear God. He's saying this is the king, but as Christians, and I will say even as Americans, I think we have the duty. With our one voice to help this verse come to true. Those that are just and that fear God David knowing both good and bad, victories and defeats. David is concluding, hey, a leader of men needs to be just. He needs to do what's right And also, he needs to fear God. Because if you fear men, you won't make anyone happy. And you'll be, we can say, tossed to and fro with every wind of doctrine. And then you see in verses four and five that we just read, he kind of illustrates this. in both the good and then him being a man of wisdom of age, recognizing, but my house has not been the greatest example. Probably recognizing his downsides as a father and the challenges that he has faced and the consequences that he endured through loss of life. And many other challenges that went along with that. And then we see in verses 6 through 7, just very quickly. But the sons of the Lyle shall be all of them as thorns thrust away, because you cannot be taken with hands. But that the man should touch them must be fenced with iron, and the staff of the spear, and they shall be utterly burned with fire in the same place, recognizing what happens to those who do not live and fear of God. Those who do not rule justly, with men who choose not to follow God. These are some of the last words we have of David here uh recorded and then from verse eight through the rest of the chapter which we're going to spend most of our time This is where we're going to focus on and kind of answering a question is what is a mighty man? Because these are David's mighty men. And at first you read this, it's just the list. You feel like you're in Chronicles or you're reading, you know, Genesis chapter 5 and begot so-and-so and begot so-and-so and begot so-and-so. This is one of those chapters that you could probably read before bed when you're struggling. to go to sleep and it's just like how do you say that name I don't know it doesn't matter then you just keep on reading and it lists another guy oh look this guy something special about him and it lists this guy the son of so and so that's kind of what we have but here was this verse eight Through 39 is a list of David's mighty men. And it starts off verse 8. These the names of the mighty men whom David had. I think here it's a great reminder that Israel was not just the leader is important, and I think David is emphasizing that, but also no That it doesn't just take one man. If you're gonna rule a nation and you're gonna do so justly and you need encouragement to make right decisions, it's good to know that you may have others around you to help. And also, when it says the mighty men whom David had, I'd remind ourselves, David himself was a man of war. I'd say he is a mighty man. That's what drew these mighty men to him. He was a man of born. 2 Samuel 17, 8. It says, For said Hushai, this is to Absalom. He says, Thou knowest thy father and his men. That they be mighty men, and they be chapped in their minds, as the bear robbed her whelps of the field, and thy father is a man of war, and will not lodge with the people When Absalom was planning his rebellion, he was reminded here that hey, your dad is a man of war. Your dad is a mighty man. He's got lots of mighty men. And when you read through these things, I wouldn't want to get caught in the back alley with any one of these guys With my own little personal bodyguards. I wouldn't do it. And you'll see why is if you read through here, these guys, I mean you'll skip, they're just take a couple hundred guys, no sweat. Just give me a spear In fact, if I don't have them, I'll just take it from Egyptian and slay them with his own spear. These guys were just fearless. They were definitely mighty men But we're going to just look through. So David is a mighty man. And then it also says that David is a man in war in 1 Chronicles 28:3. But God said unto me, Thou shalt not build a house for my name. Because thou hast been a man of war and hast shed blood. Why is it that David could not build the temple? There it is Right there. Because you're a man of war, because you have shed blood, because God had a different purpose for you, David, and it's not going to be your son. And that's why David, longing to build uh the temple did everything he could gather he did everything but build the thing because he was a man of war because he was a mighty man and he had shed blood So I just want to now look at the question, what is a mighty man? What is a mighty man? We might have several things that come to our mind. In fact, I want you just in your mind to think, come up with a couple little things. What do you think would make up a mighty man? Two, three, four things. Rattle around. What do you think makes a mighty man? You're probably not thinking of 5 -3 150 pounds balding. That's probably not the I'm just guessing. I'm just guessing. That probably didn't come to your mind about a mighty man And you'd be right. But what comes to your mind? I'm glad what I did in this study, I was like, here is this list. of all these mighty men. And I asked myself that question. So what makes up these guys? I mean, we're going to see, okay, they shed blood, they're fearless, okay. But what else do we have? What else does scripture tell us about mighty men? So what I did, I just did a little study on mighty men and just different places it's used. And I tried to draw some to help give us more color to the picture, to help see. What could have been more of these mighty men and just the the flavor of this word of mighty men? So what is a mighty man? Hopefully you had some things come to your mind In Genesis 10, we're going to see how a mighty man can be a skilled provider. A skilled provider. In Genesis 10, verses 8-9 it says, And Kush begot Nimrod, and he began to be a mighty one in the earth. He was a mighty hunter before the Lord. Wherefore it is said, even as Nimrod, the mighty hunter before the Lord, that word for mighty is the same one of being a mighty man. And what was he mighty for? What was he great for? Did he slay lots of men? He was a good hunter. So as I thought and meditated on that scripture and that word, you know what? He was skilled at providing for his family, for his home. He was very gifted. In the talentability that God gave to him. He was a great hunter. I mean says it three times in there. He's mighty in the earth. Mighty hunter. And a mighty hunter before the Lord. So before others he was known. This guy's good. This guy like never misses. He gets the big buck out of the year drives me nuts. That's what the other guy he's just great. He is a skilled provider. Is that something that came to your mind when you thought of a mighty man? One who is skilled at caring for those that God has given to him. A second one. What is a mighty man? He's a servant of the Lord. In Exodus 10, verse 11 It says, Not so. Go now, ye that are men, and serve the Lord. For that ye did desire, and they were driven out of Pharaoh's presence. That word there where it says men, that ye are men. carries with that same idea of being a mighty man. To stand before the presence of Pharaoh. Here it said that they were men. And servants of the Lord. They served the Lord. Did serving the Lord come to you, to your mind, and you say, hey, this is a mighty man? Oh, he says servant of the Lord Does that come to your mind? Another passage to look at. What is a mighty man? He's a skilled provider. He's a servant of the Lord. And in Exodus 12, we're going to see that there's soldiers. This is maybe a little more obvious. There's soldiers that are ready to battle. They're not chickens. They're ready to defend the freedoms of themselves, their nation, their families. And in Exodus 12, we see in verse 37, and the children of Israel journeyed. From Ramesses to Succath, about 600,000 on foot that were men beside children. I think it's interesting here when it says beside children is this is a mature male, a mighty man. Not talking about women here, but it's a mighty man, not boys. But men, and it's interesting because even at the beginning of David's life, do you remember when he was trying uh he he had Crazy and he was gonna try on Saul's armor and he's all this stuff's not good for me, and then Saul's scratching his head and he's going but You wanna you really wanna battle this guy? This guy's huge, and you're not and You're a youth, and he's been a man of war since his youth. I don't know by these chances of looking good. David at that time was not really seen as a mighty man. He would have been considered more of a young person Here, the idea of the soldier being radically, I mean, he was during that time you weren't ready, battle ready until you were 20 years old. So a soldier was ready to battle. He was a man, willing to defend those around him, his nation, his tribe. His nation, his family. And there were 600,000 on foot. Not boys, but drawn men. Hopefully a man came to your mind when you're picturing of mighty men. Hopefully. In a world like today, I hope that's uh we can get back more to the biblical definition of what a man is. But hopefully this helps us. So what is a mighty man? He's a skilled provider. He's a servant of the Lord. He's a soldier ready for battle. Number four. This one I found very interesting. What is a mighty man? He's submissive to authority. He's submissive to authority. That probably got some of the uh you know the curveball there. But in 2 Samuel 16, I just picked some verses that help us to see this, but it's about, well I'll just read it. Starting at verse 6 of chapter 16, it says, and he cast stones at David, and all the servants of King David, and all the people, and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left. Then said Abishai, he's listed later in one of his mighty men, then said Abishai, the son of Uri unto the king, Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Why didn't you let this beauty guy do this to you? You're the king. I'm here to defend the king. What's his conclusion? Let me go over and I pray and take his head off. Let me take off his head. That's how it's worded, sorry. Take off his head. A couple verses later, and David said to Abishai and to all his servants, Behold, my son, which came forth out of my bowels. Seeketh my life. How much more now this Benjamite doeth? Let him alone. Let him curse. For the Lord hath bidden him. Here's what's taking place. You've got David surrounded by mighty men, both sides of him. This guy's cussing, swearing, they're chucking rocks at him. And this Abishai, he's like, hey, don't mess with my king. This is like the little boys when everything's fun and games, but when you start talking about their mama, then they get defensive. That's kind of the idea here. Hey, don't be messing with my king. You can hit me with a rock, that's fine. I'll get mad, but don't mess with my king. So Abishai, as this is taking place, he's like, wait a minute. You're messing with my king. Hey, king, listen See this little squirt over here? I mean you just just give me the word his head is gone. I I will remove it from the rest of his body and you will make my rock I guarantee it. Let me add him just let me have him David knew he was fully capable. David probably would have loved him to do that. But in David inventory, he's like, you know what? It's really not that big of a deal. I tell you, Abishai, you know what? Just leave it alone. It's not that let it go. See what Abishai did? He just took his fear and something do it my way and took off the guy's head. No, he didn't He obeyed. He was submissive. This is one of David's mighty men. When you picture a mighty man, do you think of someone? Oh, I'm rough and dull. I'm just gonna get him no matter what. I'm just gonna take things in my own hands. Probably it's possible. I'm a mighty man. I'm gonna do it myself, do it my own way. You don't mess with my king or your head gets uh two different parts from your head and your body. I'm just gonna take care of business. But when the king said no, you know what he did? He obeyed. A mighty man is one who can control himself, contain himself. That's part what's that makes him mighty. I'm spending more time on this one because this is one that we would not expect. When you think of a mighty man, you're not one thing I can submit to authority. And when you think about it, really, it does take a mighty man to subdue, to control his emotions. Because any man can just fly off the handle and say what he wants and do what he wants and smack someone at the side of his head and let him know what he's really thinking. Any man, any person can really do that. Not just the man, any any woman, anyone can do that. That's easy That's far easier, but to control yourself. Even when it's contrary to what you want. I guarantee you Abishai would have loved this. He would have taken no thought. I mean, obviously he said it. I'll just take care of this guy for you. Submissive to authority. Is this what comes to your mind when you think of a mighty man? One who submits to authority. Also with Abishai in 2 Samuel verse 23. So we've seen what's a mighty man, he's a skilled provider, he's a servant of the Lord, he's a soldier ready for battle, he's submissive to authority, and he has a standing reputation. We already read this verse. I read it in our opening. But in 2 Samuel 23, verse 18, and Abishai, the brother of Joab, all Joab and his brothers, man, these guys. They they were I mean if you were born in that family talk about keeping up a reputation. These guys were bad dudes. Bad as in they were good. They were strong. They were mighty. They they were they were not afraid to leave and to do what needed to be done to get the job done As far as military is concerned. And Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zriah, was the chief among three. He was the chiefest. So when you take the best This guy is seeming to stand above. This is talking about Abishai. And he lifted up his spear against 300 and slew them and had a name among them. So this Abishai, he had a standing reputation. When you're talking about mighty men, you had to mention Abishai. His name was above. It was higher than the rest. This was like the mightiest of the mighty. This is the cream of the crop. The best of the best. This is who added it. He had a great reputation When you think of a mighty man, if we are endeavoring to be mighty, are we concerned about our reputation? Now I don't mean concerned as in what's the world think? What are they going to say? And so you can't do anything. But when you put all this together, you're willing to provide, you're willing to serve the Lord, you're willing to submit authority. These are the things that you could be known for. Having a standing reputation as a mighty man of God, knowing that your reputation reflects God. Oh, you go to Anchor. Oh, you go you're a Christian. You go to church. You read your Bible? Well, you know, sometimes. Yeah. You actually spend time, you give up your time and your money Are we afraid of what the world will say? If you are, and if you fear man, we know that Solomon said that it brings a snare. The fear of man brings us. A mighty man will have a good reputation, but it's a reputation of providing, of serving, of being submissive. And having a reputation that goes and matches his name. All of us, once we trust in Christ as our Savior, are Christ-like ones. Whether we want to or not, we are a soldier. You should be wearing his armor. There are other people that will have thoughts about you. You do have a reputation. The question is, oh, do you have a good reputation? You have a reputation. What is it? What are you known for? Would it be biblical? Would it be Christ-like Christian? Or do sometimes we just try and be in God's secret service and you know we just go to church and do our happy thing and yet forget that we're Christians once we walk outside those doors. These are challenging things. This is what makes a man mighty. He doesn't fear so much man as he does God, taking us back to what David said. Hey, if you want to rule men. And I don't think he's just talking about kings, which I think is the obvious here, but if you want to rule men, you need to be just and you need to fear God. He didn't say do what man tells you to do He probably saw that in the life of Saul. This guy was always trying to please men, always trying to keep the people happy. And look what happened to him. And he tried to take my life. David is saying, hey, if you want to rule well, if you want to rule men, you need to be just and you need to fear God. That will help you. To be a skilled provider. We'll help you to be a servant of the Lord. We'll help you to be a soldier ready for battle. We'll help you to be submissive to authority. We'll help you with your reputation. A couple more. Number six, it gives you stamina for the battle. Stamina to continue to endure. As a good soldier, enduring. And we see this in 2 Samuel chapter 20 and verse 7. And there went out after him Joab's men. And the Cheferites and the Pel Pelophites, and the Mighty, if Bob 7 was wrong, you can correct me later. And the mighty men, and they went out of Jerusalem to pursue after Sheba and the son So here it says, and all the mighty men pursued them. Hey, they were winning the battle, they continue to pursue They were getting the job done. They had the endurance to get it done, to bring it to completion. Anyone can start a job. Sometimes the hardest part is getting something started But then the second hardest part after starting a task is completing the task. You have trouble trying to get it going. And I I had this problem sometimes in uh college. You have this big project coming, ah, you just keep you do everything else. That project is coming. I you just keep put it off. You know, and procrastinators are leaders of tomorrow And you know, you just keep putting it off. And finally it's like, once you start, I'm like, hey, that wasn't so bad. Wasn't so bad. Then you have to endure All the way to the second hardest part of the project is getting it all completed and done, especially on time. A mighty man will continue to pursue. He will continue to endure as a good soldier to the completion till it's done. Here on this earth we have but so many days So we ask God to teach us to number our days and we apply them unto wisdom and that we can endure to the end. We can have the stamina that is needed to push all the way through, to finish our course. And to praise God when we finally see him, knowing that we've done all we could, humilely speaking for him And then last, I know you guys have been looking forward to that, lastly, what is a mighty man? He's a skilled provider, he's a servant of the Lord, he's a soldier ready for battle, he's submissive to authority, he has a standing reputation, he is stamina for the battle. And yes, he is strong. In Proverbs 30, 30. I like this. A lion, which is the strongest among beasts. And turneth not away for any. That strongest is our word there for being mighty. He's the strongest among beasts. Why is it using line as an illustration? A line doesn't back down. A lion looks at anything else as I'm bigger and stronger than you. I don't need to back down. The righteous are as bold as what? A lion. If you have the truth of God's word on your side, it will help you understand. I'm not preaching my ideas and my thoughts. I can stand boldly, truthfully, and yet tactfully on the Word of God. You can be bold. You could be strong. Not just in physical body, praise God. Our bodies can sometimes it's as our bodies get weaker We might be spiritually stronger than ever before. When we're young and youthful, we feel like we've all the physical strength, but maybe not the strength of wisdom and of understanding to apply it. But here, when we're on God's side and you're studying the scripture and you're trying to follow these things, you're really trying to be a mighty man of God. You can be strong. You don't have to back down. Because you can know the truth. We don't have to wonder at how many genders there are. We're talking about mighty men. We don't have to back down from that. That seems so simple. I know our Uh brand new president had to say that and part of me is like, yeah, that's great. But the next thought was, why does he have to say stuff like that? To declare before nation That were male and female. And part of me was like, yes. But the other problem is like, really? I mean, are we at the point that we have to say that? Apparently, yes. Because we have men, in my opinion, they're not so mighty. They may be cowardice. They may be trying to promote themselves Just please men. If you're not trying to be a mighty man. And I I bring all this up because when you look at these verses, verses 8 through 39, over 30 verses. It's just a list of mighty men. 37 of them by the time you get to 39 Which I think is quite interesting. The last one is Uriah. Very interesting there. We're not going to take time to that. But Uriah the Hittite, 37 in all. Another question, not only what is a mighty man, my second question would be, where are the mighty men? Where are the mighty men? May we recognize and do the best of our ability. God, I want to fear you. And if you're a man, and if you're not a father or a grandfather, you will eventually lead on the job. It's very likely you're going to be the head of a house potentially if God leads that way. If you're going to rule, even your own family, you ought to be just. You ought to fear God. Not all of us are going to be presidents and rule nations and be kings over Israel. Each one of these guys, it's one of 37 of them. Some of these guys, that's the only time they're even mentioned. You wouldn't even know them if they were not in this list. But you can be mighty where God has placed you. Whether you're slaying hundreds, ruling a nation, or just Uriah taking care of his wife and going to battle and following your own death sentence out to battle. You're just being mighty in the deed that God has given to you. From David to Uriah. What is a mighty man? And where are they? May God help us. With this. Father, I am so grateful and thankful for this passage of Scripture. I know I just quickly summarized this entire chapter, but really it is just looking at a list of mighty men. And coming from the last words of David. Maybe some of these things about what is a mighty man they were very obvious. Others may have been more subtle. Just a brief little study on how it's used in Scripture. and some examples given. But Father, how much this is needed in our homes, in this church, in this state, in our country and around the world. Would we recognize truly what a mighty man is and desire to be one and to pray for them? And would you help us with your grace and mercy? All this being done to point people to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and being sensitive to His Spirit. And we come to you through Christ's glorious name. Amen.