Good evening. If you would open with me to 2 Samuel 12. And if you would like to also put a finger or a bookmark into Psalm 51 Psalm fifty-one and second Samuel twelve. And we look at these messages uh I would say I've been thankful that I get, I would say in some aspects, a little bit of the easier of the stories on both sides of this passage here. I must say I'm thankful. But This story here, this passage, has so many good truths to think about, especially with this timing of the year. And as we look through here, I want us to just kind of think about how God's intervention in the story allowed for us to have Christ incarnate, Emmanuel. We look at the verses. Let me let's read the first uh seven verses of 2 Samuel 12. And the Lord sent Nathan unto David, and he came unto him and said unto him, There were two men in one city, the one rich and the other poor. The rich man had exceeding many flocks and herds, but the poor man had nothing save one little ew lamb, which had brought and nourished up and brought up and grew up together with him and his children. And it did eat for his own meat, and drank his own cup, and it lay in his bosom, and was as a was unto him as a daughter. And there came a traveler unto the rich man, and he spared to take of his own flock and of his own herd to dress for the wayfaring man that was come unto him. But took the poor man's lamb and dressed it for the man that was come to him. And David's anger was greatly kindled and died again. It was kindled against the man, and he said unto Nathan, As the Lord liveth, that man hath done this thing, shall surely die. And he shall restore the lamb. Fourfold because he did this thing because he had no pity. And then verse 7, Nathan said unto David, Thou art the man. Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, I anointed thee king over Israel, and I delivered thee out of the hand of Saul. Let's pause there and start with prayer. Father, thank you for what this message gives the opportunity to see is that you you're gracious during hard times and When we deserve so much worse than what we get, you are still good. Father, I just pray though that we may be as sensitive to sin as you would have us to be, that you are. There be no separation between us and you, that we can find constant communion with you through just repentance, Father. To look at the story, let us take to heart the message that Nathan brought to David and as David wrote for us. Praise in his present name. Amen. The way I want us to look at this passage, if we were to summarize it briefly, is that this passage is not only we can't look at just chapter 12. We also have to understand that a lot of what's going on here is chapter 11 as well. And one of the things is David's hardness to his sinful required God's hand of correction. And only through this hard hand could it lead to David's repentance. We'll look through last week's message through Pastor as he walked through here, and I want to focus on the last two points that Pastor said. And he said in the point four. He said, David, he took extraordinary steps to conceal his sin. It seemed like over and over and over, David was given the opportunity to stop. Turn and repent for his actions. And he didn't. He kept just chugging along and doing what he was going to do, trying to cover his sin. And in verse, the very last verse of the chapter 11, verse 27, if you want to read with me, he says, And when the morning was past, David sent and stretched and fetched her for his house and became his wife and she bare him a son. And the thing the Lord the the thing that David had done displeased the Lord. Pastor's last point was he appeared momentary to get away with sin, but God saw and it was displeased. That would be the pinnacle of these chapters. Everything leads up to this point, this climax point of God has been displeased. We have this major point of conflict in chapter 11. And David seems like he got away with it. God saw it. God was displeased. And we're going to deal with the resolution through chapter 12. Nathan comes along and proposes this parable to David. And what I want to look at here is this, in this chapter, God desires repentance. A simple thought. God desires repentance. As Nathan comes before David Time has gone. As I look at the story, one of the things I like to think about, and this is the holiday season, many of you guys may relate to this. Children, you might relate more than your parents might. Uh if you can think about when you have family or guests coming over the house, you have the children help clean, or specifically you clean their room. Children, as the story goes, they like to throw things just in the closet, underneath their bed. They try and hide their mess without actually dealing with it. And as a mom or dad, you may see them throwing their things in the closet and you go, I need to deal with that, but this is not the time to deal with it. And you may say to them that you're gonna have to fix that later, you're gonna have to fix that later, and they don't heed your advice. There comes a point though when all of the guests have left that you're going to say, it's time to deal with this. In the story here, how I read through this is God gave David many times saying, hey, we're gonna have to deal with this. We're gonna have to deal with this. He waited for things to go, maybe settle down a little bit, and he sends Nathan along with this parable about a young land, something that would have been very dear to David's heart. But I want us to look first at God's clear ruling, verses 1 through 12. He sends Nathan with his parable about a man that's traveling, or a man that is rich, has many, has many herds. And he has this man that comes along and travels. He takes from this single young man or takes from this one man that only has one lamb. And I want us to notice how the language is portrayed about this lamb. As a daughter, very specific choice of words As a child, they would have been closely knit together. David's response when he hears the parable is, this man shall die. I'll talk about that in a second. But notice that he says, he shall repay this fourfold. That is a very specific choice. To kind of also understand is that the Levitical law, under Exodus 22, it says, If a man shall steal an ox or a sheep and kill it or sell it, He shall restore five oxen for an ox and four sheep for a sheep. I guess we want you to notice one thing that was missing. That man was not to die. One of the things that David we see here is that the message really does portray this man as a monster. He takes almost as a daughter. He tried to portray it as monstrously as possible. And David doesn't realize that's supposed to be him. And the sin that David was doing was a monstrous and was destroying him and those around him. But David also saw this thief own sin as worse than his own. He said that the thief was worse than the adultery and the murder that he himself had committed. An interesting note is if you look at the cost here Actually, I will I'll get to this my thought. Sorry, getting ahead of myself. We'll get to that next thought in a second. But he comes along and he deals with this. David, thou art the man. Verse 7 with me. And it says the Lord said to David, thou art the man. Very chilling words every time I think about them and read through them. Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, I anoint thee over Israel, and I delivered thee out of the hand of Israel. The next thing we also see is Nathan's parable is followed by God's record. And God's record is not a record of sin, but it's a record of how good God has been. Read with me. I anoint verse 7, I anointed thee over king over Israel, and I and I delivered thee out of the hand of Saul. And I gave thee thy master's house and thy master's wives to thy bosom, and gave thee the house of Israel and of Judah And if it had been too little, I would moreover have given unto thee such and such things. He's reminding David how good a God he is. It makes me think of the passages when we read through when they came over from the land of milk and honey that they didn't have to work for anything, but they didn't really worship God like they should have. And eventually they were judged for that. God was so good to David. I anointed thee. I delivered thee. I gave thee. And I would have given you more. But you saw something that wasn't yours, and you were willing to take it no matter the cost. If I were to read into this It's almost saying, David was saying in some words, God, what you have is not enough. I'm going to take for my own. I want what's best for me. You can't give it to me. And ultimately that's what, if we were to pause and think about, that's what sin is. It's a personal choice. To say, I want it my way, not your way, God. And right after that The judgment comes. God's judgment on David in this beginning section here. And we'll look at it though, and it's just summarize the verses, in verse 10 it says, Therefore the shore the sword shall not depart from thine house. Because thou hast despised me again, that almost that hatred we kind of see, and hast taken the wife of Uriah to be thy wife. Not to take the thunder from Pastor Josh next week, but you will see what a lot goes on there. But I want to know one thing though that he's saying in that verse. That violence and death will be a constant in David's house. And if you read through the rest of 2 Samuel, that's really what it is. Pain, family, their family hurts. There's violence, death in their family. And if I want to pause here for a moment, specifically focus on that death. Remember what David said a while ago? He said that the death of that lamb shall be paid fourfold. And if we look at the life of David, David actually went eventually losing four children, this unnamed child, Amnon, Absalom, and Adonijah. David does pay for that little lamb. We look verse eleven What you reap will be sowed. Simple as that. The sin that we reap will be sowed. Sorry, the sin that we sow will be reaped. I forget that backwards. The sin that we so will be reaped. And in verse 12 For thou didst it secretly. Chapter 11. Remember what Pastor said. All the things that he was trying to, he took extraordinary, extraordinary steps to conceal his sin. What do we see? God says, but I will do this thing before all Israel and before the sun. You try to hide and throw your dirty laundry in the closet, and we're gonna have to deal with that. And not just secretly, but for all to see. Everything that David was working to hide, he wasted his energy because God's going to deal with it publicly. Nathan comes along and gives this powerful message. We have to look at this first part with Nathan's words and God's judgment. Ultimately, we have to see that sin will bring inevitable pain and consequences. I tell students when I would teach through different parts of the Bible is that sin 's cost is not always immediate. It could be down the road that we see the true cost of that sin. Sin does have consequences, and we typically end up paying more than we ever wanted to pay with it. And the more we try and cover our sin, the farther behind we actually end up eventually. I think about this sometimes as a wound or a cancer. The more we try and hide it and not deal with it, the worse the treatment is necessary to remove it. But just as God's clear ruling, that's not the end of the story. We also can now see the other side of that, and the second part is David's outer resolution. As God desires repentance. And part of repentance is there going to be an inner and an outer, and we're going to see first his outer response and what eventually happens. In verse 15, it says that Da Nisses Nathan went uh Nathan departed into his house. But before we get there, Nathan starts recognizing the cost and what ended up happening that he had to deal with it and says he starts realizing that this is more than he can pay. In verse 13 says, David said to Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. By the way, if we were to pause, that response is entirely different than the man after man's heart, Saul. He always had an excuse, and David's immediate response is, I have sinned against God. Notice his first response. Nathan responds is You have put away thy sin, thou shalt not die. Howbeit, because of this deed has been given a great occasion the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme, and the child that is born unto thee shall surely die. And Nathan left The sickness that God strikes a child with, David has a has a different response than we may have expected. There is an aspect of David that we can see him almost mourning this eventual child that will be dead. But I don't want to think about David in this instance here. Mourning, but rather I would like to see us as him interceding. If you read this passage and you think if you were to think through your mind, traditional, normal aspects of mourning. When someone in the Old Testament is mourning, you would think you have Saklos. Ashes, fasting, uh there 's gonna be there's gonna be their own separate area, they're gonna be, and you don't see all of that aspect here. What ends up happening is it says David, verse 16, David therefore besought God for the child. Don't miss that. That Nathan immediately that David comes along and he's like I'm not going to mourn for the child, but I'm going to start beginning interceding and praying to God that his judgment will change. We were to pause and ask a second, why does David think that God might change his judgment? Because he's a gracious God. This aspect and characteristic of God will be sprinkled throughout, and this is the first instance we're going to see as David Sees that God the gracious God and He's going to seek his intercession. And it says and David fastes and went in and lay upon the earth. And verse 17 of the house arose and he went and he raised him up from the earth. But he would not, neither would he eat the bread with them. And this bread that they're trying to bring him is bread for mourning. And David says, No, I'm not going to eat this. I'm not going to. I'm going to continue interceding. For this child. He wants God saying, God, you are good. You can take away this judgment, this pain is there. But unfortunately, as we see the child's sickness and David's intercession, we know the story continues and God does not heed his answer, his call. And that the child does die. And verse 18. And it came to pass on the seventh day that the child died, and the servants of David feared to tell him that the child was dead, for they said, Behold, while the child was yet alive, we spake unto him, and he would not hearken unto our voice. how will he vex himself if we tell him the child is dead? They're seeing the way David's reacting and they're saying, if this is how he's behaving when the child is alive, how is he going to behave when the child is dead? And contrary to their expectation, David perceives, in verse verse 18, David perceived that the child was dead, therefore David and his servants, is the child dead, and they said, He is dead. Then David arose from the earth, washed, and anointed himself, changed his apparel, and he came into the house of the Lord. I'm going to stop there. Sorry, house of the Lord and worshiped. I'm going to stop there for a moment. David sees how things were going. He says, I see what happened, the result here. God's still good. He stops his intercession saying, The Lord answered my prayer. I'm not going to continue praying. He's going to pause and he's going to then go to God. He's going to clean up, and the first thing he does, he doesn't even go and break fast first. Notice he just washed, anointed himself, changed his apparel, and the first thing he does is still not eating. Goes to worship God. He remembered, you know, God, you are still good. You are still a gracious God. It should be me that's dead. And we'll look at it and saying that God took this innocent child. And there was a reason, I perceive there to be a reason that God chose this child over David. And we'll get there. And when they're the servant ask, why are you in this so David he goes, he worships If you are with me there and back in verse 20, it says, and he worshipped. Then he came to his house and he required, when he required, he set they set bread before him, and he did eat. And this is not bread again Not the bread of mourning, but again, this is just normal bread. So there's no mourning aspect almost of David because his servants come along saying, whenever The child was alive. Why did you behave this way versus the way you're behaving now? Notice David's response And he said, While the child was alive, I fasted and wept. For who can tell whether God will be gracious to me that the child may live? But now he is dead, wherefore should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he shall not return to me. The thing that David sees in the story is that he will meet this child again. He sees hope, saying, the child is gone, but I'm gonna go to him again. I can go and see the child, but it's going to be a lifeless body. Whereas when I know if I when we get to heaven, I will see him again. What a word of comfort. As we read through that and just think about how David's dealing with this, that he sees hope in the story. The story does not finish there. It says, and David comforted Bathsheba, his wife , and she bare a son, and he called his name Solomon, and the Lord loved him. Solomon, meaning peace, of dealing with all of the times that he knows is coming ahead of him, he gives his son peace. But Nathan gives the child a second name, beloved of the Lord, Jedediah. We look at the life of Solomon and how the Lord provided and took care and gave peace all the years of Solomon. Solomon was beloved of Lord. But I think when we look at the story though , we look back at the Levitical law, adultery, murder, required death of the individual. But David was also beloved of the Lord, and he did not have to pay that ultimate price. I do believe there was a reason for that. We look at the story here of David and his outward response to it. One thing we can see is God is still God on the highs. We look at the story of David as he traveled around and had so many great victories. God was still God. David sins, makes poor choices. Man, God is still God in the lows. Child dies, he goes to the house of the Lord and worships. One thing that we can probably also relate to that I would like to also point out is when Nathan pointed out in David's response. When we sin, there's that weight of shame that we have failed God many times. And we try and hide, we try and do different things to hide and feel the shame of sin. But David did not let that feeling of shame keep him from worshiping God. Jump with me if you would to Psalm 51, though. Psalm 51. David's inner remorse. God desires repentance. And we're going to see Psalm 51 as David 's lamenting prayer. And we talk about lamenting psalms. These are psalms allowing us to pause and reflect and deal with the situation. This is not the only one, but it's probably the most prominent, most familiar for most people. A lamenting song this is written by the psalmist that realizes his disoriented life is a result of his own sin. David's life that was a wreck is the result of his own sin and he had to turn to God that would forgive him and restore his relationship was based on his repentance. Lamenting psalmist here is to realize that we have the cost of our sin in turning to God. If you would, I know it's a long, a long chapter, long psalm, but let's read the whole chapter here Psalm 51, to the chief musician, a psalm of David when Nathan the prophet came unto him after she had gone into Bathsheba. Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness, according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies. Blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me. Against thee, thee only have I sinned, undone this evil in thy sight. That thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. Behold, I was shaven in iniquity, and I did in in sin did my mother conceive me Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts, and the hidden part thou shalt make me know wisdom Purge me with thy hyssoph, and I shall be clean clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. Hide thy face from my sin and blot out all my iniquities. Create in me a clean heart. Oh God And renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from thy presence, and take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, and uphold me with thy free spirit. Then will I teach transgressors thy ways, and sinners shall be converted unto thee. Deliver me from blood-guiltiness. O God, thou God of my salvation, and my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness. O Lord, open thou my lips, and my mouth shall show forth thy praise. For thou desirest not sacrifice, else would I give it. Thou delightest not in burnt offering. The sacrifice of God are a broken spirit. And a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. Do good in thy pleasure unto Zion. Build thou the walls of Jerusalem. Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness, with the burnt offering, with the whole burnt offering. Then shall they offer bullocks upon thy altar. If I were teaching, I would ask my students, what is knowing what this passage is written in response to, what is missing? I would say it's missing any mention of Chapter 11. The reason I would make that point is David is not memoralizing his sin. He's saying this chapter, if we were to look at it, is not just a chapter to deal with these massive overbearing sins. But this repentance that he's dealing with should be a regular part of the Christian life. If I can put it in New Testament terms, Christian life. And we're going to look at several parts here and very characteristics of David's repentance that we can apply to our life today. The first part is in verses 1 and 2, and then 7 through 12, and is this plea. There is this constant plea that David acknowledges his Sorry. These points are not to refute judgment, not to remove the pain of the loss, but to restore fellowship with God. Blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly for my iniquities, and cleanse me from my sin. Why Have mercy upon me, O God, according to loving kindness. Verse 7, he wants to be purged so we can be wider than snow. Make me hear, make me to hear joy and gladness. Hide thy face from my sins and blot out all my iniquities. He's saying, block block these things out that I may be able to come forward to you again. There is this plea that David immediately can recognize. Our relationship has been damaged. In marriages, we do the same thing. We see something we see pain at times. Maybe there's an argument, someone made a mistake with our spouse. And we feel the pain here and we seek to come to our spouse saying, restore this broken relationship for whatever was done. Let's talk about, let's let's acknowledge it, let's deal with it. Same way here we seek God that we David could recognize there was a broken relationship. After we have the plea, it's restoring the relationship, there is this acknowledgement, this confession. He acknowledges our sin. That it breaks communion. If we were to think about an addiction problem, we would say admission is the first step. Quit denying that there was a sin and an addiction problem. So in the same way David begins with that verse 3 through 6. For I acknowledge my transgression. My sin is ever before me. I have sinned Or say, have I sinned and then evil in thy sight? Behold, I was shaved with iniquity. David begins realizing, starts acknowledging, going, he starts seeing the pain, the cost of the sin. In verse 6, it says, Behold thou desirest truth in the inward parts. I see two or and I would say I'm not the the only one, but there were two possible interpretations from this. The first is that Sin begins muddling our minds that we can't think about things clearly. And he says, Thou beholdst truth in the inward parts, the in part thou shalt make me to know wisdom that dealing with the sin in our lives. is going to make us to think more clearly. That was the first one. But the second one, though, is that even though we are sinful creatures, when temptation comes along Just as James says that we have the opportunity to turn to God and ask for wisdom during those temptations. That we may walk away, that you desire truth in our inward parts. You know what's in us. Give us wisdom to deal with the temptation as it arises. David looks entirely and he realizes at himself that I'm at fault. I have to deal with everything that's going on. After the confession, we have plea, confession, plea, and we go now to the vow David's mindset is simply this. If in verse 12 it says, restore to me the joy of thy salvation, and uphold me with thy free spirit. Is almost this aspect of, if you will do verse 12, if you will restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, I will teach transgressors thy ways. He says, Lord, if you will just restore this relationship, allow me to teach others about this. Thy ways and thy sinners shall be converted unto thee. Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O Lord, thou God of my salvation, and my tongue shall sing aloud thy righteousness. O Lord, open thou my lips, and my mouth shall show forth thy praise. The parable that comes to mind is the parable of I don't can't think of the actual name for it, but it's the parable where the one that's re been forgiven a little and the one that's been forgiven much. And he says, which one will love him more? The one that was forgiven much. If you know here, look at David. David knew how much his sin cost. He goes, if you restore that, I will love you and I will proclaim you so much more than I would have understood before. And in our lives Don't get me wrong, I don't want to say take this the wrong way. In our lives, we have an opportunity to teach others when we have sin and God has restored. This does not mean to go and seek sin to teach others about it. But that when sin happens in our lives and we recognize it and we see what it's done, that we have an opportunity to teach the next generation not to live foolishly in those ways. A simple illustration is for me growing up in a public school and having to see so many young boys and girls. And I I did not have a healthy Christian life growing up. And having to see the cost of sin in the world on my family. And I see and at working Christian schools, I've seen so many boys and girls that when they graduate, they jump in headfirst because they were protected from XYZ or whatever was necessary. that they jump headfirst into the world. And as having to see that cost and saying it's not worth it. David sings here, he says, Lord, open thou my lips, my mouth shall show forth thy praise. After the vow, we independent this God's relationship with us personally and then owes us around and then the community around us. Verse 16, for thou dost desirest not sacrifice, or else I would give it, and thou desire delightest not in burnt offerings. The sacrifice of God are a broken spirit and a broken and contrite heart. O God, thou shalt thou wilt not despise. One verse came to mind when I read that, those two verses. And maybe they came to yours as well. If you were familiar and you thought about as we've been talking through the life of David and the life of Saul The passage in 1 Samuel 15. Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offering and sacrifice, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice. David simply says, if you would have asked for sacrifice, I would have brought it. But it's not what I'm offering as much as the attitude of how I'm offering it. If you have children, you work in the nursery, or you have young children , you tell your child to say sorry. They may say sorry, but you know when their attitude is, how they really mean it. That's the mindset here is are you just saying sorry or Lord have mercy upon me Those are the aspects of David's working through. He says, Lord, let me offer this to you. But he also knows that our relationship with God Goes beyond me and God. It's going to affect my wife, my family. If I bring it to the New Testament, my church, my community at large. Because David knew that if God was to restore and deal with everything within there, His community would be upright. In verse 18, do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion. Build thou the walls of Jerusalem. Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifice of righteousness. And burnt offering, and whole burnt offering, and they shall offer bullocks upon thine altar. He starts recognizing, saying, God, this city needs to turn back to you. For true healing to take place, our community will need to be healed and seek God. Chapter 51 is dealing with repentance. God does constantly desire repentance. And we say that repentance should be a normal part of our walk with God. He 's simply coming saying, Lord, my sin is ever before me. Blot out my transgressions. And if we were to look at this in the whole aspect of chapter 11, chapter 12, Psalm 51. I would be very underqualified and make and be doing a grave mistake if I were not to say that through these stories that we see repentance was necessary for salvation. David's life was a painful one, full of betrayal, death, conniving, and concealing. But we see through here this aspect of God's long suffering. That God says, repent, come unto me, come unto me, come unto me. He gave him so many opportunities. And we see that in just as James, when lust has conceived and bring forth sin, and sin when it is finished, it bringeth forth death. I kept saying that we were going to look at it later. The death of that child I see is purposeful. Because death was required. David's sin. One of the things we look at Nathan is that Nathan does not say your sins are forgiven. But he simply gives the aspect of that your sins have been atoned. And for one to be atoned, death had to be required. If I were to describe it and give it a similar s and to compare it to something else in the Old Testament, this child would have been very similar as the Passover lamb for David. If David would have died instead of the child, we wouldn't have Christmas. We wouldn't have Solomon. We wouldn't have the lineage of Mary or Joseph and no Jesus. But it's through the death of David's son that he was able to avoid God's wrath. That it's through that eventually through his son again we are able to avoid God's wrath So how do we tie this all together? And we look at all these aspects that are here that are going on in 2 Samuel and Psalm 21, Psalm 51. The first one we have to look back at God's clear ruling that sin will bring inevitable pain and consequences. And the more we try and get ahead of covering our sin, the further we fall behind our consequences. All there's this long buildup of these judgment that's coming down after a whole chapter of God dealing with David trying to hide things and God comes along saying, all right, we have to deal with this. We let it go for too long. In our lives, we oftentimes try to hide things. And keep it going and we try it going eventually sin will cost more than we have. But just as the story does not end there, it does not end with us. We know we have a long-suffering God. As I said, I already see you see throughout the story that God's long-suffering is constantly there. That he's waiting for David to repent, to turn back to him. God's doing the same thing with us, that he's still the same God yesterday, today, forever. That he is waiting for us to turn to him. Repent. He does that gaily with the unbeliever. That they have the opportunity to repent and turn back towards him. That God is still the God in the highs and the lows. Even during the immense pain in our lives and the great successes of revivals. God is still God. We also should not let sin keep us from coming to God That is a tactic of Satan to have us dwell on what we had done, almost as if to say that our sin is too great for his son's sacrifice. That we won't come to him and then eventually end up wallowing more in our sin. So we look at the story here of David and in our lives that we can come to God, that we have a high priest. And always like we have been, have been tempted, yet without sin. But to deal with that sin, we have to understand what repentance is, that we are to turn away and turn towards God. That God's long suffering is that this repentance should be a natural part, a normal part of our Christian walk, of having to come before God. And that we have the opportunity to praise and teach transgressors thy ways. That we may be able to show that repentance is necessary for salvation, that it's through the death of his son. He is given away to avoid his wrath. As we look here, these are heavy passages and heavy to deal with. But God is good. God is gracious. And we are constantly giving an opportunity. He's constantly giving us opportunities to turn back towards him. Let us pray as we think on that tonight. Father, thank you for the opportunity we have to come and worship you. At the cost of this child, David was able to live, that we look at this time of the year, that we don't miss that this wonderful Infant would eventually become the man on the cross. That we will love you and see the price of our sin. Lord , allow us to be sensitive to you That we may love you more and more each and every day. Praise them's precious only name. Amen