It's been a while since we've looked at the story here. 2 Samuel, we're kind of picking up here. We had a beautiful spot to end right before Missions Conference But one of the things to really look at is to remind us where we've been, what's been going on in the life. And we see with David where it's been ending at with 1 Samuel. That a lot's been going on. David 's had highs and lows. We saw him running away from Saul He made the decision to go down to Philistines. He went acted crazy. He fled. He found the Lord. And you kind of see this, I would say this constant high, or maybe a plateau of this highness of where he was Just with God, he kind of was looking for direction. He was sticking along and he just kept following the Lord and making decisions Then as time goes on, he eventually does go down to the Philistines, running from Saul again. And it seems like it was without the Lord's direction. Now the Lord did bless and he had the opportunity to work while he was there, but I would not describe it as a good Decision on David's part. David has just beat the Amalekites there in Ziklag and He's making good progress. There's a lot of story going on there. He got back. He's resting. At the same time that he's coming back to Ziklag and he's recovered his family and everyone's recovered there. You also see this aspect where Saul went against the fight against the Philistines. Saul there, he throws himself down on his own weapons and he dies. And a man comes along. This man of all people in Amalachites comes to David and he says, Oh, I killed Saul, aren't you excited? And David says, do you know who that was that you touched? David takes care of business with him in chapter one and he It also talks about in 1 Samuel 31 is a special group by the name of Jabesh Gilead, and we're going to talk about in a second. But when we look at First, 2 Samuel. These first several chapters. And we're gonna touch base on a little bit and kind of focus on a few different points throughout this first few chapters. One of the things I want to think about is how important in these little details, and if you're familiar with the story of David, especially after Saul, the story there in 2 Samuel. I 'm going to make a few mentions right now, and I want you guys to think about how important these first few chapters are. You have chapter one, Saul's, Amalachite claims Saul's death, and David kills him. Second chapter, David becomes the king of Judah and a civil war breaks out. Chapter 3, a lot of it's dedicated to Joab's murder of Abner. And that man Joab just seems to constantly be reappearing over and over. Chapter 4. Ishbosheth is murdered and Mephibosheth is. Enter the picture and if you know the story of Mephibosheth, just a wonderful picture it is. 2 Samuel 5, David is crowned over the king of the rest of the nation, and David goes to war with the Philistines and kind of seems to put the nation back on track where it should be. Chapter 6, David brings the ark back to Jerusalem. Chapter 7, David plans to build the ark, but God says, pause. Not your job. In chapter 8, David begins gathering the resources for the kingdom. And if you think about how those first eight chapters really set the tone of a lot of important details that are going to happen. Now I'm not touching on all of that. But I want us to just think about what's going on in these first few chapters and how the author here is just setting up a lot of the details that we can't miss. As we work through the story. And above this story, as we read through here, I want us to just keep this idea of faithfulness in the forefront of our minds. David's faithfulness and how God simply desires faithfulness from you and from me. As we look through the story here, we're going to see a lot go on. I'm going to make a few points in just comparison of faithfulness and faithlessness. If we can put it that way. The first one I have us to look at is the man Ish Boshev. Ishwasheth is not. I would say anything good. How I would describe Ishwasheth is, Ishbosheth is the result of David's reign continuing. No, sorry, not David. Saul's reign is continuing. Saul's been described as a man after man's heart. I would like to describe it as Saul's faithless reign, and it continues into the role of Ishbusheth. Now Ishbusheth itself means Man of Shame. And we see the first introduction in chapter two, verse eight. But Abir, the son of Ner, captain of Saul's host, took Ishvosheth, the son of Saul, and brought him over to Mahanim. They made him king over Gilead and over the Asherites and the Jezreel and over Ephraim and over Benjamin and all over all Israel. Ishwaseth's son was forty years old when he began to reign over Israel and reigned two years, but the house of Judah followed David. When we start looking at this character of Ishboshef, one of the first things we have to think about is described as the man of shame. But here's a question that many commentators asked, and it's a very valid question, is why was he not at battle? Forty years old, many of Saul's other children went to battle. There's no explanation why. But there's this constant idea of why did he not go to battle? Many will talk about that's the meaning of his name is that he was shameful, that he was a fearful man. We can only conjecture about what was really going on. But as we make a few notes here, I want us to see that the man had no faith. And he had was very faithless in the way that he moved through things. The first thing as we look at through his faithless reign is that he made the decision. Or not maybe not him, but just as Saul was man's decision, Ishbosheth was man's decision, not God's. Read again with me in verse 8. And Abner, the son of Ur of Saul of hosts, took Ishbosheth, the son of Saul. Abner promotes Ishbosheth. Chef. He brings this boy along and he takes him and he says, You're going to I say boy, he's 40 years old. This man along and he he makes him king. It 's man's decision to start directing him and pointing him into where he needs to go. The place he takes him is a place of significance. The city. If you remember where it says in the end of verse 8, it says he took brought him over to Mahanim. Now Mahanim Not much is said scripturally about it, but through some archaeological discoveries, they believe it to have been one of the main cities where there would have been an iron ore deposit there. And it's through this iron ore deposit there's a likelihood that it was basically the strong one of the best strongholds to take it in the north outside of where David was originally at Hebron. So this is kind of like as far away from the by the way, as far away from the Philistines as you can almost get. He takes him to a location that is strategically positive. And he's located here. And you just kind of see the story of he's a man without faith. He made everything about the story is Abner takes him, he's the son of Saul, positive. We're going to take him to a strategic positive location. It looks good on paper But that's not how the story goes. The story continues that as they went to war, that they that they fought over and over, that David was the king that things did not go well, that he kept losing over and over. It talks about in verse 12 that Abner the son of Ner and the servants of Ishwasheth. uh went alpermahim to Gibeon, and Joab went there and they went to fight battles. And it even talks about in chapter 3 That's this was there was a long war between between the house of Saul and the house of David. Again, Saul's reign is continuing. It's not a story of another man, but it's Saul, the faithless, the man after man's heart. Reign is continuing. And it says David, but David waxed stronger and stronger, and the house of Saul waxed weaker and weaker. And if you know men. That are scared, that they are, I'm gonna use the word shameful as Ishwash is described as. When things get hard, they make irrational decisions. And he sees this man that's really his best supporter, Abner. He takes him along, and even though that things were hard, Ishwasheth points to Abner and he says, You are doing things to undermine me. He talks about how this man, Abner, who is here to help him, is really gunning for the king's seat. So you are going to come with you want my job. So he makes this fearful claim, and I wanted to make sure that it's you guys understand that Abner is not upset at it being true or anything, but he says, I want to win. And he's basically he's attacked his pride here. And Abner becomes very wroth in verse, so this is chapter 3, verse 8. And Abner was very wroth with the words of Ishbasheth. Am I a dog's head, which against Judah do show kindness this day unto the house of the Saul thy father? And to his brethren and to his friends, have not delivered thee into the hand of David that thou chargest me today with a fault concerning this woman? And Abner's immediate response is How dare you attack the reason I'm trying to help out? What I want us to think about is Ishbush. He's a coward in every worry of the word. He's run by fear rather than faith Things got hard and he pulls things. He wants to blame other people that things are going wrong and it's he's blaming this other man. Again, I'm going to say use the word a false accusation. Now David, I'm gonna use the word a powerful man, his presence seems to be just carry power into it. Later Him and David meet. And it seems like there is this simple David makes a a decision and he says, you're gonna join. I want this. I want Michal back. And Ishwashet says, okay. The Bible doesn't even give any kind of pushback as if Ishwashetz was going to fight back. He just immediately goes and goes, All right lady, you're coming with me. And he takes her right back to David. He's fearful of what David could do. When we look at Saul's , by the way, when we think about Saul's description, I think a coward would be a great way when we describe that many times. Through previous sermons, that that's how we describe Saul. Anytime David has slain his ten thousand , Saul has slain his thousands, David, Saul becomes very fearful and he chases after David because of that. Saul's reign continues. Fear is guiding him. Fear begins taking the place of faith. In our lives, things are going to happen, things are going to pop up. And we have to see that fear that's going to possibly take place, that we have to trust God, that we cannot react. But trust what the Lord is doing. The stories through here continue. Not just Ishrasheth that was faithless. But we also can't look at the story of David. There's a many in these first few chapters talk a lot about David's instances. I'm going to use the word faithless blemishes. David's faithless blemishes. There are several mentioned throughout here, and the first one that is mentioned is his incidents with women That he is fearful or not sorry, not fearful, but he has made decisions that revolve around women. And verse begins chapter two. And it came to pass that David inquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I go up to the cities of Judah? And the Lord said, Go up. And David said, Whither shall I go? And he said unto Hebron. And note verse two. So David went up hither, his two wives also, Ahinaum, the Jezreelitis, and Abigail, Nabal's wife, the Carmelite. We start seeing these multiple wives. I uh I describe them as two different types of women, two different types of wives that are he has. The first one that he that he made as a if I can use the word a young man, uh maybe a younger man. His women of love, the wives he has of love. Abigail. Ehnoon. There's not I'm not really don't remember the story about how Ehnon became a wife, but he becomes one of his wives, and it's just the story, the wife of love. That he was willing to bring them along. They've been with him since the very beginning. There was no, if I use the word, benefit to marrying these women, other than that he just simply loved them. I'm going to use that word for that. But we know the story continues. If we look at we know the whole canon of scripture of dealing with David, that David does not just stop with two wives. But he multiplies even more, and it talks about that in chapter 3 and chapter 5. Chapter 3 it says Verse 2, it says, And unto David were sons born in Hebron, the firstborn Amnon of Ahinoam the Jezalite, the second Shelab of Abigail, the wife of Nabal the Carmelite, the third, Absom, son of Makah, the daughter of Talmai, king of Gesher. Fourth, Adonijah, the son of Haggis, the fifth, Shephatai. And then the story continues. There's multiple here. And he goes, the sixth, Eglon, David's wife. Again, chapter 5. He makes another note. In 513 David took him more company bodies and wives out of Jerusalem than after he has come from Hebron. And he describes and he gives more names there. The wives I describe here are the wives of politics. The wives he married for political gain with other nations. Specifically, you can read one in chapter three. It gives it right away. He says, the daughter of Talmai, the king of Gesher, there's this political gain. David sees these wives as part possible opportunities. One of the things the Lord said back in Deuteronomy, not to , sorry, Moses said through the Lord's guidance not to do in Deuteronomy. Not to multiply wives. David saw what he wanted and he took David did not have faith in those decisions. He wasn't seeking the Lord's judgment. The other thing that is constantly in the life of David that is a sore spot is family. And I would say in many of our lives, dealing with family can be a very tough challenge. Specifically, I want to mention Joab. In the story here, Joab is present, and he's mentioned a few times, and he's mentioned several times later. Joab was David's nephew. He's constantly mentioned as Zariah's son. And Zariah earlier was mentioned as being the sister to David. There are three siblings of Joab, or sorry, two siblings of Joab, Asahel and Abiathar. And Abiathar is one of David's most fa valiant men. Mentioned in his chronicles. Asahel. Asahel was a warrior that was very Very quick as it's described. The story goes like this. In verse 18, so chapter 2, verse 18, if you want to read through the story with me, is we're going to read through what was going on that Athel ended up dying. And there were three sons of Zariah, Joab, Abishai, and Asahel. And Asahel was light on his foot as a wild roe. And Athel pursued after Abner, and going in turned to the right, nor to the left, from following Abner. And Abner looked behind him and said, Art thou Athel? And he said, answered, I am. Abner said to him, Turn thee aside to the right hand or to the left. And lay thee hold on one of the young men, and take thee his armor. But Asahel would not turn aside from following him. And Abner said unto Asahel, Turn thee aside from following me, wherefore should I smite thee to the ground? And he should hold up to the face of Joab, thy brother. Abner has been Saul's general. I think of this as an older man, gray hair. Very wise from battle. Asahel, being David's nephew, I see as a young, if I can use the word kind of maybe a cocky attitude, very confident in what he could do. continues chasing after this man and Abner, knowing what's going to happen if this ends up taking place, tries to discourage him. But Ashel does not stop. Taking the spear, the butt end hits him in the belly, causing him to bleed out and pass away. Joab continues chasing after him until a point that he eventually has to stop knowing that he cannot be Abner in the current battle. But the story does not end there. Almost all of chapter 3 is dedicated to this. Abner goes to seeking peace with David. He goes to help bring the whole nation together. In chapter 3, Abner sent messengers to David. saying, Whose land? Make may I make a league with thee, behold, my hand shall be with thee, as all of Israel And David said and uh Abner is willing to say, Alright, let me go from each of the night tribes and bring them in. It talks about that in verse 17. And Abner had communication with the elders of Israel, saying, Ye sought for David in times past to be king over you. Now then do it, for the Lord has spoken to David, saying, By the hand my servant David, I will save my people, Israel, out of the hand of the Philistines and out of the hand of their enemies. Abner begins going around. Positive things. He's working. He's turning turning to David. He enters Hebron. Joab tells him to come over here. And Joab stabs him in the ribs and kills him there in the city, the gate of the city. David does nothing to Joab. Which every by every right By reading through the law, David could have and should have taken care of Joab on the spot there. But one of those blemishes that we see throughout the story is David's dealing with family. Joab pops up again in the story of David and Bathsheba. Joab pops up again in the story of Absalom. The question is, had Joab been removed, how could those stories have been different? David doesn't deal with Absalom as he should have, being family again. David has this soft spot for family, and then it's family is such a complicated and tough issue Not saying it's always cut and dry. But we look through here. And one of the things I don't see again is David seeking the Lord's direction on how to handle these situations. But if we know David, David is not described as David the faithless. If I ask you to help finish the sentence, David the man after God's own. Heart. And we go, all right, what does it take to please God? We know our Hebrews. It's a one simple word. Faith. And we get to chapter 5. A little bit in chapter 2 as well. David begins seeking the Lord for direction. If I begin with chapter two. By the way, the last time we saw David was before we began in 2 Samuel was 1 Samuel 30. And he goes, Lord, shall I go up after them? And he goes, go up after them. He sought the Lord for direction. We see the same thing again in chapter 2. Chapter 2 in the beginning it says, and it came to pass after this that David inquired the Lord, saying, Shall I go up to the any of the cities of Judah? He's there at Ziklag and he goes, Where do I go? Do I stay where I'm at? Question some of us ask ourselves probably all the time. Lord, should I stay where I'm at? Or should I go somewhere else? The Lord says, go. Go to Hebron. After the death of Saul, he begins seeking the Lord again. Again, he goes up to Hebron. After the death of Ishbosheth, In chapter 5, verse 1 and 1 through 3. It says, Then came the tribes of Israel said unto Hebron, and he spake, saying, Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh. Also, in time past, when Saul was king over us, they kind of remember how good David was. Even when Saul was king, they remember the goodness of David, how faithful he was. Thou wast he that lendest out and brought us in Israel. And the Lord said to thee, Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be my captor over him. So all the elders of Israel came to the king of Hebron, and the King David made a league with them in Hebron. before the Lord and anointed David over Israel. This is the third time David was anointed. The first time we have the Lord blessing David there at home in Bethlehem. We see the second time in chapter 2, whenever he was made over king over Judah. And the third time, now he's officially made over here. And we see that the nation comes before saying, Lord, we know you are giving direction here. We're going to trust you, just as Abner was saying that he was there to be our shepherd, to take care of us. And I want us to notice what Israel finally noticed. A whole change of pace, a whole change of picture and how it affected others. Israel realized it was David was God's choice. Behold, it says, sorry. And the Lord said to thee in verse 2, it says, Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be captain over Israel. Israel starts recognizing who David was in relation to God. David led them in and out of battle. I want to make a special note to read verse 12 as well. David perceived the Lord had established him king over Israel, and that he had exalted his kingdom for his people. Israel's sake. David was being blessed by God for the Lord's purpose. And David recognizes this. And you actually start seeing a whole change of pace as we look at the end of chapter 15. He goes to war, and both times he does something that he's only done a number of times up to this point, and he goes. Lord, should I go after him? Verse seventeen But when the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over Israel, the Philistines came up to seek David, and David heard it, and he went down to the hold, and Philistines also came to spread themselves to the valley of Rephaim. And David inquired of the Lord. Again, David takes opportunity to seek what the Lord is doing. Wilt thou deliver them into mine hand? And the Lord said un David, Go up, for I will doubtless deliver the Philistines into thine hand. The battle continues. He beats them all. And he burns their images, their idols. And a separate battle. It says and the Philistines came yet again when beating wasn't enough. And he spread themselves in the valley of Rephaiim. Same tactic. So they come up here again to rally of Rephraam. And again, when David inquired of the Lord. But this time it's different. This is the Lord giving David an opportunity to test him, saying, Will you listen to me? He says, Thou shalt not go up, but fetch a compass behind them, and come upon over against the mulberry trees. And let it be when thou hearest the sound of goings of the troop, the mulberry trees, that then thou shalt bestir thyself, shall the Lord go out from before thee and smite the host of the Philistines. And David, verse 25, and David did so as the Lord had commanded him. We begin reading the same thing as last time. But God, rather than expecting to do the exact same thing, I think of the story of Moses. Go to the rock. We're going to change things up the second time Moses doesn't listen. David gives it opportunity to listen. Did exactly as what God had said. We look at these chapters here, and there's a lot going on. I skimmed through a lot of these details. But I want us to just pick out the idea of faithfulness. We see Ishboshef and his lack of faith. And how for us we look at that story and how we can apply this is Ishwashes feared man. And he wanted man as he was a continuation of Saul's reign. But here through Ishvrasath we can see that being faithful is just trusting God. Staying faithful to God. Abner knew that he knew best. Ishwasheth thought he knew best. And he let fear control him. Both of those. When we know best and when we let fear direct us, we're not trusting God. Being faithful does not define us. David, as we think about the story of David, he does have blemishes. Do think about describing David. It's not David and Bathsheba. We think about that story all the time, but that's not the end of the story. We think about all these instances here of having to multiply wives, not dealing with family when he should have. But that doesn't define who David is. And as we I think about the message that you know Willie was giving yesterday. About how sin will creep into our lives and try and define us as certain sins. But Christ comes along and says, you are not that. You are not fill in the blank. You are my child. You have purpose. David is not defined by sin, but he's defined as a, if I can use the word rather change it rather than saying a man after God's own heart, but as a faithful man. And how is he a faithful man? He did the simple thing every time we see him as a faithful man. I think I see one constant thing. He inquired, or if I can say, being faithful is seeking God and following. His direction. David ends the story here in chapter 5. He inquired of the Lord, and then verse 25 says, And David did so. As the Lord had commanded him. Being faithful is a tall task. But it's not about what we do per se, but it's about knowing who God is, trusting him, identifying ourselves with his son. Seeking him daily and following his direction as David sought, should I go or should I stay? Lord, you lead, I follow. Let the same be said of us today, as we will leave here, that we may seek God and say, Lord, you lead. I'll follow follow. Let us pray. Father, thank you for today. Thank you for the opportunity to see your hand. That faithfulness is not a common characteristic that we see through Scripture, but we see it in a few men. And women, Father. And let that be said of us today that as we walk away from here, that we'll be faithful, that we will seek you, trust you. Knowing who you are and what you are doing. You are good. Let us not forget that. Praise His precious holy name. Amen.