We're going to be opening our Bibles to 1 Chronicles 29. 1 Chronicles chapter 29. And it's very interesting how the Lord all put this together. In the middle of Pastor's preaching this morning, he had that part three slide up there, and he had his three points for his third part. I'm looking at that and reading those points. Having over at Becky, I said, that's like my almost entire outline right there. So I'm just telling you now, the stuff was done, and uh there's gonna be some but You will see kind of some repetition. But the cool thing is the text from today and pointing out the fact that the blind man was crying out not to Jesus of Nazareth. But to Jesus, the son of David, is going to go really neat with this text. It really, there's a lot of overlapping ideas and principles in both of these texts. So apparently the Lord wants us to know these things. And so I'm excited about it. I am very excited. But we're going to look today at David and his public praise of the Lord. He's publicly praising the Lord. And before I even read the text, I'm going to read uh verses uh ten through twenty Here in 1 Chronicles 29. But as I was reading through and pondering this passage of Scripture over the last several days, last week plus, I caught myself reading this text and thought, is this a prayer? But then it starts out in verse 10, and he's saying this before the whole congregation. And so it really this kind of Getting in my first point a little bit, but it's almost like prayer the prayers of David become public here. And it's almost like you're getting an insight into the heart of this um man who loved God and yet he's sharing it openly. He's just kind of opening himself out and he's praising God in front of the congregation. So I'm gonna read the text. And hopefully you'll see what I'm talking about. So we'll pick it up, 1 Chronicles 29, starting with verse 10. It says, Wherefore, David blessed the Lord before all the congregation. And David said, Blessed be thou, Lord God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty For all that is in the heaven and in the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. Both riches and honor come of thee, and thou reignest over all, and in thine hand is power and might, and in thine hand it is to make great, and to give strength unto all. Now therefore, O God. We thank thee and praise thy glorious name. But who am I? And what is my people? that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort. For all things come of thee, and of thine own have we given thee. For we are strangers before thee and sojourners, as were all our fathers. Our days on earth are as a shadow, and there is none abiding. O Lord God, all this sword that we have prepared to build thee and house for thine holy name cometh of thine hand and is all thine own. I know also, my God, that thou triest the heart, and hast pleasure in uprightness. As for me and the uprightness of my heart, I have willingly offered all these things And now have seen with joy thy people, which are present here, to offer willingly unto thee. O Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, our fathers, keep this forever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of thy people, and prepare their heart unto thee. And give unto Solomon, my son, a perfect heart to keep thy commandments, thy testimonies, and thy statutes. And to do all these things, and to build the palace for which I have made provision. And David said to all the congregation, Now, bless the Lord your God, and all the congregation bless the Lord God of their fathers and bow down their heads and worship the Lord and the King. Shall we pray? Father, we are so thankful that we can gather together as a church body to assemble around your word to read what you have given to us, to study, to be students of, to be an encouragement, to bring conviction And yet even this night, you can use your word to help change our hearts and minds to be thankful for the God who has given us everything. Could we praise you this day and ponder the truth of who you are and who we are not through this text And would it result in thanking you and praising you for your goodness, for your grace, and everything that you are? And we thank you ahead of time for what you will do to lift up and to exalt the name of your son, Jesus Christ. In your name we pray. Amen. So the first part we're going to look at here is we're just look at verse 10. So David blesses the Lord before all the congregation. As I said a little bit before, I was starting to get ahead of myself, but it's just so true. I want you to get that thought before we read the text. This is like David's personal love and his relationship is being poured out what he does privately, what he does in his own prayer closet. Is what is like coming out before the people. Hopefully you sense some of that in some of these verses. I just feel like David is pouring himself out before the people. Keep in mind he is the king. of a nation. I would like any reader to have a prayer or to say some of these things about God. That would be wonderful. But he's just opening himself up. And I really, it's almost like you crack the door. unknown to him and you get to see something that David would have likely prayed and he is the great psalmist on top of that. And it's also good to know that David, when you look at the things that he's going to go through, he knows he's at the end of his reign. His life is coming to an end. And you see that reflected, yet he's praising God all the more, and yet he's thankful for where God can take the people that he had the privilege of leading as a nation. And also, I think because he's getting up there in years, sometimes as you get older, you just anticipate the Lord's coming all the more. And you just reflect on his goodness. And our bodies wear down. And you recognize God doesn't wear down. He doesn't slow down. And the comfort, I imagine, as he's aging and as we read through this text, he's looking forward to the same God Of David is the same God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob. And it's going to be the same God for Solomon, his son. What a great comfort that is. And a great comfort that we have a wonderful God that we look forward to seeing. Even as we age and as we slow down and as things don't work as the way they should, and sometimes, yes, for some, even your hair could jump off the top of your head. I don't know who that happened to, but they say it happens. But here, just a sneak peek, I think this is kind of opening up David. That's kind of how I've been seeing this a little bit. So we're just gonna look at it and we're gonna spend some time really focusing. On this second point here of David blesses the Lord for who he is. David is just praising God for who he is. Look at this in verse 11. We're going to spend some time here. As I read through this text, I've decided to spend a lot of my time focusing on this verse because I think from this you can draw out from the rest of this text in these following verses, if we just spend some time here. So we're going to park here for a while. In verse 11, we see, Thine, O Lord, is the greatness. It is the greatness. So some verses that go with this just talking about God's greatness. In Exodus 15, 7 it says, and in the greatness of thine excellency , Thou hast overthrown them and rose up against thee. Thou sendest forth thy wrath, which consumed them as stubble. If you're familiar with the context, this is Moses. Just watch the greatest military of the day get wiped out. Given moments before. The day before, they're thinking, we're dead. We're stuck. We're gonna die. God, why did you do this? Just to bring us out here to murder us. But then when they see the faithfulness of the Lord and the greatness of what he can accomplish, Moses was used of God. to say this in Exodus 15. Just looking at the greatness of God and who He is. That was incredible. I just watched the greatest army in the world get crushed in but moments. When just the day before we thought we were the ones going to get crushed. Things are not beyond God. He is great with military deliveries, with just his person of who he is. In the New Testament, we see this in Ephesians 1. And what is the exceeding greatness of his power to us or who believe, according to the working of his mighty power? Which is wrought in Christ. I want to put some of these verses we're going to see, it's going to be relating to Christ. There's going to be overlapping with some of the different characteristics and who God is. As we see God being opened up and some of his characteristics and who he is with his majesty, his kingdom, his glory, his power, and all these things, they're gonna be overlapping So we're going to dig into some of these things, but I just want to pause right here. You're going to see some overlapping things. It's okay. We have an amazing God And here we're focusing on his greatness, but here's talking about the working of his mighty power, continuing on in Ephesians 1, verse 20. It says, which is wrought in Christ. When he raised him from the dead and set him at his own right hand in heavenly places, far above all principality and power and might And dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come. God's greatness is not just in the here and the now and the physical of what we can see As we were able to see from the blind man earlier today, it's not just in the physical realm. God's greatness and who he is goes beyond. Spiritual. It's eternal. It's not just, okay, I received my sight. It's recognizing who he is. So that's a couple verses on thine O Lord is the greatness. Next, we're going to thine O Lord is the power. Thine is the power. And there are several verses we could choose with any of these. But I chose some, actually, a lot of the psalms we're going to read in the description of God I chose from the psalmist himself. Like I said, we're getting a glimpse of Paul of Paul, of David, and his prayer closet and looking at who God is and how he praised them, and we're going to see a lot of us even through the Psalms. So David is singing about these things, he's meditating on these things, he's thought about things, he's prayed about these, and here now, at the end of his life, he knows he's going to end, he just can't help but praise God before the whole congregation, before Israel. So we're on gonna seek a lot of psalms in here, and I think all but one are from David So in Psalm 68, in describing the power of God, he says in verse 35, O God, thou art terrible out of thy holy places. The God of Israel, it is he that giveth strength and power unto his people. Blessed be God. In Psalm 110. 3 says, Thy people shall be willing in the day of all thy power, and the beauties of holiness. From the womb of the morning thou hast due of thy youth. David is just opening up the power of what God can accomplish. And when you think about David and his life and some of the things that he did, military accomplishments for sure. And the miracles of all these things. And in his mind, I can't help but think right here, right now, David, he's transitioning in his mind this thought, I'm about to end my days. I'm looking forward to Solomon. But every time he looked at Solomon, don't you think he would have been reminded, occasionally, of his own past experiences? And yet the one who's now going to inherit the kingdom in his place from his seed came from his own mistakes, just showing the grace of God Showing the power of what God can accomplish, despite who we are. So David is blessing the Lord for who he is. We've seen that the Lord is great. We've seen the Lord's power. Next, David brings up. He says, Thine, O Lord, is the glory. We serve a glorious Lord. In Psalm 8, the Lord our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth. Exclamation point. Who has set thy glory above the heavens? He is more glory than this we can imagine. You look up to the heavens. And we know the heavens declare the glory of God. And you just see the stars and you just see how massive it is. He is a great and he is above all these things. His glory, that's just a picture of this never-ending glory of who he is. It's above the heavens. It's greater than the heavens. And there it is in Psalm 19. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. Here I could just see This aging king, yet reflecting back on his days with the sheep, in the darkness and the quietness of the night watching those sheep and just peering up into the stars. And just thinking, wow, what an amazing God we have. The heavens just scream about this amazing God and the glory of who he is. It's incredible. I imagine he's reflecting a lot back in his life as it's coming to a close. And he just can't help but praise God for who he is. It continues. So we've seen how he points out God's greatness and his power and his glory. Next we see thine O Lord is the victory. Thine O Lord is the victory. The victorious God. In Psalm 98, verse 1, Sing unto the Lord a new song, for he hath done marvelous things in his right hand, and his holy arm hath gotten him the victory. A right hand is often referred to as one of victory, of power, and of strength. Most people are right-handed. So he is picturing here with victory. This this is triumphant. This is a wonderful God that we have. And imagine the victories that David is seeing. But yet the victories are all the greater when you're hiding in caves. When you're fearing for your life from your own king. When it seems like sometimes even your wives at different times may turn against you or disagree with you But yet here's David. But through it all, we serve a God who can give victory because he's great Because he's powerful. All glory belongs to him. And here, David, he's just lutting it out before the whole congregation. I'm just telling you, this is who he is. You gotta praise him. I'm about to go away, but that does not change the great God that we have. I just can't help but praise him He says in Isaiah, the word of God says in Isaiah 25, he will swallow up death in victory. And the Lord God will wipe away tears from off all their faces and the rebuke of his people. And he shall take away from off the earth. For the Lord hath spoken it. I couldn't get past 1 Corinthians 15 when we were talking about the victory in verse 57. But thanks be to God. Which giveth us victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Our victory is leading to, and David Through David and then Solomon is going to come Jesus Christ. That is the ultimate victory. But we could enter into the presence of God because of what Christ at that point is going to do. We look at it from this perspective of what he has done. But that's a great victory that we can have over sin, over the struggles of this world world, and over the challenges that we face. God can give the victory of these things. Once again, David is just opening up. He's just praising God for his greatness, for his power. For his glory, for his victory. And he continues, Thine, O Lord, is the majesty. Continuing on in verse 11, he just keeps going. And is the majesty. In Psalm 29, David has used a pen, the voice of the Lord is powerful. The voice of the Lord is full of majesty. And he is thinking, just the power. in God's voice over creation. And when you think about this, how did God create? He just spoke the words. He just said, you know, let there be trees. Let there be He just said the words. Can you imagine just creating with your words? How easy that would be And to create everything. And David is looking at this as a king. And in comparison to God, he's saying he is the one of great majesty. And I would say David's kingdom here is doing pretty good at this point. He's about ready to hand it off. It's about to get better after all the fighting he's seen. But he continues, Psalm 93, the Lord reigneth, and he is clothed with majesty. The Lord is clothed with strength, wherewith he hath gird himself The world also established that it cannot be moved. He just wears it because that's who he is. That's who he is. He is just majestic. He's powerful. He's the king. And this is coming from a perspective of a king with a pretty uh successful uh leadership there of the nation. And in comparison, he's saying, look, but I need to bless, I need to praise. God for who he is. So he blesses God for his greatness. for his power, for his glory, for his victory, for his majesty. And then he kind of concludes it at the end. We get the familiar passage there. You can't help but think of the Lord's Prayer. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord. But then he continues, thou art exalted as head above all. It's like at the end, David is like, and you know what? If there's anything else you can think of, yeah, he's head of that too. He's just ahead of all of it. As if that list isn't great enough and glorious enough and majestic enough. He's like, oh by the way, he's just head over everything. In Psalm 8, verse 6, thou mest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands, and thou hast put all things under his feet. What is he not over? In Ephesians 1, starting verse 22, and he hath put all things under his feet, and gave him to be the head over all things to the church. That's talking about Christ. Which is the body, the fullness of him that filleth all and all. So this assembly here today has Christ as the head in the church. He's above everything. Yes, including the church. He has given us his word, which is the authority. That is what we preach. I don't come to you because I'm some great guy. It's through the word of God that is preached and is taught. And that as Christ is head over this assembly, it is him that we point things to. And David is concluding this verse. He's just a head above all. And then we get to the final book of the Bible, Revelation 5. And every creature which is in heaven and on earth, and under the earth, such are as in the sea, and all that are in them, heard I saying, Blessed and honor, and glory, and power be unto him that sith upon the throne. unto the Lamb of God forever and ever. All this, as from David's perspective, he knows there's going to be a seed coming through him. He knows it's going to be coming through Solomon. And so he feels so blessed by this and so encouraged there is a God who is over all of these things. He's the head. He's the one with the master plan. He's the one that has it all figured out. And has it ever occurred to you that nothing has occurred to God? It's not like God went, oh, uh, whoops. Oh, I didn't know that was going to happen. I can fix that. He already knows. He's at creation. He's in Revelation right now at the end. And everywhere in between. And he's head over everything. He knows exactly what he's doing. He is trustworthy. He's holy. He's majestic. He is great. He's powerful. He has the victory. All these things. He continues on in verses 12 and 13. I'm not going to reread them all, but verses 12 and 13, the Lord is the source of all things, and so he can be thanked and praised. You read to verses 12 and 13. And he's like, you know what? All these things are because of what you have done and what you've provided. So here's David in the context. He's like, I wanted to build you a temple. I wanted to build you a palace, a place to dwell. And I guess in part, God is like, oh, that's nice. You want to limit me to a building? But that's okay. That's a sweet thought. But then David is now reflecting on all his work and all his preparations. David so wanted to build this. He did everything but build it. But then he's realizing, but you know what though? All this stuff I didn't make the gold, the bronze? I just collected, I just was a gathering of what God has provided and what God has done. I think David is really reflecting on all this greatness and all that God is. And he's like, you know what? But God has provided for Himself all these things We're just taking what God has given and making it nice and trying to present it back to him. I kind of think that's where David is going here. He's like, you provided it all. There's nothing I can really do. It's kinda like, you know, when we give. You know, it's all gods. Really. Our bodies. The minor all that we have, it's not really ours. We're just borrowing it for a while. We're just a a tabernacle of a temporary dwelling. God just wants us to be obedient and give back to him what just a matter of obedience and just to do it willingly and we'll see that the people are going to give willingly it's incredible what takes place. But I just think David here at the end of his life is reflecting on a lot of different things and is just overwhelmed and just wants to bless God in front of the people. in the congregation and really just brag on his God and it just drives him to this point where he's just thankful and he's just praising him. And we see in Psalm 69, once again, I pulled a lot of Psalms of David just to help give a bigger picture. This is not just David in a moment. This is almost a lifetime of David serving God, of praising him through good times and bad times and seeing a lot of these things firsthand. And now he's just being open and transparent before the congregation. In Psalm 69, verse 30, I will praise the name of God with a song and will magnify him with thanksgiving. I just can't help but be thankful. And the most thankful people in this country ought to be the Christians. I know we have a national holiday of Thanksgiving. But we truly ought to be a thankful people because we have the privilege of serving the one who owns everything, who knows everything, and he has all these things. And we just don't come to God because of stuff. But for who he is. Once again, I had to jump to the back of the book In Revelation 4, thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power. For thou hast created all things. For thy pleasure they are and were created. You know, sometimes you think, why did God create things? Why did God create me? Because it pleased him Displeased him. And you have the privilege we can get to know him. That who went out of his way to make us and to design us. And once again, David just is overruled. He's just like his cup runneth over. He's just thankful and praising God for who he is. Revelation 7, saying, Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be unto God forever and ever. Amen. Who should get this kind of glory? Who should get this kind of credit? God. And when you think about who he is and what he's done through Christ. We just want to pause and sometimes all you can say is just you can be thankful. You just get overwhelmed. And I believe David in this point in his life is right there. He's just overwhelmed. He just can't help but bless the Lord and praise him for all a congregation, for all these things. So we've seen that David is blessing the Lord before all the congregation. We've seen that David blesses the Lord for who he is. Now we're going to see that David recognizes who we are not. Who we are not. So picture with me. You're thinking of the awesomeness of God from creation. to the heavens, to his victory, his greatness, his glory, his power, and all these things. You start getting overwhelmed with thankfulness. And that happens in part because he recognizes Who he is not. And I like to say it that way on purpose. I think it would be a life changer. I've said it with the teens many times. If you recognize who God is and who you are not, that thought will change your life. So look at this in David starting in verse 14. But who am I? And what is my people? That we should be able to offer willingly after this sort? And all things come of thee, and of thine own have we given thee? For we are strangers before thee and sojourners, as were our fathers. We are temporary, you are permanent, we have a limited time, you are everlasting, you were there with our fathers. They are now dead and gone. Our time is coming, but you're still going to be there. What are we? We're temporary little holders of God's truth, of his truth. So when he asks them, but who am I? Who are we in comparison with the Lord? Then we become humble before the Lord. He recognizes who we are not, that should drive us to humility. In Psalm 8, For what is man? That thou art mindful of him, and the Son of Man that thou visitest him You know one of the greatest examples I can get of this, of who is man without mindful of him? I've had the privilege to take teenagers to the Creation Museum several occasions. And this last Christmas I finally got to take my own family with just my family. And if you've ever seen the planetarium show of the Heavens Declare, the Glory of God, and they're walking you through the vastness of just the galaxies and beyond, I feel like you just It's like, wow, it's so it's so overwhelming. And then, spoiler alert, okay, at the end, they start zooming, like all the way in, all the way in, all the way in, and then they zoom in right into the creation museum. And then it's like it's over and you're sitting there going, wow, I'm an insignificant little nothing. Yet God cares for me That's the closest experience. I've had that experience. Every time I watched that, I was like, that is the greatest thing. If anyone goes there, I'd recommend watching it. But we were just like, wow, I'm a pitiful little tiny nothing. Oh, you might be 6'6 and you know 275 and you know you're a big something. Let me tell you. You might be a big man, I'm not. But that is nothing in comparison to God. And I think when you think about God and who he is and what he's done and what he's capable of doing And then it drives you to be thankful. And then it recognizes, wow, well, who am I then? And yet God desires to use us. And I think David is like, wow, God has been using me. I didn't understand all I messed up several times But yet he's going to continue to use my son. And that's going to drive to a bigger purpose. It's going to eventually lead to a messiah. So it brings us to humility to be humble. In Hebrews 2, but one in a certain place testified saying, What is man that thou art mindful of him, or the son of man that thou visitest him? You know, God of all creation, who says, and he made the stars also, in a simple phrase, creates more than our minds can Imagine. I mean we're lucky to get to the moon. Some are hoping to get to Mars. And that's like a drop in the ocean. A tiny that tiny like little baby sprinkle drop in a massive ocean, the Pacific But yet that same God who can say a little phrase and he made the stars also that we can't even number. We just give them uh names like A, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, you know, B. Because they just say that there's so many of them. I had a hard time thinking of names for four children. And yet God just speaks these things with a simple phrase, He made the stars also. But yet that same God with all this greatness and everything is He desires and longs to have a relationship with you as an individual and to be your personal God. If that doesn't drive to a place of, man, I'm thankful and I'm humbled of God of all these things. Yet He's interested in you, every single one of us. It's incredible. That he would visit me, that he would know me, that he would even care for me. That's incredible. And he recognizes the brevity of life. In verse 15, we already read it. Some passage in another Psalm, Psalm 144, man is like to vanity. His days are a shadow that passeth away. You know, you go outside, you can watch the shadows. They come and go. I could have used a little more shadow driving back from cuisine today. Boy, that sun was reflecting just right off the wet ground, and it's like the sun was shining right up off the road into my eyes. That was not nice. I wish the sun would have been a little more shaded behind the clouds. I would have loved the passing shadow. But you know, the shadows are but temporary. It's but a moment. It's gonna move. It has an end. And I should ask the teens. What is on the morrow? Or I could ask them, what is your life? I could say it's a reference question, James 4. 14, and hopefully the teens would reply something like, our life is a vapor. What is your life? It's a vapor. It appears for a little time and then vanisheth away. That's the idea of the shadow. It's just temporary. It's just but a moment It's not around very long. So you live to be 100 or 90. Your pastor's grandfather's 90. I would consider that a long time here on earth I don't know if I want to make it to 90 or not. Come quickly, Lord Jesus. No. But when you think about it, you think that's a long time here on earth. But when you take time out of the picture, that's eternity. There is no more time. It doesn't exist. That's just for us to function here and now. God functions outside of that. And yet our life is short. But God has no time frame as far as who he is. He's the alpha and the beginning. He's the beginning and end. He has no start point. He has no end point. It just goes back to who God is and recognizing who we are and then the brevity of life. And David at the end of life, I can't imagine life going much quicker. I know it seems to go that way. I don't know if it's because you've mortaled it back on. But things seem to go faster in life. And I'm probably only, statistically, probably about halfway through my life, maybe touchover. That's crazy, didn't I think about Double, and I'd be 84. I don't know if I want that to happen either. But life, it's brief. It's but a time. God is eternal. It's brevity. And he gathers all these materials. This is from the Lord in his provision, verse 16. He's like, you know, I gather all this stuff, and we kind of already hit this earlier. But he gathers all the stuff to build him a house in verse 16. He says, For thy name cometh of thine hand and all thine own. You know, we don't make this stuff. We can gather what God has put together, but he's done this. And we're but brief. And even this building we know is not going to last long. It too will be destroyed. Such is everything here on life Moth and rust and things corrupt and thieves break through and steal. And yet we try and store up for the here to now, we try and store up stuff. And God functions on a much bigger scale. Yet he loves us and he desires to use us and he will. God resisteth the proud, but he giveth grace to The humble is what every quiz or just said. I think that's in the book of James. He giveth grace unto the humble Lastly, I know you're excited about the lastly. David blesses the Lord for all the congregation. He blesses the Lord for who he is. David recognizes who we are not. And then that drives him to encourage the congregation to bless the Lord. It is once again, David is blessing the Lord, and he has all these thoughts of God's greatness. and who he is and what he's done, who he is not, and our own limitations and our finiteness. So then he just encourages the people, you can bless the Lord with me. Let's do it together. Let us exalt his name together. And in verse 17, I know also, my God, that thou triest thought, and the pleasure of at rightness, and for me and thy uprightness of mine heart, and I have willingly offered these things, and have now seen the joy of thy people, which are present here, to offer willingly unto thee. So some of the people are catching this. And just the amazing power and just the incredible character and everything that God is and everything that we're not. It should encourage us. And they desire to give willingly. David is giving willingly. The people are starting to give willingly. And I love this verse. In 2 Corinthians 8. 12, actually I believe the first time I heard this verse was from Coach, believe it or not. I remember him saying this many times. You know, you're sweaty tired in a mat room. He said, for if they're first building a willing mind, it's accepted according to the man hath, and not according to he hath not. God is going to take what you have and he can use it. He doesn't have to. He doesn't need to But if you have a willing mind and you desire to give to the Lord, I think he will use you. He would like to. Are you willing? That's 2 Corinthians 8. 12. I love that passage. I know in context it's actually about giving monetarily more, but I think the principle of giving willingly, of what you have. to the Lord can apply. And that's what the people are doing. They're giving unto the Lord willingly because they want to. Because they recognize who God is. They recognize who they're not. And they just want to give to God's program. They want to give to God's Building to his kingdom. They just want to give to the Lord And it says to keep thoughts of the imagination of our heart toward God in verse 18. Basically, if they can keep this thinking, if these people can keep these thoughts about God. and recognize our dependence upon him, it would be amazing to keep this forever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of thy people, and prepare their heart unto thee. that their hearts would continue to be open and tender and to know who you are and desire to grow in their knowledge of you and then just then the power and the greatness of who God is and they can continue to be Thankful they can continue to bless him, to remain humble before this awesome, amazing God. He says, I wish they could keep this thought. Because David understands that the struggles and the challenges that can come. Life is not easy. God just doesn't save an individual from their own sin and then all life works out and it's all, you know, roses and picnics. It doesn't happen like that. There are challenges, but our thinking, if it can remain on trusting in God, knowing who he is, and that he is beyond our temporal little circumstances. He's beyond that. He sees the whole puzzle. He designed the factories. Okay. He painted the pictures of the puzzle. And yet we're just one tiny little piece of it. And then he gets more specific. Towards Solomon. Oh, the verse is probably on the screen here of Psalm 18. For I have kept the ways of the Lord. Personal, I have kept the ways of the Lord. and have not wickedly departed from my God. For all his judgments were before me, and I did not put away his statutes from me. I was also upright before him, and I kept myself from mine iniquity. You know, it is great to know that we can be delivered and that we cannot give in to the wickedness and the challenges of this world. But it's also great to know that when we do, just like Peter, God wants us to know that he still wants us to serve him. Feed my sheep. I know you made mistakes That's okay. Encourage others. I am here to forgive you. God still loves us. We can do the same to others. So here, keeping the ways of the Lord. And then it gets more specific towards Solomon. In Solomon in verse 19, he says, and to give Solomon, my son, a perfect heart, to keep my commandments, thy testimonies, and thy statutes would my son learn about your ways. Boy, that's a challenge for any parent. Even when you take our life is but a vapor and it's a shadow. And you think in a normal setting, my kids should outlive me. They should It would be great if my kids would continue to love God greater and better than me and in my wife. So because they have seen God and who he is. Because God is still going to be there. I will not be. But he is. This is what's going through David's mind. He says, and can you give work through my son? that he would see who you are. Give him a perfect heart. Help him to obey you. I'm gonna be dead and off the scene. He can disobey me and I'll never know it. I won't even roll over my grave. I'll just be bones But God, you will know. Help him when I'm no longer here. Help him to see who you are. And he can follow you and he can obey you and to see your blessing. To see you who for you who you are. Let God be your heavenly Father. Work on Solomon as an individual And then he gets specific with Solomon in the context of here where he's talking about, I've gathered For this palace in verse 19, and for which I have made provision, help some to continue to obey, to love you, to complete this project, to see it through. David knows he's not going to see this project. He's done everything he possibly can And I think this is something that's missing in our generation today. Sometimes we live so further here in the now, we forget that sometimes we just need to pave the way for the next generation to have it easier. That's what David is thinking here. This is for the next generation. This is for my son. God has provided all these things. Would my son see it through? We need to work on the next generation. I guarantee you, when people spent several months on an ocean to come here, and a lot of them died in that first winter, they were not just thinking about themselves. They're thinking about the future. Their posterity. The next generation's to follow. That's what David's doing. That's for the next generation. Look at how they respond. Verse 20. And David said to all the congregation, Now bless the Lord your God. I can bless my God, and I have praised him before you. But is he your God? And all the congregation blessed the Lord God, their fathers, and bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord and the King. Here, they praised the Lord. And in Psalm 135, verses 1 and then 19. It says, praise ye the Lord. Praise ye the name of the Lord. Praise him, all ye servants of the Lord. Bless the Lord, O house of Israel. You know, that blind man that received sight, he knew who Christ was. He knew that he was the Messiah. And after he received his sight so he could physically see him, he wanted to follow him. He wanted to thank him. He wanted to be with him. We too can praise the Lord, just wanting to be with him. And praise him and to serve him. We can do the same. Are we willingly going to offer unto him? Are we going to think and ponder the majesty and the glory and the victory and the power of who God is? Are we going to recognize who we're not? Are we going to come humbly before God? Are we just going to thank him and bless him for who he is and what he's done for our behalf and just being overwhelmingly good and gracious unto us? As I believe David was reflecting, especially looking forward to the generation to follow after him through Solomon. Would God help us to praise him and to see him for who he is? And would we do it humbly and thankfully to praise him? Father, I thank you so much for this text of Scripture. And just for considering who you are. God, there are several different words we can use. There was overlapping thoughts. I've tried to use a little bit of David's Psalms to help picture more of what you were envisioning there with David and how he viewed you. Oh, he's not a perfect man. But he loved you, was dedicated to you, and desired to have a building that he could make for you at the end, just out of a place to worship. To allow others to come and see you for who you are. Father, would that be true of us here tonight? Could we just be in awe of God, of you? Sometimes we don't see it because of our own pride, because of our lack of even taking time to think and to ponder these truths of who you are. We get so caught up with who we think we are when we realize we're not much of anything. Especially if we want to compare ourselves to you or your son, Jesus Christ. Help us and be with us to see these truths. As given to us through 1 Chronicles 29. And we will thank you, we will bless you. We will praise you and overwhelmingly come to you with grateful, humble hearts. Just praising your name and for what you've done through Jesus Christ, who has certainly given us the victory. And we come to you through his precious and glorious name. Amen.