I'd like to welcome you to our service tonight. Hope you had a good afternoon. And uh wanted to mention something that I did not mention this morning. I did mention that on Wednesday But we do have a memorial service here on Friday, and that will be at 12 noon for memorial service for Kingsley Gorman, and the viewing will be here at anchor from 10 o'clock to 12 o'clock. If you're able to come to that, I think it would be a great encouragement to the family. And so I wanted to just make mention of that before we get our service started. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will start our singing together. Father, thank you for today. Thank you for another opportunity to open up the Word of God tonight. That as we look at this the story of David and his interaction with Nabal and Abigail, that you would take the Word of God and use it to shape how we think and ultimately to point us And I pray that as we give testimony tonight, that these testimonies would be very encouraging and uplifting to each person that's here, as we sing praise to you, I pray that we would do it from the heart. And just think about the rich truths that we're expressing in song. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good evening. Thank you. so much for joining us for worship this evening here at Anchor Baptist Church. Please stand with me. Open your hymn books to hymn number 464. 464, how firm A foundation. We'll sing all four verses. I will still give it a little But just hand when through my reach file, thy pathway shall lie. My grace of suppression shall be thy supply, the plane shall not hurt its thy only design. Thy cause to consume, and thy goal to refin The soul that on Jesus I will not I will not answer to his force that So all them should endeavor to sick I'll never no never no never force. Great singing. Please be seated as we turn back. Just a couple pages. 463. Blessed assurance. Jesus. Is mine. We'll sing all three verses. Blessed as source Jesus is mine Oh, what the fore takes up glory divine, ever salvation , purchase of God Born of his fear and washed in his blood. This is my story. This is my song Praising my Savior of the devil. This is my story. This is my song. Praising might save all the day long. Perfect submission, perfect demise Visions of bright turn out burst on my side. Angels descending bring from above Echoes of mercy, whispers of all. Yeah, it's a versus four So this one would be the first two verses. All right, I would see we can do the eight is a little bit. Nice. Alright. Number two in the red room. Just a few more months. You think that you think that we'll sing it in a couple months, alright? We're almost there. Number two , the remote. Some Christians join the team. Think about it for a minute and perhaps do what you're saying in the room. I'm not going to take it. Alright, there we got one? Five five eight? Five five eight. When I can leave my head though, let's stand. If you have your Bibles tonight, which I hope that you do, let's all turn together to 1 Samuel chapter 25. 1 Samuel chapter 25. And tonight what we're going to be looking at is A fascinating portion of the life of David. And the title that I have for this section is David's Impulsive Response and God's Grace. Again, that is David's Impulsive Response and David's grace. And God's grace. And the section we're going to read is a little bit longer than what we often do, but I want you to really try to focus your attention on these details as we read through them together. And we look at the story of David. And Abigail. First Samuel 25, verse 1 says this. And Samuel died. And all Israelites were gathered together and lamented him, and buried him in the house of Rama. And David rose and went down into the wilderness of Peran. And there was a man of Maon whose possessions were in Carmel. And the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep And a thousand goats, and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel. Now the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail. And she was a woman of good understanding, and of a beautiful countenance. But the man was churlish and evil in his doings. And he was of the house of Caleb. And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal did shear his sheep, and David sent out ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Get up to Carmel and go to Nabal and greet him in my name, and thus shall ye say to him that liveth in prosperity, Peace be unto you. And peace be to thine house, and peace be unto all that thou hast. Now I've heard that thou hast shears, and now thy shepherds, which were with us, we hurt them not. Neither was there any aught missing unto them, and all the while they were in Carmel. Ask thy young men, and they will show thee. Wherefore let the young man young men find favour in thine eyes. For we have come in a good day, give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thy hand unto thy servant, and to thy son David. And when David's young men came, they spake to Nabal according to all those words in the name of David, and ceased And Abel answered David's servants and said, Who is David? Who is the son of Jesse? There be many servants now a day that break away every man from his master. Shall I then take my bread and my water and my flesh and The things that I have killed for my shears, and give it unto men whom I know not whence they be. So David's young men turned their way, went again, and came and told him all those sayings And David said unto his man, Gird ye every man his sword. They gird on every man his sword. And David also girded on his sword. And there went up after David about 400 men, and 200 abode by the stuff. Now this is a fascinating passage of Scripture, and as we read through this passage of Scripture and we dig into all the details that we're going to talk about tonight, There's some things about this passage that our culture, we read this and we go, well, that's kind of weird. Like he just sends some people over to talk to Nabal and say, hey, by the way, um None of your sheep are hurt and we'd like to know if there's anything that you could do for us. And to us as Americans, we as Americans, that sounds like a very unusual thing to do, but having lived uh in a an African context and thinking about situations that I encountered as a missionary. This is actually a very typical kind of scenario where someone has been kind to another person and when they go to just kind of remind this person that I've been kind to you. Hey, is there anything that you could just do to show, you know, thanksgiving, gratitude, like appreciation? It would have been very typical for them to say, oh, I appreciate so much what you've done. Let us show our kindness to you. And here's all kinds of stuff that we'd like to give to you because you have been so good and so kind and so favorable to us. Now we have a friend. But that is not at all how Nabal responds. And also, when we look at how Nabal responds, we see that he gives some pretty intense insults to David. Who is this person? I don't even know who he is. I don't even know where these people came from. There are lots of people that they run away from their masters. Why would I give you anything? This is some stuff that I think when we read it sometimes we don't appreciate what's going on, but there are a lot of things that were going on in their culture. where David would have been expected to be treated with kindness, and Nabal was insulting him in some of the most significant ways he could imagine doing it. And he knew exactly who David was. So let's dig into this text tonight and let's ask the Lord to help us to understand what is here, but before we do, let's pray. Father, as we read your word , As we dig into these truths, I pray that you'd help us to understand this passage. Help us to understand How David responded and help us to understand why it's significant to us this evening. And help us to see how Abigail responded. And let help us to see How it's not just about two people's interaction, but it's really the providence of God and your kind interaction on the behalf of David at a key moment in his life. Help us to recognize that you are a good God who works in our lives in situations just like this one. And so I pray that as we dig into this passage, you'd speak to our hearts. Convict us if necessary, encourage us if necessary, and more than anything else, help us to look to Jesus, our Savior. Who we see in this text desperately was needed by even David himself. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. First thing I want to do tonight is give you a little summary statement of what's going on here in 1 Samuel 25. 1 Samuel 25 teaches that though David was a great man, and there is no question that David was an incredibly great man. He was simply a fallible man. And at times he stumbled. And at times when he stumbled, he stumbled miserably. And what this text of scripture is going to show us is that there is a need for a greater, a greater king than David. And so that's where we're going to be moving through the text this evening. The first thing I want us to notice in the passage itself is this pivotal moment in David's ascent to the throne. Now we have to remember that as we look at the life of David, and really when we talk about 1 Samuel, 1 Samuel is a story about one of the most significant people in all of Israel's history. And one of the reasons that David is such a significant person in Israel's history is not just because he was the second king in Israel, and not just because he was a great king, but it's because This was the individual that God would send the Messiah through. And so when we talk about David, we're talking about a man who God would make incredible promises to that he was going to send a savior through who is going to be called the Son of David. And so when we look at this passage of Scripture, we need to recognize this isn't just about David, and it's not just about Abigail. It's about redemption because that's an important part of this story. This is a pivotal moment in David rising up to the throne. And last week we talked in 1 Samuel 24 about David's tremendous restraint. If you were here last week as Pastor Josh worked his way through the passage in front of us, we saw a man who had the opportunity to take the life of Saul, someone who had been going after him for quite a period of time. Someone who was his father-in-law and had tremendous jealousy and anger towards him. We see this man David contrasted with Saul, who says, I will not touch the Lord's anointed. He did not give in to the pressure to take Saul's life. He did not turn his head when others were willing to do it for him. He promised that he would spear Saul's descendants' lives, and he took that very, very seriously. And so when we look at 1 Samuel 24, what we saw is one of the greatest moments in David's life of restraint. He chose to defer anger. He did not take vengeance for himself. He said, God is going to deliver me in his own time and in his own way. And so 1 Samuel 24 is a great example to all of us to see. But it's not a great example because David was a perfect person. It's a great example because David was actually living in a way that was consistent with what godly people do. And this passage is going to be setting aside David contrasted with David. I mean, the last text was David and Saul. Now we're going to look at David when he had a chance to kill Saul, and David when he well is about to kill Nabal and every single man in that household. So there's another piece that's very important before we look at some of the details. And that is what's going on personally in David's life. Look down in 1 Samuel chapter 25, verse 1, and we see that an important person in David's life has just died. It says, and Samuel died, and all Israel were gathered together and lamented him. And they buried him in the house of Rama, and David arose and went down to the wilderness of Paran. Now, every single person in this room can probably think about somebody in your life that has been a tremendous encouragement to you. And some of those people that you're seeing about, it could be a father, a mother, a grandfather, a grandmother, a teacher, a coach, it could be lots of different people. But there might even right now be somebody who comes into your mind. And some of those people are no longer with us. They have gone to glory. They're no longer with us. They're with the Lord. And when that person passed away, and you went to their gravesite or you went to their memorial service or you you sent flowers or something like that, there was something inside of you that was really affected by that. And this would have been the case for David. Samuel was a person that anointed David to be the next king in Israel. Samuel was a person that when David thought about him, he thinks about a great leader, a great example. And he also probably thought about Samuel as someone who kind of restrained Saul because Saul wants to kill David. And so as the rest of the nation is lamenting, what's David doing? He's continuing to run. And he's smart to do it because he knows that it's just a matter of time before Saul decides to turn his gaze back to David. Then we're introduced to this man named Nabal. And in verses 2 through 3, this is what it says about this man. It says, there was a man of Maeon whose possessions were incarnal. And the man was very great. And then it proceeds to talk about how great he was. He has lots and lots of goats and lots and lots of sheep, and he's shearing his sheep in caramel. Now since we don't live in agrarian in an agrarian society, We don't think about this very much, but if you if you think if there was ever a time that someone was vulnerable to being robbed, it would number one, if they have animals, it would be when those animals are ready to be harvested, okay? And harvesting of sheep was, we're going to take all of their wool. So here they've been raising their sheep, they're taking care of these animals. And now they're bringing in all this wool, and this is going to be the time that all of their harvest of material is going to be sent out and sold and used and all those things. And so if there was ever a time when people were vulnerable, this was the time. And what's interesting about this, when it talks about this man Is it names of Nabal? It doesn't tell us we don't speak Hebrew here for the most part, so we don't know what Nabal's name means, but we'll find that out a little bit later. And then it talks about his wife Abigail. And when it describes Abigail It says that she was a woman of good understanding, of a beautiful countenance, but her husband was turless and evil in all his doings. Some of you might say, well, how did this very wise woman end up with such a disreputable man? Well, we gotta remember in those days a lot of people People's marriages were arranged, so perhaps she didn't choose her husband. We don't really know the situation. But when their names are brought up, he's known for his bad reputation, and she's known for being wise. And very attractive. Now these things are going to come to play later on as we work our way through this storyline. The next thing I want you to notice is found in verses 4 through 9, and that is the kindness of David. And when we read verses 4 to 9, it doesn't really talk a lot about it directly. It just talks about the fact that his that Nabal's men were there and they were shearing their sheep and David's men were around them and they he sent his people to go and talk to Nabal. But if you really want to have insight into how David dealt with these people, you see this in verses 15 and 16, where the young men who were talking to Abigail explain how David and his men treated them. This is what they say. The men were very good to us. We were not hurt. Neither missed we anything. They were a wall unto us both by night and by day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep Now, let's just keep in our minds. There are six hundred men, okay? Four hundred of them are gonna go to war and be stopped, and two of them are two hundred of them are gonna stay with this stuff. And so if these guys could have been vulnerable to anybody, it would have been this group of wild 600 guys who were just wandering around in the wilderness and living off of the land But these these young men, as they speak to Abigail, they're very clear that David's men were good to us. They protected us. They helped us. And it's so shocking that Nabal would have responded to David's man the way that he did. So that leads us to Nabal and his arrogance. Look down in verses 10 through 11. It says, and Nabal answered David's servants and said, Who is David? He probably didn't say it like that. Who's David? Who is this son of Jesse? There are many servants now these days who break away every man from his master. Shall I then take my bread and my water and my flesh? that I have killed for my shears and give it to you, whom I know not whence they be? Do you not get the sense that this man is, you know, kind of a proud and nasty person? Do you not get the sense that when he says things like, I don't know who David is, maybe he really did know who David was? Of course he did. In fact, we're going to see as we get later on in the text when Abigail comes and talks to David. She is going to encourage him and she's going to say, We know that you're going to be the next king in Israel. Did Abigail know that, but not Nabal? The answer is of course not. Nabal knew exactly who he was talking about. He knew that David was a mighty and valiant warrior. He knew that David was the national hero who led the soldiers out to fight against the Philistines. He knew that David had killed Goliath. He knew that David was going to be the next king. He knew those things, and we know that because later on in the text, we can see what Abigail says to David. Yet this is how he treats David. I don't know this man. He's probably hiding from his master. Why would I take my stuff and give it to somebody who's running away from something? I don't even know where you people come from. And so when David hears this, the question is, how does he respond? Well, if we were talking about David last week, David would say something like this. Nabal is an angry, nasty person, but God will deal with him, and I will treat him kindly. That is what David would have done if we go back to 1 Samuel chapter 24. But that is not the way that David responds. And I'm just going to make this little little comment here. I think sometimes when it comes to the people that are outside of our families and outside of our sphere of influence, the people that we meet out in public. We can be very deferential, very kind to them, but sometimes people that are a little closer to us, we become like really nasty with them and really it really impulsive in our interactions with them. And this is the way that David responds when he hears what Nabal has to say. In verses 10 and 11 We see the way that he responds. And then in verse 12, it says this. And David said unto his men , Gird ye on every man his sword. Now, why were they doing this? Pretty clear. They're going to take care of business. You say, well, did anybody get physically harmed by NABAL? No Then would it be kind of unjust and very evil for them to go and do what they're about to do? The answer is of course it would. He says, and they girded on every man his sword, and David girded on his sword, and there went up after David four hundred men. Four hundred guys ready for battle are going to go to a man's house, and David's intent, and we know this as we read the rest of the text, his intent was to go and to kill every single man in the entire household. Ask this question. Where did David go? What happened to the guy that we saw in 1 Samuel 24? What we see is that here is a man who showed incredible restraint. He said, I'm gonna let God take vengeance on on this man, Saul, who has been going after me over and over and over again. And here the exact same man Just a short time later, he is ready to kill people who are innocent. The men who worked for Nabal, they didn't mistreat David. The men who went who worked for Nabal, they didn't insult David. In fact, if anything, they appealed to Nabal and they appealed to Abigail on the behalf of those individuals. If David goes and does what he intends to to do. He's going to do one of the most horrific things that we read in all of Scripture. It really is. But the next thing that we read is fascinating. Because we're there's a person who already has been mentioned in the text, that is Abigail, who is going to move very quickly, and her intervention is going to completely change the trajectory of this passage of scripture. And so in verses 14 through 31, we see the intervention of Abigail. The first thing that we see is in verses 14 through 17, a young man goes to alert Abigail. And by the way, when we look at this issue, the question is, well, well, why did this guy decide to leave David and go to Abigail? It's kind of a fascinating thing. It doesn't appear that this is one of the people that works for Nabal. He hears the story. He runs to Abigail and says, hey, we're all about to get killed in this house. You need to do something. That's not what appears to be happening. One of David's guys hears what's happening, and he goes in advance to Abigail and says, you need to know what's going on here. A young man told Abigail, Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers into the wilderness to salute our masters. He railed on them, but the men were very good unto them. Verse 17. Therefore now consider what thou wilt do. Evil is determined against our master and against all his house. He is such a son of Belial that a man cannot speak to him. What he's basically saying to Abigail is, we are doomed. And there is nobody in this household that has the ability to go to Nabal and appeal to him. and soften his disposition toward David and can actually intervene on this situation, so we're spared. What do I do? What do you do? It's a huge problem. The fact is that if if Nabal was a wise man, number one, he would have never done this. If Nabal had wise people around him who actually listen he listened to they could have intervened on on on everyone's behalf and gone to Nabal and said, Nabal, you need to go back to David and you need to send somebody and and ask him for mercy and say, We want to help you. But there's nobody that could do that. Nobody could speak sense to this man because he was such a foolish and arrogant man. But I want you to notice as the text develops How quickly and how wisely Abigail moves in this situation. First of all, in verses 18 and 19, we see that she responds immediately. And she's very discreet. It says, Then Abba Abigail made haste and took two hundred loaves and two bottles of wine and five sheep ready dressed, five measures of parched corn, and a hundred clusters of raisins. and 200 cakes of figs. That's pretty impressive, okay? If you stop and you try to think about how much food is there, it's telling you that this lady She knew how to administrate stuff. Let me tell you. And she says, get all this food together. She knew how much food to bring. And she said, we've got to take this immediately to David and to his men. But there's a little detail that I don't want you to miss. It says, but she told not her husband Nabal. What do you think Nabal would have done if Abigail said, hey, hey, hey Nabal, I want to let you know something. I don't think you acted very well. We're all about to get killed. And so I've got all this food. I'm going to take it to David, and hopefully he'll receive it as a peace offering so that we don't all get killed. What do you think Nabal would have done? He would have stopped right there So she didn't say a word to him. She goes immediately, she acts quickly, and she sends all of this stuff. And then verses 23 through 26 we see that as those things are coming, Abigail goes personally to meet David. And the way that she responds is very humble. And she goes on behalf of an entire family, an entire household who did not send her. It says in verse 23, now when Abigail saw David, she hastened. And she fell before David on her face and bowed herself to the ground. And then she says this, Upon me let this iniquity be. Let thine handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine audience. Hear the words of thine handmaid Now did Abigail actually sin against David? No. Abigail had nothing to do with it. Abigail could have been like, you know what? I don't want to see the carnage. I'm going to run for my life and what happens, happens. She could have done that. But that's not what she did. She immediately runs and she humbles herself before David and she says, take me. Now, if if we think about what we try to teach our boys, we teach our boys, you need to protect your mom. And you need to protect your sisters. And you need to protect people who are vulnerable and people who could be very easily hurt. You should be willing to stand between those people and trouble. That's what we teach our young men. We teach them to be strong. We teach them to be courageous. And Abigail's a great example of that right here. She is willing to stand between a household and a man who had done great wrong to preserve a whole household. She was willing to put herself on the line. It's a pretty amazing thing to consider. Next, we see that she speaks very honestly about her husband's arrogant behavior. In verse 25, she says, Let not my Lord, I pray thee, regard this man of belial. Even Nabal, for as his name is, so is he. She was honest about it. She says, my husband's a fool. You say, well, wasn't she undermining him? She was speaking plainly the reality of the situation. She wasn't there to undermine Nabal. She was there to speak honestly and appeal to David and say, David. Please take me, not him. I know what kind of a man he is. I know how he's insulted you, but I'm willing to stand between you and the family Next, we see that she acknowledged David's difficult situation and how God was very kind toward him. In verse 26, it says this, Now therefore, my Lord. As the Lord liveth, as my soul liveth, or as thy soul liveth, seeing that the Lord hath withhold in thee From coming to shed blood and from avenging thyself with thine own hand, let not thine enemies and they that seek evil to my Lord be as Nabal. And what is she saying there? She's injecting something into this appeal to David. She is stating that my presence is God 's hand of intervention. Did you catch that? She said, God is trying to preserve you from taking innocent blood. She was putting herself on the line and said, God is the one who's moving for your good, not just the good of this family, but for your good. She then goes on and she asks him to receive the gifts to satisfy the men's anger. In verse 27 it says, Now this blessing which thine handmaid hath brought unto my Lord, let it even be given unto the men. that follow my Lord. Interestingly, she does not give the impression that David's the one who's angry. She gives the impression that it's his man, though it appears that it's David and his man. He's leading them, he's leading the charge, but She even gives him a little bit of an out herself. And then she asks him to forgive the household and to acknowledge, and she acknowledges David's future. Now, this is why I say that Nabal knew exactly who David was. And he knew exactly what David's future was. Because Abigail is going to speak so transparently about this. In verse 28, it says, I pray thee, forgive the trespass of thine handmaid. The Lord will certainly make my Lord a sure house. Because my Lord fighteth the battles of the Lord. Who is my Lord? It's David. And evil hath not been found in thee all thy days. How does she know that? She knows his reputation. It shall come to pass when the Lord hath done to my Lord according to all the good that he has spoken concerning thee, and shall have appointed thee ruler over Israel. What is she saying? Everybody knows who you are. Everybody knows your reputation. Everybody knows what your future is. But the next thing is fasting. She appeals to his conscience. It says, please show kindness when you are established. Verse 31. This shall be no grief unto thee, nor offensive heart unto my Lord, either that he hath shed blood causeless. Or that my Lord hath avenged himself, but when the Lord shall have dealt well with my Lord, remember thine handmaid. You say, what is what is basically Abigail saying here? I'll put it in the simplest terms I can. Abigail saying, David, we know who you are. We know your reputation. You are on the way to kill innocent people because you're angry. And God in his mercy sent me to appeal to you so that you will not do this thing. And we know that one day you're going to be the king, and when you're the king, I don't want you to have this blot on your conscience. And when you become the king, I'm asking you, show me kindness. That's what he's saying. That's what she's saying. Well, the question is, how does David respond to such an appeal? This is where we see the greatness of David in the backdrop of his frailty as a man. David humbles himself, and David acknowledges that she is right. He is wrong, and he changes course. In verses 32 and following, it says, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, and I love the statement, which sent thee this day to meet me. Blessed be thy advice, and blessed be thou which hast kept me this day from coming to shed blood, and from avenging myself with mine own hands, in very deed as the Lord God of Israel liveth, which hath kept me back from her. What is David saying? God thank you for intervening, so I didn't do this terrible thing. And Abigail, thank you for moving quickly and putting your life on the line and showing great courage and showing great grace and showing great wisdom so that I did not do this terrible thing. Isn't that an amazing thing to consider? God's intervention? You say, why does it matter? Well, I mean, it matters for a lot of reasons, but one of the reasons it really matters is that David is coming very close to that time. Where he is going to be installed as the new king of Israel. And had David done what he had fully intended to do in this moment, it would have been something that was a blot on his reputation for the rest of his life going into his kingdom. In the same way we look at the story of Bathsheba and how a tremendous plot that was on the life of David. And David has been king for half of his time being a king at that point. This would have been something that would have had comparable but even more force than that particular issue because he would have wiped out 400 men who absolutely, there was no reason for him to do such a thing. Then we look in verses 36 and 38 and we see something interesting. God deals with Nabal. Ironically, God deals with Nabal faster than he deals with Saul. And in verse 36 it says, Then Abigail came to Nabal, and behold, he held a feast in his house. Like the feast of a king, and Nabal's heart was merry within him, and he was very drunken, wherefore she told him nothing. So there he is doing what he always does. Until the morning light. It came to pass in the morning when the wine was gone out of Nabal, his wife told him these things. And his heart died within him. He became as a stone that came to pass about ten days after the Lord smote Nabal and he died. Now this is a really interesting and intense passage of Scripture, is it not? The question is, what truths do we find in the text in front of us? I want to give you a couple things to think about as we reflect on this. The first is this. Sometimes we unwisely gloss over the tragic flaws of people in the Bible because God used them in a mighty way. How many of you remember sitting in your Sunday school classes and your Sunday school teachers say you need to be like David? Well, you should be like David in chapter 24, but don't be like David in chapter 25. You should be like David when he goes out to kill Goliath and that kind of courage and that passion for God's glory, but not David and Bathsheba. And the fact is, one of the things that's great about the Bible, one of the reasons when we read the scriptures, we can say, this book isn't like other books of history. This tells you plainly what happened. Because here is this man who was one of the greatest kings in Israel's history, and it talks so transparently about his tragic failure. And so when we read the Bible, we need to be reminded that the people that we're reading about, save Jesus Christ, they're all fallible. Secondly, these events were a pivotal season in David's life and his ascent to the throne. You know, God gives promises to David, he says, I'm going to put you on the throne, but there are things that have to take place in order for that to actually be accomplished. And those pieces that are falling into place, those are pieces that are direct result of the providential hand of God at work in those circumstances. And if you didn't know God and you didn't know the promises, you would just look and go, wow, David seems to really be fortunate and lucky lots and lots of times. But what is it? It's God at work. Thirdly, had God not intervened for David's good, this event would have been the greatest injustice David inflicted in his entire life. I mean you think about the story of Saul, how he goes and he kills all of these priests when he's chasing after David. Guess what? This would have been a comparable scenario When we think about David's life, we would have thought about a man who was willing, out of pure anger and vengeance, to kill 400 people who are absolutely innocent. Yet God intervened. Fourthly, Abigail's timely intervention was an example of human wisdom, but also God's gracious providence. We talk about God's providence. We're talking about God working through means, ordinary means, the decisions that people take. And Abigail is an example of this. This is someone who stepped up and moved quickly. And it was God's hand that guided all of these steps. This passage points us to the greatest king who would not fail as this king had failed. And you say, who's that king? The Son of David, the Lord Jesus Christ. So, how do we apply what we've read? Let me give you a couple of things to think about in our clothes. And the first is this. We need to be extremely vigilant during transitional periods of our lives. When you think about this situation, one of the reasons that this was so pivotal is David is is rising to the throne. You say, well, it seems like he's running from Saul. Yes, that's true, but he's getting closer and closer and closer to that time. And we think about Samuel, a man who had been a mentor and someone who he respected, and someone who even provided a little bit of a buffer for him with Saul. And now this man is dead. What is going on? This is a transitional period in David's life, and during that season, he was vulnerable to impulsive responses. Guess what? It's true for us too When somebody's getting ready to become a young adult and they're transitioning into, you know, going to college. Or maybe somebody's out of college and now they're looking for a job and a career and they're trying to establish themselves. These are pivotal seasons in people's lives when someone's middle-aged and all of a sudden the kids are out of the house and and and life is changing and they're in a totally different season of life. Guess what That's a pivotal period when we are susceptible uniquely to certain kinds of challenges. And David's an example of that here. Secondly, we cannot allow our strengths or past successes to become areas of overconfidence. Think about the story of Moses. The Bible tells us that Moses was the meekest man that ever lived. Isn't that amazing? The Bible also tells us that Moses didn't get to go into the promised land. Why? Because he got angry. And when God told him to speak to a rock, he grabs his staff and he strikes the rock and he says, must we fetch you water out of this rock, you rebels? Here's this man who was known for his restraint, and he was forbidden from entering the promised land because of his anger. Here is David, a man who is called a man after God's own heart. And in chapter 24, he says, I'm not going to touch the Lord's anointed. I'm not going to take vengeance to myself. And the very next chapter, 1 Samuel 25, what's he doing? Because he's angry, he's ready to wipe out 400 people, a whole household of men with his men, just because he's angry. Don't allow your strengths or the successes of your past to become something that makes you overly confident. Just because you have been faithful in the past doesn't mean you're going to be faithful today. We've got to live in the moment, not on the past or on what we think are our strengths. Thirdly, God's meticulous care for our good comes through practical, decisive means. God is sovereign. God rules. God reigns. God is working in people's lives at all times. But that in no way takes us off the hook to not have to be responsible. The truth is, had Abigail not come at the time that she did, and had Abigail not come in the way that she did, had she not appealed to David as she did. This story would have ended tragically in a completely different way. And so humanly speaking, we say, God preserved David from this action because Abigail went and did this. But those first two words are important. God preserved. Not Abigail. God. And so God's meticulous care comes through means. And we need to be responsible people. Fourthly, we should learn from Abigail's timely, humble response. I love this. She was proactive. She didn't call a bunch of people and say, hey, what do you think I should do? She, boom, she was on it right away. Time was ticking. She acknowledged the wrong very specifically. And by the way, she acknowledged the wrong that Nabel had done. And she was willing to take it upon herself. Thirdly, she attempted to make the matter right as much as possible. From her perspective, the right thing to do when David's men came was to give them something as a thank you, to show them honor because they had honored Nabal and his men. And so it wasn't just her going and saying, hey, I'm trying to appease your wrath and make you feel better about us and the family. She's saying, I'm making this issue right. I'm giving you what he should have given you. Very interesting. And she asked for forgiveness and she asked for grace. Please remember me for good. Let me tell you that if we're ever in a situation where we need to make an appeal to someone we've done wrong, I would say that this is a great little pattern for us to consider. Be proactive. Acknowledge the wrong specifically. Attempt to make the matter right as much as possible. Ask for forgiveness. Ask for grace Great little thing for us to consider. Not the main point of the text, but there's a lot there for us to digest. From David's response, we have some things to learn as well. His response was violent and inappropriate. But he listened when he was confronted. He humbled himself when he was angry. He acknowledged God's right rather than his right to be the judge. He changed course and was grateful for God's merciful intervention. You know that little proverb where it says that a just man falls seven times? Doesn't stop there, does it? It says, but he gets back up. There are times in our life where we find ourselves kind of like David, impulse, hopefully not going to kill a bunch of people, all right? But we're responding in anger. We're responding irrationally. We're responding impulsively. And in God's kindness, he sends somebody. It could be our spouse Could be one of our children. It could be somebody that we work with. It could be someone in our church family. It could be somebody who's over us. And that person has a little more grace than we do, and they very wisely handle this conversation, and all of a sudden we start going, I'm wrong, I'm wrong, I'm wrong, I get it, yeah, uh-huh, yeah, uh-huh. And we have a choice to make Am I just going to like stand there in my arrogance and firm up and say, I'm not listening to you? Or am I going to soften? Am I going to humble myself? Am I going to admit I'm wrong? Am I going to change course? What did David do? That's exactly what he did. He was so angry, he was ready to kill innocent people. He swallowed his pride and said, you're right. I'm wrong. There's a lot there. I want to remind you also our lives are simply testimonies of His mercy. And we've got to keep this in the back of our minds. You'll look back over the course of your life. You ever looked at you ever seen some situations they don't make you very happy when you think about them? Yeah, probably But aren't you glad you are where you are? Aren't you glad for how God's worked in your life? Aren't you glad for the opportunities that He's given you despite those things? Aren't you glad for the people he sent into your life? That's one of the things that we learn when we look at this story of David. He was moving in the wrong direction, and God intervened for his good. But the last thing I really want you to remember is that we've always got to remember to put our eyes on the real standard, and that's Christ. When I read through this passage of Scripture, and I see this often in the Old Testament, I see great examples, but I see fallible examples, and every time I see these key moments, you know what it reminds me of? There's a greater one than David coming. There's a greater one than Moses coming. There's a greater one than Joshua coming. There's a greater one than Joseph coming. There's There's a greater one than Jacob coming. There's a greater one than Abraham coming. Who is that one? Well, it's the promised one. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. And so when we look at this passage of scripture, I don't want us to walk away just Just remembering, okay, I want to be like Abigail, I want to respond the right way, and I want to inter - I want to I want to be humble and I want to admit fault and all those things. Learn those lessons absolutely Hey, I want to learn from David. He was wrong, but he humbled himself. He acknowledged that God is right. He is wrong. He changed course. He repented. He showed mercy. I want to learn from that. Absolutely, I want you to learn from that. But what I really want you to learn is David needed Jesus, and so do I. And whenever I think about a text like this, that's where we need to land. We need to remember that there is one greater than David. He is our Savior. He is our Lord. He is our Redeemer. He's our examiner. Let's look to Jesus. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Our Father, as we think about this text of Scripture, I pray that the lessons that are here would really stick in our hearts. The lessons from Abigail, the lessons from David, the lessons from Nabal. But I pray we'd walk away, recognizing why we needed a savior so much. We would walk away recognizing David was a great man, but a fallible man who needed Jesus. And so I pray that we would rest in you and delight in you. And that we would walk in a way that is consistent with your character, that we would live for our Savior and follow his example Father, please give us strength this week as we go about our business. I have no idea what challenges each one of us will face. You know them already. I pray that you'll help us to walk with you through those things, help us to be faithful, help us to endure, help us to look to our Savior in all of these things. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Please let's pull out our hymn books as we prepare for our closing hymn. And that hymn we'll be singing 460 he leadeth me. We'll sing the first and the last together, please. Let's stand and sing He Leadeth Me. 460. He later before I thought all worked with every God. Come from what errors ere I still is God's hand. And when my trans honors is done with my thy grace of victory water. I will not please God and lead it. He lead I mean My is uncanny, it faithful for my worthy for thy Well, it's been good to be in the Lord's house. It's been good to spend time with each of you today, and I pray that you have a great week. And I hope that you'll be able to come back on Wednesday as we keep working our way through. Sermon on the Mount. Kids are getting ready to start up. They're truth trackers very soon, so we're excited about that. Brother Grant, can you please come and close us in prayer? And uh If you need anything, don't hesitate to reach out. Thank you for this evening for this best of your word and the challenge of our lives to think that you will build for us this week and that you would um inspire us to live uh like your son. In his precious name I pray, Amen.