Well good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our evening service and we're looking forward to uh time spent in the Word of God. Hope you had a good afternoon and uh hope you got some rest and if not uh I'm sure that the Lord's really gonna still use uh this service to be a blessing to you. And I know that this is not technically the start of our missions month. That will be next Sunday, but with Josh preaching and then Little bit of an Irish looking uh sign right there. I think that um it'll kind of get us with a little bit of a start for our missions month. So let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer and then we will get our service going tonight. Our Father, we are so very grateful for this Lord's Day. We love our church family, and we're thankful for the opportunity to gather together. And to sit under the ministry of the word, to sing praise to you, just to be challenged. And I pray that tonight you would speak to our hearts in a very special way. Help us have a tender heart, and I pray that our time together in fellowship would be very sweet around your word. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, let's get started with some singing. Please stand and open your hymn books to hymn number 386. Here am I, Lord. We'll sing all three verses. Hymn number three hundred and eighty-six. Bueno, de la edad que viene y me mandan el tiempo. Great singing over to hymn number three hundred. Who is on the Lord's side? Hymn number three hundred and ninety-two. We'll sing all four verses. When I came all the time , when I did that , the way we need. Great. Singing, please be seated as we turn over to hymn number 397. I'm pressing on the upward way. Higher ground 397. I mean , Great singing this evening. Servant's heart All right, eighty one and the red book. Eighty one. A mighty fortress is our God. All right, let's go to the Suspiciously numbered 219. Uh, yeah, my suspicions were correct. Just a couple more months, man. We'll get there, I promise. After Thanksgiving. 396. Let's go over to 396 I'm sorry I wrote an extra number. I thought I was being trapped. 396. Christmas is coming soon. Autumn's today. We'll get there. Lord send me anywhere. Trust my And 392, let's stand. 392, we'll sing the first and the last. Who is on the Lord's side? Who is on the Lord 's side? Who will serve the king? Who will be his help? Who will leave the one side? Who will face the tongue? Who is on the Lord's side? Who for him? By thy call of mercy, by thy grace divine, we are on the world Savior, we are thy fierce may be the conflict, strong may be the pong, but the king. Things over me not can overthrow round and standard ranging victory and secure. For his turn changing makes this triumph soyfully and lasting by thy grace divide. We are on the word side. Savior, we are thine. Great singing, please be seated Please join me in turning in your Bibles to 1 Samuel chapter 30 this evening. First Samuel chapter thirty Just before we come to the Lord in prayer, I'd like to read one of the key verses of this text here in 1 Samuel 30 and verse 6. The Word of God says, And David was greatly distressed, for the people spake of stoning him. Because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters. But David encouraged himself in the Lord his God. Let us pray. Father, we thank you, and we come before you this evening in the name of your precious Son Jesus. and know that he always lives to make intercession for us. We are humbled to be reminded that the Spirit of Almighty God dwells within us to comfort us and to do a special work that no human can do. And that is to take this word as it is read, as it is preached, and implanted in our hearts. I am unable for this work And so I ask, O God, that you would work in my heart to open it, to direct my thoughts and my words, but more importantly, to direct your word into the hearts of your people. And so I pray tonight that your people would have hearts softened, not distracted by things going on around them or things coming up this week, but instead hearts that are ready to hear from you. To be encouraged, to be strengthened, to be challenged by what you have for us as we look to the life of David, and more importantly, as we look to the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. On the west coast of Ireland stands a small town called Slaio. And in Sligo Town, in the the heart of the town, right there on one of the main streets, there's a small white shop with a name over the top of the door. Michael Quirk. Michael has been carving wood in that shop since 1969. And what he does, and I actually have uh a couple samples of his work out on the little round table. in the the entryway there if you'd like to see it. He takes a block of wood and he puts it in a vice and he takes this wooden mallet and an awl and he just chips away at the wood. And you can walk into the shop and he'll say to you, what's your favorite animal? And you just give him an animal and he'll just start carving away and he'll shape that animal into the wood. And he spends his days, uh, year after year, carving landscapes of the Irish countryside I've seen probably my favorite piece, a picture of it. He has a carving of Abraham with a knife held above Isaac, and it's like a 3D carving of that incredible scene. And as I think of Michael in his shop, as he tells you story after story of the people that he carves and the landscapes that he carves, and he he just is he just is full of stories. I think of the work that God does in us and through us every day. As followers of Jesus Christ, We recognize that the work of God presently in our lives is to conform us into the likeness of Christ. We are a piece of work in his hands, and he takes us and crafts us and shapes us more and more like Christ. We know that every human being from the moment of conception is created in the image of God. All of us have an intellect will and emotions. We are given a conscience with an inherent sense of morality. We are social beings made for a relationship with God and for with other people. We have value and worth in God's sight and should be treated with dignity and respect from the moment of conception. These are fundamental truths that the scriptures teach us about being made in the image of God, but there is an issue. We are all born with a sin nature. We are dead in sin, and only through Christ and His work on the cross and his resurrection can we be made alive. It is by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. From the moment of your new birth in Christ, God begins shaping you more and more like his son. And really, as we look into the life of David, that's what we see happening in the victories and the failures, in his strength and in his weakness. in times of security and times of danger, in times of close friendship and times of absolute loneliness. David is being shaped by God in all the situations, all the circumstances, all the relationships of his life. And as we come to this text, we'll remember as we rewind a few weeks ago, we looked at Saul last week. David is off track. He's living with the Philistines. He's marching to the war with the Philistines. And we need this background here. Come back to chapter 29 with me for a moment. I'm not going to comment much on this, but let's just read it like a story, as it's intended for us to be read here. 1 Samuel 29. Now the Philistines gathered together all their armies to Aphakh, and the Israelites pitched by a fountain which is in Jezreel. And the lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds and by thousands, but David and his men passed on in the re -reward with Akish. Then said to the princes of the Philistines, What do these Hebrews hear? And Akish said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David the servant of Saul, the king of Israel, which hath been with me these days or these years, and I have found no fault in him, since he fell unto me unto this day? And the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him. And the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make this fellow return, that he may go again to his place, which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle. Lest in the battle he be an adversary to us. For wherewith should he reconcile himself unto his master? Should it not be with the heads of these men? Is not this David of whom they sang one to another in dances saying, Saul slew his thousands and David his ten thousands? Then Achish called David and said unto him, Surely as the Lord liveth, thou hast been upright, and thy going out and thy coming in with me in the host is good in my sight For I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me unto this day. Nevertheless the Lords favour thee not. Wherefore now return and go in peace, that thou displease not the Lords of the Philistines. And David said unto Akish, But what have I done? And what hast thou found in thy servants so long as I have been with thee unto this day? that I may not go fight against the enemies of my Lord the King. And Achish answered and said to David, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God Notwithstanding the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle. Wherefore now rise up early in the morning with thy master servants to that are come with thee, and as soon as ye be up early in the morning and have light, depart. So David and his men rose up early to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel. Now, as we read that story, what we're seeing here, and what is screaming out at us, is this. God is merciful. God is good. God is gracious. God has rescued David from himself and the mess he has made for himself. And what is David doing? He's still playing the game, is he not? He has gotten so good at deceiving Akish that even when he's being handed this golden opportunity to go, he's he's still playing it up, saying But what have I done? Don't send me away, King Achish. I've been such a faithful servant. Let me go to battle. Really? Do I have to go? God rescues David from his deceit, from this mess, because he should not be there. He should not be with the Philistines. He should not be marching and invading the promised land with an enemy army. God is merciful and David is sent home to Ziklag And this is what we see here. Now we have two points that I'd like us to consider tonight. David seeks the Lord How does that come about? Well, it comes about in this way. Because we would agree that at this moment in the text, in the story, is David seeking the Lord? No. David's still resting in his deceit, in his ability to play the game. David thinks he's gotten out of this by his ability in some way. He thinks it perhaps is chance. And here we come to the text. It came to pass when David and his men were come to Ziklag on the third day that the Amalekites had invaded the south. and Ziklag, and had smitten Ziklag, and burned it with fire, and had taken the women captives that were therein. They slew not any, either great or small, but carried them away, and went on their way. So David and his men came to the city, and behold, it was burned with fire, and their wives and their sons and their daughters were taken captive. Then David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice and wept until they had no more power to weep. And David's two wives were taken captive, Ahimouim the Jezreelitis and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite. And David was greatly distressed. For the people spake of stoning him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters. And pause with me there. Here we have, under David Seeks the Lord, letter A, the breaking point. Here's the point. when the whole game, the whole show, everything that David has been building, the whole system that he's been playing, it all comes crashing down in this moment. David returns to Ziklag, it says on the third day. This is a 55-mile march from Aphik in the north where they had been encamped. And so they make this long march back from the battlefield with all their gear for war. And what do they see on the horizon as they approach the hill of their town, Ziklag? They see smoke. Rising up. You ever get that feeling in the pit of your stomach and you know something horrible awaits you What will they see as they come to their town, as they cry the names of their loved ones, as they search frantically in the town for their wives, for their children, their God Devastating. Picture where they are at in their grief. These are 600 battle-hardened warriors. raising up their voices to weep until they have no more strength. They are so distressed They are so bitter in soul that they even say, let us stone David to death. This is the breaking point And as much as I would say to you that chapter 29 is the mercy of God in David's life, I would say this, verses 1 through 6. is the mercy of God in David's life. God brings David to the breaking point. Because David has played the game so long and rested in his own confidence so long that it takes this moment when he is at his lowest His darkest, when everything comes crashing down, he doesn't even know if his wives and children are alive. David has no possessions left. It takes that moment. But David encouraged himself in the Lord his God. That is the grace of repentance. That is the grace of David's heart being turned again to the Lord his God. He's not playing the game anymore. He's not living a life of deceit before the Philistines anymore. David's heart is strengthened in the Lord. The word that is used there for encouragement means to embolden and make firm, to repair, to grow stronger Through suffering and adversity and brokenness, your heart, when you bring it to the Lord, is actually made stronger. I marvel at that. That is amazing to me Only our God can take bruised and broken people through adversity and through suffering, and at the end of it They be repaired and emboldened and stronger than they were before. That is grace. That is what Christ does in us when we bring our hearts to Him and say, Lord, I know no other place to turn but You. I know of no other remedy for my soul but you. And I'm coming to you, Lord, because you can come in and do a work in here that no one else can do. And you will actually repair me to a stronger place in Christ, a humbler place in Christ than I was before my suffering. Not only is the heart of David strengthened in the Lord, but the heart of David seeks the Lord. Look in verse 7. And David said to Abiathar the priest, Ahimelech's son. I pray thee, bring me hither the Ephud. And Abiathar brought thither the Ephud to Daces. And David inquired at the Lord, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? Shall I overtake them? And he answered him. Pursue, for thou shalt surely overtake them, and without fail recover all. David seeks the Lord. He turns to the priest Abiathar and he says, Bring the Ephod here. The priest would use that to discern the will of the Lord in certain cases in certain situations. And here we see for the first time in a year and however many months, a year and five months now, David in the text saying, Bring me the ephod. Come here, priest. Tell me, Lord, do you want us to pursue? Will we overtake them? Will we overcome them? And the Lord delivers a promise to David of life. and rescue and blessing and victory. Isn't that awesome? And contrast that now with the sermon you heard last week from the life of Saul. When Saul sought the Lord, The Lord did not answer him. Why? Because the heart of Saul was still in rebellion, hardened, he was not genuinely, truly repentant. And what is the promise that the Lord gives to Saul? You will go to battle and die. David receives the promise of life and blessing and rescue. Saul receives the promise of death and defeat. And at that point, as we are working our way through 28 through 30 here, we say to ourselves, well, what is the condition of my own heart? If you are an unbeliever tonight. Your heart is dead in sin. And until you bring your heart to Christ and believe on him and say, You are the only way for my dead heart to be made alive, I trust in you. Please forgive me of my sins. Then your end will be death until you come to Christ If you are a believer and you put your faith in Christ, you realize that the condition of your heart needs to be checked daily because it is so easy to slip back into those patterns that we see in David. And so this text examines our hearts. Are we encouraging our hearts in the Lord? Are we strengthening our hearts in the Lord? Are we seeking the Lord by coming to his word and living in obedience to it? Secondly, tonight we see that David serves the Lord. First, we see him seeking the Lord in one day eight, and now we see him serving the Lord. And here we have this account of David and the Amalekites in verses 9 through 20. So David went, he and the 600 men that were with him. and came to the brook Besor, where those that were left behind stayed. But David pursued he and four hundred men, for two hundred abode behind, which were so faint, that they could not go over the brook Besor. And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he did eat, and they made him drink water, and they gave him a piece of a cake of figs. and two clusters of raisins. And when he had eaten, his spirit came again to him, for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water three days and three nights. And David said unto him, To whom belongest thou? And whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite, and my master left me because three days ago I fell sick We made an invasion upon the south of the Jecherhites, and upon the coast which belongeth to Judah, and upon the south of Caleb, and we burned Ziklag with fire. And David said to him, Canst thou bring me down to this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt neither kill me nor deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will bring thee down to this company. And we'll pause there for a moment in the text. Here we see, first of all, this scene set up for David and his men. It kind of reminds me of the story of Gideon. You remember Gideon had his army, and the Lord says, that's too many men. You need fewer men. You need fewer men. It gets brought down to a smaller number to really test. Whether they're going to believe that the Lord is going to answer and deliver the Midianites into Gideon's hand. It's similar here The Lord has made a promise to David that they're going to overcome their enemies, and he has six hundred men, and all of a sudden two hundred of them can go no further. They are completely spent physically and emotionally. They have nothing left. They sit with the luggage on one side of the river. And David with the other four hundred continue on. It's like saying, Will David continue to believe the promise of the Lord? Even though he only has four hundred now and they're weary and worn? They press on. David meets an Egyptian who must have looked really, really bad in the desert. If you've not eaten three days and three nights, and you were sick on top of that, not good. Then David has compassion on this man And David doesn't just blow by him and continue on his way, but he stops and he feeds him and gives him drink and he asks him questions and he comes to find out the story. And so now they have a guide. And the Egyptian guides them to the camp of the Philistines. And what are we seeing in David so far? Well, we're seeing he's following in obedience to the Lord's direction. He is trusting that the Lord is going to keep his word. He is pursuing his enemies with a desire to deliver the captives. And he's showing grace and mercy on those around him. Now we come to the camp of the enemy, and it says in verse 16 When he had brought him down, behold, they were spread abroad upon all the earth, eating and drinking and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines and out of the land of Judah. And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the next day, and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, which rode upon camels and fled. And David recovered all that the Amalekites had carried away. And David rescued his two wives, and there was nothing lacking to them. neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoiled nor anything that they had taken to them, David recovered all. And David took all the flocks and the herds which they drave before those other cattle and said, This is David's spoil. And we'll pause there for a moment. Here we have the account of the battle. We're not given a total number of the enemy, but we're told this. Out of the ones that survived, there were only 400 How many men does David have? Four hundred. How long did they fight? A whole day. That's a lot of battle. That's a lot of Slaughter, that's a huge um enemy army that David has just overcome when he is weak, when he is weary, when he has already marched 55 miles north to Aphek, 55 miles back south from Aphek, pursued them down into the Negev towards Egypt That's that's incredible. What that's just how that is beyond the capacity for a human being, for an army of men to go on and take their enemy when they're well rested, when they're of greater number, when they've not been marching north and south and all over the place with the gear of war. They've just been raiding villages That is an awesome act of God to deliver the spoil into David's hands. That's not because David is strong. That's not because David is a great military leader, although he is. That is the grace of God to deliver on the promises he has made to a man who is weak and broken and recognizes this isn't really David's spoil. This is really the Lord's spoil. This is really the Lord delivering our families, our wives, our children. This is really what the Lord has done. And we see that because that comes out in the text. In the next section. But the first thing I want you to see with David and the Amalekites is this: one of the jobs of the king of Israel in that office. is to fight the enemies of the Lord and set the captives free David is back on track. What has he done? By the grace of God, David has fought the enemies of the Lord and set the captives free. Letter B, we see David and the warriors. In verse 21, David came to the two hundred men, which were so faint. that they could not follow David, whom they had made also to abide at the brook Bezor, and they went forth to meet David and to meet the people that were with him. And when David came near to the people, he saluted them. Now don't miss that for a moment, right? Don't miss that statement. David comes back to the two hundred men that were so weak, that were so faint, that were so weary, and they were sitting there with the baggage by the river And he comes to them and he salutes them, which means the the word that is used there means to greet someone and inquire how they did, to wish them peace. It's as if to say this How is your recovery coming along? And he's not being facetious here. He's being sincere. He comes back from the battle, he comes back with all the spoil, he comes back with the 400 that fought with him, and he comes up to the 200 who were weak and weary and faint, and he says to them, How's it going with your recovery? Are you feeling refreshed? And it's there's no sense of facetiousness in the text whatsoever, because look at what happens next. Then answered all the wicked men and men of belial. By the way, who was called that last in the story? Nabal, the man of Belial, a worthless, wicked man. You mean David had men like that in his army? Yes, he did worthless, wicked men of Belial, of those that went with David, and they said , Because they went not with us, we will not give them aught of the spoil that we have recovered. Save to every man his wife and his children, that they may lead them away and depart. Now that is a response that you expect from the heart of man. Right The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. That's the heart of man. You look on people that are weaker than you, not as wise as you, not as experienced as you, and you say. . . You know what? Just go over there. You know , you just take your stuff, you take your wives and children, and just go away. We don't want you anymore. Yeah, we've been fighting in caves together, and you know, we've wandered across wildernesses together, and we've lived in Ziklag together and and followed David together for all these years, but you know what? You guys are weak and worthless. Why don't you take your families and get out? We're keeping the spoil for ourselves. Then said David , Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which the Lord hath given us. Do you see that? Who delivered the spoil to them? Who set those captives free? It is the Lord that did that work. David says, it's not my spoil. The Lord gave this to us. Who hath preserved us? The Lord kept us alive. and delivered the company that came against us into our hand. This victory was the Lord's. For who will hearken unto you in this matter? But as his part is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his part be that tarrieth by the stuff They shall part alike. And it was so from that day forward that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel unto this day In other words, a new policy, a new rule. It's never a good thing. I was a dorm supervisor at uh Marinatha for three years. It's never a good thing when you have a rule named after you. That that is not a good indication when you have special dean's meetings because so-and-so did this and now we've got to come up with a rule. And that's what we have here. David says, here's the rule going forward in Israel. Doesn't matter if you're watching the baggage, doesn't matter if you're fighting in the conflict. We are together in this. And the only one who's going to preserve us and give anything into our hand is the Lord. So we'll all share in the spoil. Now, what I want you to see in that is this. Another role of the office of king in the Old Testament is this. The king rules over the Lord's people and cares for the weak. The king is one who delivers justice to the people of the Lord. He shows compassion on the people of the Lord. Once again, as we see the text here and see David serving the Lord in a right relationship, once again, we see David doing exactly that. He's giving God the glory for the victory. He's ruling over these four six hundred men that he has and their wives and children. And he's establishing justice and he's showing compassion and mercy on those who are weak and faint. And he is He he's ruling well. This is good. This is what we want to see in the future king. We come to one last section in the text. And here we see David and the tribe of Judah. And when David came to Ziklag, he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying Behold a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of the Lord, to them which were in Bethel, and to them which were in the south of Amoth. And to them that were in Jatir, and to them which were in Arur, and to them which were in Siphmoff, and to them which were in Eshtemoah, and to them which were in Bakal, and to them which were in the cities of the Jeremielites And to them which were in the cities of the Kenites, and to them which were in Hormah, and to them which were in Khorasan, and to them which were in Athakah, and to them which were in Hebron, and to Where David himself and his men were wont to haunt. It's a lot of places. You probably don't even have all of them on your map in the back of your Bible. But guess who knows where all those places are? David. Why? Because he's of the tribe of Judah. He knows his tribe. He knows his people. He knows where they live, and he and his men had been living in that area for a long time, because remember, that's where the Lord said he needed to be before he went to the Philistines in Gath. So David sends this spoil back to the tribe of Judah because he's thinking in this way. I need to build up my relationship with the elders and the towns of Judah, my tribe. I need to re-establish that I'm actually on their side. I'm not actually fighting for the Philistines. I'm not actually serving our enemies. I'm serving the Lord. These are the towns where me and my men have wandered over the years. These are the towns that the Amalekites had spoiled. They had stolen from these people. And here, David is returning this spoil and these possessions to those people. What do we see the king doing here? Well, the king showers blessings on his people. And so, as we come to the close of this text, we see David is being shaped and molded into the kind of king the Lord desires for him to be. For he is actually fulfilling the role that Saul has failed at through his rebellion. David is now, because of the mercy of God and through the grace of God. Fighting the enemies of the Lord's people and delivering captives. David is now ruling over the Lord's people, establishing justice and caring for the weak. David is now providing blessings and showering grace on the tribe of Judah David is walking in the way the Lord intended for him to do. Why? It goes all the way back to verse 6. But David strengthened himself and the Lord his God. When the death threats came, when his own men were ready to stone him, when he has wept bitterly, when he has lost everything, when he is broken over his pride and his destruction. and trying to do life his way. He comes to the Lord in humility and says, Lord, you are all I have. Help me. And what does the Lord do? The Lord graciously restores him and gets him back in the place he wants him to be and uses him in the way he desires to use him. for the glory of the Lord and for the blessing of his people. Now I could say to you right now in application, so go and be just like David But I'm not going to do that. Because I would say to you, as much as we behold David living in a God-honoring way as the future king. I would want to say to you, behold our King. Mark fifteen and verses sixteen through twenty It says that the soldiers led him away into the hall called Praetorium, and they called together the whole band. And they clothed him with purple, and plaited a crown of thorns, and put it about his head, and began to salute him Hail, King of the Jews. And they smote him on the head with a reed, and did spit upon him And bowing their knees, they worshipped him. And when they had mocked him, they took off the purple from him, put his own clothes on him, and led him out to Christian. Crucify him. And as you think of the suffering that Christ endured Through the horrors of that torment, as men formed from the dust of the earth spit in his face. Know this. He endured that because he is Your king. He endured that mockery. A crown of thorns beat into his skull Nailed to a cross and lifted up on high. Because that was his moment of victory He took on an enemy far greater than the Amalekites. The odds were even greater. That is what he did He cried, It is finished, paid in full And with that cry, he announces the defeat of our enemy. He defeats our sin, for it is poured on him. The wrath of Almighty God is placed on the Son of God. And he rises from the grave three days later in victory over death, so that he might truly proclaim that the enemy is defeated. That the captive can be set free by grace through faith in Christ alone. That He alone can rule over man with perfect justice. That he can provide for every need for those who are weak and faint. That he can bless you with all spiritual blessings in the heavenly places. That if you come unto him and call him Lord and King, he will look on you with compassion and mercy. What is the work that Christ is doing in us? He is working in his followers to shape us more and more like him. Here's this great promise as we close. Romans 8, 28 and 29. And we know that all things work together for good. To them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose, for whom he did foreknow He also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Do you see that glorious promise? Do you see the purposes of God revealed in your suffering, in your weakness, in your relationships, in your workplace, in your circumstances, in your struggles, in the darkness moment of your life? What is God's glorious purpose? To make you more like his Son Jesus. That was his plan. From beyond eternity, for whom he did foreknow. This was always the plan. That he would conform us to the likeness of his son. How does that happen as your heart is brought in humility and brokenness before the Lord, and you say, Lord, Here's my heart. You see that bitterness. You see that frustration. You see that anger. You see that lust. You see that judgmental spirit. You see that um Pride, you see that selfishness, you see all of these things within me. And so here it is, Lord. Take it and remove it and replace it with Your son 's love and compassion and mercy and grace. This is the story of our lives. This is our daily battle. Conformed to the image of this world and co or conformed to the image. of Christ. If you are struggling, if you have failed, if you look over the past week and you are haunted by some sin, confess it and turn to the Lord and remember He is merciful and And compassionate with you. As you face this week, don't dare to go into Monday morning thinking you have the wisdom and strength to face the week. Come to God and remember His grace, depend on His strength, be filled with His love as you submit your heart to Him, and let us say Sola Deo Gloria. For God's glory and praise alone, as he by grace shapes us into the likeness of his son. Let us pray Father, we thank you so very much for your word. Thank you for these stories where we can look into the lives of believers in the Old Testament and see the work that you did But, oh God, it shows us how desperately we need a king like Jesus. He is King of kings and Lord of lords. And we come here this evening as followers of Jesus Christ to say. Father, help us. Have compassion on us. Be merciful to us. Fill us with your grace. Shape us more like your son. May this week be a week where our eyes are open to the work that you are doing as you take us and make us more Like the Lord Jesus Christ, in our words, thoughts, attitudes, and actions. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. What a great challenge and a great comfort from the Word of God. And may that be something that really shapes our perspective this week. And uh don't have anything to add to that. Let's go ahead and pull out our hymn books tonight and turn to our closing hymn. Song is 398. May the Lord find us faithful. 398. Please let's stand together. We're going to sing this as our closing hymn. Before we dismiss in prayer, we'll sing all three verses actually. Let's sing all three. No man could be thought in his heart, it's just a little turn , and so I mean I guess we have a name. I mean the call for it had a whole lot of the Well it's been great to be in the Lord's house. Hope that uh the scriptures and the things that have been taught and preached today have really challenged you. I hope that you'll be able to make it back this Wednesday as we continue our study in the Sermon on the Mount. And we're almost done. There's just a couple more texts that we'll be looking at before we start a new sermon series. Thank you for being out tonight. I'd like to ask Brother Scott if you can close us in prayer tonight, and then we'll be dismissed. Dear Lord God, thank you so much for the love and the grace you bestow upon us, the mercy that we have through Christ and through your work. and his work in us. Thank you, Lord, for protecting us from evil when we seek you and how we can Be conformed to your son as we go about our lives. We just pray that you might strengthen us and work in us and that we might go from this place with a renewed confidence and Blessing from you in Jesus' name, Amen