Hope that you had a good afternoon and we look forward to uh hearing from the Word of God tonight. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will get started with some songs. Let's pray. Lord, we are so grateful for this opportunity to gather this evening. I pray that you'll speak to our hearts. Father, help us to have a tenderness to your word. Help us to Listen attentively to it as people have opportunity to share testimonies. I pray that those things that are shared would be a great encouragement. And I just pray you'll bless our fellowship today as a local church. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good evening everyone. Good to see you all back out. Hope you had an enjoyable You know, right around 80, 82 degree day, so humidity wasn't too bad. Got a lot to rejoice about. You're back again tonight, so we're gonna stand up Turn to page 348 and you're gonna tell me the old old story, all right? Sing it out all three verses Tell me the old old story of unseen things above Jesus. And his glory of Jesus and his love. For I bring every time in my tell me all story tell me Help me all of the all of the all of the Tell me the story countly with a new rain. Remember. I am whom he does me to stay telling the story always if you In any kind of trouble of me , well in the old story. We are not so burning , now we 're doing baby the same. Okay, turn back to page 323. Page 23. Now after you t tell them the old story. We beg them to come in. Come, ye sinners, poor in ye. Jesus and Savior for us. I will try and run the will and great meeting. No lights Please be seated. And we're going to turn to page 345. Or follow along with us on the screen, a new name and glory. I was once a sinner, but I came pardon to receive from my whole heart. This was freely given, and I fell. That he always kept his word There's a new name written down in glory And it's mine Oh yes it's mine And the white I drove dangerous story, but then it has come home, for there's a new name written down in glory, and it was. Oh yes with mine , with my sense for given I am asked for ever, nevermore I will not let me live When my heavens open and I still and my people And I went recognized in the world and it falls to one thing of the single I 've come home for the break and every worry I disfile I don't get to lie with my face for Walk me on the chorus at the end of the course. And the book says written by the grave, no came too much. Now I am forgiven and I know by the blood I am made all the way. I know you love I know why not game the single story I'll say no you can have come home with me And it's mine, oh yes, it's mine, with my sins forgiven I am well. Amen. Brother Braxton. 88, it's page 587. Victory! In Jesus. Alright. Sing out. I heard an old old story. I would think I can. To say a man like me I read above the glory Where I know what I 'm in, but we come to victory, maybe that way we What happened to this side over here? I I heard everything over there. Uh I know what it was. I didn't give you the hand motions, did I? All right, well I knew it was coming over here, but They were they were warmed up a phrase early. Page 375. Page 375 Oh to be like thee. First verse. Oh to be like thee, but themer and like God. Sun my friend, but I also won't let all the fair team like this Been a while for that one. Excellent choice. Page two hundred and eighty-four. Page 284, that's still too big a number to get into the blue book. Page 284, some golden daybreak. Some golden daybreak. So morning for day, sorrow will see So morning and morning all the way. Next time somebody calls that, we may sing the Third verse, because somebody's talking about getting out of school in that one. All right. Okay, now we're going to go to the blue book. I caught that one. But not quick enough. Page 169 now in the blue book. My God is near. What's 105? That's very familiar too. 105, 105. Let me see. One page at a time, really? Okay. 105 , 169 is good. My God is near Page one sixty-nine in the blue book Make me know your presence for the king of rear. No need. Anxiety and fear How can I brought me? Can I put me? All the world is far away, when God is near, everything is there is life, when God is near How can I pray? How can I hold her? I know my God is. Page one hundred and five now before The message for me to live is Christ. Please stand with me as we sing the first and the last. I see that by his live for me to live his prize for me to live his prize pursuit. Putting in my right, for need to live this right, for your Okay, For me with the women, I stood with him, my eye cry, For me to the windows cry. Well, he's missing a lot of the biggest. No Now I know when to come up I'm after the special. All right, we're going to pick up our study this evening in 1 Samuel chapter 28. As we've been working our way through this wonderful book, I've enjoyed the study, and we're starting to bring 1 Samuel to a close, or bring get close to it. So you can open your Bibles to 1 Samuel 28. I will read some selected verses here in a little bit, but this evening In chapter 28, we're going to look briefly at David's dilemma and the fall of Saul. David's dilemma and the fall of Saul. And what we're going to see in this chapter We're only going to look briefly at David because it's only the first two verses. Then it kind of pauses and we pick it up in chapter 9. But I think why it's here in a sense of just a little snapshot is we're reminded of the difference between David and Saul. And between these two, and it brings me to this question as I read selected passages of this chapter. It's kind of a challenge for us. Will we obey the Word of God? And repent when we disobey? Will we obey the Word of God? And will we repent if we disobey? But I think when you look at David and Saul, and we know a lot of their life stories, they both make some wrong decisions. They both have a lot of sinful problems. But what we're going to see here is Dave is going to find himself struggling because of some decisions he didn't make, at least the beginning of it. We'll pick it up later in the next chapter, next couple chapters. But then we're going to see how fall, the fall of Saul will take place. So I'll read some passages, then we'll look at it together. We're going to start in verse 1 of 1 Samuel chapter 28. And it came to pass in those days that the Philistines gathered their armies together to warfare and to fight with Israel. And Akish said unto David, Know thou assuredly that thou shalt go with me to the battle, thou and thy men. And David said to Akish , Surely thou shalt know what thy servant can do. And Akish said to David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of mine head forever. Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city, and Saul had put away those that had familiar spir spirits. and the wizards out of the land. Skip to verse six. I'll go to verse five. And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart greatly trembled. And when Saul inquired of the Lord, the Lord answered him not, neither by dreams Nor by Urim nor by prophets. Now skip down to verse fifteen. And Samuel said to Saul Why hast thou disquieted me to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore distressed, for the Philistines make war against me, and God has departed from me, and answereth me no more, neither by prophets nor by nor by dreams. Therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do Then said Samuel, Wherefore when thou dost ask of me, seeing the Lord has departed from thee, and hast become thine enemy? And the Lord hath done to him, and he spake by me, for the Lord hath rent the kingdom out of thine hand, and given it to thy neighbor, even to David, because Thou obeyest not the voice of the Lord, nor executest his fierce wrath upon Amalek Therefore hath the Lord done this thing unto thee this day. Moreover, the Lord will also deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines. And tomorrow Shalt thou and thy sons be with me. The Lord also shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines. Father, as we come before you, we ask that you would just speak to us through your word, that our hearts and minds be open and tender. That we would just not read black words on a white page. That this just would not be a story that we want to share with our kids in Sunday school. But this is the very word of God that each one of us can use to obey, to listen. To recognize that it is written for us as a caution and possibly encouragement. Father, would you work in the hearts and lives of those that are here and in your children through your word? As the Spirit of God uses it to change us, to mold us, and conform us to the image of your Son, our Savior of Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen. So first we're going to see David's dilemma. David's dilemma. It's just the first two verses here in chapter twenty-eight, and I will just read them both again. And it came to pass in those days that the Philistines gathered their armies together. for warfare to fight with Israel. And Achis said unto David, excuse me, Know thou assuredly that thou shalt go out to to me uh with me to battle, thou and thy men. So here's what's taking place. The Philistines have been a long enemy of Israel and they're deciding, you know what, we're gonna take it to him this time. But Akish is really liking having David around. I mean who wouldn't want this great well-known general living in their land? He's kind of a helpful guy. He certainly is encouraging the people. And this just this guy just seems to be a great general, very smart, very wise A great guy to have, to be fighting for you and not against you. So his dilemma right now is the Philistines are deciding to attack Israel. Where is David now? David has been running from Saul and been staying in an area of Ziklag that was given to him by Akish in the area that is being controlled by the Philistines right now. So essentially you have David living with the Philistines. Now the Philistines are won't attack Israel, and the king is like, okay, you're going to come with me. You're going to help me fight Israel. That sounds to me like a dilemma. I can't imagine living in another country running from I don't know, my own governor, my president, whatever it is. And then being in that country and they decide, hey, I want you to fight against Americans. I'd be like, yeah, we have a problem. I don't think I could do that. I don't think I could really do that. And we'll see how that plays out later. But in verse 2, here's what David does. He's kind of wise about it. But the king so is convinced that David is going to fight with him and the Philistines. But look how David answers in verse 2. And David said to Achis, Surely thou shalt know what thy servant can do. Um sometimes I feel like this is a political question. Oh, you didn't answer the question. You want me to repeat that question? You're gonna fight with me and you're gonna be my personal protector as we fight Israel and you're gonna Save my head, David. You and your men are gonna be with me and protect me. And David says, yeah, I know I can do that. You know what I'm capable of. He's not saying, yeah, I'm gonna go with you, yes, I'm gonna fight Israel. He's just saying, you know what I've done. You know how I'm a great general. He really kind of just dodges the question. I feel like I've seen that before recently, but he dodges the question And just answers in a very general way. And Achar said to David, therefore, he just not thinking , he's a great guy, sure, why not? I I know what you're capable of. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, so he buys it Therefore, will make the keeper of mine head forever, so you can defend me, David. Your job and your men is to keep me alive as we fight your people. We'll see how that plays out in another chapter. So we have David's dilemma. Then what's interesting about this text is it stops right there with David. And it picks right up with Samuel being dead, and he shifts to Saul. My guess of why this is here is a reminder I've already said. A lot of 1 Samuel has been contrasting the difference between David a man after God's own heart, and Saul, a man who always wants his own way, and just looked good in front of people due to his pride, his own selfishness. So as we read this chapter, kind of keep that in mind. You have David's, okay, he's not the right place at the right time, but he is a man after God's heart, and he we do know that he does repent, and we'll look at some of these things later. So now we're shifting gears. We're told that about David, and then it shifts scenes. It's kind of like meanwhile shifting over to Samuel and Saul. So in verse 3 we're picking it up, we're gonna see Saul's success and his struggles Because sometimes when we think, oh, I just I made a mistake and you know I'm gonna fall and there's gonna be some issues, sometimes in life We have consequences for our decisions, and if we don't learn from them, if we don't ask God to help us, it seems like it continues to get worse, and then it gets to the point where we're facing the consequences, and it's like, oh no, no, now now I've had too much. But the consequences are already coming, and at that point it's too late. That's what we're gonna see here. So we're gonna see Samuel or our Saul has a little bit of success here at the beginning of this chapter, then we're gonna see as it just snowballs different struggles that he's had. That are continuing to plague him and how it's going to lead to his eventual fall in the kingdom and his life and his families as well. So let's pick it up with Saul's success. Saul's success in verse 3. Now Samuel was dead. That's not good news, by the way. And all Israel had lamented him and buried him in Rama, even in his own city. And Saul had put away those that had familiar spirits and wizards out of the land. So this was a good thing But knowing Saul, I just can't help but think there was a selfish motive. There was probably certain reason. Maybe it didn't look good. I am not sure. But he did a good thing nonetheless And this plays huge later because of what he's going to do later in the chapter. But I just want to point out some places in the Old Testament that Saul would have been familiar with. And other people would have had the Old Testament there, had copies of it, would have known these passages, that this was a great thing at the end of verse 3, that Saul had put away familiar spirits and wizards. out of the land. These are like sorcerers, necromancers, all those types of things. There's different words that can get thrown in there. But I'm going to give you several passages. That deal with this very topic on how this was a very good thing for Saul. In Leviticus 1931, we read, Regard net Regard not them that have familiar spirits. Neither seek after wizards, to be defiled by them. Why? I am the Lord your God. I can meet your needs. I can help you. You don't need all these things. Going to Leviticus 20, verse 6. And the soul that turneth after such as I as have familiar spirits and after wizards. To go after them, spiritual adultery, I will even set my face against that soul, and will cut him off from among his people. That's not good. So here Saul's doing a good thing. He's turning away. He did, he got them out of the land, and we see twice in Leviticus where he says these things, about to turn away from them. He will set his face Against them. You know, sometimes we read these things in the Old Testament. We think, oh, that's old news. But then you turn on the TV, you look at our entertainment of today, and sometimes I feel like we're right back where we're reading in this story The struggle that we have in our own entertainment, in our own nation, where God says he will set his face against that person. I'll continue. In Deuteronomy 18, I'm going to read a couple verses here. Here he gets a little more specific with some things. I'm doing all this because I want you to see that Saul did make a good move here What were his motives? I'm not sure. But this was his brief bit of success before we look at his struggles later. But in Deuteronomy chapter 18, starting with verse 9. It says, when thou art come into the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee, keep in mind what is Deuteronomy? Deuteronomy is a reminder to those Who've been wandering in the wilderness, they're about to enter into the land, and they're being repeated back what their fathers should have known in Leviticus. So this is a repetitious part of Scripture that's reminding this new generation. Of what God has said. Are we teaching our next generation of what God has said So continuing on with verse 9, that thou shalt not learn to do after the abominations of those nations. So before you go into the land, keep in mind that the Lord Is going to give you this land. Do not learn. Do not take part in those nations' abominations. Verse 10. There shalt be there shalt not be found among you any one that maketh his son or his daughter to pass through the fire, or that useth divination, or observer of times. Or an enchanter, or a witch, or a charmer, or a consulter with familiar spirits, or a wizard, or a necromancer. For all that do these things are an abomination unto the Lord. And because of these abominations, the Lord thy God does drive them out before thee. This passage starts and ends in Deuteronomy with this being an abomination to the Lord, and he lists several things there that are abominable unto the Lord. So if we as Christians think that we can go along with the world and aren't just making it to modern day here right now, wizards are okay. Necromancers, we are necrom uh necromancers, enchanters, witches. Anything like that. And for the I struggle, and especially as we come into October, I cannot understand why a Christian for my family, we don't celebrate Halloween. Because to me, this is what it celebrates. It's a part of it. That's for me and my family. We don't do that. But why would we today get so close to what God has clearly said? In Leviticus and now Deuteronomy, these are an abomination unto the Lord. Saul did a good thing here. If they're abominable and he got these people out of the land, that is a good thing. And if Saul can do it, who's a selfish, proud, self-serving king, I think that you and I can do it too. But we get caught, and it can be a struggle. Sometimes we just don't think. We get caught up in entertainment, what the world does, what the world enjoys. And I don't think it's purposeful. Sometimes I just think we get caught. We're not stopping to think. And there's many things in our current society that would think this stuff is okay. Well according to Leviticus, according to Deuteronomy, and according to 1 Samuel 28, it's not good. It's not good. So we're in verse 3. I'll read again. This was the success of Saul. This was a great move for him. Now we're going to look at some of Saul's struggles. Looks at Saul's struggles. Look at verse 5. And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines. He was afraid, and his heart greatly trembled. Now, right here I think it kind of shifts in a sense of we're seeing Saul looking at the circumstances. Saul was chosen to be king. Why? Because he was tall, he was handsome, he looked like a great warrior from a great tribe He didn't look anything like me if that's what you were thinking. Okay, just making sure you're awake. But here, I really think Saul was struggling. He was here trying to both serve man and please man and then sometimes do what's right before the Lord and he really got caught in the middle. And if you're trying to please man You'll end up getting caught in a snare. It says in Proverbs 29, 25, The fear of man bringeth a snare, but so put his trust in the Lord shall be safe So he's fearing man, we've seen this pattern, and I think in chapter five or verse five of chapter twenty-eight, we're saying he looks at the host of the Philistines And he just sees them and he thinks, I'm in trouble. And it's like his heart is trembling. He is afraid. And who wouldn't be with that large army? But you think in verse 6 you'd see that, yo, he's seeking the Lord with everything he's got, and then if everything, if he's not here from the Lord, he's going to repent. We'll see what happens there in a second. But also I feel like Saul is trying to keep one foot with the people happy, and I kind of want to keep the Lord happy if it fits my agenda. And it reminds me of a verse we read, I think it was Just recently, maybe on a Wednesday night, but in Matthew 6. 24 says, No man can serve two masters. Either will he hate the one and love the other, else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and mammon. I think this is Saul's struggle in part. He's trying to have a hand or a foot in both parts. And we see who is going to win over. So either way, in verse 5, he sees the Philistines. He gets afraid of them in his heart, everything within him, he's greatly trembling. And that's how we feel sometimes. We see the enemy, we see their masses, and our heart just melts within us. And we feel like I just can't do this But we see what he is going to do. Let's look at his first struggle in verse 6 So his he struggles, he wants to serve God, he wants to serve himself. Now, Saul's next struggle, the Lord does not answer him. In verse 6, the Lord is not going to answer him. And when Saul inquired of the Lord, the Lord answered him not. Neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets. I'll give Saul a great college try here. He is desperate. He is scared. He is seeking the Lord in many different ways at this point. He is so desperate. But I kind of want to answer this question Why is the Lord not answering Saul? I'm going to spend a little bit of time on this because what I don't want us to fear Or to think from reading this passage is, well, I'll pray and God doesn't answer prayer. He does. But we're going to spend some time looking at some history of Saul and why Saul is specifically not getting an answer to prayer here. But I don't want us to think that, well, God just doesn't answer prayer, and He's gonna do what He's gonna do, and I don't need to pray because it doesn't matter. That's not what's being taught here. So let's look at this. I first want to look at a couple verses which are kind of interesting. These first couple passages we're going to look at are actually Psalms of David. And what I want to see for us tonight is the difference between David, a man who's about to take the throne, and Saul, who's on his way out. So these first couple Psalms are all written by David. I'm not going to read the whole psalm, just a couple verses from different Psalms. So in Psalm 34, 18, the word of God says, the Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart. And save such as be of a contrite spirit. Who is David? David is a man after God's own heart. Who is Saul? A very selfish king. I'll read a couple more. In Psalm 51, 17, the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, and a broken and contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. So God does listen if your heart is broken, if your heart before him is desperate for him Let's read another one. In Psalm 145, 18. The Lord is nigh unto all them that call upon him. To all that call upon him in truth. These are all written by David, a man who's about to replace Saul. So we're looking at these passages and we see, okay, God does hear. God will listen to those that call upon him. So why is he not answering Saul? Still going back questions. So why is not answering Saul? Saul, he's getting desperate. He's trying everything at this point. What is going on? Here's some other general verses. In Psalm 66, 18, If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. This is a short, sweet, but convicting one. If I, not your friend, not your spouse, not your children, not your co-workers If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. So God will hear you, but if you're hiding things, if you have iniquity in your heart, if you have something that you know , That God is working in your heart about, and you're refusing to bring it before him. You're refusing to repent. Do you think he's going to hear you? This is like if you have a child and you the child don't do that. And I end up doing it anyways. And you as a parent, you just want to say, I told you so. I told you not to do it. And you did it anyway. But if you purposefully have something in your heart and you know you're not confessing this Do you think God will answer your the prayer he probably wants to hear is God, I know that I have sinned. Will you forgive me of my sin? That's why you came in the flesh to be my savior, to save me from my own sin. God, would you forgive me of my own sin? And then maybe your prayer can be, and Lord, and help me in these areas. Another one in Matthew 9. 13. But go ye and learn what that meaneth. I will have mercy and not sacrifice, for I am not come to call the righteous. but the sinners to repentance. I use this verse because I kind of see this is the contrast between Saul and David. You have Saul here that would see himself as a righteous, great, tall, handsome, attractive, great warrior of a guy. Why would he why would he have to listen to God? He can figure it out himself Meanwhile, those that repent, for I'm not come to call the righteous but the sinners to repentance. Well, we're all sinners. We know that. It's a doctrinal truth. All of us are sinners. The difference is, will you agree with God and admit that you are one? And that perhaps it's possible that you might sin? And then when it's revealed to you, and you know that someone's pointing in your face and says, thou art the man Do you get on your knees and beg God to forgive you of your sin? Or are you going to be righteous? Are you going to be proud? So I don't need to do that. I'm going to look at two passages in Proverbs because it shows the difference again. I want us to see this. I like to read my Proverb for the day, and this has stuck out to me every time I read this now and think about these verses. But in Proverbs 1, 28 and 30, Then shall I call upon me, but I will not answer. They shall seek me early, but they shall not find me For they have hated knowledge. They did not choose the fear of the Lord. They would none of my counsel. They despise all my reproof. I feel like that verse is a description of Saul. And we're going to see this later, kind of getting ahead of myself. But Saul, I said to destroy all the Amalekites, and you spared some. I said Samuel to tell you it was from me, and you did not listen. So you can call upon answer why. They hated knowledge. They did not choose to fear God, fear the Lord They wouldn't listen to his counsel. They despised all his reproof and his chastening. Ah, no, no, no. I'm fine on my own. I don't need the Lord. I'm going to figure it out myself. And you will Compare that with Proverbs chapter 8. Proverbs chapter 8 and verse 17. I love them that loves me. And those that seek me early shall find me. So one, you're seeking early, and it's like there's nothing there. There's no answer. The other one you're seeking early, but now you find what you're looking for. The difference is in Proverbs 8. It says, I love them that love me. Do you love God more than you love your sin? That is hard. Because each of us as a sinner, we have a bent, we have a lean towards sin. And if we're truthful and honest with God and ourselves, we admit that sometimes we just enjoy our sin. I like being angry at that person. They need to come to me first. I'll not say nothing to them. They'll figure it out. They should have known better. The difference in Proverbs 8 is, I love them that love me. Do you love God more than you love your sin? And if you seek him and you ask him and you repentant of your sin and God, would you forgive me? I'm sorry, I'm a dirty rotten sinner. You just might find them. Are you seeing the contrast yet? So both are possible If you're regarding sin in your life, you're not seeking God, you're not fearing him, you're trying to do it your own way. God is not obligated, like a genius bottle, to grant you your three wishes and to give you what you want just because you asked God's not obligated to do that. So now I want to look specifically at Saul. That was kind of a general look at why God will and won't answer prayer or hear when we cry out and call to him. Now I want to look more specifically at Saul himself. We're going to go back to 1 Samuel 15. And I just have some selected verses. I'm not reading through the whole thing, but I've just tried to keep it short because we preached through this several weeks ago But I just want to highlight it with this in mind, with why we're answering the question. When Saul inquired of the Lord, the Lord answered him not. Why would the Lord not answer Saul? Now let's look and see, going back to chapter 15. Starting with verse one. And Samuel also said to Saul, The Lord sent me to anoint thee thee king over his people, over Israel. Now therefore hearken thou unto the voice of the words of the Lord. I want you to listen to me. Verse 10 Skipping down to verse 10 if you have your Bible to first Samuel 15. Then came the word of the Lord unto Samuel, saying, It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king, for he has turned back from following me. And hath not performed my commandments. And it grieved Samuel. And he cried unto the Lord all night, skipping to verse 13. And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou the Lord. I have performed the command of the Lord. Timeout. Did he obey the command of the Lord? No No, he did not. He did not obey. He is telling himself, I did. He is so full of himself and his proud and his arrogance and his own kingdom and how he looks He's either completely blatantly overlooking his sin, or he just really thinks I have not done anything wrong. Either way, he did not obey Skipping down to verse 22. And Samuel said, Hath the Lord hath great delight in burnt offerings, as obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken We're going to get to that word later in the message. Than the fat of rams. For rebellion, listen to verse 23 of 1 Samuel 15. For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft. And stubbornness as in as an iniquity of idolatry, because thou, why? Why? Because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord. He hath also rejected thee from being king. In 1 Samuel 15, he purposefully, willfully, and has since repeatedly disobeyed the commands of God. He disobeyed the word of God. This is really where it starts, and when we look later in chapter 28, Samuel brings this very point up again with Amalek. You purposefully disobeyed the Lord. And from that point, from chapter 15, Saul should have known that God was rejecting him. Why? Because Saul was rejecting God. This isn't I accidentally sinned and I I did something I wasn't supposed to, someone cut me off and I said something I wasn't supposed to say. No, no, no. This is blatant, willful, purposeful, and then repeated. Sin and disobedience against the clear command of God. This is where it starts. And then one more in chapter 16. And the Lord said unto Samuel, How long without war for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? So he states it again in chapter 16. This was well known. I think that's why Saul had issues with himself, because he knew the kingdom was being taken from him, and he got so mad at David, he tried to kill him many times and all these different things. He wanted Jonathan, his son, to get it. And the Lord is going to take care of all that. So why is it that in verse 6 it says, when Saul inquired of the Lord, that the Lord answered him not? It should be pretty clear by now that it's because of his not obeying the word of the Lord and his purposeful, willful disobedience against that. This is a struggle that Saul has. The Lord is not answering Saul. Now let's look at verse 7. Then said Saul to his servant, Sharez, he's desperate. He's got the Philistine army breathing down his neck. He looked at them. They're massive. We're going to get destroyed. He's looking for answers in every way possible. He's trying to be spiritual. He's trying to go to God. And he hears nothing. Have we seen several reasons why? Now look at verse 7. Then said Saul unto his servants, Seek me a woman with a familiar spirit, that I may go to her and inquire of her. And his servants said to him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit in Endor. Some quick questions. First off, I did several reading. It's hard to know exactly where the location this was. But he's traveling. I've seen anywhere from five to eight miles by night. And it's possible that he was sneaking around the Philistines. He disguised himself as we're going to see that soon. He does all this. He goes out of his way. But some quick questions. How did they know about this woman? Part of his success was chasing the goal out of the land, right? What was she doing there? How did they know she was there? If they knew she was there, why was she still there? You know what this reminds me of? When we have a sin in our life, and God convicts us, and we have victory. Are we going to love God more than we love our sins so much so that we will set up barriers? Are you going to make it hard to sin in an area that you struggled with? Because here I feel like Saul, these people knew. This shouldn't have happened. There's no way this should have happened. He got rid of all these. If you're having victory in a sin over the something you've struggled with, it's a classic example. You know, if if you struggle with drinking on Friday night And you take that same path every day. God convicts you you get it right. A wise thing would be to go a different way, if that's a struggle for you, to keep going by that same bar or whatever it is, doesn't you have to be barring? You can just get that same 24 pack or whatever you do. There's the road, there's the store. You don't think that thought enters your mind, that struggle? Where is it that you tend to sin? What is the pattern that you may have? Are you making it hard to sin Because we have struggles with it, and they can creep up and they can creep in and they can take over again. This is a struggle that Saul had. He was so desperate to get his way, he was so desirous to get answers. Even to try and get answers from a godly man that he was going to a woman that should not have been there. He knew better, and he does it anyways. So what's he do? Verse 8 We're going to see here his desperation. And this is where we get. Sometimes our desperation may lead to disguising one's true identity. And not only that, this is what we see specifically here, but our desperation sometimes to sin or to please self, you will go out of your way. You will hide Who you are, you will hide your sin so you can continue to enjoy it. So let's look at verse 8. Desperation may lead to disguising one's true identity. That's why I just before I even read this, sometimes I think if you just tell the truth, you won't have anything to hide. I love telling the truth. Because you don't have to worry, I'm not smart enough To lie to a bunch of people and remember who I told what. I'm just not. So if you d I'll just tell you the truth. I'll tell you how I saw it. I'll tell you what I remember. Now the memory thing could be an issue But I just love telling the truth. Because I don't have to worry about who I told what and when and how. I just tell it. It saved me so many different times. But anyways, verse 8. So Saul disguised himself and put on their raiment and went and two men with him. That's another thing. Trouble, usually when you get trouble, you want to take other people with you You do. When you get in trouble, hey, come with me. Rarely do we get the person that's like, oh, I want to do this myself. It happens, but usually we want to do it in a group. You don't want to cause trouble by yourself. It's more fun to do it with somebody else. So, two men with him, and they came to the woman by night, and he said, I pray thee. Divine unto me the familiar spirit, and bring him up, and whom I shall name unto thee. So basically to save time, what's taking place is he's going to this woman that should not exist, that shouldn't be there. But he goes to her anyways. He knows it's wrong, but he does it anyway. Then when he goes her, he disguises himself because he can't go as the king to this woman who's supposed to be kicked out of the land Whom he had taken out, and then now you're the king going to her for advice and help? That is the most hypocritical thing ever. So what's he gonna do? He's gonna hide, he's gonna disguise himself. I can't come as the king And I'm just going to inquire about bringing up this person in an ungodly way and all these things. So that's what he does. And what happens is, to save a little bit of time, when he does this, Samuel is called up. And this woman is like, whoa! What is he? You're Saul! And now she's scared for her life. And here's what you should see. Look at verse 10. And Saul swear by her. By the Lord saying, as the Lord liveth, there should no punishment happen to thee for this thing. You know what's interesting about this verse? He's sounding spiritual. He's at the wrong place doing the wrong thing, but he's gonna sound spiritual. Oh, because the Lord lives, I'll spare your life You mean the one that's not answering you? The one that you're rejecting? The one you're not listening to? What in the world? This is crazy! I just find that very interesting. Oh, because the Lord lives, you'll be fine. What? It's all crazy. People can sound spiritual. Oh, God bless America. Do they even open their Bible? Do they even understand who God is? It's like a catchphrase about every four years. God bless America. Really? Apporting babies? Open borders. I don't mean to get up on that stuff. But these are basic, simple things any country or anyone should really understand. It's murder. But we're gonna God bless America. Can you really say that's what Saul's doing right here? Wrong place, wrong time doing the wrong thing. But don't worry, I'll swear by the Lord you'll be fine. So she's shocked of what happens. But then let's look at this. We need to skip down to verse 15. So we've seen the desperation we lead to disguising once joining. Then we're going to look at, skip down to verse 15. Saul obeyed not the voice of the Lord. I think this is what it starts coming down to. Look at this. So Samuel gets called up and said to Saul, Why hast thou disquired me to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore distressed, because I don't know what I'm doing I am scared, I don't know what to do, and I need some advice. I've tried everything, so now I am trying absolutely everything, even if it's wrong. For the Philistines make war against me, and God has departed from me, and he answereth me no more. So the gods against you, sir, and try and go to God's man, but do it in a wicked way. Good thinking, Saul. God has departed from me, and answereth me no more, neither by prophets nor dreams. Therefore I called thee, that thou mayst make known unto me what I should do. Now, as we pause right here really quick, by this time, before we read verses 16, 17, 18, Saul should have known what to do. Many times in life we just get desperate. It's like the snowball of sin and consequences is coming and it's right in our face. And we're like, I don't know what to do. And sometimes it's hard because it's like, well, well what you should have done was this back here, and what you should have done was this back here, and and you know you should have done this, and now you're saying, what should I do? It's like, oh, sin complicates things And you're sitting here, watching He should have known what to do. Going all the way back to Emelakin. Now let's look at that. Let's look at that very quickly So Samuel, wherefore dost thou ask of me, seeing the Lord has departed from thee and has become thine enemy? I mean God is not your enemy. He's been there trying to instruct you, trying to help you. You rejected You didn't go to him. You're not repenting. Verse 17. And the Lord hath done to him, and he spake by me, for the Lord hath rent the kingdom out of thine hand. We've known this for a couple chapters. And is give it to thy neighbor, even to David. Is any of this really new to Saul? Tell me what I should do. And he's reminding him why he is where he is. Verse 18. I think this is a card of the whole thing. Because thou obeyest not the voice of the Lord. This is not like, oh, I just did it once. This is repeated, blatant, willful disobedience. And Saul, you've yet to repent for many of these things. In fact, you said you were doing just fine. You said you were obeying me. You are not obeying the voice of the Lord. And look at this in the middle of verse 18. Nor executest his fierce wrath upon who Amalek. That's why I spent so much time in chapter 15. Saul, this goes way back. You knew what you should have done. You've known from then what you should have done. Therefore, if the Lord done this thing unto thee this day. You knew this was coming, Saul, and yet you still have rejected. It reminds me of of Achan. And as it goes, you know, by tribe and it gets more narrow and more narrow, and we'll never know, but I would like to think that as it's getting more narrow The Aikid would go, Alright, it's me, I confess. I'm sorry, will you forgive me? I mean why do you have to wait all the way till it came right down to him, individually? Why? Did he still think he was getting away with it? Did he think he could hide it from God? Apparently. I mean that's what it seems like I think I'd have been like, okay, okay, I got it, and it's coming my way. I see it. But that's not sometimes how it is. Why? We love our sin more than we love our Savior. We don't really want to obey the voice of the Lord. We don't really want to repent of the sin and obey his word. And then look what happens in verse 19 Moreover, the Lord will also deliver with thee into the hand of the Philistines, and tomorrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me. That's a kind way of Samuel saying, Tomorrow you're gonna die. And not just you, your sons. And he continues, the Lord also shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of Philistines. Tomorrow is not going to be a good day for you, Saul. It's not going to be a good day. And why is this very quickly with Amalek? Just remind in verse three we see that he should have s uh he was going to smite Amalek and utterly destroy all of them. That was the clear command, both women Man and woman, infant and suckling, this is verse three, ox and sheep, camel and ass, he didn't do it. Verse nine. But Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep and the oxen, the fatlings, and the lambs, and all that was good, and he would not utterly destroy everything that was vile and refuse That they were utterly destroyed. Verse 20. And Saul said unto Samuel, Yay, have I obeyed the voice of the Lord? We went over this. I'm reviewing. Hey, look, he did not do, he was convinced he was obeying the Lord, and he did not. That's why in verse 6 He's not hearing answer from the Lord. The Lord's like, I have been reaching out to you, and you were purposefully, willfully, repeatedly disobeying my command. And now because you are in a hard way again, You want to run to me now and the consequences are coming? As a dad, I've been there. You tell your kid, don't do it. Now you got them on your lap, and you're about ready to encourage some understanding To the seed of knowledge. And boy is there begging and forgiveness. And great grace of mercy is being besought. And the tears are flying. And as a dad, you go, oh, I just want to give in. I've been there multiple times. Why? Because the consequence is now here. What kind of dad would I be if I spared them of the consequence? What kind of dad would I be if I always spared that consequence? I told you repeatedly, child, do not do it. And now here we are, the tenth time in the last hour. And now you're begging and pleading for mercy. And you want it all to go away. And God, as our heavenly Father, I think, is telling Samuel. Can I just say, as you're about to get your spanking, the consequences come and the fall of your kingdom, of your reign is here. I will not answer you. This is basically the answer through Samuel. And the sad part is it's with his sons with all these things. And that's what we see in verse 24 and verse 15. It may be up on the screen. So said to Samuel, Oh, I've sinned! I've transgressed the commandment of the Lord and thy words, because I feared the people and obeyed their voice. He's doing what he's doing. Can't concept what's coming. I don't want it. I obeyed the people because you wanted to look good in front of the people. That's why if you try and please man, it's a snare It really is. It entraps you and it binds you in that sin. And you get trapped and enslaved by the sin. And some very interesting notes here at the end. Very quickly. You know in verse eighteen, that word obeyest. I just want to point this out. You know that's the same word as hearken in verse twenty-two? Therefore thee, hearken thou also to the voice of the handmaid. So he's refusing to obey and to hearken to God. But what does he do? Even at the end of his life, he's been told he's gonna die in less than a day's time. But what's he do? I think it's just kind of interesting. He listens to this woman. And then he listens to the people to eat. Now I agree that he should have eaten. But I think it's just a simple point of he find he still gives in to what the people want to please them Even to the very end. He's not repenting here. He's not asking God to forgive him even yet. What's he he's doing what he's always done? I'm trying to please people. Trying to make them happy. Very interesting. And then in verse 23, same word, this is the same word, for hearkened, it's the same word as obey us, it's the same word as hearken. In verse 23 , says for the servants said together with the woman, compelling him, and he hearkened unto their voice. All the way up to the very end, he's listening to people. He's pleasing people and not the Lord. He loves his sin. He loves himself. So when we step back at the big picture of this again, go back to where I started. Will we obey the Word of God? And if we do disobey, and we will Will we repent and turn to our God who has sent Jesus Christ to pay for that sin on our behalf? Father, we are so thankful for this passage. Sometimes we can do a passage like this and think Lord, yeah, he deserved every bit of it and he did. But when we think of this truth and apply it to our lives personally, the iniquity that is in mine heart, Father, would we Not wait to the very end, receiving the consequence to get right with you. Would we keep a short sin account with you? That we would desire to obey you and to please you, and yet when we fall short, could we come before you? with humble broken hearts, knowing that we just displeased our Heavenly Father, and to make it right to restore that fellowship with you again Would you encourage your people to be quick with their sin and make it right with you? And Father, help us to obey your words as we come before you through Christ's name. Amen. You know, we look at the life of Saul, it's it's a great tragedy. Because he had a legitimate opportunity as the king. And he had a lot going for him. But because of his willfulness or his willful disobedience, repeatedly. Eventually it caught up with him. And we need to remind ourselves, we read the scriptures in passages like this, that we will face consequences when we choose to push against God's God's commands as well. And so when we find ourselves in messy situations, while there's still hope, that's when we need to turn to the Lord. and crowd to him for mercy, and to do it with a real, genuine, humble heart, so that uh he can restore what is broken. But there does come a point where we cross the line, and that is exactly what we see in the life of Saul. So let that really be a warning to us this evening. Please let's turn our hymn books to our closing hymn 355. Jesus paid it all. And we'll sing this as we close out our day. Let's stand together, please. We'll sing the first and the last verses of 355. Jesus paid it all. I hear the Savior saves thy strength. Shall of wing and consent race Find and me thy own at all She that 's Oh mein Gold Stan was the Christian day in lunch in my snow and when we border. I stand in complete. Jesus died, my soul's saved, I said shall still repeat. Jesus paid. Oh, all you hear my foe, sing and like the Christian thing , he wash in white as snow. Well, I'm glad that you could join us this uh Lord's Day and hope that the services were a challenge and encouragement to you Uh pray for those who are sick and those who have traveled as I know that we have a good a number of folks that have traveled uh this week and uh hope that you'll be able to join us again Wednesday as we have our kids' classes uh in the back and also we have uh Sermon on the Mount and I mentioned that we are coming to the very end of that series, so just a couple of more um sections from the Sermon on the Mount and then on Wednesday nights we're going to be going through the book of 1 Corinthians. So That's a passage that maybe you've never heard anyone preach or teach through. And we're just going to work our way through verse by verse through the book of 1 Corinthians. And there's a lot. of really important material for us to cover there. So I hope that that'll be an encouragement to you. So we're coming close to the end of our Sermon on the Mount series and then we'll be getting into that book I'd like to ask if Brother Bill Phew can come and close us in prayer. And good to see each of you tonight. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you for showing us in your word tonight a story of as Pastor said, someone who had uh so much going for him and then was uh willfully disobeying you help us to see that as the example that it is and to learn to honor and follow you in all that we do, whether decisions are small or large. Um Please help us as we go home tonight that we would have safe journey and all those who are traveling safe journey as well. Bring us back here to worship you this Wednesday in Christ's name. Amen.