Well good morning. I want to welcome you back to another study. And we're in Psalm 31 again, verses 1 through 5, and we've been working our way through this passage of scripture. We've talked about uh David's being betrayed and the treachery and the pain that came with that, how David turned to the Lord in trust and confidence and strength. And uh then we talked about the weight of his sorrow and his trouble. Well this morning what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to see David's strength, because really what this psalm is, more than anything else, is not just about the weight of struggle. but the strength that God in his grace pours into our life. So let's read verses 1 through 5 again, and then we will keep working our way through this Psalm. Here's what it says. In thee, O Lord, do I put my trust. Let me never be ashamed. Deliver me in thy righteousness. Bow down thine ear to me. Deliver me speedily. Be thou my my strong rock for a house of defense to save me. For thou art my rock and my fortress. Therefore, for thy name's sake, lead me and guide me. Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me, for thou art my strength. Into thine hand I commit my spirit. Thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth. Now What I'd like us to do today is I'd like us to see the way that God strengthened David. And to do that, we need to see two aspects to this. One is that David is going to remind himself of some concrete objective truths about God, about God's character, about God's dealings in a general sense, and about how God has dealt with him personally. And as David reflects on truth, what it's going to do is it's going to press him into heartfelt praise. And this praise is going to be personal in its start, but it's going to be corporate in its end. And I want us to see these details. So first of all, let's look at the basis of David's confidence, and we find this sprinkled throughout verses three to eight. We see the words four and therefore mentioned over and over and over again in these verses. And what that shows us is that this is the basis or this is the reason that David can praise God and can be strengthened by God in spite of what has been a terribly difficult season of life for him. So the first thing I wanted you to notice is how He he notices or he reminds himself that God has continually protected him. In verse number three, it says this. He says, Thou art my rock and my fortress Now he uses the word rock, he's talking about a position where you are strong. Or when he talks about a fortress, he talks about a location where you are protected. He says, God, that's who you are. You are my rock and you are my fortress. And verse 3, he says, for your namesake, lead me and guide me. You say, well, why does David mention for your namesake? Well, it's because David understands that his identity is rooted in God. The reason that God is going to defend him, and the reason that God has defended him, and the reason he has confidence that God will defend him is because he belongs to God. He is God's child. To put it in a New Testament sense, you would say, because we are in Christ God protects those who are in Christ. We belong to Him. This is our identity. So he's reminding himself not just of God's character. But God's position that He has established, that He has been united into, He has been placed in. And verse 4, he says You are my strength. And he emphasizes the fact that God not just has been his strength and will be his strength, but he is his strength. That means that David is sometimes able to stand strong and fight and defend, not because the strength is inherent in him, but it's because God is giving him such strength. In verse 5, he says, You have redeemed me. He says, Thou hast redeemed me. And you might say, Well, redemption? Why is he talking about redemption? Well, what he's doing is he's talking about how his identity is rooted in him. He would not have this identity in him if it wasn't for God's grace and it wasn't for the redemptive nature of salvation. And so when David uses terms like redeemed, he's emphasizing the fact that he has a relationship with God that has been established on the basis of the payment of a price. He belongs to God because God has bought him. And we know that redemption comes through who? It comes through the person of Christ. His death and his uh his resurrection. And so there is a gospel-oriented overtone to this particular detail. And then in verses 7 and 8 he says, you have considered my trouble, you have known my soul in adversity. You have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy, thou hast set my feet in a large room. What is this verse or what do these verses express? They express that God is merciful When God looks down at his child, who he has redeemed, who is identifying or his whose identity is rooted in him, he says, I'm going to strengthen you. I'm going to be your rock. I'm going to be your fortress and I am going to show compassion and mercy on you in your moment of vulnerability and weakness. What is David ultimately doing? He's reminding himself of objective realities about the nature of God, the character of God, the dealings of God, and how God has personally dealt with him in his own story. And that is what we have to do when we experience internal turmoil and trouble. Yes, the emotions are there. Yes, they're real. Yes, they're heavy. Yes, it's true that there are injustices maybe we've experienced. And yes, it is true. that we have been dealt a difficult blow. But it is also true that God protects us. Our identity is rooted in Him. He strengthens us. He's redeemed us. And he is merciful to us. That's where David is going with this. The words for and therefore tell us this is the basis of David's confidence. But the second thing I want you to notice is that this reminder of objective truths presses David to praise God, to worship God. And it begins as a personal type of worship, but it ends in a corporate kind of worship. Notice what he says in verse 19. He says, Oh, how great is thy goodness which thou hast laid up for those who fear them. He had tasted the goodness of God, and he is praising God's name because he has Tasted of God's goodness. Or in verse 21 he says, Blessed be the Lord, for he has showed me his marvelous kindness in a strong city. He says, I have tasted God's protection. And so he praises God. Or in verse 23 and 24 he says, O love the Lord. Verse 22, I'm sorry, I'm getting ahead of myself. He says, I said in my haste, I'm cut off from before thine eyes. Nevertheless, you heard the voice of my supplication. I love this statement because he says, I've tasted God's intervention on my behalf. Even when my confidence and my faith was faltering, you still heard my cries and you've delivered me and I praise you. What's David saying God, you are good. God, you protect. God, you've intervened, and I want to testify of that personally. But that's not where it stops. David turns his attention from personal praise to corporate praise. He calls for other believers. to delight with him. And so he says it this way Love the Lord, all ye his saints. The Lord preserveth the faithful and plentifully rewardeth the faithful the proud doer. Be of good courage. He shall strengthen your heart, O ye that hope in the Lord. What is David doing? He's calling other people. To find strength in the strength that God has given him, and he is calling them to worship with him. Folks, this is a beautiful picture of what we should do every single Lord's Day. We're reminded of basic objective truths about the nature of God, the dealings of God, and then it's personalized. And then we of with a heart that is thinking about truth, we express praise to God individually, and then we do it as a body. And that is what the gathering of the church is all about. Corporate praise. Where did David find his strength? He found his strength in reminding himself of truth, personal praise, and corporate worship Let me summarize it this way. David said, God, I know I'm in trouble. And what does he do? He confesses that reality. He directs his attention to God. He pours out his heart transparently. He begins with a confession. Then he moves to prayer. He passionately pleads with God. to act on his behalf. He says, God, please intervene on my behalf. Then he moves from confession and prayer to a refocus. He reminds himself of God's character and God's ways. And from that refocus it presses him into praise. He calls on others to join him in passionate, mutually uplifting praise. It calls him to intentional living. He embraced the strength of corporate worship with like-minded believers. You say, Joel, what's the takeaway? The takeaway is if you want to be strengthened like David was strengthened, you have to follow the godly path of processing these kinds of realities in the same way that he did. Confession. Pour out your heart to God Prayer. Plead with him to intervene on your behalf. Refocus. Remind yourself of objective truth. Praise him as an individual. And then make sure that you do not neglect the corporate worship of the saints. as a body. Let's be strengthened together in corporate worship. That's the takeaway from the Psalm this morning. I hope that as you think about these truths, you will take the truth And not just be a hearer of the word, but a doer of the word. Let's apply the text that we've read this morning. Have a blessed day. And Lord willing, tomorrow we will close out with some final thoughts of application.