Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. Today we are continuing our study in the book of James. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and turn with me to James chapter 1. Today we're going to be reading James chapter 1, and we are going to read verses 13 down to verse 16. Again, that's James chapter 1, verses 13 through 16. I'll begin reading. Let no man say, when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempth he any man. But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death Do not err, my beloved brethren. The passage that we're looking at this morning is an extremely practical and important passage for us to understand. So let me begin. with a simple summary statement, and from that summary statement we're going to get into some of the details of these verses. James wanted the church to resist the natural tendency to deflect responsibility when they were faced with temptation. In other words, when people face pressure and they stumble and they fail and they don't handle things correctly, One of the things that we are very prone to do is rather than taking responsibility for our own actions, our own emotions, our own responses, We want to deflect that to somebody else. In fact, think about the example of Eve and Adam when they were in the garden. So God puts a test in the garden. The purpose of that test, that tree, the fruit with the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil. It was not to see Adam and Eve sin. It was to see them demonstrate that they were faithful, that they obeyed God, and it was to demonstrate their fitness to rule over God's creation. And so the purpose of the test was not to see them fall, but it had the potential for them to fall. And we see that that Eve takes the fruit, she eats it, she hands it to her husband, he eats it. He understands fully what he's doing When God comes to them and he talks to them about it and he asks them, what have you done? Adam says, the woman that you gave me gave me the fruit. Eve says, the serpent deceived me. What do we see in that? We see that rather than Adam saying, I chose to sin, it was on me. Instead he indicts God. He says, You gave me a wife. She gave me the fruit. The reason that I did this ultimately lies on your shoulders. We see that natural tendency in Adam and we see that in Eve. And the truth is we see it in ourselves And so James wants to address that issue and say, you cannot deflect your responsibility and put it on God's shoulders So let's look at a couple of simple observations from this passage that help us to understand how we should look at this issue of temptation. The first observation is this. Temptation is a regular part of living in a fallen world, and so is an unwillingness to take personal responsibility for actions. Now when I say it's a regular part of living in a fallen world, The point that I'm trying to make is, I'm a fallen creature. You're a fallen creature. Every single person around us has a sin nature. This is a world that's been corrupted by sin and the fall. And because of that, we are going to face temptation. We shouldn't be shocked when it happens. We need to be prepared for when it happens. We need to have a game plan if you want to put it in those terms And so notice the way that he puts it in verse 13. He says, let no man say when he's tempted. The verse is a command, and the command is set in a warning. You are going to face these situations. He also says, when you do, don't say that it's God's fault. So we understand that temptation is a regular part. Of living in a fallen world, we're gonna deal with it. A second observation is this: when we have an unhealthy view of God's sovereignty and goodness The next step will be to accuse God for our problems. Now when I say an unhealthy understanding of God's goodness and sovereignty, we recognize that God rules over all things. And so God has the ability to limit the things that I deal with. God has the ability to allow me to go through certain things. And so someone might say, well, if God had the ability to stop me from facing this trial or temptation Well then ultimately it's his fault that I went through it. Now that's an unhealthy view of God's sovereignty. When we talk about God's goodness, we're saying Rather than viewing God as the one who ultimately wants to see us pass the test, he wants us to be able to demonstrate that we have grown and matured in certain areas, we see God as one who's trying to lure us into evil. Both of those are a misunderstanding, really, an indictment of God and who he really is. So look at verse 13, he says, let no man say when he's tempted. I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. God's sovereignty extends into every area of life. But this does not mean that God is responsible to insulate us from every potential alertment or to test our character, nor does God allow testing with a desire for us to fall. Let me give you some examples from other passages that help us to see this. Think about the Lord's Prayer. Jesus says, when you pray, our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth, as it is in heaven. And then he goes on to say this, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Now, when Jesus teaches us to pray in that way, he's basically saying we need to ask God to protect us from circumstances where we're going to be tested and tempted, where we are going to be allured into evil. We need to ask God to protect us. And that's a totally appropriate thing to ask, and there are times that God does that. In fact, there are a lot of things that we don't experience, that we don't pass through simply because God has preserved us and protected us from those things. But God's not responsible to always insulate us from those kinds of things. And so we see the second aspect of what Jesus says. He says And deliver us from evil. In other words, I know that there are times that we have to face testing, that we will go through the trial. And in those situations, we're asking God to deliver us. We think about another example of Jesus going into the wilderness at the very beginning of his earthly ministry, right after his baptism at the Jordan River. And it says he was led of God into the wilderness to be tempted. Now the idea is that God said, you need to go into this place at this time, and it wasn't because the Father wanted to see him fall, it was that he needed to demonstrate his righteousness. In other words, as Christ, the righteous one, is tempted with evil, God is demonstrating the righteousness of Christ in those circumstances. And so it's not that God wanted to see the Lord Jesus sin. He wanted to see the Lord Jesus demonstrate his righteousness. God does the same kind of thing with you and me. He wants us to demonstrate where we have grown and matured as we go through circumstances. I think of another example. It says that Christ was tempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. And therefore we are to come boldly before the throne of grace. find mercy and grace to help in time of need. And the idea is not only does God at times allow us to go through testing and allow us to face temptation, But he is always there to provide an escape, to pour grace into our circumstance, to help us in that time of need. It's not as if God is on the sidelines going, I hope you fail. He's saying, I'm coming alongside of you. to strengthen and encourage you as you go through that difficulty. I also think about another passage where it says that God is God will not allow us to be tempted above that we're able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that we'll may be able to bear it. So when we talk about God's sovereignty and how it relates to testing and temptation, while God is fully able to preserve us and insulate us from all testing and trials that we face , God at times doesn't do that. And the reason is because he has purpose in it. The second thing I'm going to mention under this observation is that our character has to be tested. And the way it's tested is in life circumstances. For instance, you could say that a person's patient, but the question is how do you know that a person's patient? Or you could say that a person is humble or a person is gracious or a person is strong or they have courage or they have faith. What do those qualities being ascribed to a person matter? If there's not a set of circumstances where patience is demonstrated, courage is demonstrated, faith is demonstrated, strength is demonstrated. In other words, the only way that you can see that somebody has those qualities is they have to go through situations that demonstrate that those qualities are there. So in the first part of James 1, basically James is indicating that God uses trials to develop us, to strengthen us, to mature us. Now we say that God uses trials to demonstrate that we have matured. In other words, there's two sides to how testing demonstrates and strengthens us. A third observation that we find is this. Sin always is the result of a process that starts in our hearts, not just the arrangement of our circumstances. In verse 14 he says, but every man is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lust. and enticed. In other words, the circumstances that we encounter are not the ultimate source of our temptation. They may be a catalyst That sort of gets the ball rolling in our hearts. But ultimately, temptation begins in us. It's because we're fallen creatures. That's where it starts. That is really the ultimate beginning point of temptation and then ultimately sin. In verse 15 he says, when lust hath conceived. It brings forth sin. In other words, the desire for the bit forbidden becomes a sinful act as we begin to embrace the desire. So the fact that a person faces temptation doesn't mean that they've sinned. It means that they are in a process that will lead potentially to sin if they don't respond correctly to those desires that are beginning to boil up in their hearts. But we see that sin is the result of a process, and that process begins within our own hearts. And also in verse 15 it says, and sin when it's finished brings forth death. The ultimate end result of sin is destructive. It separates us from God. It separates us from the people around us. This is a battle that we absolutely need to have victory over. So someone I might ask the question, well what about impulsive sins? I mean, there are some people that the truth is they respond in anger without having premeditated at all. I mean we're experiencing uh the the shutdown right now And so a person doesn't have the ability to go to work every day. They're working from home. Their kids are trying to school them at home and they're not normally doing that. Usually they send them off to school. And so they're facing all these pressures and all of a sudden there's just an eruption of anger uh just just in a moment. Or maybe somebody has an addiction and it's like an impulsive desire. Like without thinking it through in a in a in a moment A person will just go and do something and they do it over and over and over again repeatedly and they say, this doesn't seem to square with that kind of a response, this impulsive sin. I'm not thinking this through. There's no premeditation on my part. There's no a process of temptation. It's just it happens in a moment. Let me say something about that. Those reactions are not the result of pre-meditation. And a process, right now, they're actually the result of a process that has been established over a long period of time. In other words, reactions flow out of patterns that we've developed over time. If we want to change impulsive behavior that's sinful. . We have to recognize that that impulsive behavior is the result of thinking that has been established over a period of time . decisions and responses that have developed over a period of time, affections, desires that have developed over a period of time. In fact, when we talk about impulsive sinful behaviors, patterns of sin, what we're looking at is this verse, not in a five-minute period of time, but perhaps over a decade. And so our reactions that are flowing out of these patterns are going to take time to be able to address because the patterns that we are in have been established over a long period of time. So someone might ask, well, well, Pastor, how do we take what we've talked about, sin, temptation, and how do we just practically live in the light of these trees? How do we apply these? I want to have victory over sin. I deal with sin all the time. And I as a pastor do. There are areas in my life that I am prone to be the impulsive one. And so are you. How do we get victory over these things? How can we have a sustained sense of victory when we have failed over and over and over again? Let me give you a couple of thoughts that I think flow out of this passage and will be a help to you this morning. The first is this. I should not be shocked when I deal with temptation in my own life or in the lives of the people that I'm dealing with. You know, when I as a pastor, sometimes people are very hesitant to to come and talk to me about a problem. And uh when I was under a pastor and I was dealing with personal issues, particularly as a teenager. I was so hesitant to go to somebody in authority and say, I have this issue. Can you be an encouragement tea? Can you can you help me? I don't know how to deal with this thing. We we are we are very afraid to talk to people when we have issues. And one of the things that we should realize is that, you know, if somebody's a dad or a mom or a pastor or a Sunday school teacher, If they have experience in a biblical worldview and somebody comes to them and they say, I have this issue, they shouldn't be shocked at all. They should recognize that, you know what, we're fallen creatures. We live in a fallen world and temptation happens. It's a part of the world we live in. We experience it personally. The people around us experience it. And so we need to recognize, first of all, that we need to be ready, not shocked, when temptation occurs. A second thing is this. Victory begins with a willingness to take personal responsibility for my sin and that I am ultimately the source of temptation. We have to come face to face with the reality that it's not God's fault that I've said. It's not my wife's fault or my kids' fault or my boss's fault. It's my fault. In other words, those circumstances that were the catlass that stirred up my heart internally are not the ultimate source. There are other people that can go through the same set of circumstances. And they deal with the temptation correctly. The truth is I have to take personal responsibility for the decisions I make. I have to take personal responsibility for the patterns over time that I've established And if I want victory, I shouldn't be shocked when temptation comes, nor should I deflect and put the responsibility on someone else's shoulders. A third thought is this. I need to see that my sinful actions are always the result of a process. Now, this is a process that could have taken place in a few minutes This may be the result of a process that has developed over months, over years, over decades. The process is there. When I sin, there is a pattern of thinking a pattern of responses that may have happened quickly or over a long period of time that are ultimately the source of that impulsive or premeditated decision. And I have to recognize that the process is there, and the only way to root out the sinful behavior is to address the process. In other words, it's not just dealt with in the moment, but it's dealt with what led us to the moment. A fourth thing is this. Sustainable victory in an area of temptation will rarely happen immediately, especially when we have a well-developed, long-standing pattern of thought or behavior. You know, there are some people that would give us the impression, and maybe they don't mean to, but they do, and maybe a statement that they make, a cliche , that when we sin, well, it's only about what happened now. And we can have victory now and we can deal with it now. And they fail to realize that it's not just the decision that we made now. But it's that the decision we made now is rooted in decisions we made over a long period of time. In other words, when somebody does something very serious and very hurtful , It's because over a period of time they were making decisions that led up to that very hurtful and very damaging behavior. Next, victory comes by God's grace and through the tools that He has provided for us, not by blaming Him for our problems. Folks, God has given us what we need to have victory over sin. He's given us his word. He's given us the tools that we need. He's given us his spirit. He's given us a new nature. We have the tools. to be able to have victory. And we have to take those tools and we have to properly apply them. You know, when we talk about God's word, one of the important parts about meditating on the scriptures is that as we meditate on the scriptures It begins to change how we think. And as it changes how we think, it changes how we view the world around us. And from there it begins to change our affections and it begins to address our patterns The truth is that studying the scripture, meditating on the scripture, internalizing the scripture is an incredibly important part of dealing with temptation. And as we put the word in our heart and as we respond right to the word Then we begin to address those patterns that lead to sinful behaviors. , Lastly, I want to mention this. The daily battles that we face with sin and temptation are serious. And they need to be one. I want to encourage you this morning, take this passage of scripture, think it through, dig into it, meditate on it. And live in the light of it. God wants us to have victory. He has always provided a way of escape. He has provided us the daily grace we need to deal with temptation. And he brings people into our lives that can help us work on addressing those patterns of behavior and thought that need to be rooted out so that we respond correctly in certain circumstances. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and I hope this has been an encouragement to you today. Father, we pray that you'll take these words, use them for your honor and glory, strengthen us through them, help us to think correctly about temptation, our relationship to you and temptation. in our relationship to uh to ultimately the decisions that we make. Father, help us to be a people who don't deflect responsibility, but that we embrace responsibility. That we don't take quick fixes, but we recognize that patterns are broken down over time, and that we're willing to do the work that we need to with the tools that you provided by your strength and by your enabling. so that we can be a people who walk in a way that pleases you. We ask that you bless those who have joined us this morning. May you encourage them through your word. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see you this morning. I hope that you have a great morning, and I'll look forward to seeing you guys next time we're together. Bye now.