Alright, if you could take your Bibles, turn with me to First Timothy chapter five. We are working our way through the pastoral epistles And the passage that we're dealing with tonight is an extremely practical and very interesting passage. It's probably one that you have not heard preached on very many times in a church here in the United States. The truth is that this is something that a lot of times we probably take for granted. But the reality is that this text not only gives us a very important situation. that the church has a responsibility to address and to deal with, but it also gives us a lot of practical insights that really filter into other areas of life that are not exactly this scenario, but the truth is that You'll see what we're talking about in a few minutes, but really there are situations where we have a responsibility or we have a judgment call when it comes to helping people who are in time of need. So with that in mind, let's look at 1 Timothy 5. We're going to start in verse 3, and we're going to work our way through several verses together. I guess I won't tell you unless it tells you. Okay. 1 Timothy 5. 3, it says this. Honor widows that are widows indeed, but if any widow have children or nephews Let them learn first to show piety at home, and to requit their parents, for that is good and acceptable before God. Now she that is a widow indeed and desolate trusteth in God and continueth in supplications and prayers night and day. But she that liveth in pleasure is dead while she liveth And these things give in charge that they may be blameless. But if any provide not for his own, and especially those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel. Let not a woman, a widow, be taken into the number under three score years old, having been the wife of one man well reported of for good works. If she hath brought up children, if she has lodged strangers, if she hath washed the saints' feet, if she hath relieved the afflicted, if she hath diligently followed every good work. But the younger widows refuse, for when they've begun to wax wanton against Christ, they will marry, having damnation because they have cast off their first faith. And withal they learned to be idle, wandering from house to house, and not only idle, but tattlers also, and busybodies speaking things which they ought not. I will, therefore, that the younger women marry, bear children, guide the house, give none occasion to the adversary to speak reproachfully. For some are already turned aside after Satan. If any man or woman that believeth have widows, let them relieve them, and let not the church be charged, that it may relieve them that are widows indeed. Now when we came to this passage of scripture, I'm sure that there were things when you read it you said, what in the world is that talking about? Or wow, this is a really interesting scenario. In fact, a lot of times in our church environment, when we have someone who uh who passes away and a a wife is left who's a widow, a lot of times that person is quite a bit older, and there are sometimes younger widows But a lot of times we don't think of the fact that it's possible that that person may be in such a difficult position now that they're a widow. that the church may have to consider, not just consider, but may actually have an obligation, a duty to make sure that that individual is financially cared for. Now this is something that's very foreign to our minds. The truth is that we encourage people that they should get a life insurance policy so that if If something were to happen and that the the husband were to die, the wife would have a way that she could pay off her house, a way that she could be provided for, all different kinds of things. We don't think about these kinds of scenarios, but I want you to realize that at the time that this was written, this was a really big problem. And apparently there was a serious problem at Ephesus, in fact so serious that in this book that's dealing with problems in the church Paul takes almost an entire chapter to address this issue of how to relate to widows in the church. Widows who had children, widows who had nieces and nephews, widows who didn't have any living family members at all. So in this passage, we're going to see that there's specific instruction given to how we are to relate to widows so that the church will know how to counsel and care for those who are the most vulnerable. You might say, well, Pastor, it doesn't seem like at this time we're dealing with this scenario. Well, the reality is you don't know if one day we will have to deal with that scenario. We absolutely don't. In fact, there have been individuals in our church and in churches in this community that have fallen into very similar situations. And when they have, the church really needs to consider how do we make sure that this person is taken care of. But even beyond that specific situation We also see some extremely important principles that talk about how to show kindness and love and mercy and even to provide financially for a person who is in a very difficult position. And one of the things that we realize is that as God's people, we do need to look out for the most vulnerable. And really, one of the things that Paul has emphasized is that the church is a family. We are not biologically related to one another like we have the same mom and dad or the same grandparents, so we're not necessarily cousins, though I know some people in our church are related to one another. But the reality is, even though we don't have that biological connection as immediate cousins or siblings, the reality is that we do have a bond in Christ that makes us a part of the same family. So he's talked about that What we're going to see from this text is that God wants us to compassionately guide and care for those who are most vulnerable. And so with that in mind, we're going to answer the question of how do we do that? The first truth we're going to see is this. We need to be family to the vulnerable. Let me say that again. We need to be family to the vulnerable. The reality is even if we don't have a person that is in this exact position. The one that's going to be laid out in this text. And we might say, well, we don't have a financial obligation to actually make sure that this person has food on their table. a place to stay, that we're literally taking care of them as if they were our own parents. We still need to recognize that within our congregation There are, there will be, there can be people who are extremely vulnerable. They are so vulnerable that we need to look out for them. And the way that we do that is we first of all have to have the eyes to see the situations that people are going through The fact is that when people come to church on a Sunday morning or a Sunday night or a Wednesday night, we don't always realize the kinds of things that they might be dealing with. And they may even be a little bit reluctant to share that. And that's kind of understandable to be honest with you. But there does come a point maybe in praying with someone or getting to know them, maybe you go and you visit them, whatever the situation. You begin to be aware that there is need. Not just want, but there's genuine need. We as the church need to see them as family. We actually need to look out for one another. And that's extremely important. And it's interesting. We see this sense in verse 3 where he says this, honor widows. who are widows indeed. Now he's going to make a distinction between widows and widows indeed. Not because they're in a different position in the sense that they they both don't have a husband. But the reality is that one is more vulnerable than the other, and you'll see in a little bit why he makes that distinction. But he says, honor widows. What does he mean by honor? Well, it's interesting when we look at this word, we find the exact same word used in Ephesians chapter 6. Verse 2. And let's not forget that Ephesians and 1 Timothy were written to the same church. Okay? So Paul is writing to the church at Ephesus. And he says in Ephesians 6. 2, he says, honor thy father and thy mother. The word honor has the idea of give them reverence. Give them weight. Treat them as valuable as precious. Now we understand After going through life and raising our own kids and going through the challenges of life, we begin to appreciate to a much greater degree As our parents get older, the kind of labors that they go through to put food on the table, to make sure that we're clothed properly, to make sure we have a place to sleep. To make sure that we get the schooling that we need to make sure that we're at church, we begin to appreciate that far more the older we get And so, in some sense, there is a natural desire, particularly if you have a good mom and dad, someone who was very faithful and diligent, there is a there is a desire and a willingness to honor. But the Bible doesn't just say you only honor mom and dad if they're good and godly and they do what is right. But you honor them because they're mom and dad. Have. And that doesn't mean that they're always perfect. It doesn't mean that they're always right. It doesn't mean that they're supposed to run your life every single moment of every day. But because of that relationship We have an obligation to show them honor, to treat them with the greatest of respect and reverence, to treat them as valuable. And here's the reality. There comes a point in our relationship to our parents that they go from taking care of us To we go to taking care of them. It's true. In fact, several people in our congregation, you're getting into that stage of life. And so you remember what it was like to take care of your small children and you go, mom and dad did this for me, and all of a sudden now the roles have reversed, and you're taking care of a parent who is aging. And they're not able to do the things that they used to do. And you know, the thing that helps a a a child, and when I say child, I don't mean a young person necessarily, you might be sixty years old taking care of mom and dad. But the reality is that the reason you do that is because you show them honor. You treat them as valuable, as precious. Sadly, one of the things that's being lost in our culture is a reverence and an awe of those who are elderly. We understand we're supposed to do this with mom and dad. What about somebody that's not mom and dad? What about somebody in the church that has no relation to you apart from the fact that they're a part of this congregation? How should you relate to that person? Well, in the context of this passage, if someone is a widow, a widow indeed, a vulnerable person woman who has lost her husband and she is in the the category that's being talked about here, you are to honor her, in other words, treat her just like you would your own mom and your own dad. It's pretty amazing. In other words, you're supposed to treat her like she's family. And it's not just in the context talking about the fact of treating this person with dignity, respect putting weight and reverence toward this individual, but it implies financial care. And we're going to see that because he talks about the the way that you put a person on the role. Just like you would pay a pastor, just like you would pay someone who is ministering in the word because of the labor, there can be a situation where you could have individuals in the church who are being taken care of in that kind of a way. And that's what he means by honor. So what is a widow indeed This is a really important question. In fact, he's going to answer that. And the idea is that he's talking about a very specific category of women, of widow And he's going to develop that over the course of this section. But before we get into this section of dealing with a widow indeed, I think it's important for us to understand that what he's laying out for us in the New Testament is not a new concept. Now it's a new context, okay? The local church did not exist in the Old Testament. In the Old Testament, you had a Jewish Theocracy. You had a nation that was guided by God. He was ultimately the king. His law was the law of the land. But I want you to realize that the principles that are actually directed towards the church and how we are to relate to people in this situation is something that was established all the way back into the Old Testament. I want you to see that God has always had a heart of compassion for those who are in this vulnerable position. And so let's look at the Old Testament background. The first passage I want you to turn to is Deuteronomy chapter 10. In Deuteronomy chapter 10, we're going to see that God cares about the vulnerable. God cares about those who are in a position of weakness and inability to protect themselves and inability to take care of themselves, or maybe they can, but it's very limited in what they're able to do. They have a lot working against them. Listen to what he says in Deuteronomy 10, verses 17 to 20. The Lord your God is God of gods. The Lord of Lords, a great God, a mighty and terrible, which regardeth not persons, nor taketh reward. Now, when he says he doesn't regard persons, the idea is that God is impartial in how he deals with people. So God doesn't look at one person and say, I'm going to show you favoritism because I just like you. You're more valuable to me. And this other person says, you know, move to the side. I don't need to deal with you. God isn't like that. He's impartial. The idea is he sees people as valuable, not because of their financial position, not because of their giftedness or any other quality like that. God sees them as valuable because they're created in his image. And so he does not regard persons, nor does he take reward. The idea is that God can't be bribed by man. But he then goes on to say this. He does execute the judgment of the fatherless and the widow. And when he talks about executing the judgment, the idea is that God is saying in His Word that when a person is fatherless, or when a person is a widow, that that person is vulnerable. And especially if a society is not righteous. If a society is very immoral or vicious or evil and people are looking out for ways to take advantage of other people, in a society like that, there are times that the fatherless, the widow, the person in the vulnerable position is going to be not only disadvantaged, but taken advantage of by people who have power and the ability to do that. How does God respond to that? The Bible says that God executes judgment. In other words, he vindicates those people who are fatherless and widowed. He then goes on to say this, he loveth the stranger, and giving him food and raiment. In other words, there were people that came into Israel that were foreigners. One of the things that people misunderstand about the Old Testament is that they get into their minds that God only loved the Jewish people. That is so far from the truth. In fact, when we look at the lineage of Christ, we can see there are women mentioned, women mentioned in the genealogy of Christ who were foreigners. They were not Jews. They were Gentiles. Think of Rahab. God delighted in putting Rahab into the lineage of Christ. Look at Ruth, another individual, part of the lineage of Christ. Don't forget that when David was running from for his life From Saul, where did he go? He went to Moab, and there's a reason he went to Moab. He had family in Moab, believe it or not. David had a connection to the Gentile world. And the reality is that there were people that lived around the Jewish people that while they saw in their culture the worshiping of idols, they came to the conclusion they were idols. And they wanted to worship and serve the God of Israel. And so they came to live amongst God's people, not to infiltrate and to drag the people into idolatry, but because they really believed in the God of Israel. In fact, it's really interesting how many times in the Old Testament we see stories of God taking care of somebody who's a Gentile. Think about the widow at Zarephath. You know that story? How Elisha goes to her house? She was a Gentile. Okay? So we see a lot of examples of this. Gentiles in the Old Testament. He says, God loves the stranger. And so he says this: Love ye therefore the stranger. For ye were strangers in the land of Egypt. Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God, him shalt thou serve, and to him shalt thou cleave. and swear by his name. And basically what this passage in Deuteronomy is saying is this just like God loves the stranger and God loves the widow and God loves the fatherless And he looked out for people in that position. You need to have the heart of your of your father. You need to love people just like that. One of the reasons that God's people are known to be merciful, benevolent, good, gracious, is because we have a heart that reflects the heart. Of our Father. In Psalm 68, verse 5, it says that God is a father of the fatherless A judge of the widows. And when he uses the term judge, again, he vindicates those who are in this position. God is holy in his habitation. The reason I bring up these passages is because I want you to realize God cares about the vulnerable. So when we come to 1 Timothy chapter 5, and he talks about a widow indeed, and he says you need to actually Take that lady, put her on the roll, and take care of her financially. And there are certain criteria, okay? It's just not necessarily to absolute every single lady in this situation. There are specific details mentioned But there's a reason we see this. It's because God cares about the vulnerable. But it's not just that God's heart is moved with compassion towards the vulnerable. God actually is going to take action, legal action, to protect the vulnerable. And God warns against taking advantage of those in that position. In Exodus 22, he says, ye shall not afflict any widow or fatherless child. On the other side, what he says is, here are some protections that I'm putting in place for these individuals So, first of all, we see that God's law provided two kinds of protections to the vulnerable. Turn with me to Deuteronomy chapter 14. You're going to see the first of these two kinds of protections that God put in place. This is very interesting. I know that a lot of people are against the concept of, we could say, welfare. What you're going to find out is that there was a kind of welfare system in Israel, believe it or not. And it wasn't uh just a, you know, sit back on your hands and let people give you what you want. There is uh an industrious side to this. But I want you to realize that God provided a way to protect and defend and care and meet the needs of those who were in this kind of a place. In Deuteronomy 14, 27, he says this, The Levite that is within thy gate, thou shalt not forsake him. Now what's really interesting is when we think of Levites, we tend to, when we move into the New Testament context, we tend to think, well, the parallel idea to the Levite is the pastor, okay? The pastor preaches God's word, and so he lives with the preaching of the gospel. Well in the Old Testament, you had the Levites. They didn't own land, they didn't have a an area that was that was dedicated to them like all the other tribes. Their job was to travel around in Israel to preach and teach the law, to make sure that people understood that. Their job was to be involved in the temple worship and sacrifice and running of festivals and feasts and all those things. So they didn't actually farm and they didn't have land that they would take care of. So how did those people eat? Well, here's how they did it. The Levite that's within thy gate, thou shalt not forsake him, for he hath no part. nor inheritance with thee. In other words, the Levite didn't have land that he could go to and farm and take care of. So he was completely dependent on the gifts, the offerings, the tithes. That were being given by people in the land. This is kind of interesting. If the Levites were growing lean, it was probably because the people were not giving. Okay. And if the Levites are growing fat, then sometimes people said they must have been taking advantage of their position. But we understand That the Levites who were preaching and teaching the law, who did not have an inheritance of land, were taken care of by the tithes. We understand that. But I want you to realize that when we study the tithing system and the land of Israel in the Old Testament, it wasn't just a 10% tithe. It was a 10% every year. On the third year, on the sixth year, it was an additional 10%. That was 20%. Okay? So there were actually several tithes. that were paid by the Jewish people. And we're going to talk about this one right here. He says at the end of the third year, so this would be the same thing on the sixth year. And then the seventh year was the year of Jubilee, okay? So you had a seven-year rotation. At the end of the three years, thou shalt bring forth all the tithes of thine increase the same year. And shall lay it up within the gates. Now, when he talks about tithes in this context, he's not really talking about money. This is an agrarian context. So people are bringing grain and corn and wheat and those kinds of things, produce. He says you bring it to the gate and the Levite, because he hath no partner inheritance with thee, and the stranger and the fatherless and the widow, which are within thy gates, that shall come and shall eat and be satisfied. And the Lord thy God that the Lord thy God may bless thee in all the works of thy hands which thou doest. So the idea is it wasn't just the Levite who was taken care of by the tithe. It was also the fatherless, the widow, the stranger. Now here's the question. Why? Why the fatherless? Why the widow? Why the stranger? And here's the answer. Because they did not have the ability to farm lands. If you moved into Israel and you were a Gentile, guess what you did not have? Land. And if it's an agrarian society, guess what you don't have when you have land? Food. Okay? Kind of tough, isn't it? So they'd have to marry into a Jewish family, and then they would have an inheritance. But when they moved into that, they were in an extremely vulnerable position. So what happens if someone's spouse dies? Do they have the ability to farm that land? Maybe they don't even have the land anymore and they end up back in their family's house. What happens if you don't have a father, if you're in that orphaned position? You're extremely vulnerable. You don't have a way to take care of yourself. It's not that you're being lazy. It's not that you don't want to work. It's that you do not have the potential in that certain situation to be able to take care of yourself. And so what happens? God provides a way that they can do that. But there's a second way that God provided, and it's kind of interesting that he provides These two ways because the reality is they cover two different time periods during the year. They cover the time when there's a harvest And everybody's going out into their fields and they're gathering their wheat and their barley and their grain and their grapes and all those things. And it also covers the lean times when nobody's out in the fields. gathering things because we need to realize people were not like harvesting all year. So you went out and you gathered your crop and then at the end of that time, what did you do? You lived off of what you gathered. So here's what we see. We see that they were responsible to leave a portion of the crop unharvested so that those who were vulnerable could have a dignified way to take care of themselves. It's an amazing concept. Deuteronomy 24 talks about this. In fact, when we read the book of Ruth, we see that this is what Ruth did. She is a foreigner. She is a widow. She's living with her mother-in-law, who's also a widow. They're in a very desperate and difficult position. But it says they came during the barley season. They came when they were harvesting. And the reality is that when they came, it was a time that she could go out into the field and she could actually work and bring food home. Here's what it says in Deuteronomy 24, 17. Thou shalt not pervert the judgment of the stranger, nor of the fatherless, nor take the widow's raiment to pledge. He's saying, listen, if you have a person who's destitute and you give them something and say, okay. It's a loan. What can you give me to guarantee I'm getting paid back? Don't take their cloth that keeps them warm at night. Have a heart of compassion on this person. Treat them with dignity and respect. That's what he's saying. He says, Thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in Egypt, and the Lord thy God redeemed thee fence. Therefore I command thee, do not this thing. In other words, remember what it was like to be a slave in Egypt? How can you treat people with the same lack of dignity that you as a people were treated with? He's saying treat people with respect. Care about them. Love them. Show them mercy. You know what it's like to be in that position. That's what he's saying. He then goes on to say this, I command thee to do this thing. When thou cuttest down thine harvest in the field, and hast forgotten a sheep in the field, thou shalt not go again to fetch it. It shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, for the widow, that the Lord thy God may bless thee in all the work of thine hands. When thou beatest thine olive trees, thou shalt not go over the bows again. It shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, for the widow. When thou gatherest the grapes in the vineyard, thou shalt not glean it afterwards. It shall be for the fatherless, the widow, for the stranger, the fatherless Thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in the land of Egypt. Therefore I command thee to do this thing. He basically says this: when you go out and harvest Don't take it all. Pretty amazing. And by the way, that's not the way that we think in our society, is it? We want to make sure that we don't have any loss if we can help it. We want to make sure that our margins get expanded if we're running a business. We want to make sure that we're making not just a profit, a good profit, a better profit, and we can become extremely greedy so much to the extent That we crush the people that are laboring under us so that we can increase what we have. It's extremely greedy. Yet this is what God says. Leave some for them. But this is interesting. He doesn't say, why don't you go leave some for them, then go harvest it and give it to them. He doesn't say that He says, leave it and let them go and get it. When they go into your field, let them go. Don't squeeze every single piece out of your farm. Leave it for people. And you know what's really interesting? He says, if you do this, I'm going to bless you. It's really interesting. In other words, it's not only that these people who owned huge, massive amounts of property, were responsible to pay multiple tithes. For the Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, the widow. But they were also responsible to leave some of the produce behind. So that people could come and could gather. What do you see? God has provided a way for the vulnerable to have their needs met. Not as a free handout. They had to go and they had to work. They had to labor. And what's very interesting is God understands that in a seasonal scenario, you have a time when people can go out into the fields and they can get the food they need. But then there's other times that they're not able to do that. So what happens? You have the storehouse available. The truth is that this is the heartbeat of God. He wants to take care of people, but he wants them to do it in a way that involves their labors. He wants them to actually use their hands to provide for their own needs. And so it's not a free handout. It's limiting greed. It's making people trust God. And it's taking care of those who are very needy. It's an amazing system. Not exactly what we have in our country, but that is what God put in his word And so I give you a simple summary from the New Testament, James 1. Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this: to visit, meaning to look out for the fatherless and the widows in their affliction. I want us to stop there tonight. And next time, Lord willing, we will get into talking about how we minister in a godly way. And this is really going to get into the content. of the text in front of us, but I want you to realize I don't think we appreciate the content of the passage in front of us if we don't understand, first of all, God's heart for people. And secondly, the way that God has provided a means by which people who are very d very vulnerable and defenseless have a way to yes, eat, to have their needs met, and we can kind of limit the whole Greed scenario as well. thing. God's wisdom is quite an amazing thing to consider. And his heart is an amazing thing to consider. And the reality is when we talk about righteousness, Rightly relating to people around us, we need to recognize that this informs us on how we are to relate rightly to the people around us. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us to have this kind of a heart because it's so important. Let's bow together. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study. A very important topic. A topic that really lays the foundation for what we will see in 1 Timothy 5. I pray that you'll help us to be a people who are deeply compassionate. That we genuinely love the people around us, not just those who are wealthy, who are easy to get along with, who have something to offer us. But Father, help us to love and have mercy on those who are in a destitute position. Help us to see that they have tremendous value to God and you look out for their souls. They should have tremendous value to us, and we should look out for them as well. Father, help us to have wisdom as we seek to lovingly care for those that you bring into our midst. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.