I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church this morning, and we're looking forward to a wonderful service of focusing on the Lord. In fact, this morning We will be partaking of the Lord's table as well as having uh baptisms at the end of the service. So really looking forward to our time together. Brother Braxton has a couple of announcements, and then Pastor Josh will open with our scripture reading. Good morning. We have a lot of exciting things going on in today's service. We do have the Lord's table. If you guys missed it on the way in on either side, there's little cups with the bread. As well as we have some baptisms later, so it'd be exciting. Make sure you guys are sticking around for that. We have the rescue mission on Tuesday, and then on Thursday we have the senior luncheon. Next Sunday following the morning service where we're going to have that True Trackers parent meeting. We'd like to encourage every parent that's going to be a part of or having their kids a part of TrueTrackers just be able to come out and meet us. But that's all we have going on this week. Our scripture reading this morning is found in Isaiah 55, starting with verse 6. Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. And let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. For my thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. For as the heavens are high, higher than the earth So are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. For as the rain cometh down, and the snow from heaven, and returneth not thither but watereth the earth, and maketh it bring forth the bud, that it may give seed to the sower, and bread to the eater. So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth. It shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please. And it shall prosper the things whereunto I send it. And our theme of worship for the day, let's worship Christ. with humble gratitude as we consider how he has dealt with our sin and extended us grace. I also wanted to mention that uh we will be starting up choir next week. So If you're planning to be a part of that, that'll be at five o'clock is when we'll start that. We'll run our practice until a little bit before we uh open up our evening service. So please make a note of that. That's not this Sunday, but it's the following Sunday. I'd like to invite you to bow with me for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to bless our time. And as we read these scriptures, that we will understand exactly what the word of the Lord says. Let's pray. Father, we are so grateful that we can come together and we can gather as a body of believers We recognize that it is the work of Christ alone that makes us fit to enter into your presence if it wasn't for the sacrifice of Christ canceling our sin debt. If it wasn't for the righteousness of Christ imputed to us, if it wasn't for the triumph of the resurrection, we would have absolutely no basis to enter into your presence. We would be separated from you under your just wrath against our sin, and we would have no hope. Father, we thank you that this morning we can celebrate as a local church. The triumph of Christ over death and over our sin, we recognize that his sacrifice is a heavy sacrifice As we partake of these elements later in the service, I pray that we would remember with great joy and with humility the tremendous sacrifice that gave us our redemption. The shed blood of Christ and the broken body of Christ, that these things would resonate in our hearts And Father, I pray that you would be with those in our midst who maybe do not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior, if even one here today is uncertain. That when they stand before you one day, they are ready to meet the Lord. I pray that as we look into your word, you would open their understanding to the holiness and to the righteousness of your justice. That they would understand the tremendous work that has been done on their behalf. They would see that salvation is a gift. It is purchased by Christ's sacrifice, and it is received by faith alone in Christ. And I pray that you'd be with those who are sick, cannot be with us, those who have traveled. Please uphold those in our congregation who are not able to be with us for various reasons. I pray for your blessing upon them. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen Good morning, Acre Baptist Church and esteemed guests. Welcome those that have joined us on live stream as well. As Pastor mentioned, choir starting up next Sunday. So if you're a choir member, you know what to do. If you would like to be a choir member, come out and find out So anyway, we're going to start the service with a in our blue book this time. So open a blue book or watch on the screen. We're going to turn to page 174. Page 174. Sing see the Christ. Please stand with me as we sing all three verses. Amen. Now we'll go back to the red book. While I hum along, we're going to turn to page 130. Page 130 in our red book or keep following along. Alright, I thought you were a little weak on that song, so I want you to sing out a little bit louder All right, sing the love of God. Amen. Have a seat. You just need to get warmed up a little bit. Amen. All right, page 100 and so why'd I close my book? 177? Just over a couple pages. I know it's the weather outside. It's getting humid and muggy and Not like it was last week. We we didn't have any humidity, so all right. Yeah, I think everybody's awake now. That sounded good. But keep it up. Our great Savior. All five verses, just sing until I stop you, okay? All five verses Thank you. Salvation Amen, that's good singing. Oh. Okay, he's getting to me. I get to do the reading, like I always do, I get to do the second reading of this scripture. And the scripture says in Psalm 32, verses 1 through 5. Psalm 32, 1 , verses 1 through 5. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. When I kept silence, my bones waxed waxed old through my roaring all the day long. For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me My moisture is turned into the drought of summer. Selah. I acknowledged my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord, and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Sila. May the Lord bless the reading of his word. All right. You know it doesn't take a rocket science to stand up here and lead the music, but it does take somebody who will follow the schedule. So I got ahead of myself there. Page 463 in the Red Book? It's toward the back of your book, page 463. Blessed, blessed assurance. Jesus is mine. I hope that's your testimony this morning. This is Hallelujah, one of the white Lord, we need the Lord, we need my own. Go to the blue book this time. Song that we're singing all month long. Or have been singing. Whoa. Page 192. Page 192, complete indeed. I think you all know it. So we're going to sing all four verses. Please stand with me on this. We pray for the why I do the we can be a communion , my great man. We are like this one, and make it by the law, by what have we Please be safe. Okay, well our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back for your class. That's Aegis 4 to 7. And the rest of you I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles. Let's turn them together to Psalm 32. We're looking at the 32nd Psalm this morning, and this passage of Scripture is an excellent passage of Scripture for us to look at. as we reflect on the sacrifice of Christ, as we remember his body which was broken, his blood that was shed, so that we can stand before the Lord forgiven, cleansed. and made his child. Psalm 34, verses 1 through 5, here's what the scriptures say. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven. whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long. For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me. My moisture is turned into the drought of summer. Sila I acknowledged my sin unto thee. Mine iniquities have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord, and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Salah. Let's take a moment. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to help us to understand the text that we've just read and really the rest of the Psalm, Psalm 32. Let's pray. Our Father, thank you for the word We recognize that when David wrote these words, as the Holy Spirit moved him to record these words, your perfect words, David was in the midst of a time where he was reflecting on his sin. He reflected on how sin affected him, how it affected him physically, how it affected him emotionally, how it put a barrier between him and God. He expresses how his heart was overwhelmed. He expresses how he felt distance. And Father, we recognize this morning. That sin is something that stands between every person and their creator. But it doesn't have to stay there. Our sin has been dealt with at the cross. And as David talks about how you deal with sin, I pray that this morning, every one of us in this room, every one of us on the live stream, Would recognize that a blessed life, a biblically blessed life, is available to every person in this room But that life cannot come to us until our sin has been once and for all dealt with at the cross of Christ. I pray that this morning you would speak to our hearts, you would move in our midst. And that you would open our eyes to understand the weight of these truths. May the Holy Spirit, who is indwelling every Christian, and who is at active work in this place, I pray that the Holy Spirit would move in our midst and in our hearts And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Psalm 32 teaches us that true blessedness cannot come until our sin problem has been properly addressed. And the reason for this is because God created us with both an awareness of what is right and wrong and a sense of his presence. And I would even add to this, because he is our creator, whether we want to admit it or not, we all are going to one day stand before him. There are no exceptions. There's no person in this room this morning that is going to be able to escape standing before your creator. You may say, I don't believe in God. I don't believe in him. I don't believe in the Bible. I don't believe in the law. I believe that we are just random chants. We're just a higher form of animal. Well whether you believe that you are a creative image of God or not, it does not change the fact that God made you, He sustained your life, and ultimately you're going to stand before him one day. And when we read Psalm thirty-two, what it shows us is that it 's absolutely impossible to thrive and to live life the way that God intended it. And the way he uses it is the blessed man. It is completely impossible. unless this issue of sin is properly addressed before God. And what we're going to see in these verses is that the way that sin is properly addressed before God is not actually something that you do for God. It's not something that you do and then God says, now I accept you. The way that sin is dealt with is something that God did for you, and then he invites you to enjoy the benefits of what he's done for you, and he he says the way that you're invited into my presence is through faith. alone and what I do for you. That's really what's at the heart of Psalm 32. The truth is we don't actually know when this Psalm was written. It doesn't actually say. The way that it says in the prefix is that it is a a contemplation, it's a reflection. The word that's used is a mashal, and that is a Hebrew term that has the idea of a contemplation. So when David wrote these things He's thinking about the concept of I'm created in the image of God, I'm a sinful human being, I've sinned against him countless times. And when I don't deal with sin properly, I feel the weight of that sin on my conscience. It even affects me physically and emotionally. It's something I can't escape. How is this sin dealt with? He talks about it in these verses. And so I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts. I know that I've said this at other points, but it's important for us to repeat it. We are not animals. We are not machines. We're not just bodies. We're not computers. We are humans created in the image of God. You and I are not the result of random chance. We are carefully designed with an eternal purpose, and it is God Himself who providentially takes care of us. and upholds us. But there's also another side to this. Not only do we have tremendous value and dignity to God because he created us in his image, but we're also fallen creatures. And as fallen creatures, that means that we are sinful by nature. And so that sinfulness in our nature affects every single aspect of who we are as people. It affects us emotionally. It affects us mentally. It affects our wills. It affects the patterns that we establish. It affects every single aspect of our life. And the fact is that if you just study history, you can see that it's unquestionably clear that humanity is sinful. That humanity does things that are Horribly, horribly sinful and evil. And if it wasn't for God's sustaining hand and his interruptions in history, the fact is that we would ultimately kill ourselves. God sustains human life. And so because those things are true, Psalm 32 is a necessary logical implication that flows directly out of the fact that you and I are created the image of God. We're to stand before him one day and we're going to be judged because we are sinners and ultimately he made us with this ability to think It's very important for us to keep this in our minds as we dig into the text in front of us. So the first truth I want you to notice from Psalm 32 is that blessedness Starts with addressing sin. Blessedness doesn't start with figuring out how to make money. Blessedness doesn't start with figuring out how to how to raise your credentials in the eyes of other people. Blessedness begins with dealing with the greatest problem that every single one of us possesses, and that is the problem of sin. Notice what it says in verses 1 and 2. He says, blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven. whose sin is covered, blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. Now what's great about Psalm 32 is it is written as a poem. In fact, all of the Psalms really are written in this kind of a way. And part of the way that the Hebrews would have written poems, and this is thousands and thousands of poems of years old, this poem, is there was a lot of logical parallelism within these poems. And so three times he describes what we commonly call sin. He uses the word transgression, he uses the word sin, and he uses the word iniquity. And the reason that he uses those three terms, which have a little bit different nuance It's because when we talk about the concept of sin, it is a concept that has lots of different dynamics to it. And not just the concept of sin has logical, lots of aspects to the concept, but so also does the issue of forgiveness. And so he talks about a transgression being forgiven, and he talks about it being covered, and he talks about him not having an imputed iniquity. And so these things tell us that these concepts are very deep. And for us to understand them, we need to recognize really the nuance of all of these words. Simply put, we cannot experience a real, vibrant, happy life unless our sin is dealt with. You say, well, I'm happy. I don't I don't deal with my sin. Ask the question, are you really happy? Are you living according to the purpose that God has for you? You might be saying, well I don't even know what that purpose is. Well then how can you live in accordance with a purpose you don't understand? Are you understanding why you're here? Why do you have the breath of life in you? Why do you have the gift of knowledge? And why do you have the gift of strength and the abilities that have been given to you by God. What's the purpose of all those things? Why are you here? Why are you here and what are these gifts for? And what is the purpose of life? If you don't understand the gospel, you don't understand the Creator, it's absolutely impossible to be able to live a vibrant and happy life because that's where it starts Starts with God. And so these verses show us that there are four ways that God deals with our sin so that we can be a blessed people. The first one is found in verse 1. Here's what it says. He says, the blessed person is someone whose transgression is forgiven. You say, well, what is a transgression? The word W transgression has the sense of you have violated a law. You have rebelled against a higher authority than yourself. We're not talking about the laws of a nation or the laws of a state or the laws of a local community, we're talking about the laws of the Creator. And so he says that the blessed person is someone who foremost has their transgressions, their violations of God's laws, ultimately their rebellion against the design that God has for them, those things are forgiven. And the word forgiven means that God's not holding it against them any longer. He has removed their guilt. He deals with them as if they've not done those things. It's not that they haven't done those things. He is relating to them as if they have not done those things. You say, well, how in the world can it just God do such? Keep listening because we'll get into that. There's a second way that God deals with our sin. Here's what it says in verse number number one, again, whose sin is covered. Now, think about it this way. As we move into Psalm 32, we're going to see that David went through a period in his life where he himself covered his sin. And the result of David covering his sin is that internally he was very guilty. It bothered his mind, it bothered his emotions. It actually affected his body. When we go to Psalm 51, he talks about the way that he felt the tremendous weight of his sin. In fact, it says in the Proverbs, it says, whoever confesses and forsakes his sin will have mercy, but whoever covers his sin is not going to prosper. So how does God have the ability to cover our sin and not hold it against us? Well, with that concept of covering our sin is an Old Testament concept called atonement. Now, the word for covering and the word for atonement are not the exact same word, but they're within the same concept. And so before the cross of Christ , God established a means through which people could have two things done. Number one, they could have a picture of the coming of the Savior. And so through animal sacrifice, the animal's blood would be shed, and they would be reminded that there is a substitute. That word's gonna be important. There's a substitute who's going to come and he's going to take my guilt. He's going to be punished in my place. And when he takes my guilt and he's punished in my place, it's going to allow me to be forgiven. And so when a person came and offered sacrifice by faith, they saw a picture of what was coming and what they were looking forward to. But there's a second aspect to this. And that's where this word atonement comes in. The idea is when that blood was shed, God allowed that blood to provide a temporary covering so that God would not have to deal with them according to their sin. Now, the purpose of that was temporary because Jesus was going to come and Jesus had to come. And the book of Hebrews expounds this whole concept. Basically, the blood of bulls and goats. Could not remove our sin, it simply provided a temporary atonement, pointing us to the finished work of Christ. And Jesus came once and for all, and he finished the work by dying in our sins. So when he uses the word covered, he's speaking in an Old Testament sense. He's saying, My sin is not yet paid for because Christ has not yet come, but God has provided this temporary covering Because one day he's going to deal with my sin once and for all. And so David says, My transgressions are forgiven. My sin is covered. He doesn't say it's going to be forgiven, he says it is forgiven. He doesn't say it's going to be covered. He says it is covered. That word simply means missing the mark. So a transgression is a rebellion against God's authority and his laws. Sin is missing the mark of what God says, this is what's right, this is what's wrong. But then we see a third way that God deals with sin. We see that in verse number two it says, whom the Lord, catch this phrase, imputeth not sin. You say, Joel, what in the world does the word impute mean? Well, it's at the heart of the gospel. The word impute is one of the most important words in all of the Bible. And it it's a term that would have been used in the context of accounting, where basically you have a ledger, you have a role, and on that ledger you have you have what we could say The money you have and the money you don't have, the money you owe. Okay? So we have debt and we have assets. That's what we have. And so you have this person who, when we look at the role, what do we see? We see debt And on the other side, we have someone who has assets. They're not in debt. He says, when God looks at my account My iniquities, he does not count those iniquities against me. You say, well, how in the world can God do this? How can God choose not to impute iniquity against me? Because I'm a sinner. And by the way, that word iniquity is a fascinating word. It has the idea of a twisting or a perverting. So when we sin in this sense, we take the good things of God and we twist them. We use them contrary to his purpose. And so you see this full picture of sin falling and missing the mark. We see the twisting of God's good things. We see it's a violation of his law. And so when he talks about imputation, he's saying, literally, your debt was placed on Christ. And as Christ takes your debt, he also takes your guilt. And as he takes your debt and he takes your guilt, he receives the consequence that you deserve and I deserve. for our debt and for our guilt. And he pays it in full so that there is no more guilt to throw at you. That's what it means. So when he talks about God not imputing iniquities, literally saying, God took your iniquities and he placed them on Christ, he takes it on himself, and he deals with it once and for all. That's imputation. But that's not the only way that God imputes our sin to Christ's account. He imputes Christ's righteousness to our account. It's a W imputation. So literally, not only does God say not guilty, but he says righteous. Did you catch that? This is the heart of salvation. David is describing that in order to be a blessed person, you've got to be saved. You've got to be someone who's forgiven, someone whose sin has been covered, and someone whom your sin that has been imputed to the sacrifice of Christ And his righteousness has been imputed to your account. And so God deals with you as forgiven, as cleansed, as righteous in Christ. And I asked the question: Can God deal with you that way? This morning? And I said, well, how does this happen? Well, the Bible says it is by faith alone Christ. In Ephesians chapter 2, it says this: it is by grace. That ye are saved through faith. That not of yourselves it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. That's what salvation is. In other words, when a person understands that the way I stand righteous before God is not through my works of righteousness that I've done, it's not through my keeping of the law, it's through Christ's sacrifice. His sacrifice. He took my guilt and I receive his righteousness. It's through the grace of God alone. That is when a person is saved. Say, Pastor, I've never heard this before. Can I be saved right here or not? Yeah, you can be saved right here while you're sitting in your seat right now. As you sit here in your seat, you could go, you know what? What the Bible says about me is true. I'm a sinner. Iniquity, yeah, that's me. Transgression? Yeah, that's me. I want to be forgiven. I want my sin to be placed on Christ. I want to receive his righteousness. How do I do this? The Bible says it's by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. Right there sitting in your seat. You could say, God be merciful of me, sinner. I believe what the Bible says is true. I believe that Jesus died for my sins. He rose from the dead. He's my only hope. And so I'm asking you like a little child, God. Save me. I believe this is true. I'm trusted in Christ. You say, well, do you have to pay with the prayer of the pastor? No, you don't have to pay with the prayer with the pastor. Is there like a special formula? I've got to say certain words. Words? No. The Bible says, with the heart one believeth unto righteousness. This is something that goes on inside of your heart. When Jesus is talking to Nicodemus, he basically says that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. Belief, trust, dependence on Christ. If you're sitting here this morning, or maybe you're joining us in a live stream, or maybe like you're gonna you're gonna watch this this video two years from now. I have no idea. If YouTube doesn't take it down, right? Two years from now, you may be sitting there, you're listening to this message, you go, That's me, I'm a sinner. I I've never heard of salvation through Christ. What am I supposed to do? I say, trust Christ Christ. Turn to Him. Repent. Turn to Christ. Trust in His finished work. Say, I can't do it myself. I'm going to depend on what Jesus did for me. That's where blessedness starts. That's what the Psalm Teaches. But then there's a fourth thing. Isn't this fascinating? He enables us and accomplishes spiritual transformation in us. Now, nobody gets saved by doing good. But no one who is saved isn't changed by it. Did you catch that? You don't do good to get heaven. But if you're saved, there's a change that takes place internally within you. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, all things are become new. Ephesians 2. 8. 9. By grace you're saved through faith, not of yourselves it's the gift of God, not of works that any man should boast. For we are his workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus unto good works. In other words, the caboose of our new faith in Christ is a changed life. You say, well, how much is enough changed? Well, we never get changed enough on this side of eternity. We're always growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. Doesn't matter how old you are. If you place your faith in Christ, God doesn't say, okay, when you're good enough, then I'll accept you. He says, you're saved. Notice he says, is forgiven, is covered, is not imputed of iniquity. Those things are all dealt with. But This is also someone in whose spirit there is no guile. In other words, God is changing them. He's shaping them into the image of Christ. Blessedness starts with addressing sin. The second thing I want you to notice here is that no one can escape the reality of sin. And I mean that nobody can. You can try to live your life outside of God's purposes. And you may think you can do it, but it doesn't work. It doesn't work. Just like there are laws in nature. And I asked the question, why are there laws in nature? Because they just randomly happen that way? Is there anything in the world that happens that way? Of course not. There are laws in nature because God made them that way. He ordered this world, everything in it. And so what we see is that because this is true, you cannot escape it. And David describes this in verses 3 to 5. He says, when I kept silence, my bones waxed old through roaring all the day long. Now listen. David is not talking about the fact that he's malnourished because he didn't eat enough food or he didn't drink enough water. What David is describing is how when your conscience is not right, it affects you physically. Anybody ever experienced this? I have. Anybody any ever anyone ever been so sick in your conscience that it affected your body? Why is that? Is it because God's judging you? No. It's because you're human. And because you're human, you have a moral sense. There really is a creator. And when you try to live contrary to that moral sense and the creator's design, guess what? There's natural consequence. God doesn't have to do anything to you. He can just leave you where you are. And the reality is you'll experience the weight of sin. In fact, we see it when Adam and Eve sinned in the garden. So Adam and Eve sit in the garden. What's the very first thing that happens? They go, hey, you know what? We feel ashamed. Let's clothe ourselves. Why did they want to do that? Well it's because it's just a natural effect of sin. They are immoral creatures and we see that. Why is it that when God's looking for them, they're hiding Did somebody tell them to hide? No. It's a natural consequence of sin. It's just, it reveals that we are conscious moral creatures. He says, when I kept silence, my bones wax old through the roaring all the day long. For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me, my moisture is turned into the drought of summer. Selah. Stop and think about it. That's what the word Selah means. I acknowledged my sin unto thee, and my iniquities have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord. Thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Selah. Break this down in the simplest way I can. There are just a couple of things that he's saying. Number one, we all have a conscience and we cannot escape it. We all have a conscience and we cannot escape it. Why do a lot of people turn to substances? Because we have a conscience And we can't escape it. And so sometimes out of a desire to escape it, we go to stuff that helps our conscience to forget for a period. But once the stuff wears off, guess what? It's right back. It's right back. There's a cycle, endless cycle that we go through when we try to escape our conscience. Why do we feel guilt? It's because. God made us morally aware. It's part of being created in the image of God. And he says it in verse 3, when I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long. He says day and night I'm dealing with the consequences of sin. The second thing we see is this. We all have this internal sense of God's existence, and we can't escape. In Romans chapter 1 it says this. It says, all of creation knows that there's a creator. When mankind knew God, they glorified him not as God and became vain in their, here's the word, imaginations. You know what that means? That means that when people know there's a God, they say, I don't want to face this God. I'm going to ignore this God. I don't believe in him. I'm going to reject this knowledge of God. And so I'm going to imagine what the world would be like without God. Well guess what? That's a fairy tale. Simply put, it's a fairy tale. It's not true. And it goes lots of different ways depending on the person. But the idea is we have a conscience. We have an internal sense of God. When David writes in Psalm 19, he says that the heavens declare the glory of God. And the firmament showeth his hand worked. You walk out into nature, you look at all the order, and and you know what? If you're a thinking person, you go, There's nothing in the world that has order without an orderer. There's nothing in creative there's nothing in the world that has design without a designer. Nothing Nothing. We talk about AI. How long has humanity been working to try to create artificial intelligence? Why has it been so difficult? Because it takes a lot of intelligence to create artificial intelligence. You catch that? It takes a lot of intelligence to create artificial intelligence. I asked this question Does humanity have the ability to create the human eye and the human ear and the ability of reason like God created it, just like that? Not a chance. Not a chance. We can create all kinds of substitutes. We can create all kinds of things that have the appearance of such things. But even when we talk about artificial intelligence, does artificial intelligence have the ability to actually have emotion? The answer is no. Why? Because it's a machine. It processes data, but it's not human. And so what we see in these verses is that we have a conscience and we have this internal sense of God's existence. The third is this, we have to address our sin problem before him. In verse 5, he says, I acknowledge my sin unto thee. That's not to say that sin isn't against other people. You know who most of us sin against the most? Our spouse and our children. It's sad but true. Why? Because we live with them. That's who we sin against most. But actually, that's not who you sin against most. Tim. Because every time I sin against them, I'm already sinning against him first. And so every single sin that I do, whether in thought or indeed. And that and that's why that's why you know it's really easy for us to categorize sins and be like, well, the sins that people are aware of, those are the bad ones. But the sins that nobody knows about, well, those don't really matter because they didn't hurt anybody. But there's a God in heaven who made you. And he knows about all of it. There's a God in heaven who says this is right and this is wrong. And so even though no human is aware of this thing, God is, and it's against him. That's what the idea is And so David turns to God first, because that is ultimately where sin lies. Fourth is this. God has dealt with our sin if we're saved. I love the way this is stated. Listen carefully. He says, I acknowledged my sin. Does anybody know what tenset is? I acknowledged my sin. What tense? Come on, grimarians. Pass, pass. I got it. Okay, let's try this again. I acknowledge my sin is what tense? Past. It happened in the past. Alright, I said, what tense? Passed! Great, I heard it. I heard Pastor Josh. Good job, Pastor Josh. I acknowledged and I said, thou forgave vest. What tense is that? Nope. Sorry guys. It's perfect. It's the perfect test. We don't think in the perfect tense very much here. But the idea of the perfect is it is a form of the past tense, but it's more descriptive than the past tense. It's something that happened in the past and it's still going on in the present. It has that else element, that additional element to it. And so he says, I acknowledge in the past, I said in the past, you forgave me and I'm still forgiven. That's what he's saying. That's what salvation is. When we deal with sin before God, it's dealt with in the past, and we continue to be forgiven in the present. That's what David is saying in these verses. Third. God is the only refuge in a fallen world. In verses six and seven he says this This shall everyone that is godly pray unto thee in a time that thou mayest be found, surely in the floods of great waters. They shall not come nigh unto him. Thou art my hiding place, thou hast preserved me from trouble. Thou shalt compass me with songs of deliverance. Now I'm not going to break this down as much as the other passages, but I'm just going to put this in two statements. Not only does God deal with our sin, but he's also available when we're in great desperation. Now listen, your greatest need is the sin issue, but that's not the only need that you and I have. It's not. We are needy people in all areas of life. And so he says, when the godly pray unto thee, they pray in a time when thou mayest be found. God is accessible to his child. He didn't just say, I I have forgiven you and now just go along your way and don't worry about this anymore. He says, and I'm here right now. I'm your father. That's what he's saying. The second thing is this, he actively defends and protects and delivers his people. Verse number seven: Thou art my hiding place. Thou shalt preserve me from trouble. Thou shalt compass me about with songs of deliverance. He's speaking of the personal care of God. In other words, God is available when we come to him, and he personally cares for us in the midst of hardships. And David was a warrior. As were most men in the ancient world, because you had to defend what was yours or it would be taken. That was the way it worked. But David understood not just God dealt with my sin, but when I'm in trouble I come to him, and he's right there There, he listens. And only is God right there and he listens, but he is personally involved. He's actively taking care of me. That's what David is saying in Psalm 32. But I want to close out with not David's direct word. This is all the word of God. But the way that is written changes in the last couple of verses. Listen to what it says in verse number eight. I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go. I will guide thee with my eye. Is that David talking there? That's God. This psalm ends with God's appeal to every person in this room. If you're sitting here this morning, God is saying, based on everything that we have heard and read in these verses, there are some things I want to tell you are very important. You need to respond to that. The way that it's written changes. It is God speaking directly. And here's what he says. I'm going to show you. There's three statements he makes. The first is this: He wants you to turn to him. Verse number eight. He says, I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go. You know what God's saying? God's saying, if you don't know that your sins are forgiven, I'm right here. Come here. Listen up to what I have to say. I want to save you. If you're a Christian, you've trusted Christ as your Savior and you're trying to walk with the Lord, but you stumble here and there and you need to get back up. He says, Come, turn to me. I'll instruct you and teach you. in the way which you should go. You need direction right now, and you're not sure where you're supposed to go as a Christian. He says, come listen, I'll instruct you. I'll teach you in the way which you shall go. This is a very personal call directly from God to you and to me. The second is very interesting. I'm going to read verse number nine. Here's what it says. Be ye not as the horse or as the mule which have no understanding. Whose mouth must be held in with bits and bridles. What is God saying to you there? Now, how do you feel he's talking to you? I mean, what is he saying? He's saying, don't act like an animal. You are not an animal, you are human. Create the image of God. You have mental reasoning abilities. You have a will. You have a heart. You have the ability to process what surrounds you. He's saying: don't be like an animal that doesn't have those capabilities. The only reason that the horse goes this way or the mule goes this way after obviously some some real encouragement is because he's been trained to do that. You're not like that. You make choices based on information from the heart. He says, you need to turn to me. In all of your humanity, with knowledge and understanding from the heart. That's what he's saying. He's appealing to the intelligence He's appealing to the heart of mankind, saying, turn to me. Don't be like an animal, because you're nuts. The third thing he says is this. He wants you to find your highest delight in him. Verse number 11: Be glad in the Lord and rejoice ye righteous. Shout for joy, all ye that are upright in heart. You know how he closes this? He describes what blessedness is. The word blessed means happy. Okay? And so what how does he end it out? He says, be glad in who? The Lord. Rejoice, ye righteous, shout for joy, all ye that are upright in heart. He says, the blessed person is glad in the Lord, rejoices, and shouts for joy. Why? Because these things are true about him. If these things are not true about you, then how can you do these things? You can't. Because you have no basis for that rejoicing. You have no basis for that joy. But that basis is available to you even as you sit here this morning. There is no greater joy than to find your highest delight in our infinite God. We were created by him and for him, and this delight literally conforms to his eternal purpose for us. So you say, well, Joel, what's the takeaway from all of this? Here's the takeaway. It is absolutely impossible to resist the reality of who we are as people. You can't do it without a painful, frustrating outcome. You can't do it. It's impossible. The way that the world is ordered is ordered so that you should be conformed to God's purposes, not the ones you Create for yourself. We cannot ignore sin and live a vibrant life in this sense. So long as we reject God's authority, And we reject his right to rule. And in our pride, we say, I'm not going to turn to him and we're going to do things our own way. Guess what? We ignore the opportunity to live the vibrant life that's available to us in Christ. We will be frustrated. We'll have empty lives until we face our sin and allow God to deal with us through the gospel. And so I ask, will you listen to his appeal? Will you turn to him while he can be found? See, how do I know if he can be found? Well, you're sitting here this morning. He's speaking to you through the word of God. The Holy Spirit is convicting your heart. He's saying that's true, that's true, that's true. And if you're saying, I believe it, I believe it, or I don't want to hear it, I don't want to hear I don't hear it's one or the other. It's one or the other Turn to him while he may be found. Embrace the forgiveness that's available through the gospel. Turn to him with all your heart, all your soul, all your mind, all your strength, and rejoice in him as your highest order. That is what Psalm 32 is all about. I read it again. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven. whose sin is covered, blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. Let's bow our hearts and prepare our hearts to partake of the Lord's table together. With every head bowed and every eye closed, before we go to the Lord in prayer, I'm going to ask a very simple question Is there someone here this morning that would acknowledge, Joel, I do not have confidence that when I die I'm going to heaven? You talked about forgiveness, covering, imputation, all those things. I don't have that confidence. And I I want it today. I want to trust Christ as my Savior. I want my sins to be forgiven. I want to be cleansed. I want to stand before Him as His Child. Is there someone in our midst this this morning who would say that's me, Pastor? I need to trust Christ. Anybody like that? Just raise your hand. I'm not going to call you out. I'm not going to ask you to come forward. I'm simply going to see that so I can remember you when I bow for prayer. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, I pray that you'd help us as we prepare our hearts to partake of the Lord's table. That we will remember with great joy what Jesus did for us. As we drink this juice That reminds us of his shed blood, and we eat this bread that reminds us of his broken body. I pray that we would do it with a heart That is conformed to the glory and the joy of that satisfaction. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.