Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And we are in Luke chapter 7. We're looking at verses 18 down to verse 23, and we are continuing the series that we started yesterday. And so I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles. Let's turn together and look back at this passage of Scripture dealing with John the Baptist and uh his response to some of the miracles that he was uh hearing about, some of the the miracles he actually witnessed himself. and uh how he's reflecting on uh the role that he had as the forerunner of the messiah, um how he's processing a very difficult season in his life Luke seven verse eighteen says the following And the disciples of John showed him of all these things. And John calling unto him, two of his disciples, sent them to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come, or look we for another? When the men were come unto him, they said, John the Baptist had sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come, or look we for another? And in that same hour he cured many of their infirmities and plagues, and of evil spirits, and unto many that were blind he gave sight. Then Jesus, answering, said unto them, Go your way, tell John what things you have seen and heard. How that the blind see, the lame walk, and lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, to the poor the gospel is preached. And blessed is he whosoever shall not be offended in me. Now, last time we talked about uh we kind of set up the introduction that um Going through doubts is sometimes a part of our Christian experience. We made a distinction between what we call doubting, a person who has faith, they affirm the truth. They're resting in the truth, but now questions start popping up in their heads. They uh start to rely more on their emotions than what they know to be objectively true. Their experience seems to be inconsistent with what their expectations are. And and as they're processing these things, there's a lot of there are a lot of questions that pop into their mind. Sometimes it's a temperament issue. It is possible for a person who has faith, who is trusting in the Lord, to begin to get shaken in that. We saw that that's different than unbelief. Unbelief is saying, I reject I do not affirm it. I don't believe it. I don't I don't want to embrace it. I think a great example that we could give um is what happens when a relationship uh is very young and immature. Let's say that you have a young man who is starting to get to know a young lady and they're beginning to develop an interest in one another and as time goes on uh the relationship becomes more and more serious and um they get engaged and then they they get married and now they're a newlywed couple. And uh early in that marriage there may be times that This young wife, or it could go the other way, it could be the young husband, um, has times where they come to their spouse and they say, Do you still love me? The spouse looks at them almost embarrassed, like, of course I do. Why why would I have to even tell you that? And they say, well, I feel like maybe you don't. And you say, well, why do why do you why would you feel that way? Well it's because we're not spending as much time as we used to when w we were dating before we got engaged and married or uh y you tell me that you love me sometimes but not all the time or you're not sharing your your your your thoughts and your uh your your dreams and your fears and how you feel about things. You're not feel you're not sharing those things the way that you used to. And and what happens is during those early years there is a great need to Affirm and reaffirm and reaffirm the fact that you genuinely love someone. Well, as a relationship matures and it becomes deeper and richer Um you should still affirm those things, don't get me wrong, but the fact is that that that time and the maturing of that relationship will mean that a person will feel more secure in that relationship. Well, if that's just true amongst human relationships, well, the fact is it's also potentially true when it comes to our relationship with the Lord. And so we can go through seasons where We don't feel like God loves us. We don't feel like God's good. We don't feel like he's sovereign and in control. We don't feel like what he's doing is good and right and best. We get shaken. That's really the sense. I want you to notice the the caliber of person that went through a season like that, and that's John the Baptist. And in order to appreciate that, I wanted to just kind of go back over some of the details that we read about in in the book of Luke and then one example from John so that we understand the caliber of God he is. If we go back to Luke chapter 1, um we see that that John the Baptist was a was a miraculously born child. What I mean by that is that his parents had lived many, many years, they were unable to have a child. Now they're beyond childbearing years, and that's when God chooses to give Zecharias and Elizabeth, a son. Luke chapter 1, verse 13, this is what it says. The angel of the Lord says, Thy prayer is heard, and thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son. That's interesting. He says thy prayer, meaning You've prayed for years that your wife would have a child. Well, it didn't happen all those years. Now she can't physically have children anymore, and now she's going to because God's heard your prayer. Very very fascinating. He says, she's gonna bear a son. He shall be great in the sight of the Lord. He shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb. Many of the children of Israel shall return to the Lord their God And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, and turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. Some amazing statements are made before John's even born. He's going to be filled with the Holy Ghost. He's going to be born as a sign. He's going to be the fulfillment of multiple messianic pass uh prophecies. He he talks about several prophecies in that little statement. And what that tells us is this is going to be a unique child. There weren't going to be many children that uh would have this kind of a an impact on uh the building of God's kingdom, a second passage of scripture. And this is really what takes place after John is born. And if you'll remember Zecharias was unable to speak. And when God opened his mouth and he could actually speak again, this is what Zechariah says about this little baby that's been born. It says, all they that, Luke chapter 1, verse 66, it says, all they that heard them laid them upon their hearts, saying, What manner of child shall this be? His father Zecharias was filled with the Holy Ghost and prophesied saying, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he hath visited and redeemed his people. He hath raised up an horn of salvation for us in the house of our s of of his servant David, as he spake by the mouth of the holy prophets, which have been since the world began To perform the mercies promised to our God, to remember his holy covenant, that he would grant unto us that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemies might serve him without fear in holiness and in righteousness before him all the days of our life Thou child shalt be called the prophet of the highest, for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his way, to give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins. Now, out of all the passages that we read about in the um we could say the Christmas story, I think this is one of my absolute favorite passages of scripture because it is so rich with gospel implication. He talks about them uh being safe from their enemies. He talks about the fact that they would be uh able to serve the Lord without fear in holiness and in righteousness, um that that that they would be saved by the remission of their sins. This is a really rich passage of scripture. What what does it tell us It tells us that John the Baptist was going to be a very significant person in preparing the nation of Israel to embrace the Messiah. It was his preaching ministry that would make Christ's coming be received by the people, or understood as far as the significance of it. And so John was an amazing Not just individual, but he was an amazing preacher. He was amazing from a from a pro prophetic standpoint. Now, John is a very unique person. The third thing I want to draw your attention to is John's preaching ministry. And by the way, in Luke, early in the book of Luke, it talks about Um the fact that John was someone who preached with passion and with power and with boldness. In fact, he ends up in prison. That's a big factor into why He's being shaken at the moment. He's in prison and in the back of his mind he's going, is this really the Messiah? Did I miss something? Was the message that I was preaching actually true? That's really what's going on in John's in John 's heart. But I want you to to to get a sense of the way that he preached. And this by the way, this is very significant, I think, in appreciating this topic that we're talking about. It says in John chapter 1, verse 24, he says, I baptize you with water. But there standeth one among you whom you know not. He it is who coming who is coming after me, and is preferred before me, whose shoelatchet I am not worthy to unloose. The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him and saith , Behold, the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sins of the world. This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is preferred before me. John the Baptist was not just predicted as someone who would be pointing people to Christ Not only was uh his ministry and the the the gospel-centeredness of his ministry something that was affirmed and and emphasized by his father But John the Baptist's own preaching was saying, this is the Messiah. This is the person I've been telling you about. This is the person that the Old Testament was pointing to. I believe this, I affirm this, I'm resting in him I'm pointing people to in fact, interestingly in John one, after these things many of John's disciples left him and they went and followed Jesus. And some of John's disciples said, Well John, aren't you concerned that your disciples are leaving you and they're following Jesus? And he said, he said, he must increase and I must decrease. John the Baptist was a great man. So here's the question to ask. Could a man of such caliber, such opportunity, such closeness to the truth, someone who had been so consistent and faithful in their witness, could a person like that go through a season where they are shaken in faith? And the answer is yes, they absolutely can. You say, well what's the takeaway? The takeaway is that we need to live our Christian lives with humility. We need to recognize that if a great man like a David or an Asaph or a John the Baptist or an Elijah or a Moses if a person like that could go through a season where they got shaken And they began to experience heavy doubts and discouragement, then we could too. And so we need to be careful that we're humble. And we recognize the frailty of our own, we could say, our own faith and the strength of it. We should not be arrogant about these things. The second thing that I want to mention, not just about arrogance, but We also should not be shocked or devastated if we go through a very low and dark and discouraging season of life. The fact is, these people went into those situations, but they came out. When they came through those situations, their faith was strengthened. And they were matured many times. And so what it does is it gives us hope. It helps us to recognize let's not be proud and let's not be arrogant, but if we find ourselves in such a place, there's hope The trying of your faith produces patience. Let patience have her perfect work. The trying of your faith is more precious than gold. That perisheth, though be tried with fire, it will be found into praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. And so we are reminded through the life of John the Baptist to be humble. To have our eyes wide open and to be encouraged that as God takes us through that season, we can come out on the other side, being more matured and stronger than they than we were before we were tested. I hope that this will be an encouragement to you. What we're gonna uh start moving into as we look at this passage is we're gonna look at how John responded to these doubts. And then we're going to look at how Jesus dealt with him in the midst of those doubts. And we're going to ask the question What is the application? Where the implications? How does this have bearing on how I personally, if I go through a season like this where I'm supposed to go and how God might deal with me, or how do I deal with a a person that I believe is a Christian and they love the Lord but they're shaken? How do I encourage and help them when they're in a season like this? I think this passage It's going to really help us with that. Hope that you have a great rest of your day, and I look forward to the rest of our week as we continue to dig into this passage of scripture. Have a blessed rest of your day. Bye now.