Okay, well the passage that we're in this evening is from 1 Corinthians chapter 3, and we're kind of looking at the second part of the passage that we dealt with last week, 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verses 18 through chapter four verse five and uh it kind of divides into two sections but it's one basic thought and that thought is dealing with values and how we view ourselves and how we view one another. And so tonight the topic we're going to address is dealing with criticism biblically. And I hope that you're not in a situation where you're dealing with some hardcore critics, but it's possible that you could be in such a situation. Maybe that critic is your spouse. Or maybe that's one of your parents, or maybe it's your kids, or maybe it's a coworker, or maybe it's somebody that uh is over you. But the fact is that there are times that we deal with people, they're very critical of us, and when we find ourselves in those situations, we need to think biblically about it. And this passage, obviously, the the main focus is Paul is talking about having critics when you're in ministry, but the fact is that this is uh these these principles can apply in lots of different situations. And Where Paul is going to take us and how we should look at these situations can be helpful to you no matter what situation you're encountering. So let's go ahead and pick up our Bibles in 1 Corinthians 3, verse number 18. It says, Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool that he may be wise. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written He taketh the wise in their own craftiness. And again, the Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise that they are vain. Therefore, let no man glory in men. For all things are yours, whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas, or the world, or life or death, or things present or things to come, all are yours. You're Christ's, and Christ is God's. Verse 1, let him answer account of us as of the ministers of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful, but with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged of you. Or of man's judgment, yea, judge not mine own self, for I know nothing by myself, yet am I not hereby justified. But he that judgeth me is the Lord. Therefore, judge nothing before the time until the Lord come, who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the hearts. And then shall every man have praise of God. Now, this passage of Scripture to kind of give you a couple of introductory thoughts on this. We know that people who are actively involved in getting things done are people that are going to need to expect that they're going to be criticized. And so let's say that you're involved in some endeavor. There'll inevitably be someone that says you don't do things fast enough. There'll be others who say you move too quickly. There'll be some that say, oh, your real motive is, and they have no idea what your motive is. Somebody will say, well, if you did it this way, it'd be a little bit more efficient than if you did it the way that you're doing it. And pretty soon you start asking yourself the question, could you just get involved with what we're doing as opposed to just tear down what we're doing? What's the point? The point is that when people are working on an endeavor, they're going to be critics. That is inevitable. There's no way you're going to get around it. And those who've been entrusted with weighty duties We 'll have times that what they do is going to be criticized, what they don't do is going to be criticized, the way they go about doing it is going to be criticized. It's going to be scrutinized. And we have to learn how to deal with those kinds of situations. Nobody should be surprised that in fact this is going to happen. Especially if we're involved in the Lord's work. And the truth is that there are lots and lots of judgment calls that we're going to have to make when we're in the Lord's work. Something as simple as raising your kids. There are all kinds of judgment calls that you deal with. You know, the way that you're going to school your children, uh the the kind of work ethic that you're trying to instill in your children, some people say You're pushing your kids too hard. You don't push your kids enough. You should educate your children this way instead of that way. Just all kinds of different scenarios. You know, you're too harsh a disciplinarian, you don't discipline enough. You could just go down the list of the kinds of things that can happen. You have a duty, you have a responsibility. And you need to stay on target with that responsibility that you have. It's true in the family. It's true in the workforce. It's true in the church. Some people have overbearing parents. Some parents have disgruntled kids. Some people have overbearing bosses. Some people have disgruntled employees that work under them. Some pastors are overbearing. Hate to say that, but it's true. And some church members are disgruntled. I'm not saying that in any way because of a situation that I'm aware of. I'm simply stating that these principles apply In these kinds of scenarios, we've got to learn how to deal with criticism in a godly way. And I do want to add this: some of the criticisms we are going to encounter, they're legitimate. You know, just because you are doing things with a good motive doesn't mean you're doing it well. It doesn't mean that there aren't things that you can improve. It doesn't mean that we should just kind of blow off the things that people have to say. But we have to be careful at how we approach those things. Some of the criticisms that we receive can actually be very hurtful. And they can get us off track and they can keep us from being faithful. They can derail us in the Lord's work, while others could be invaluable wisdom. So how do we go about this the right way? Last week, as we were digging into the text, we were reminded how important the issue of values are. And so if you look at 1 Corinthians 3 and 1 Corinthians 4, You're going to see that he talks about the wisdom of this world and the wisdom of God. And really what he's emphasizing is A difference of values. What the world values and what God values are not the same. They're actually in conflict with one another. They're contradictory. They're pulling in opposite directions or they're pushing against one another. And these values are going to shape how we prioritize our lives. The decisions we make, what motivates us, what we're willing to sacrifice for, how we view ourselves and others And so keep that in the back of your mind as we start working through the details of the rest of this section. I'll summarize the passage this way. The following section of Paul's letter reminds us of timeless truths that must shape our values as we encounter criticism in the Lord's work. God wants us to handle our critics with godly wisdom. And so let's dig into the text. First of all, the word that I want you to remember as we look at our first truth is the word roll. And I don't mean roll like you're rolling down a hill. Okay, or you're pushing a ball and it's rolling. We talk about role, we're talking about a job that you have been given, a duty, a responsibility. And so when we talk about our roles, we need to understand our duties in a biblical way. What is my role as dad in the home? What is your role, mom, as mom in the home? What is your role, husband as husband in the home? What is your role, wife, as wife in the home? What is your role as co-worker in a work environment. What is your rule in the church context? You need to define that not by what you want. but how God defines it. And so when we talk about roles in the home, they're very clear-cut duties that husbands have, wives have, parents have, children have. These roles are very, very clear. And so notice what he says in verse 1. He says, let a man sue account of us as of the ministers of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. Now when Paul is writing this, he has some critics at the church at Corinth. And it it it's in some ways it's a little surprising, in other ways it's not a little, it's not surprising. Okay? It's surprising in the sense that Paul spent a tremendous amount of time. With the church at Corinth. He had personally led to the Lord lots of people who were a part of this church. They had been saved from very, very dark backgrounds. And so Paul had led people to Christ, he had discipled them, he had been involved in ministry in this church for probably a longer period of time in person than in most church contexts. And so there should have been this sense of obligation and duty because you know Paul has really poured his life into them. But at the same time, the more you interact with people, the more you you learn their flaws. You learn their weaknesses. You learn the areas that rub them the wrong way. There are more potential conflicts. And so Paul had to address a lot of issues with this church. And the fact is that the cumulative effect of Paul addressing issues with the people in the church led to some contentious attitudes towards Paul. And so he's going to address this. In fact, in the second epistle, 2 Corinthians, he's going to address it a lot more than he's going to address it here. This is almost like a beginning stage. When we come to 2 Corinthians, he's really going to lay out reasons why they need to recognize he does have a role as an apostle, and they need to respect that. But when he goes through this, what he's basically saying is you need to know who we, and that we would be the apostles, who we are. What is our role? What is our obligation? What are our duties? Because that's going to shape where it should shape what your expectations toward us are and what you should expect our attitudes towards you will be. Here's the key statement. Let a man sow account of us. He starts with a basic reminder of the biblical roles and responsibilities that these individuals had. This reminder is the starting place for a right view of people in God -given ministry. You cannot make judgments about what people are doing if you don't understand what God expects of them. And you should be cautious about having expectations of people if God didn't give you that expectation, or He didn't give you the responsibility to need to mediate that out. There were two imbalances in the church that I think that you can see drawn out in this passage. One of the imbalances was that the people had too high a view of those in leadership. And I I created this statement, I I didn't find it like in a commentary or something. But a deity complex. What I mean by that is that some of the people in the church wrongfully puffed up and idolized their their leaders. And so if somebody is invested in your life You know, somebody seems to have their life together. They seem to have it in order, and they seem to be knowledgeable in the Word of God. It is possible for someone to kind of put them up on a pedestal as if They've got it figured out. They're like a flawless individual. I can just blindly accept anything that my pastor or a missionary or this person in Christian service says. I just blindly accept it because They're so much smarter than I am. They're so much more knowledgeable more more knowledgeable than I am. And we put this undue reverence on those individuals. We've got to be careful. And this is something that was creeping into the church. Some people were idolizing Paul, and some they were idolizing Peter, and some they were idolizing Apollos. And he said, don't do that. That is a wrong way to look at leadership. But then there's a second problem, and this is something that's really going to come out in what he says in these verses. That is a patronizing complex. What I mean by that is they also some wrongfully expected certain favors of their leaders. It's kind of like this. If you do this for me, I'll do this for you. I mean, like, how do people in politics get positions of power? I throw my support behind you. And so when I get into a position of power, I'm going to give you an opportunity to uh exert a little bit of force, a little bit of pressure as a thank you for you supporting me. I mean that's like that's the way the political world works I mean you you see us on display every time there's an election. Those those individuals who get behind the the person who wins, they get their opportunities. It sometimes it's because of their abilities, but sometimes it's simply a thank you for how you have supported me. And so people in the church were like, hey, we've thrown our support behind Paul. Paul, you have some obligations to us. Hey, we've thrown our support behind Apollos. Apollos, you have some responsibilities toward us. And what they're saying is, we have put you for, now you need to give us something. And this is a very, very common problem in the church at Corinth. It was ingrained in their society. It was a very politically maneuvering kind of a culture. And people can have this view of leadership. If I can get in close with someone who has authority and power, maybe I'm going to get some opportunities that others will not get. And so Paul says, those are both raw. Don't do it. How are we to look at Christian ministers? Two words that he gives. The first word is the word minister. And notice what he says. We are ministers of God. And by the way, another way that that can be translated, that word minister, is servant. But what's interesting about that word, minister or servant, is this is not the do loss servant, a servant in bonds, but it's actually a different kind of servant that I think is very significant with what Paul is saying here. And so I want you to see a couple of verses that this Greek term that is translated minister here, or it could also be translated servant, is used. And it's actually translated another word, that's the word officer in a couple of these places. So the first passage I want to ask you to turn to is Matthew 5. Keep your Bible there, your your finger there in 1 Corinthians chapter 4. But go to Matthew chapter 5, verse 25. I'm going to read the passage, and I'm going to point to the word that is used, that is the exact same term that's used here. Matthew 5. 25, agree with thine adversary quickly, while thou art in the way with him, lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge. And the judge deliver thee to the, here's our word, officer, and thou be cast into prison. So this is an interesting word. The same word, minister. Or servant is translated officer here. And I'm not suggesting that the minister throws in the prison. That's not what I'm getting at. But the idea is that you have this person who has authority And there are people that are under his authority, and their job is to follow the wishes or the commands of the person who is over them. And so when he uses the term minister or servant, or we really see it here officer, you could almost think of a military context where you have this very clear authority structure. This person's in charge and they are giving out duties to these individuals who are under their authority and they expect them to follow it exactly as they have said. That's the concept. Or another passage, turn to John chapter 7. John chapter 7 and verse 32. It says, the Pharisees heard that the people murmured such things concerning him, and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent, here's the word, officers to take him. Exactly. Same Greek term. So the Pharisees, the Sanhedrin, actually had military officers who were under their charge. They were not just spiritual leaders they had they had governmental they even had you could say some military kind of authority they could send people who were going to do their bidding again you see this authority structure The third example is Luke 4. 20. He closed the book. This is Jesus in the synagogue. He closed the book and he gave it again to the minister. And sat down, and the eyes of them all who were in the synagogue were fastened on him. And so the idea is that here is a person who works in a synagogue, and they're not necessarily a rabbi, but they're kind of like an assistant. There's someone who was involved in some of the physical things that are going on in the synagogue gathering. And so he reads the scroll, he hands the scroll to the Minister, the person who's given this responsibility, he sits down in Moses ' seat and he begins to expound the text that he's just read. So in all those examples, what we see is that word minister or servant is someone who is in a position under the authority of another, and their job is to fulfill that person's duties. That person's wishes. So their primary orientation of service is to God, not the congregation. Now we are in a Baptist church has congregational church polity, so we we vote as a church, okay? But the reality is that as a pastor, my primary orientation of service is not should not be to you, but it should be to Christ. Now, that doesn't mean that I won't serve you. Does it mean that deacons in our church don't serve the congregation or Pastor Josh, others who are in mini or in in in positions of leadership, they're serving the church. But the primary orientation is to Christ. And so as we serve Christ We serve the body. In the same way that a husband serves his family Ultimately serving Christ first, and then he serves them. Or a mother, a father, serves their children, yes, but serves Christ first, and then out of that obligation they serve their children. So that means that when it comes to issues of service, the primary orientation is what does God expect me to do in this situation? How does God expect me to be as a husband? How does God expect me to be as a father? How does God expect me to serve as a pastor? How does God, ladies, expect you to serve as a wife or as a mom, whatever that role? Yes, you're serving your children. Yes, you're serving within the family context. Yes, you're serving in the church context. But primary primary concern is not what does my kid kid want? What does my spouse want? What does God want? That is the greatest concern. Should be And you know what that means? That means that there are going to be times that your children are going to want something and you're going to say, no. Why? Because they're not your authority. God is. There may be times that a congregation maybe wants to move something in a certain direction, and those in the leadership say say, no, we can't do that because our highest duty and obligation and concern is what does Christ want? What is his desire for the church? And so our primary focus is to him. This mindset should have kept in check the impulse to wrongly elevate Christian ministers because they're just servants. The only reason that they're in that that responsible location is because God put them there. Not because they're like, you know, this incredible person. It's because God 's got to put somebody there. He put them there in that role. On the other side, it should have kept in check the impulse to put ministers under the thumb of the congregation. You know, the church at Corinth says, well, Paul, I don't like what you're saying there, so you can't write that in your letter. Because you have to serve us. He says, well, I serve Christ. He says, I've got to say this. So I'm going to say it. It even makes me sad that I have to say it. It even grieves my heart that I have to put this out there because I know it's going to make you sorrowful. But that's what God says I have to do. Very, very important concept. That word minister. Second word is the word steward. Steward. These are stewards of the mysteries of God. Now that word steward has the idea of someone who manages a household. What's kind of interesting is when we use a term like slave in our society, there's like one thing that pops into our head. Okay? One thing. We think of 1850s, what was going on in the South, or maybe what's going on on the eastern shore, parts of Maryland. That's what we think about. But when the Bible talks about A person who was a slave in the first century. You have to realize that some of these people, they were not servants in bonds, but they were they were they were actually stewards of a household. They were managing resources. Or this is a person who is put in a position of they have responsibility, but it is under the oversight and authority of someone else. So this word steward kind of falls into that category of servant as well. The steward of the mysteries of God, managers of a household. Their primary orientation was to protect what had been entrusted to their care by God. Think about it this way. When it comes to the Word of God, every single generation has a duty to take the truth to understand it as purely as possible and to deliver it to the next generation. And then their responsibility is to take the truth to the very best of their ability to internalize it, to live in the light of it, and as they come to that position of maturity and age, it's now entrusted to them, and they pass it on one generation to the next, to the next, to the next. And you know what that does? That gives you this sense of obligation. When you're the one who's in the position of holding fast to the truth and delivering the truth, you should think in terms of Steward of the mysteries of God, entrusted to our care, protecting what is there. In the same way that if someone was a steward in the first century , Their job was to manage the material assets of the household of a very wealthy, a very influential, very powerful person. that did not have the time and did not have the energy to manage all those things. He entrusted that to a very trusted steward. And if the steward is faithful, then the person prospers. That's what happened to Joseph with Potiphar. What did Potiphar do? He entrusted everything to Joseph. Why? Because he knew that Joseph knew how to manage resources. He knew that Joseph had the blessing of God on him. He didn't even worry about what was going on because he trusted Joseph as his steward. This is kind of the idea. We are to be stewards of the mysteries of God. This mindset should have kept them from compromising or cutting corners. If I'm answerable to God, guess what? I shouldn't cut corners. If I'm answerable to God, I don't have the right to compromise and say, well, I know it says this, but I'm just going to do it this way. We can't do that. Why? Because we have been entrusted with a responsibility. to manage these precious truths. They were answerable primarily to God, not their peers or the members of their congregation in this sense. Now by the way, we're gonna look at a check-in balance in a couple of minutes. I don't want to give you the impression that you know whatever I think is right, I'm gonna do it, nobody can tell me otherwise. That is not what Paul's gonna teach here. But he does emphasize the fact that our primary concern and orientation is Christ and Christ alone. Truth number two. The word motive is the word that we want to remember. We remembered roll from the first truth, motive is the second word. We need to keep our focus on the judge. And if I'd have been thinking about it at the moment, I would have capitalized judged because that's speaking of Christ. That really matters. Look down at verse number three. He says, with me, it is a very small thing that I should be judged of you or of man's judgment. Now that sounds a little like Kind of pompous, doesn't it? Like, I don't care what you think. I mean, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't misunderstand what Paul's saying He's not saying he doesn't care what anybody thinks. He's saying what you think is not as important to me as what God thinks. That's what he's saying. And so it's not Paul going rogue and just saying, I'm going to do things my way or the highway. It's Paul being so bound in conscience to what God expects of him, that the attitudes of the people that he is ministering to, their negative, critical spirits, about things that he has to say to them. They don't really matter. They don't knock him off course. They don't cause him to divert away from what his duties are. He is going to remain faithful to what God says he needs to. So Paul is concerned. He is motivated, but that motivation isn't a fear of men. It's a fear of God. Kind of like in Proverbs. The fear of man brings us snare, right? But the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom and the knowledge of the holy is understanding. And so that's the idea here. Paul is answering his critics and saying, your criticisms are not my biggest concern. My biggest concern is what Christ thinks. I'll give you an example of how this can kind of play out. Let's say that you are a first generation Christian. Okay? You you trust Christ as your Savior as an adult, trying to raise your kids to the best of your ability. Nobody's perfect in how they do it. But the way that you're trying to raise your family is kind of pretty significantly different than the way you were raised. Why? Because the home that you were raised in, it didn't have the same principles and expectations and disciplinary approaches and the kinds of things that you you you've done and And so, you know, you have a sibling over here, or you have an aunt or an uncle over here, maybe a grandparent, maybe a parent, and they're like, you know, I really think that you're a little bit overbearing with your kids, making them memorize the Bible, dragging them to church and forcing on them the expectation that they become Christians and telling them that these things are wrong. You know, we live in the 21st century for crying out loud. People don't care about those things anymore. And there's all these little criticisms that people have. Just let your kids play on Sunday sports. I mean if you if you if you're if you're gonna expect your kids to be at church, they're never gonna get to be involved in community things. You gotta, you know. Be a little more flexible with your expectations. The question is, how should we respond to that? The answer is don't listen to it. Do not listen to it. I don't mean be arrogant and you're not listening to it. What I'm saying is don't let it turn your head. Don't let it pull you off course. Let your concern with what Christ tells you to do be the thing that matters the most to you. We have to be so very cautious about this issue. Paul remained faithful because he kept his focus properly oriented. It's like a person who is wandering in the wilderness, but thankfully they have a compass. I guess now it's in GPS, so you don't even need a compass, right? As long as you have an internet connection, you're okay, right? But and as long as your phone doesn't die, there you go. Maybe maybe that'll be the problem. The phone will die and then you'll be in trouble But what does that compass do? It kind of points you back so that you have a point of reference and you're constantly going back to that point of reference. That's what it is. It's keeping you on track. It's like if you're running and up, you're a little bit behind pace. It's saying, you know, speed it up a little bit. Keep yourself on track. Paul was faithful because he was properly oriented. He says, it is a very small thing that I should be judged of you or of man's judgment. He did not allow the detractors to deter his focus. And he's going to mention three different detractors, and these are all very interesting. The first one is that I should be judged of you. He did not allow his detractors that were around him. He did not allow them to take him off of the charted course that he was supposed to be on. Just because people are loud and persistent and confident does not mean they're right. The standard cannot be worldly judgment. We've got to be so careful. Secondly, he did not allow worldly standards to deter his focus. So first he says that I should be judged of you. He's talking about the people around him. And that would come across pretty edgy just to be frank about it. But secondly, or of man's judgment. He's saying the reason that I'm not listening to your criticisms is because your criticism isn't built on the right foundation. Your criticism is not built on Christ and truth and scripture. Your criticism is built on the same foundation as everybody else in this world who does not follow biblical instruction. That's what he's saying. The standard has to be scripture. Scripture has to guide what we teach. It has to guide why we do it. It has to guide the way we go about it. It has to guide the framework in which we teach. It has to guide our view of success. How do I know if I'm actually doing well? Well, let the scriptures be the guide to that. Not what other people are saying. People can applaud you for doing the wrong thing. And people can rip you apart for doing the right thing. That's not the standard. Thirdly, and this is the one that I think is the good counterbalance here, he didn't trust his own judgment without reservation. Now unless you get in your mind that the Apostle Paul is like, it's me against the world, and nobody is gonna take me off course. I'm gonna do what's in my own head and in my own heart and nobody can turn me away. Understand something. Paul said, even my own heart I am weary of. That's really important. He says, yea, verses 3 and 4, yea, I judge not my own self. I know nothing by myself, yet am I not hereby justified. Here's what Paul is saying. My conscience and the way that I'm doing the work of ministry is clean. I don't know of anything, and I mean I'm shocked that I could not say this myself. As a parent, as a husband, as a pastor, I can find areas where I'd say, you know what, and I'd drop the ball there. Paul says, I don't know of anything. And I think when he said it, I think he really meant it. I mean, this guy, he was like Mr. Zeal, you know what I mean? He was all in, super focused. He says, I don't know of anything. That my conscience is violated in on this issue. But guess what? That doesn't mean I'm right God 's going to have to settle that someday. And so what it's telling you is that Paul, as much as he didn't want to get off course because he was listening to his detractors, Because ultimately their wisdom and values came from the world around them. But he said, I don't want to trust my own heart either. I want to be very cautious. And so I make this statement. There's a fine line between confidence and arrogance. It's true, okay? Confidence means I am convinced this is right And I am conscientiously moving in the right direction. Arrogance is, I don't need to consider, I don't need to second guess myself. I am self-confident And so, what's giving Paul this confidence is that he believes that God has given him these responsibilities and duties. There's a fine line between listening to good counselors and getting our head turned from detractors. The Bible has a lot to say about listening to godly counsel. And so if you're if you're in a tough situation and and you aren't totally sure of the direction that you should go, or maybe you really do have a pretty strong sense of what you think you should do. You should talk to godly people about it. But you choose those counselors wisely. Not counselors that just tell you what you want to hear, but counselors who love God. Love you, are honest, they're not emotionally getting pulled by the circumstance, and they're going to tell you the truth. And so we've got to understand there's a really big difference between somebody listening to detractors And someone going to godly counsel and getting the help that they need. One is a good thing and one is a detrimental thing. We desperately need God's wisdom to discern the difference between the two of these things. Paul understood his conscience was not infallible. He understood he could be mistaken and misguided. And we need to constantly have a humble disposition about us. You can be strong. And you can be principled and you can be motivated, but you can still be humble at the same time. That's what we need. We need to be people of conviction, but also humility. People who are willing to listen to godly counsel. And so we see that second aspect. Thirdly, we see the word to remember is the word temperament We need to be patient when criticism does not go away. Now, I think generally speaking, criticism is a seasonal thing. But that's not always the case. Especially if this is someone who's a part of your life and they're going to be the rest of your life. Like a family member. Okay? Like someone who you can't just walk away and don't have any interaction with this person. This person is in some way bound to you The fact is we're always, if we're trying to do the work of ministry, let's say you have a pastor who's planted in a community, and in that community there are people that want to move you know, community in a certain direction and and this pastor is trying to do the right thing, he's going to have sometimes people in the community that give him a hard time. That's just the way it goes. And so the question is, what do we do when the criticism just kind of continues to be nagging behind us all the time? The answer is be patient. Verse 5. Judge nothing before the time until the Lord come. You know what Paul's saying? Let God settle it for you. The judgment seat is what really matters. On that day, Christ will set every record straight. This must be our highest consideration. And there are a couple of passages that come to mind here. 1 Timothy 6. Flee these things, follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness. Fight the good fight of faith. Lay hold on eternal life. I give thee this charge in the sight of God, who quickeneth all things, before Christ Jesus, who before Pontius Pilas witnessed a good profession. Let thou keep this commandment without spot, unrebukable, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ. That's a pretty amazing statement. He's saying, I'm giving you this charge before Christ who stood before Pontius Pilate. And with all these false accusations, he said nothing. Because his job was to go to the cross. Before the Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior, I charge you, do right until the day that you stand before Him. That's what He says. That's pretty intense right there. Or 2 Timothy 4 5. Watch in all things endure affliction. Do the work of an evangelist. Make full proof of thy ministry. I'm now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight, finished my course, kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me in that day, not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearance. And so Paul is saying, it's not just me who needs to think about the judgment seat. It's you, Timothy, and I love that last little statement, unto all them that love his appearing. Who are those people? You and me. And a lot of other Christians who are looking forward to the day we stand before Christ. The encouragement is that one day he's going to set the record straight. He will reveal things done that no one else saw. Now, he is presupposing that you're faithful here, okay? I mean if we're if we're stumbling and we're not doing the right thing, then I guess this is not so much an encouragement, but it's a bit of a warning. But Paul is writing it as an encouragement. He's saying, listen, there are things that you do that nobody else knows, and you only do them for one reason. You love God and you're faithful to your calling. Nobody knows it but God. He's going to make note of it one day. He will bring to light the hidden things of darkness. He will reveal motives that others may have misjudged. He will make manifest the counsels of the heart. He'll reward faithful endurance. Then shall every man have praise of God. So notice that the the focus of this is positive. He could have said, you know, there are things you did nobody did about. You're gonna get it on the judgment day. You had these motives and everybody was convinced that you were doing it for the right reason. Judgment days are coming. You better be ready. No, he says, every man will have praise of God when he brings to light the hidden things. And he brings to light the motives that people didn't understand. It's actually a positive encouragement. Because in the context, this is a person who's being misjudged. And criticize and they're doing right. We may find ourselves in this place. Hopefully not too much, but it's going to happen. So, how do we apply the passage in front of us? Let me give you some final thoughts here. First, Since there are two contrasting value systems, we have to be committed to the right standard. We've got to be in the Word of God. We cannot neglect Scripture when we look at a passage like this, because if if we are moving in a direction that is simply according to our own heart, our own desires, our own wisdom, we shouldn't be self-confident. We should recognize we have a problem. Two, when criticism arises, we must be people of biblical conviction. If you do not know what is right, and you are not convinced that it is right, you will not stand and you will not stay true. When you get hit. You just won't. You won't stay the course. And so the key is that you have to live according to biblical conviction. Three We cannot allow ourselves to become proud and self-willed, yet we need to be strong and tenacious under pressure. Pray that God gives you the balance there. Pray that God helps you to not be on the side of self-willed and arrogant, but yet be strong and tenacious. We need the balance. Fourth, it's not our responsibility to resolve every misconception or answer all of our critics. This is one of the things that's crazy about social media. Somebody have put out something, and then everybody just like dogpiles on them, and then they gotta answer every single thing. And guess what? If that's the way you're gonna live your life. First of all, maybe come off social media and don't put out crazy stuff. That might be one thing, right? But the other thing is like you can't answer everybody's objections. You can't. You'll spend your entire life arguing with people about stuff that doesn't even matter. And so what does Paul say? He says, let God do with that. Just do what you know is right. Don't feel like you have to answer everybody's question. Don't feel like you have to constantly defend yourself and convince everybody that they're wrong and you're right. You don't have to do that. Let God handle those issues. By the way, I'll say this. Faithfulness over a long period of time silences a lot of critics. It's just true. People that might criticize how you're doing something, if you're doing the right thing and you stay at it, there'll be a day that they look at you and they go, you know what? I hate to say this, but I was wrong. Why is that? Well, because faithful endurance actually accomplishes things. So our duty is simple. We are servants with assignments from the Lord. We're entrusted with certain measures of sacred trust, and we must manage this stewardship faithfully. Next, our chief concern must be a singular focus. We answer to him alone. There's nothing we can hide from him. He will set the record straight for us when it matters most. Next, our disposition has to be resilient. Critics will come and go. Some critics may one day become your greatest allies. It's true. I've seen it in life. People that were very hard on you about something, and you just stayed the course, and one day they said, you know what? I I actually respect the way that you did that. And that's when there'll be sweetness. Not that that's the uh the highest thing, it's Christ, but it's just the reality of life. Faithfulness matters. We need to faithfully endure until we stand in his presence. And so my encouragement is may God help us to apply the word. Let's bow for prayer. Father, these are such important truths, yet very challenging truths. I pray that we would have taken something from your word tonight that will stick with us. I pray that you'll be with those who may be dealing with a heavy load of criticism from maybe an unjust place. or those who may endure unjust criticism someday. Father, help them to stay true to you. Help them not to become bitter or angry or disillusioned when they face those pressures, but help them to stay true and committed and faithful. I pray that you would send them little measures of encouragement that would uplift them when they find themselves in these places. And Father, help us to apply your word tonight. Help us to remember our job, our role. Help us to remember the motive that's most important. You and what matters to you. Father, help us to have a disposition That endures. Help us to be patient and faithful and temperate in all things. We ask it in Christ's name, amen.