Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our study this week. And uh if you were with us on Sunday, you saw that we were in Psalm 31. In fact, we dealt with this passage in both the morning and the evening services. And so if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it and we can turn together to Psalm 31. Because it is such a lengthy psalm, I'm not going to read the entire psalm. But we will deal with the entire psalm this week. So the verses we're going to begin with are verses 1 through 5. Here's what the scripture says. In thee, O Lord, do I put my trust. Let me never be ashamed. Deliver me in thy righteousness. Bow down thine ear to me, deliver me speedily. Be thou my strong rock for an house of defence to save me. For thou art my rock and my fortress. Therefore, for thy name's sake, lead me and guide me. Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me, for thou art my strength Into thine hands I commit my spirit. Thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth. This passage of Scripture is an important passage of Scripture because what it deals with is how a person who loves the Lord has a godly perspective, how they deal with the pain of human betrayal. And so what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to start with discussing that topic the pain of human treachery. And and look at a couple of the examples in David's life of when this psalm may have been written or what was going on in David's life. And we're going to use that as kind of an introduction to dealing with the actual contents of the psalm. And what we're going to do is kind of break down the psalm, looking at it thematically. And then by the end of our study on the Psalm, we're to ask, well, how do we summarize this whole passage and how do we apply it personally? When we deal with this passage. You know, treachery is a topic or betrayal is a topic that no one wants to think about or no one wants to talk about. But when we look at David's life, there are at least two examples of times when David experiences in a very personal and a very intense way. One was when David was a lot younger when he was running from Saul, and when was later after David had been established king for a long time. If you turn to first Samuel chapter twenty-three, you're going to see the story of David and his men being betrayed by the men of Keilah. And I don't know if I pronounced that right, I'm going to go with Keilah. But the idea is that that this this city was a was a town where David had intervened to protect them from the Philistines. The Philistines came upon the city. or the town, and they were terrified, they were uh they were afraid for their lives, and David and his men came to that community and they defended the community, they preserved their lives. David was willing to put his own life on the line and the lives of his men, so that the city could be defended or protected. And rather than this city coming to David's defense when Saul came out against David, was looking for David Um, Saul believes that these men are going to deliver David to him, and in fact, the Lord revealed that that's exactly what their intention would have been had Saul come to them. And so what David felt at that moment was the betrayal of a treacherous people. Here here are people who he had put his life on the line for and they turned on him because they were afraid. But that's probably not the example that David is thinking about when he writes this psalm. More than likely, David is thinking about something that took place in 2 Samuel 15 through 18. And in that passage of Scripture, we read about the story of David's own son, Absalom Turning against him. And there's a lot to this story. We're not going to be able to get into all the details, but essentially Absalom's sister was violated by one of David's other sons. And rather than David rising to the defense of his own daughter and rising to the defense of that part of his family, David was silent. He was passive on the issue. And Absalom took matters into his own hands, and when he did that, he essentially killed his half-brother because his own daughter or his own sister Tamar had been violated by his half-brother. It brought tremendous chaos to David's family. And eventually Absalom is brought back to the family after he's fled for a while. And rather than David trying to mend the relationship and resolve the issue, instead he is silent towards Absalom. Absalom. And during that time period, Solomon's or David's son Absalom becomes very bitter towards his father And eventually Absalom leads an insurrection against David, and one of David's closest advisors, Ahithophel , comes in league with Absalom. And for a period of time there is essentially a civil war in Israel. And this is all a direct result of David's sin with Bathsheba, how he took advantage of Bathsheba. He kills Bathsheba's husband, and the sword would not depart from David's house as a result of his very treacherous behavior against Bathsheba and against Bathsheba's husband But now David is going to experience this treachery against himself from his own son Absalom. Absalom steals the kingdom. Absalom betrays his father. Absalom uh brings the the the kingdom into chaos, and if we look at all the details of that time period, David experienced intense humiliation, his life was in danger. He was afraid for his life, and it is very likely that that is the occasion in which David writes these words. And by the way, David is experiencing in the story of Absalom, he is experiencing the consequences of his own sin on some level. It's because of David's own treacherous behavior that this tangled web begins to unravel and David begins to experience the hardship of his own actions. And that is the way sometimes we experience treacherous behavior. But not always. Sometimes we are not acting in the way that David did before these events. Sometimes we are blindsided, sometimes we are mistreated, sometimes people just in pure animosity, they they r they deal with us in a way that is very hurtful. And whenever we experience this kind of behavior, treachery, it brings intense pain. We experience loss. Because the relationship that we once had is broken. We experience shame. Perhaps because we we we trusted someone who was not trustworthy. or we're embarrassed because of the way that circumstances have turned. We feel very vulnerable because people who have information about us, people who have been close to us, people who have we we have relied upon, um all of a sudden they've turned against us. We experience emptiness and confusion. That's what treachery brings. And David is going to express all of those uh responses which are a natural part of this kind of a situation. He expresses them in the psalm In fact, you may even be in a situation right now, or perhaps you have recently or sometime in your past experienced that. And and really when we get into a situation where we have been betrayed or treated wrongly We could respond in one of two courses of action. One is an empty response, a worldly response. By the way, a much more easy natural response for us, or we could say the response of the godly. For instance, we could deny the fact that we're dealing this pretend like nothing has actually happened or that it hasn't really affected us and we live in this denial for a period of time. We we we we are not willing to face reality. That's a possible response. Very common response Another way is people sometimes isolate themselves. They withdraw from those who love them, who are trying to come alongside of them and encourage them and strengthen them. And by the way, The person who we are the most likely when we withdraw from others to withdraw from is actually God Himself. And what I love about this psalm is that rather than David withdrawing from God, he draws close to God and he finds his strength in the Lord. And we're going to kind of lay that open throughout the week. Another example is bitterness. We allow this wound that we've experienced to begin to fester and in the isolation as people try to come alongside of us and we push them away, we begin to allow that grievance to stir up a a a root of bitterness that ultimately rots us internally. Another response sometimes is people seek revenge and they plot ways to get even with the other person, to expose them, to make them look bad, to let them feel the pain that they have felt All of those things, denial, isolation, bitterness, revenge, they are very natural responses when people have been treacherous toward us. But that is not the way that the Christian is supposed to walk. It's inconsistent with our position. Easy, but a sinful and ultimately detrimental and hurtful response On the other side, we see the godly way to process this kind of a situation. How to deal with the emotional pain that we experience when people have dealt with us treacherously. This psalm provides the example. And what we're going to see in this psalm is that in moments like this, rather than pulling away from God and rather than lashing out at God and other Christians, what we need to do is draw close to Him And we need to process these emotions and these thoughts by turning to God and finding strength and his unchanging character and his ways and how he has dealt with us good even when we've experienced difficulty. I hope that this week you'll join us for this study. It's going to be a practical one. It's going to be a helpful one. And so if you heard the sermon on Sunday, you already know where we're going with this. But I want to invite you, come alongside, and let's dig into this text together and let's share it with others who maybe can be encouraged and challenged by it. I hope that this morning you have a wonderful day and that more than anything else, if you find yourself in circumstances like David did, that you will not choose the path of least resistance, a sinful and worldly response to treachery, but in fact you will draw close to the Lord and see what we find in this text and begin to apply it personally in your life. Have a blessed day, Lord willing will meet again tomorrow by now.