Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and looking forward to continuing our study in Luke chapter 7. So if you have a Bible Like to invite you to take it. Let's turn together to Luke seven. And again we're looking at verses eighteen and nineteen this morning. Here's what the scripture says. And the disciples of John showed him of all these things And John calling unto him two of his disciples sent them to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come, or look we for another And the men were come unto him, they said, John the Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come, or look we for another? Now this is a very important part of this section that we're looking at. And last uh time we were together yesterday morning, we talked about the significance of John's ministry. We saw that he was someone who was uh miraculously born in the sense that um his parents were past the uh the age of of ha being able to have children. Um his mother had been barren all those years And uh he was a child of promise. He was uh he was uh miraculously born, uh in some sense, if you want to call it that. And we also saw the significance of his ministry. There was no one uh no one that we look at in the gospels that had a more significant ministry apart from Christ than this man John the Baptist. And so we kind of ended with a question, and the question was, could a person of this caliber A person that had this kind of a s an of impactful ministry, could he actually uh go through a moment of weakness where his faith was shaken And uh he began to question whether or not Jesus was actually the Messiah, or whether or not the minis the the the message that he was preaching, in fact it was true. And what we're gonna see in these verses is that that's exactly what happened to John. And the question is, how could this be? How could a man that had uh he had known the Old Testament scriptures, he he knew about the story of Christ's birth, he knew about um Uh he he grew up with Jesus, this was his cousin, okay? Um he preached fearlessly and boldly. How could a person like this who had seen all these visible evidences uh from Christ's ministry, how could he begin to waver a question? And the answer is that he's a man. He's made of the same stuff that you and I are made of. In fact, uh the scriptures are Clearly, there are lots of examples of godly men, strong men, people that you would think would never have been shaken. They were shaken. And it reminds me of what the Apostle Paul says. He says, Let him that thinketh he stand Take heed lest he fall. We have examples of Moses going through a period where he told the Lord, Just take my life. I can't live any longer and bear with these people. We have Elijah who is is running for his life and he's just experienced the mountaintop at Mount Carmel. And then Jezebel says, I'm gonna kill you and What happens to Elijah is that he is in desperation and despair and he thinks that there's no hope and and he basically tells the Lord, I don't want to live any longer. I don't want to continue to serve you the way that I've been serving you. David is probably one of the most prominent examples of this. Because so many of the Psalms talk about David's internal struggles and what he experienced as a man. For instance, I mentioned this passage on Sunday. Uh Psalm forty-two, verse number five, he says, Why art thou cast down on my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall countenance. When David says, why are you cast down and why are you disquieted? He's saying, why are you weary and why are you discouraged and why do you feel like there's no hope? That's what he means by being cast down and being disquieted. He says, Why are you so anxious? Why is your heart so full of worry and so many thoughts are crowding into your mind? Why is your face shaken? That's what David asked himself. Or in Psalm one hundred forty three, another example, he says, The enemy hath persecuted my soul, he hath smitten my life down to the ground, he hath made me to dwell in darkness, as those that have been long dead. Therefore My spirit is overwhelmed within me, and my heart within me is desolate. There are lots and lots of examples in the Psalms. Of David expressing that his heart is weighed down, it's weary, it's discouraged. If John the Baptist A great man could go into a moment where you begin to question the ministry he was preaching. If a man like David who penned the 23rd Psalm and some of the most amazing statements of passion towards the Lord If he could go through a season like this or an Elijah or Moses, the fact is we're made of the same stuff that they are And I think a major catalyst to why John was experiencing, you might say a second guess about his ministry and the life of Christ, what it ultimately was was what he was personally experiencing in prison. John the Baptist preached against the wickedness of Herod and uh and when uh I can't remember if it's Herod, now my my mind is is is drifting. Yes, his Herod In Luke chapter 3, it says that that Herod threw him into prison because John had stood against him and he called out his his his evil and his sin. And so as John is there in prison, he knows he's awaiting his death ultimately, John says, Was my ministry in vain? Did I point people to the wrong person? That's really what he's saying. In other words, that was a catalyst. When when people go through difficulties It it asks questions, it brings questions to the forefront. You know, when we suffer, our minds begin to wander and our heart begins to waver. This is natural, this is a normal part of living in a fallen world and being fallen creatures ourselves. And in those kinds of moments, we desperately need God's grace to come alongside of us and to strengthen and to build our faith. And by the way, God allows our faith to be tested so that He can demonstrate uh the genuineness of our faith through that testing and so that he can develop the the depth and the maturity and the strength and the endurance of that trust in him. And so That's one of the reasons that God allows these kinds of things to happen. But let me give you another example that I think is very significant. In fact, there's an entire book that is written to a group of people whose faith was being tested. They believed in the gospel. They had placed their faith in Christ. They had been willing to identify with Him in baptism. But these Jewish believers were facing intense, serious hardship, persecution. Because the Jewish people that had once been their neighbors and their their companions, their family members, they turned against them because they were embracing a Messiah that their neighbors and their family and friends had rejected And so in the midst of that pressure that they're that they're facing, there is a temptation for them not to stop believing in the Messiah. but out of pressure to turn away from what they have embraced and to drift back because of ease into reliance on the old system. And at the end of that book, through all the encouragements and all the warnings and all the logical reasons that they should embrace and stand firmly upon the truth, this is what the writer of Hebrews He says, Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. A couple of important details. When he talks about a great cloud of witnesses, he's not saying people are watching you He's talking about the people that he referred to back in Hebrews chapter eleven. Every single one of the people that he that he mentions in Hebrews eleven was a person that endured Affliction and their faith was tested, and they did stumble along the way at many times within their life But they endured as seeing him who is invisible. And he talks about Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and Moses and David and Daniel. He talks about people who saw mighty triumphs and he saw people who really struggled. And he says, based on these witnesses that demonstrate that God is faithful, As they endured, you can endure. So he talks about that. Then he said, lay aside every weight and the sin which so easily besets us. And that is the sin Of being tempted to turn away from that confidence. That's really what he's talking about. It's a doubt. He says, don't doubt And then he says, run with patience. That is endurance, the race that is set before us. And then he talks about how we do it. He says, looking unto Jesus, The next two words are very important. He is the author and he is the finisher of our faith. That word author means he is the source. Now, when we talk about the Lord Jesus Christ, he is ultimately the object of our faith. We are trusting in the person and the work of Christ, but he's also the one who brings us to faith. It is through the preaching and the teaching of the word, through reading the scriptures. Faith comes through hearing the word of God. Jesus is the author, he is the source of our faith, and he's the finisher. The idea is he's the one who completes it or brings it to maturity. And so what he's basically saying is we rely on the work of Christ. He is the one who brings us to faith, and he is the one that that matures that faith. He says, when you are going through struggles, Like a John the Baptist, like a David, like an Elijah, like a Moses, look to Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. And then he talks about it this way. He says, He says, For the joy that was set before him, he endured the cross despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest you be wearied in fate in your minds. And he says, Just like Christ endured you can endure. He is the foremost, he is the greatest example of endurance. When uh he was faced with the reality of the cross and the weight of our sin that he would carry on that cross. He did not turn away from the plan that his father had for him. He willingly went to the cross. He endured that pain and that suffering. so that we could be redeemed. And so the fact that we have faith ultimately goes back to the fact that he was willing to go to the cross, endure the shame, bear the weight of our sin. So that through his work we could be drawn to him so that we can place our faith in Christ. The reason that I bring this particular concept up to you, apart from it being in the text is that I think sometimes it's helpful for us to recognize that our faith will be tested. There will be moments that we get knocked down. And we need to get back out. There will be moments that we experience hardship and fear and doubt. And in those moments, we need to be reminded that we are in the company of great men who've gone before us. And they endured as seeing him who's invisible, and we can too. And we will talk later on, not tonight or not this morning, uh, but uh Lord willing, tomorrow when we talk about this, we will be talking about how how John the Baptist actually dealt with that issue. How did he respond to these doubts? Where did he go? How did Jesus deal with him? I'm really looking forward to the rest of our study in that way. Hope this has been a great and encouraging study for you this morning. I pray that you will be encouraged knowing that, hey If John could be shaken, I could be shaken. If John can be strengthened when he is shaken, I can be strengthened too. May God use these things to help and encourage you. Have a great rest of your morning. Bye now.