Well, good morning. I thank you for joining us this past week as we've been looking at Psalm 31. And uh we are going to close out the study this week. by looking at the application. How do we take everything that we have looked at this week in Psalm 31 and how do we apply it in a very practical way? So I hope that this morning as we uh reflect on that And as we take all these little details together and put them together in a practical way, that it'll be a help to you. Here's what the text says again, Psalm 31. We'll read verses 1 to 5. It says, In thee, O Lord, do I put my trust, let me never be ashamed. Deliver me in thy righteousness. Bow down thine ear to me, deliver me speedily. Be thou my strong rock for an house of defense to save me. For thou art my rock and my fortress. Therefore, for thy name's sake, lead me and guide me. Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me, for thou art my strength. Into thine hand I commit my spirit. Thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God, of truth. Now, if you can remember throughout the week we've talked about the fact that David was experiencing some serious betrayal of trust and his his confidence was was dashed, he was feeling um emotionally drained, he was feeling vulnerable, someone that he had trusted had turned against him. The level of betrayal that David was experiencing was very intense. And it is likely that David was ex was writing this at the time that Absalom had turned against his own father, and Ahithophel was in league with Absalom and they were trying to destroy David. And as we've worked our way through this, we've seen that David expresses his trust in the Lord. We've seen that David pours out his heart to God and just confesses how miserable his plight is and how painful his experience has been and how vulnerable and how weak he is. And then David has kind of turned from that to reminding himself of objective realities, who God is, how God works, how God has dealt with him personally. And from the reminder of those objective truths and his reflecting on those things and meditating on those things, David has come to a place where he can personally praise God. And from that personal praise of God, what does David do? He turns to the congregation and he says, let's worship the Lord together. Well you may ask Joel after all of those things how do we take it and just personally live it out? Well what I want to do is I want to reflect on some of those details. First of all, I'll say this It is impossible for you and I to escape all the troubles of life. This is a fallen world. And because it's a fallen world, there are times that we sin And when we sin, there is trouble that comes as a direct result of our sin. But sometimes it's not our sin. That is the cause of this problem. Sometimes it's the fact that there are people who sin against us. In fact, sometimes we didn't do anything to bring this upon ourselves. It's simply the fact that we have uh gotten in the wrong place at the wrong time and someone has turned against us. It may also be that there is a blend of these two things, that in some ways we have been wrong, in others way And other and in in another sense, someone else has been wrong toward us. Now perhaps we have equally contributed to this problem. Sometimes Because we are identified with Christ and because we take a stand of righteousness and we walk with the distinctiveness of our position. The world despises us and it hates us because it ultimately hates Christ and who Christ is and what Christ represents. And so it's not possible for us to get through life without experiencing these troubles. on some level. And when those troubles come along our path, there's one of two ways that we can respond. You might put it this way. There is a broad road, and that is the most common way that people respond. That's the way that the world around us responds and these situations. And then there is the narrow way. The narrow way is the way that the Christian is supposed to walk. It's the way that is consistent with our position. It's consistent with God's will, and it's consistent with God's character, and it's consistent with God's ways. And this is not the way that the average person goes. This goes against the grain. This swim swims against the stream. But it's the way that we as Christians need to respond. When we talk about the broad way, we're talking about a way of denial. of isolating from others, from allowing a root of bitterness to spring up in our hearts, a desire to take out revenge, either personally or through others. That is the broad way. That's the way that the world tends to go. And by the way, that's the way that we as Christians in our flesh are drawn, even though we know there's another way And so I want to challenge you, recognize if indeed you have been or are currently on the broad way as it relates to this issue of dealing with betrayal and people treating you unjustly. And then I move to the narrow way, which is exactly what we see in the text in front of us It's a way that begins with confession. Now when I say confession, it may be that part of that confession is admitting your own sin. and how your sin has contributed to this particular problem. But that confession may not be you admitting your own sin, but recog recog actually admitting the the way that you feel, the intensity of the emotions that you're experiencing, pouring out your heart to God and saying, God, this is my condition. This is how I feel. This is what I've experienced. And you pour out your heart to your heavenly Father who knows all of these things already. It begins with confession. And from confession, we move to prayer. And when I say prayer, I mean a passionate pleading with God to act on our behalf. to do what we cannot do for ourselves, to intervene where we are so vulnerable and in great danger. We cry out to God rather than taking matters into our own hands and trying to manipulate and connive and get revenge and withdraw and isolate and deny. Instead, what we do is we appeal to God and say, God, I am your child, intervene on my behalf. And from that confession in prayer, we move to a refocusing or a reorienting of our thinking. You might use the word repentance here, allowing the word of God to renew our mind so that we think biblically and we remind ourselves of truth. We remind ourselves of the character of our God, the ways in which God has worked in the lives of others and has worked in our own life. We go back to the fact that he has continually protected us. Our identity is rooted in him, and he honors his name and he defends what belongs to him. We are continually strengthened by his hands. He has redeemed us. He has paid the ultimate price so that we could become his children. And he is ever merciful. We remind ourselves of these truths. We plant our feet firmly on objective realities that are rooted in God's character and ways. And what does that do? Well, that leads us to intentional living. We need the church. We need godly friends. We need the ministry of the preached word We need to remind ourselves of these things and be pressed into personal and into corporate worship. And if we will choose the narrow way, the way that is consistent with our position in Christ, guess what? He strengthens us And even when we falter, and even when we stumble, he still loves us. He still accepts us on the basis of the work of Christ. His death Righteousness and resurrection. And you know what? God keeps us as his children. He defends us even when maybe we are not so defensible. I remind you that this psalm was quoted by Stephen, the very first martyr, as he is getting stoned for his faith, as the Apostle Paul before his conversion, who is Saul. Looks at Stephen and is consenting to his death, what does Stephen say? He says, Father, lay not this charge to them Into your hands I commit my spirit. He quotes from this psalm. Why? Because he says, God, more than anything else, my life is in your hands. I'm even willing to die at this moment if that's what you want. The Lord Jesus Christ also quoted from this psalm. As he was dying on the cross, he says, Father, forgive them. They know not what they do. He says, Into your hands I commit my spirit I want to remind you this morning as we apply this passage that there is one of two ways to go. There is the broad way of denial, isolation, bitterness, and revenge, and there is the narrow way of confession Prayer, refocus, and intentional living. And I ask you this weekend to reflect on these things. Which path are you on? Which path do you desire to be on? Which path will you embrace? My prayer is that this week God will help us to walk on that narrow way that is consistent with our position in Christ as it relates to this issue. Have a blessed weekend and Lord willing we'll see many of you on Sunday. Bye now