Good evening everyone. Hope that you're doing well. And uh Boy that thunderstorm came out of nowhere, didn't it? And uh so cool it's now 93 instead of ninety-nine. That humidity, right? Well anyway, let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will dig into this text together. So let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, we're so very grateful for the opportunity to gather in the middle of the week, and I pray that you'll help us as we dig into this passage of Scripture tonight. Help the things that are said to be helpful to each person here. Help me to handle this text effectively. And I pray that you would help us to understand how to deal with the anxious cares and the worries. that are a regular part of the pressures we feel in life. So give us wisdom tonight and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, Matthew chapter 6 is where we are tonight. Matthew chapter 6. I think this is a little too loud, guys. Matthew chapter 6, and we're going to read verses 25 through 34, and my goal is to actually get through the whole passage tonight, but it's possible that I don't, because there's a lot for us to digest. in these verses. And the topic we're going to address tonight is dealing with anxiety biblically. Dealing with anxiety biblically. Matthew 6, verse 25 says this. Therefore, I say unto you, take no thought for your life. what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, nor yet for the body what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat and the body than raiment? Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns. Yet your heavenly father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they? Which of you, by taking thought, can add one cubit unto his stature? And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field. How they grow, they toil not, neither do they spin. And yet I say unto you that even Solomon, in all his glory, was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which today is and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? What shall we drink, or wherewithal shall we be clothed? For after all these things are the Gentiles' sake, for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. Now, I understand that the passage in front of us is one that probably breeds a lot of questions. And the topic that we're addressing tonight is a topic that I feel is very sensitive as a pastor when I deal with folks. Um I recognize this is a sensitive topic. And so I want to address it very carefully, and I want to address it in light of the situation that we are living in today. So first of all, I want to give you a summary statement, just a simple statement about how God wants us to respond to this text. And then I want us to think about our current situation in our culture as it relates to an issue known as mental health and the challenges that people encounter in these areas. So first of all, the summary. A biblical worldview should support a life lived above sinful cares. Let me say it again. A biblical worldview should support A life lived above sinful cares. God wants us to handle anxiety in a godly way. And so a few introductory thoughts as we address this topic and work our way through the scripture that's in front of us. God wants us to live abundant lives. In fact, I think about Psalm 1. Psalm 1 says, Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, or stands in the way of sinners, or sits in the seat of the scornful. And as he works his way through Psalm 1, he says that this person is like a tree planted by a river of water. It brings forth its fruit in its season. And so he talks about the fact that this is a tree that is vibrant. It's a tree that is fruitful. It's a tree that even though it's in a dry land, it is drawing from a source of nourishment, a river. And he says that's what the blessed man is like. Or think about 1 John. He says, I've written these things so that you will have fellowship with us, and also so that you'll have life Abundantly. There are several passages in the book of John and in 1 John where either Jesus or John is writing and talks about the fact that God wants us to live abundant lives. Now, when we talk about being blessed and we talk about an abundant life, we're not talking about a life that is free from any kind of stresses. and free from difficulties and heartaches and challenges. That's not what he means by a blessed life. What he means is even though we encounter those things We have the ability, through the enabling that's given to us in Christ, to rise above those circumstances, and we can actually live a life that is, we could say, above those things. We go through those things and we grow and we mature. That is the sense. In fact, we really hit that when we were dealing with Psalm 40, and he talks about the concept of how he waited patiently for the Lord and he inclined to him and he He brought him up out of a horrible pit and he set his feet on a rock. That passage of scripture really emphasizes how God wants us to live our lives. But before we get into this text, I think it's important for us to remember a couple of things. We need to understand how God created us. God did not just create us as machines, like a physical body that works like a machine, or he didn't create us as just brains that compute information. He created us body and soul and spirit. And when we talk about the fact that he created us with a body, that means that we are physical creatures. We talk about the soul, we're talking about the internal part of us, our mental awareness, our ability to process things, the emotional side of who we are as people, our moral awareness, our conscience. So we're not just bodies, but we do have bodies. And we're not just an internal person who has mental, emotional, moral awareness, but we are body and soul. And also spirit. What that means is that we have the ability to have communion with God, and not just the ability, but God created us. to have that communion with God. And so one of the great problems that our society has when we talk about this issue of mental health is that people address the issue as if we're Just bodies and just brains. We are not spiritual beings. That is the way the secular world tends to address the issue And because that's the way the secular world tends to address the issue, we have a problem because there is a spiritual dimension to the person. We are image bearers. But sometimes we on the Christian side of the aisle we have a problem as well. Sometimes we ignore the other side and we see this issue as only a spiritual problem. It's almost like if you if you study the Bible long enough and you learn enough scripture and you just fill your mind with the Word of God, then all these issues just go away and you're fine. Well, that really oversimplifies the issue, just to be totally honest with you. And I've heard a lot of pastors who will give you that impression, and I think that's pretty dangerous, to be totally honest with you. We need to understand we are body, soul, and spirit. And when we have internal struggles, we need to address the issue on every single aspect of who we are as people. And some of these issues are really a direct result of us not taking care of the bodies that God gave us. And some of these issues are on the mental side. And some of these issues are on the spiritual side, and sometimes it's a blend, or maybe it's a little heavier on one side or the other. And so we need to understand this. And I think it's important for me to say that on the front side of this. I also want to mention a couple of common terms that we hear often spoken about in our society. Just so that you 'll, I'm giving you my understanding of these, and if you were to pull out a a mental uh mental a medical dictionary, you may find that Maybe they would say this slightly different than I would, but this is how I understand the issue. The word stress, when you hear that word, is stress a good thing or a bad thing? I would say it kind of depends on what you do with it, okay? Like let's say that you know you have a responsibility and you uh you feel this sense of urgency internally that you need to actually do something about it. That's stress. Guess what? That's good. That is a sense of purpose that is driving you to do something. Even when we talk about an issue like anger I mean the Bible of obviously says that not all anger is sinful. And I would say that a lot of times what anger is, it's the emotional response, and what you do with that is either going to channel that energy into a productive and godly response Or it's going to be a destructive response. So really the response side is where the problem is. It's not the emotion as much as it is the channeling of the emotion and that energy in a certain direction. So when we talk about stress, we're talking about a temporary Emotional response to some kind of threat that we've perceived or some duty that we feel we have not finished yet. And so that's what we mean by stress. You know, as a pastor, I feel stressed sometimes to do things, and that is that is my response to knowing I have a duty, I need to address that issue. As a dad, sometimes I feel that sense of stress, I need to do that So stress isn't necessarily a bad thing. We need it in our lives. But then there's a second concept, and that is stress management, how we handle those unavoidable pressures we encounter. What you do Without emotional response could be very good or very bad. And that's very important for us to understand Then we have a third word. That's the word anxiety. You say, well, when are you going to get into the Bible? I'm going to get in the text. Don't worry, okay? I'm going to get into the text. But I think it's important for us to understand these concepts a little bit on the front side. Anxiety is a lingering condition of hopeless thinking that follows stress that has not been wisely managed. Now, notice the word thinking, and under stress I use the term emotion. Okay? I make this distinction in my own mind. When I think of stress, I think of an emotional response. And when I think of anxiety, I think of a mental response. I'm beginning to think in a certain pattern of thought. In other words, my emotions have begun to press me in a direction and the way I'm thinking is anxious. I think that's the sense, and we will see this in these verses. It is someone whose mind is very occupied, not with a feeling, but with certain thoughts. And those thoughts can be very destructive. Very harmful, very counterproductive. And the question is, why is it that we get into such a place? And how do we handle this place when we get there? And then we'll hear another statement, anxiety disorder. It's a persistent condition that begins to negatively affect a person's quality of life In other words, I I feel the stress. Now I'm starting to think in a certain direction. And then the way that I'm thinking is actually beginning to cause me to have lots of serious problems in my personal life and the lives of the people around me. because of how I'm relating to them. You know how our society tends to deal with these issues? We give people medications. Not not all situations, but a lot of times that's what happens. People get medications, and rather than actually addressing the root causes of those issues, or addressing the root cause outside of a biblical world, we have problems. Again, don't forget we are a body, soul, and spirit. So we're not it's not just you know only if I you know study more scripture then it's gonna go away. It's not not necessarily the case. But the idea is that I've got to address this thing in its entirety. I've got to be a healthy person and how I think in my internal being, my walk with the Lord. So I think that those those little concepts are important for us to consider as we dig into this passage of Scripture. There's a third thing I want to mention before we dig into the text. And that is the wisdom that we see from the life of Moses. In Exodus chapter 18, we find a very fascinating little piece of David, or David, Moses ' life. And this is right before Mount Sinai. And this is when his father-in-law Jethro comes to visit him. Listen carefully to what it says. And I think it actually has a lot of bearing on this topic. It says, and Moses sat to judge the people, and the people stood by Moses from the morning until the evening. And when Moses ' father-in-law saw all that he did to the people, he said, You are such a servant. I am so thankful that I have a son-in-law who is willing to go so far and so long with these people. Is that what he said? That's not what he said. And so what he said, the thing that thou doest to the people, what is this thing that thou doest to the people? Why sittest thou thyself alone, and all the people stand by thee from morning until evening? And Moses said unto his father in law, because the people come to me to inquire of God. When they have a matter they come to me, I judge between one and another, and I do make them know the statutes of God and his law Well that seems like a great thing to do. That seems like something that uh a dad would do with his kids. You know, I mean dads are always like having to deal with the problems that their kids have and moms are always having to deal with the problems that their kids have and Pastors have these roles and counselors have these roles. These are good things, helping people, right? But this is what he says. The thing that thou doest is not good. Thou wilt surely wear away. Thou and this people that is with thee, but both thou and this people that is with thee, for this thing is too heavy for thee Thou art not able to perform it thyself alone. Now what does this have to do with the situation? This is what we see in these verses. Moses was in a position where he was carrying a burden that was more than he could handle as an individual. And what's interesting is when he says, you will surely wear away, and this thing is too heavy for you alone, what he's basically saying is this. The stress and the burden of dealing with all of those issues, the cumulative effect of all of those things, is going to break you as an individual, and then you'll be of no use to anybody And he's talking about this physically, he's talking about this mentally, he's talking about this spiritually. You're physically not able to handle such a load. You cannot handle all of this stress. You know what this is showing us? That there is a wisdom side to these kinds of issues. Sometimes the reason that people have trouble with stress is because they are not looking at the stress management in a wise manner. And so I want us to keep this in the back of our minds as we dig into this passage as well. Okay, so let's dig into the content of the text in front of us. Part number one, what is the basis of the command that Jesus gives in these verses? And this is a lengthy passage. Scripture, and we see a statement, take no thought, take no thought, take no thought, take no thought, several times in the passage. But before we look at what that means to take no thought, I want to ask the question, well, what is the basis of that command? Why does he tell him to do this. Why does he tell us not to take thought? And we'll talk about what that means in just a minute. Well the reason is because he is building this instruction on things he has said earlier in the sermon. We know that because of this little word, therefore. Alright? So in verse 25, he says, therefore I say unto you, take no thought. What does that tell me? Well, that means that he is saying, take no thought. And he's like, because of something I just said a minute ago. Then we come to verse 30. He says, Wherefore? If God so clothe the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? That wherefore is to say The command is rooted in something I just said. Then in verse 31 he says, therefore, take no thought. So before I ask the question, what does he mean by take no thought? I should ask the question. Well, what are the truths that he's just laid out that are an important piece to understanding why I'm not supposed to take thought? And interestingly, it's important to know that because what's going to happen is you're going to see the foundation side. And then you're going to see the command, and then you're going to see on the backside a reinforcement of the very things he just stated. In other words, it's almost like Jesus is teaching in a loop, okay? He starts with the reasons. He gives the command and he restates those things as a part of the solution to help us to not be overburdened with cares and anxious thoughts. That's what he's doing. So let's go back to what he taught. The first thing I want to remind you of, principle one, is what he said in verse 19. He says, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth. What is Jesus saying? Is Jesus saying that it is wrong for us to have a bank account that earns interest? Is it wrong for us to invest in material things? Is it wrong for us to make wise financial decisions? The answer is no, that's not what he's saying What he's saying is don't be consumed with temporal investments. In other words, that's not the thing that should be weighing heavily on your mind all the time. A person who all they can think about is making a little bit here and I lost something here and this investment's not doing what they are literally consumed with this concept. He says, don't do that. Principle 2. He says in verse 19, moth and rust corrupt and thieves break through and steal. What is he saying there? He's saying temple pursuits are empty. It's like the book of Ecclesiastes. He says, vanity of vanities, all is vanity. Everything in this world that you can hold in your hands, it's temporary. The beauties of Earth are fading and passing away. I mean, you know, look at a picture of yourself 20 years ago and you go, oh, that was me. What 's really amazing, huh? Okay. Uh the other day I saw a picture of my youth pastor and my pastor. It was the church staff when I was a teenager. I looked at that picture and I was like How old is that guy? He's 60 right now. He was 35. And I'm like, he's uh younger than me. And he looks a lot younger than I do right now. What in the world's going on? And what does that remind you? Guess what? Life's passing us by. We're moving this direction. You know, everything in this world, all of these temporal pursuits, they're empty. It's like trying to hold sand in your hands. Trying to hold a cup of water. It's just going out. Third principle. Verse number 20 says, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. The third principle is that we're to live productive lives that invest in eternity. God didn't create us to be idle. He created us to invest, but to channel that energy in the right direction. Principle four. Eternal pursuits have eternal value. He says, neither moth or rust corrupt, thieves do not break through and steal. He contrasts that with the temporal pursuits. And then Principle 5, he says you invest in what you love. Verse 21, where your treasure is, that is where your heart will be also. Principle six. Our worldview is shaped by uh worldview shapes everything in our perspective. He says the light of the body is the eye. If your eye is single, your whole body will be full of light. If your eye is evil, your whole body will be full of darkness. Principle seven, you cannot have a healthy perspective outside of new life in Christ. He says, if the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness? In principle eight, God demands absolute, unrivaled submission. Verse 24. No man can serve two masters. Either he hates the one or he loves the other or he holds to the one and despises the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. So before we talk about what he means by take no thought, we understand why he says it. It's because of those things. It's because of the transient nature of life. It's because we're supposed to invest our energy and our attention into eternal pursuits rather than the temporary pursuits that are going to pass away. And really what he's hinting at here, and he's going to state it very clearly, is that if you live contrary to those things, if those are not the principles that are shaping and guiding your life, guess what? You will live a life full of anxious cares. And maybe we could even state it this way as a corollary When I am full of anxious cares, it is very highly likely that those principles aren't shaping the way that I live Does that make sense? If that's the foundation, then if there's a problem here, I can look back and go, I'm not following these principles. And if I'm following these principles, it's going to translate into obedience in this area So that moves us to part number two, the object of the command in front of us. And here's what he says. He says, take no thought. Now that statement, take no thought, is found several times in this section of Christ's sermon. Take no thought, take no thought, take no thought, take no thought. And in the Greek text, it's actually one word, not A series of words. Take no thought as one term. And I'm going to tell you what it is in just a minute. But before we do that, I want to tell you what it's not. Okay? Because sometimes for us to appreciate what a thing is, we should understand what it's not. The command is not. He is not teaching us that the physical world is irrelevant. And there are some Christians That will get this mindset. Well, the spiritual is good and the physical is bad. Okay? The spiritual is where the real value is and the physical is of no value. It's almost like someone says, well, you know Bodily exercise profits little, so it's worthless. Don't do it. That's not true. He's saying if you compare the physical to the eternal This is what's more important, but it's not to say that this is of no value. I mean to put it another way, if you trash your body, you're not going to live very long. If you trash your body as long as you live, your quality of life's not going to be very good. And you're not going to be of much use to the Lord when it comes to the practical living of your life if you've trashed and destroyed your body So we need to take care of our bodies. We need to get the right amount of rest. We need to eat the right kinds of foods. We should actually exercise. We should actually work to take care of the body that God has given us. So he is in no way saying that the physical world is worthless. It's irrelevant. It has no value. He's not saying that But he is going to make a comparison. For instance, in 1 Timothy 6, he says, charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded. That they do not trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. It's important for us to notice what he's saying. He's not saying tell those who are rich that they have sinned because they're rich to get rid of all their money. He didn't say that. He doesn't say tell them they need to feel guilty because they have invested in the wrong thing. He doesn't say that. He says, tell them not to be proud. He says, tell them not to trust in riches. Tell them to trust in God instead. And then he makes another fascinating statement. He gives us these things richly to enjoy. So the physical world's not bad. It is a fallen world, but it's a beautiful world. You know, when I walk outside and I look up into the sky on a clear night and I see all these constellations, I shouldn't go, oh, the physical world's worthless. I shouldn't I shouldn't enjoy those things. No, that's not the way I should do this. Or if I'm watching an athletic event and I and I see this like incredible physical ability that these people have, I should shouldn't go, oh you know, sports are evil. I can't watch sports because you know, the physical world's bad and I can't I can't enjoy that. No, I think it's pretty fascinating to see what people can do. And God created them with the ability to do that. Or you know when you listen to incredible music, you shouldn't go, oh I can't listen to that because that's That's too worldly. That's the physical world, and I can't enjoy those things. No, God created you with eardrums and the ability to enjoy those things, and that's good. So he's not saying the physical world's worthless, irrelevant, bad. Secondly, he's not teaching us that careful consideration is always wrong. You know, when when you see that statement Be careful for nothing or take no thought. Some people go, well, I guess I'm supposed to just not plan in life because that's sinful. And I shouldn't think ahead because that's sinful That is not what Jesus is saying here. And we know that because the book of Proverbs is full of instruction about how to plan wisely and make good decisions. For instance, in Proverbs chapter 4, he says, ponder the path of thy feet. Let thy ways be established. In other words, you should think about the direction that you're going. Another example. He's not teaching that the natural internal tensions that motivate us to fulfill our duties are sinful. I think sometimes, and I I I've found myself in this place before. When I have some kind of responsibility. And it's a legitimate responsibility. It's a God-given responsibility. I need to seize it. I'm supposed to do it. And I feel this pressure inside to go and do it. I start going, well, I'm being tempted. I'm being anxious. I'm worried. And I'm feeling this pressure, and I'm equating that with a sinful response. That is not a sinful response. That is your awareness you have a duty and you need to step up and do it. That is a good kind of a stress. But what you do with that, that's the problem. He's not teaching us to live life without responsible planning. I'm kind of restating what I said earlier, but in Proverbs 14, 15, he says that the simple believe every word, but the prudent man looketh well to his goings. He thinks about where he's going in life. Proverbs 27, 12, a prudent man foreseeth evil and hideth himself, but the simple pass on and are punished. This one is fascinating in James chapter 4, where he talks about these people who go and say, you know, we're gonna go and buy and sell in a certain city and get gain, and he says, Hold on a second, you do not know what is tomorrow. He says, what's your life? It's even a vapor. It appears for a little while and he vanishes away. And he says in verse 15 of chapter 4, he says, you ought to rather say, if The Lord wills we shall do this or do that. Do you see what he's saying? He's not telling you don't plan. He's saying, when you plan, say if God wills. You know what that means? That means that I'm supposed to think and I'm supposed to plan and I'm supposed to work through things in my mind, but I'm also supposed to hold those plans. gently and say it's ultimately in the hands of God to do a thing or not to do a thing. And so that's really what we see here. You ought to say if Proverbs 16, 9, a man's heart deviseth his way, the Lord directs his steps. So I think it's important for us to just keep those things in our mind. He's not suggesting a haphazard way of life without prudence, without wisdom, without planning. That's not what he's saying. So what is he saying? Well the term, and I'm not going to use the term, but you'll see it up there. The Greek term has the idea of being anxious or full of cares. The command is literally saying, do not be anxious, do not be full of cares. This is not referring to the emotional response as much as it is to the obsessive pattern of thinking that often flows out of those emotional responses. So he's not talking about the stress, he's talking about the anxiety. There's a difference, okay? The one is I feel I need to do this and I feel that pressure and it's pushing me, and then I'm getting channeled in a certain direction. The anxiety is how do I think as a response to those feelings and pressures that I have? That's what he's talking about. In other words, he's saying, don't obsess. Don't be full of all these thoughts that flow out of the situations. And I'm going to give you three examples of this same word being used in the New Testament. Not the only three examples, but these are three very important ones. The first one is Matthew chapter 10 verse 19. He says, when they deliver you up, take no thought how or what ye shall speak For it shall be given you in that same hour what ye shall speak. This is a fascinating statement. The idea is do not obsess over how you will handle a future challenging situation. On the other side of don't obsess is just trust God because in that moment He's going to give you what you need and you say, Well I'd like to know what it is right now and He says, You're not. You're not going to know what it is. So don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Don't obsess over how you're going to handle this future situation. Same word that's used about don't be anxious or full of cares. A second example. This one's really interesting Luke chapter 10 verse 41 he says Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things. Later on he says, Mary hath chosen the better part. Well, what's he saying? Don't obsess over secondary concerns. So while the first example is someone who is like, I don't know how I'm going to handle the situation down the road, and so I'm really, really, really, really concerned about it, and I'm just I'm analyzing every single potential scenario. And if they say this then I'll say this, and then if they say this then I'll say this, and then if they say that, well they could say this or they could say that. So I'll say this in this situation, I'll say that in this situ Anybody ever done that before? Yes. I've done that before. You say don't do that Do not do that. You say why not? Because it's sin. You say it's sin? Yes. That's what it is. Because God says, rather than worrying about all that, just worry about what's right in front of you. Instead of being so consumed with something that's so secondary, it is so really seemingly it's insignificant in light of the big picture. Focus on what's most important. He's like, Martha, maybe instead of being concerned about your house being perfect. You should spend time with the one that you want it to look nice for. Like you know what I'm saying? It's sort of like you have somebody over to your house and you're like, the house gotta be be perfect. I gotta clean every single little cranny and I don't want a single cobweb here. And I just want everything perfect. And you are so obsessed with the perfection of a house that will never be perfect that when that person comes you don't enjoy them at all. He says, that's what I'm talking about. That's what he means by obsessing over secondary issues. And then Philippians 4. 6. He says, be careful. The idea is don't be full of worry. Be careful for nothing. But in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. The idea is do not obsess over matters that are in God's hands and not in your hands. So the idea is when he says, be careful for nothing, instead take it to the Lord in prayer, he's basically saying, instead of you trying to figure out how to make it work on your own, you should recognize this is actually something that's That's in God's jurisdiction, not your jurisdiction. And so ask him to take care of it and leave it alone. That's what he's saying. So in these three examples, you can see how a person is burdened, overwhelmed with thoughts. This is not just emotion, okay? Emotion will be attached to these thoughts. There's no question about that In fact, if you become obsessive about these thoughts, it's going to affect you emotionally so that you feel hopeless and you feel like there's no way you can turn from this. And by the way, it'll affect you physically. You may say, I don't want to get out of bed 'cause I I just I can't face the day because these thoughts just flood my mind and they flood my mind and they flood my mind or I've just gotta eat and I've gotta eat and I've gotta eat because it makes me feel better or I've gotta go to this thing I I'm just gonna go play video games. I'm just gonna Absorb myself in these games, and then I won't think about these things. That's how the world deals with anxiety. That's not how Christians should deal with anxiety. You say, well, what's the antidote? How are we supposed to respond in these things? Glad you asked, because Jesus gives us the anecdote. answer. And what's fascinating about it is Christ's answer goes back to the foundation and he sort of restates it Here's what he says. Putting it all together in a practical way. How do we deal with anxiety biblically? We need to address the issues practically and theologically. And he's going to give us a series of statements that are going to help us to think clearly in these issues. And you know what's really interesting? Like let's say that you have a person that you love very much and they come to you and say, I'm I'm overwhelmed. And you listen to them, okay? You listen to them. And then you start asking them some questions Hey, have you thought about this? And what do you think about that? And what are you doing? You are guiding their thinking away from what's not true. It's totally theoretical. And you're directing their thinking onto what is actually true. And as you direct your thing into what is actually true, it helps them. I'm not saying it completely clears up the whole issue right then and there. I'm not saying they won't end up in this place again, uh you know, over and over and over again potentially, but but part of how you help somebody is You talk through the issue with them and you direct their thinking to what is true, not what is theoretical or what you know to not be true, but what actually is true. So let's look at what he says. Verse 26, the first thing he says is behold the fowls. Another way to put it is go walk out in your backyard and watch the birds for a little bit. You say, watch the birds. Why? Because as you watch these animals, you will notice something. It reminds us that God takes care of his creation. Now, some of God's creatures are being taken care of by my garden right now. It doesn't make me happy. But you know, God's taking care of them. They didn't plant that corn. They didn't plant those tomatoes. I did. But they're enjoying it. Hopefully not too much, right? But he says, walk outside and look at the birds. He says, behold the fowls. These are not immortal creatures. They know this is right and this is this wrong. These are not, you know, calculating, okay, you know, how much time do I need to do this? And do I own this piece of property? And how am I going to develop this? And I don't know if I'm going to have enough money for retirement. They don't do that. They just go out and live their lives. They just go out and they just pick what's there. And where does it come from? Well God's God's ordered the creation in a certain way that they just go out there and they get their food. And what he's basically saying is you need to regularly remind yourself that God takes care of his creation. And do it through a visible reminder. Just walk outside and see what God does. Just walk outside and see that. That's the first thing that he says. Now that doesn't seem like a whole like deep theological thing. That's almost like a picture But it is deeply theological. Because he's going to build a case on that statement. God takes care of his creation. The second thing that he's going to say is in verse 27. And it's not so much what he's saying, but what he's asking. He says, which of you by taking thought can add one cubit to his stature? He's saying, do you have the ability to change things that are unchangeable? No. Okay, why did Jesus ask that question He asks that question because he's saying you need to accept that there are certain things in life you can't control. When I say accept them, what I mean is You come to terms with that reality. You come to terms with the fact that there are things that are outside of your control. There are things that no matter how hard you try to manipulate and do this and do that and all those things, guess what? You can't make it happen. You can't make it happen. I mean, I'm looking what's going on in our country right now. I have absolute no idea what's going to happen in the next couple months. I would be a fool to tell you a prediction of what I think is going to happen. But here's what I'm observing. There are people behind the scenes right now literally pulling their hair out trying to figure out the best course of action to accomplish what they want to accomplish and guess what? They can't do it They can't do it. Whatever they're trying to, all their schemes and all their plans, you know what God? He confounds it. He's gonna basically say, hey, look I'm in charge. I'm going to put in power who I want there. Not because of how good they are or how bad the other person is, but I'm going to put in power the one I want in power at this time for reasons that you and I don't necessarily understand right now, but I'm going to do it. It's like what happened to Nebuchadnezzar. Think about this story. Here's Nebuchadnezzar. He walks out and he looks out at at this beautiful city. He's like, wow, look at everything that I've made. And God says, You're going to become like an animal. Not become an animal, but you're going to lose your rationality. You're going to wander around in a field And your advisors are going to watch you do it, and then they're going to put you back in power. When you come back to your senses, it's like, wow, that's incredible. That's what God did. And here's this arrogant man Nebuchadnezzar and he he literally pens Scripture. Like He speaks in the first person and he says that the kingdoms of the earth are reputed as nothing He does whatever he wills in the armies of heaven, and none can stay his hand or say to him, What doest thou? You know what Nebuchadnezzar realized? I can scheme, I can plot, I can try everything, and at the end of it all, God says, nope. That's what he does. And you can push and push and push and push and push. And you can have everything figured out. And God says, actually, there's another possibility that you never considered, and that's what What's the point? We need to come to terms with the fact that there are certain things we cannot control. And that's okay. We are creatures, not creator. We are not sovereigns. We are under the authority of God Himself And that reality is important for us to realize. When you are trying to micromanage and driving yourself crazy with anxious cares, you are trying to do something that is not your place. Just not your place. And you will not be able to accomplish it no matter how hard you try. God will frustrate your plans. Number three. In verse 28 he says, consider the lilies of the field. Now this is actually a little different because when he talks about the birds, he's talking about animals that eat stuff. But when he talks about the lilies, he's not talking about something that's looking out foraging for food. He's talking about plants that are just out in the field. And the emphasis of these verses, of this particular illustration, is he says, look out into that field and look at the incredible beauty, the natural beauty of all of these lilies out in the field. And he said, Solomon in all of his greatness was not arrayed like one of those. That's a pretty amazing statement. You know what he's saying? You take all of the human ingenuity. To create things of beauty, and guess what? They can't do it as good as God can. They can't do it as good as God can. When you look at a painting, what is prettier? The painting or the thing they were looking at when they painted it? What is truly more amazing? The image or the thing created? The fact is that what God does is fantastic. And so he's basically saying, regularly remind yourself that God's works are beautiful and well-ordered. He cares about things that do not have brains. They do not have wills. They are not moral creatures. They're plants. And he arranges them naturally in such a way that when you look out in that field, you go, that is incredible. It takes my breath away. You say, well, how does that help me with this whole anxiety thing? I'm getting there. Fourthly, verse 30. Shall he not much more clothe you of you you of little faith? Ask yourself, why are you doubting God's values? Now, what he's basically saying is this. God takes care of his creation. There are all kinds of things that you have absolutely no power to be able to actually Manipulate them, craft them, plan them, and make them happen. You don't have that ability. There are certain limitations that you have. And what God does is beautiful and masterful and well-ordered. And I asked this question, are you not more important to God than plants? And birds? If plants and birds are important to God, like wouldn't you think that you who are created his image are also important? And even more so than those things are? He says that Of course. And so he's saying if God takes care of the animals and God has natural beauty that he has created, why would you doubt that he will take care of them? care of you and the things that are outside of your control. Why would you obsess over those things? This is a faith response. This is a trusting God response. This is a uniquely Christian response in these areas. The next statement we see is in verses 31 to 33. He says, Take no thought, but rather seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. This is important. He says, redirect your thoughts and energy into the right direction. You and I can't, we can't turn our brain off. Okay, even when we go to sleep, we dream. Okay? And you know the things that we that we dream about are often the things that are they're really weighing our hearts down. And so that mind is not supposed to be channeled in this direction. He's saying, channel that energy in this direction. And how do I know to go this direction? Well, because That is a productive end. In other words, the stress that presses us, that moves us into an anxious worry, actually should move us into a productive end. In other words, it's all about what you do with the pressure It's going to move you somewhere. The question is what direction? And so he says, instead of being anxious Seek the kingdom of God and his righteousness. In other words, he's taking us full circle back to the foundation again. He's saying, do you remember those principles that you're supposed to live your life by? Instead of being anxious and going in this direction, channel that energy back in this direction. That's what he's saying. He's coming full circle on this issue. And the last thing that he mentions is in verse 34. Take therefore no thought for the morrow. In other words, don't allow yourself to carry hypothetical burdens. You know how much of our life is weighed down by things that never happen. You say, but it could have happened. Okay, but it didn't. It could have happened. What if it could have happened? We live our lives in this what if type stuff. And you know what Jesus says? Worry about today. Take care of what's in front of you. Focus on what's right in front of you. Instead of being so burdened by hypotheticals, focus your energy on what's right in front of you. What's real, not the hypothetical, but the actual. This is the antidote. Regularly remind yourself that God cares for the creation. Accept the fact there are certain things you cannot control. Regularly remind yourself that God's works are beautiful and well-ordered. Ask yourself why are you doubting God's values? Redirect your thoughts and energies into the right direction. Do not allow yourself to carry hypothetical burdens. Another way to put this is we've got to learn to develop disciplined biblical thinking. We need to pattern our lives in such a direction. And we see so many examples of this. Psalm 42. Why art thou cast down on my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Who is David talking to? He's talking to David. Psalm 42, 11. Why art thou cast down on my soul? Why art thou disquiet within me? Hope thou in God. I will praise him who is the health of my countenance. Who is he talking to? Himself. Psalm 43, 5. Why art thou cast down on my soul? Why art thou disquiet within me? Hope thou in God. 42. 5, 4211, 43. 5. He says the same thing over and over and over again. Why is that? Because when we are dealing with these kinds of thoughts. We have to speak what is true to ourselves. And we've got to redirect our thoughts and channel them in a direction that is productive and wholesome and godly. You might say, well, well, Pastor Joel, I I uh don't have the discipline to do that right now. Get somebody to help you. Get somebody who's spiritually mature, loves you, and when you're in a in a in a tough place Say, I need you to tell me the truth. I need you to speak the truth to me to help me to channel this thinking in the right direction. That's what a counselor does. That's what a pastor does. That's what a godly parent does. You know, I need to teach my kids. So what happens is when my kids are thinking in a certain direction, I gotta sit down with them, and it might take an hour or two in conversation. But we work through the issue and we talk about what's going on and we direct their thinking back to the Lord. We've got to do those things. That is what parenting is. You're not their friend. You're their parents. You're their authority. God puts you in that place to direct them to what is true. You're older, hopefully wiser, hopefully more mature. Be a parent. Very, very important. Philippians 4. 8. Whatsoever things are true, honest, just pure, lovely, of good report. If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. What is that passage saying? Instead of being anxious, think on what's true. Focus your attention on what God says is true. So, how do we apply it? Well, the passage practically addresses the theological side of anxiety. The first passage, the Exodus passage, talks about the practical side, the physical and emotional side. Some of us might need to reach out to somebody who is a mature believer and say, I need help. I need you to help me work through some things. I have Struggles and you know be careful who you go to and just be honest with you. But somebody who knows the word of God, loves you, is going to help you through that issue, be patient with you, sit down, work through the issue. Some of us need to take better care of our bodies. You know why you have anxiety? It's because you sleep three hours a night. I mean it's true. You don't get enough sleep Drink caffeine before you go to bed. You're on your phone for hours late into the night. You're video gaming. Guess what? There's no reason for you to think you're going to have a sound mind. Absolutely no reason. You're trashing your body. Don't do it. It's foolish. It's destructive. It's sinful. Don't do it. We're not just brains and we're not just Spiritual creatures, we are body, soul, and spirit. We've got to take care of our bodies. We need to regularly have a pattern of rest. I mean, God says six days of labor and one day take rest. Why did he do that? Because he created us with that need to recalibrate, to reset. We need to divert away from the pressure sometimes. We need to step back sometimes and evaluate what we've taken on and ask the question, is it really wise and appropriate and prudent for me to do these things? And you may have to swallow your pride and say, I I can't handle all of what is on my plate. I'm going to have to be more selective. That's okay. Do that. We need to do that Evaluating our commitments. More than anything else, we've got to think biblically about the topic. So let's ask the Lord to help us to do it. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we think about this topic, it is a delicate topic. I knew it. Very personal. It's something that's talked about a lot in our culture. And Father, I pray that you'd help us as your people to be wise, take care of our bodies, help us to be mentally sharp. Father, help us to think theologically correctly. And I pray that we would be in a position where if we need help, we would reach out to those who can help. We would be careful about those whom we reach out to, people who are mature and wise, and will handle our situation carefully. I pray for those who need to grow and mature so that they can help others. Father, help these truths to really settle into our hearts and to shape us as your people. We want to be healthy men and women. Who think biblically, who take our stresses and burdens to you, and we channel them in the right direction. Father, help us in these things. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.