Good morning. Like to welcome you to our final Inchrid in the Word Morning Reflection and hope that you're looking forward to a great weekend, that you have a great Friday. The passage of scripture we've been dealing with this week is Psalm 32, so I'm going to read it one more time, and then we're going to look at kind of a summation. or final thoughts for the week, just taking everything we've talked about and uh putting it together in the end. Here's what it says. It is a psalm of David, a mashal, or a contemplation. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long. For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me. My moisture is turned into the drought of summer, Sila. I acknowledged my sin unto thee, and mine iniquities have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord, and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Sila. For this shall every one that is godly pray unto thee in a time when thou mayest be found Surely in the floods of great waters they shall not come nigh unto him. Thou art my hiding place. Thou shalt preserve me from trouble. Thou shalt compass me about with songs of deliverance. Selah I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go. I will guide thee with mine eye. Be ye not as the horse or as the mule which have no understanding, whose mouth must be held in with bits and bridle, lest they come near unto thee. Many sorrows shall be to the wicked, but he that trusteth in the Lord, mercy shall compass him about. Be glad in the Lord. Rejoice ye righteous, shout for joy, all ye that are upright in hope and heart Well, I I don't know about you, but this passage of Scripture has really been a lot to chew on. And at the heart of this psalm is the fact that true blessedness cannot come. if we ignore and we disregard the issue of sin, or if we try to address the issue of sin in a way that cannot actually technically deal with sin. And so that really is at the heart of Psalm 32, but that is not the only detail that we've unpackaged this week. So we've kind of moved our way through talking about the nature of man, we've talked about the nature of sin We've talked about how God deals with sin. We've talked about how God is not just going to deal with our sin issue, but he is, as our Father, cares about what's going on in our life. And he strengthens and uplifts and he preserves us and he is our defense and he is the one who protects us. We've talked about all those things. So what I'd like to do is I'd like to put it all together with a couple of practical final thoughts. So here's the first of our thoughts. The thought is this. It is impossible to resist the reality of our humanity without painful, frustrating consequences. One of the great dangers of the modern mindset is that the modern mindset somehow believes that if you can envision a thing and you can convince yourself that a thing is true, then it becomes true. It's a type of relativism that's absolutely fatal. It's something that is flawed at its source, and one of the most clear areas where we will see this play out is in this issue of sin. The fact is you and I are created in the image of God, so we have a mind. That means we can think. We can process things. Not only do we have a mind that can think and process things, But we also are moral creatures. We understand that there is right and there is wrong. And you may convince yourself that that morality is completely relative. But the simple fact is you cannot uh get away from the fact that you have a conscience, you have a moral sense about you. And so if a person is going to resist these truths, these facts about their very nature, then what's going to happen is there are going to be downstream consequences that naturally flow as a result of that. And Psalm 32 really expresses that The second thing I want you to notice is that we cannot ignore sin and live a vibrant life in this sense Now that's not to say that a person that ignores this reality is always going to be miserable and down and discouraged. I'm not saying that. But what I am saying Is that the way that they live their life is going to lack the vibrancy for which God intended it. And the reason for that is because God created us not just in his image. but with the purpose of knowing him and enjoying him forever and actually reflecting his good character. That is what God designed us to do, to actually be actively working, vibrantly living in this fallen world. which wasn't a fallen world in the original sense, but God created us to actually work and to serve and to worship. And so you can't ignore sin and live the vibrant life because it's inconsistent with reality. The third is this, we will live frustrated, empty lives until we face our sin and allow God to deal with it through the gospel. And I love the concepts that we talked about earlier in the week. We talked about the concept of atonement and covering. We talked about the concept of imputation. and how our sins were placed on Christ, and Christ was punished in our place, and Christ's righteousness was imputed to us, and God has declared us righteous on the basis of the work of Christ. We talked about the fact that he uses the word sin and iniquity and transgression to kind of give us the full scope. of what this word sin actually means. It's falling short. It's a twisting or perverting of God's good gifts and purposes. It's a rejection or rebellion. against his authority and his law. And so what we've seen is that God through the gospel addresses the fundamental need of forgiveness and cleansing and being declared righteous, all of those things, even to the point that God transforms the person who has placed his faith in Christ. And so we've we've talked about that aspect So here's my question. Will you actually respond to the appeal that God has given? Are you willing to listen to what he says in this text and embrace it? Are you willing to turn to him while he's available? In in other words, rather than continuing to live on your own terms, in your own way, rejecting the reality of life as it is, are you going to turn to God and say, you're available, you're calling me, I'm going to listen. Are we willing to embrace the forgiveness that is available to us through the gospel? In order to embrace this forgiveness, it begins with recognizing we have a problem. That we have to say, I actually need to be safe from my sin. I'm not going to cover my sin. I'm going to let God deal with my sin Are we willing to listen to his appeal in that sense? Are we willing to turn to him with all of our heart, with all of our soul, with all of our mind, with all of our strength? That is at the heart, the core. of this this psalm, Psalm 32. And are we willing to rejoice in him as our absolute highest delight and treasure? I want to conclude with reading to you those first two verses again so that we can hear them and be reminded of how our sin is dealt with at the cross. It says this in verse 1. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. May God help us to be a people who are living vibrantly in the light of the truths that we have read this week in Psalm 32. Hope that you have a wonderful weekend. If this has been an encouragement to you, please take a moment to share that. Perhaps pass it along to someone else who could be encouraged by this series. And I look forward to seeing many of you on Sunday as we get back into the Word. We fellowship with one another. And we enjoy rich Christ-centered worship. Have the blessed weekend bye now