Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back again to our study in Psalm thirty-one. And so if you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's all turn together and we're going to read the first five verses, uh, but we will be dealing with uh verses all throughout the psalm as we get into the content. And if you're with us yesterday, you saw that in our introduction we talked about um really the setting for what's going on and David has experienced a tremendous betrayal. of trust, uh treacherous behavior, and David is experiencing the internal pain of that. And I want us to see how David responds to God and to his circumstances as he processes this in a biblical way. Let's go ahead and begin reading in verse number one, and then let's look at how David responds. Here's what it says. In the O Lord do I put my trust Let me never be ashamed. Deliver me in thy righteousness. Bow down thine ear to me. Deliver me speedily. Be thou my strong rock for a house of defense to save me For thou art my rock and my fortress. Therefore, for thy name's sake, lead me and guide me. Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me. For thou art my strength. Into thy hands I commit my spirit. Thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth. Now if you look at these verses, the the most prominent thing that we see at the beginning of the Psalm Is that rather than David doing what we tend to do in circumstances where we were where we feel a lot of pain and we feel very vulnerable is we tend to pull away from God or we tend to become angry at God or complain toward God or be bitter towards God. And that is not how David responds in this situation. Not to say that this Psalm is is not in some sense expressing David's frustration, his bewilderment. There are times where we read in Psalms like this where David appears to be complaining to God. He's pouring out his heart to God in a very vulnerable way. But I want you to notice that in verses one and two, and then later on in the Psalm verses fourteen to eighteen, David cries out to God in prayer. And he basically says, God, I desperately need you to intervene on my behalf And throughout this psalm and several different places, as David prays in such a way, he's expressing the fact that he is trusting God in the midst of the situation. As he's processing it and as he feels pain and frustration and vulnerability and fear And anger and resentment, all the different things that are coming into his heart as he is dealing with this issue, he's going to express God in the midst of this I'm clinging to you. I'm trusting you. I'm depending on you. Notice what he says in verse 1. He says, In thee do I put my confidence. Or in verse five he says, Into thine hands I commit my spirit. The idea is that I know that my life may very well be in danger. Or it it is in danger. I don't even know if I'm going to survive this this moment of betrayal. I don't know if I'm so physically endangered that I may lose my life. And so God, my life is in your hands. That's what he is saying. Verse 14, he says, I trusted in thee. Verse 15, My times are in thine hands. So you can see that David expresses in several different places that in his vulnerability He's not taking matters into his own hands. He's not taking revenge, and he's not fighting back, but rather he's saying, God, defend me, protect me. Deliver me. Your hand my life is in your hands. That is the sense of how David responds. But then I want you to notice how he how he kind of breaks it down in some very practical ways. For instance In verse number one, he says, Let me never be ashamed. Or in verse 15, he says, My uh, let me not be ashamed, I have called upon thee. That word shame is very interesting to me because what David is saying is there are people on the side who are saying don't put your confidence in God Don't trust him. Pull away from him. Ignore him. Take matters into your own hands. That's the sense of what is going on. And David says, no. God, it is you and you alone who can defend me, who can protect me, who can strengthen me and all those things. And so as David is crying out to God, he's saying, God Don't let me be ashamed. Don't disappoint me. As people have come to me and say, don't put your confidence in God. I'm doing it. And so Don't let them come back to me later and say, see, I told you so. That's the sense of what David is saying in his prayer. Or another example that's very interesting. Verse number one, he says Deliver me, verse number 15. My times are in your hands. Deliver me from the hand of my enemy and from them that persecute me. He's saying, God Intervene on my behalf. I don't have the power to protect myself. I have limitations. And so I'm pleading with you Step in and do for me what I cannot do. Another example of David expressing his trust is verse number two. He says, Bow down thine ear to me. I love this picture that David is drawing from. It's like someone who has a little child come alongside of them and say, Daddy, Daddy, Daddy, I have a question for you. And rather than just standing off to the side, you bend down and you lower your ear and say, go ahead, son, what did you say? Go ahead, daughter, what did you say? What is the idea? It's a picture of someone condescending to the lower estate of another, lowering themselves to give attention to that person. And I think bound up in that illustration or bound up in that picture is the picture of mercy. Looking at a vulnerable person and having compassion on them. And David is saying, God, don't let me be ashamed. Deliver me, intervene on my behalf, have mercy on me. Another important statement, verse number two, deliver me speedily. David is basically saying, God, I'm holding out, but I'm losing strength. Please come quickly. I don't know if you've experienced this, but you look at what's going on in our society today. You you listen to the news, you watch the news, you read the news, you scroll through the news. And you say, even so come quickly, Lord Jesus. I know that this is on many, many hearts. That is the sense that David is expressing. He's saying, God I'm trusting you, but my hands are getting weak. And I need you to step in quickly because my strength is so diminished. That is the sense. of how David is is is praying. Verse number 16, he says, look favorably upon me. He says, make your face to shine. upon thy servant, save me for thy mercy's sake. And that that picture of making your face shine upon you is the idea of of show me your favor. At this moment it's as if your back is turned to me and as I'm experiencing this isolation. And I feel so vulnerable. And I'm saying, God, turn to me and show me your grace. Be kind to me. Step in in this situation. That's what David is saying. The last thing I'm going to draw your attention to is verse 18. He says, let the lying lips be put to silence, which speak grievous things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous. And he says, God, stop the lying mouths. that are undermining my position. And not just my position, but all of the righteous. The righteous are persecuted, they're belittled, they're maligned, they're lied about, and God, I am asking you to intervene. What is all of this ultimately saying? Rather than David pulling away from God, he's drawn close to God. He's driven to his knees. He cries out for God to intervene. And friends, that's what we need to do when we experience these kinds of hardships. You might say, well, well, Joel My hardship is greater than David's. I don't think that David's psalm really applies to me because the kind of betrayal and the kind of treachery and the kind of internal pain that I'm feeling at this moment, it's greater than David's. He can't identify with me. This passage doesn't really apply in my situation. I say, no, that's not true. In fact, tomorrow what I'd like to do is I'd like us to dig into just how personal this situation was for David. Just how vulnerable David uh feels in that situation. I want us to feel the weight of David's pain so that we can recognize no matter the depth of our situation. This text applies to us. But you say, what's the great takeaway? The great takeaway is like David trusted God. And like David got on his knees, we need to trust God. And we need to get on our knees. And I want to encourage you this morning, if you're feeling like David did, that's what you need to do. Get on your knees, cry out to God, cling to him, depend on him, rely upon him, and you know what? He will have mercy on you. That's what the text is going to drive us toward. Hope that you have a great rest of your morning. And Lord willing, tomorrow we will continue in our study through the 31st Psalm. Have a blessed day. Bye now.