Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And so this week, if you were able to join us on Sunday. I'm going to know that we dealt with Psalm 32. So that's the text of scripture we'll be dealing with this week. I'm excited about this. It's a very gospel-oriented passage of scripture, many rich, rich truths. And so, if you could, let's all turn together to Psalm 32, and we're just going to read verses 1 through 5 together, but we will deal with the entire Psalm, Lord Willing, this week. Here's what it says, Psalm 32, verse 1. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, and whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long. For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me, my moisture is turned into drought summer. Silla I acknowledged my sin unto thee, and my iniquities have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord, and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Selah Now this this psalm, Psalm 32, is not only a wonderful psalm, but it's also a very well-known psalm as it's quoted in the book of Romans. And so in Romans chapters 3 and 4, When Paul is dealing with the issue of righteousness and justification, and how our righteousness falls short of God's standard of righteousness And how a person can be justified by faith alone, he actually quotes from Psalm 32. So Psalm 32 is a very important text of scripture for us to understand. Well what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to kind of just kind of set up our study by giving you a summary statement for the passage that we're dealing with, a couple of introductory thoughts that I think are important, and then I want us to look at the first point. And that is where blessedness starts in Psalm 32. So first of all, summary statement. Psalm 32 teaches us that true blessedness cannot come until our sin problem has been properly addressed. And this is because God created us with both an awareness of what is right and wrong and a sense of His presence. Now when we use the word blessedness, when the Bible talks about someone being a blessed person or blessedness, it refers to someone who is in a joyful disposition, a person who is happy, and it's not some kind of a trite or flippant happiness. But it's something where a person is living life consistent with the purpose that God has for them. And so they are properly related to God, which enables them to be able to enjoy life as he intended it. When we read the Beatitudes, and he talks about blessedness, the same kind of concept. Or in Psalm 1, the same kind of concept And so before we look at this first part of it, I want to remind you of something that I know we all know this, but sometimes it's important to state it, and especially as our culture is becoming more and more anti-Christian. We become further and further removed from a Christian worldview in our society. I think sometimes you have to restate these things often. And the first thing I'll say is this We are not animals. We are not machines. We are not computers. We're not just bodies. We are not the result of some random process like evolution. You and I are humans. created by God in his image. And part of being created by God in his image means that he designed us with a real purpose. And that purpose begins in this life, but that purpose fits for eternity. God has an eternal purpose for us. as his people. And so with that in mind, what that means is that he takes care of us, he sustains our lives, we are valuable to him. Now, a part of us being created in God's image with that value also comes the question of, well, why do we have flaws and why do we have a thin nature and what is all that all about? Well that goes back to the fall. And because there is a fall, not only are we created in God's image, and we have this wonderful purpose that He's designed us for, and we can enjoy Him forever, which is His purpose for us We are also flawed creatures. We are sinful creatures. We have a sin nature. And that sin nature has affected every aspect of our person. And so understanding these concepts of the dignity and the nature of humanity and also the fallenness of humanity, those things drive us to what we read in Psalm 32. If a person is going to be blessed in the biblical sense, then something has to be addressed in order for that to be made possible. And that thing that has to be addressed is really the heart of Psalm 32, and that is sin. And so true blessedness starts with addressing sin. And that's why the Psalm starts with the following statements. Blessed is he whose forget transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man and to whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. These verses tell us that until the issue of sin is addressed, the kind of vibrancy and blessedness and the happiness that God wants us to enjoy as His children walking consistent with our purpose, that is an impossibility until sin is dealt with. And what's wonderful about these first two verses is he gives us four different ways that God expresses how he has dealt with our sin. And by the way These statements are really written from the Old Testament perspective, and I'm going to draw that out in just a minute. But it is applied in the New Testament, and there's clearly New Testament application. But the first thing that he mentions in verse 1 is that he extends forgiveness. Verse 1 says, blessed is the man whose transgression is forgiven. Now when he uses the word transgression, he's using it in the singular, not the plural. And I think it has the same sense in the way that Paul speaks of us as all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. He's talking about the fact that our transgression as people who have rejected God, the ultimate sin that separates us from God and and puts us in a position of under his wrath That issue has been dealt with by God. And it's forgiven. The word forgiven means not that it didn't happen, but that God will not hold it to our account any longer. He does not hold that sin between us and him. He has removed the guilt that we've incurred justly by our sin. But there's a second statement that we find in verse 1. He not only says whose transgression is forgiven, but whose sin is covered. And in the Old Testament, Jesus Christ had not yet died. And so that the actual payment for sin had not yet taken place. And so Old Testament saints were people who were forgiven on the basis of their sin debt being covered because God had promised to send a Savior. But the actual removal of that sin debt is something that would happen in the future. And so when he talks about their sin being covered, the idea is that God is not going to look upon their sin. Even though their sin has still not been dealt with yet on that side of the cross, God was going to choose to overlook it because that person had placed faith in Christ And because Christ was going to go to the cross and he was going to deal with their sin once and for all. Now on the New Testament side of this, the reality is that our sin is covered also. But it's covered in the sense that it's been dealt with at the cross and it's no more going to be looked upon. And so he talks about forgiveness, he talks about a covering for our sin. so that God does not look upon it any longer, does not hold it against us any longer. We are at peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. But there's a third word that he uses and this is a fascinating one And verse 2 it says, unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity. Now, he does this forgiving of sin and the covering of sin through a word called imputation. Now the way that it's stated in verse 2 is he says that the Lord imputeth not Now the question is how can God choose to not hold our sin against us? How can God deal with us as if we've not sinned against them when in fact we actually have sinned against him. And that's all really bound up in this word, impute. In fact, if you were a Christian, this issue of imputation has taken place really in two senses for you and I. In the first sense, it's this. Our sin debt has been put on Christ, that is imputation. And because our sin debt has been put on Christ, God has dealt with Christ as if he had sinned, though in fact we are the ones who have sinned against him. So our sin debt is removed because God has punished Christ in our place. But there's a second imputation that takes place, not just the imputing of our sin to Christ account. and the punishing of our sin on Christ Himself and the satisfaction of God's wrath propitiation. But Christ's righteousness has also been imputed to us so that God not only forgives us, But he declares us to be righteous before him, not based on our own righteousness, but based on the imputed righteousness of Christ. So when when Deva talks about the blessedness of a person, he says his sin is forgiven. His sin is covered, the Lord does not impute iniquity unto him, because Christ took our sin debt and has paid our sin debt in full And Christ has given us his righteousness, imputed it to our account, credited to us, so that God can declare us righteous on the basis of that imputed righteousness of Christ. But then there is a fourth way that he deals with our sin. And this is a fascinating one. In verse number two it says, and in whose spirit there is no guile Now, we know that all of us are sinners and all of us are unrighteous people. And apart from the grace of God, we have absolutely nothing. But the question is, what does God do with a person that has placed their faith in him and has trusted in the finished work of Christ? How does this person begin to relate to God practically? We know how God relates to them. He relates to them as one who is not guilty. But how do they relate to God? And the answer is they relate to him as a father who is shaping us into the image of Christ. We use the word sanctification. It's a positional word primarily that we are set apart to God, declared saints. But the other aspect is the practical working out of being changed into the image of Christ. in our practical daily lives. I think about what it says in 2 Corinthians chapter 3. It says that we all with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of God. Or in Romans chapter 12, verse 1 and 2, it says that we are to be transformed through the renewing of our minds. What's the idea? Well the idea is that God takes the sinner who has been forgiven and declared righteous and he calls him a saint set apart to God and then he begins to practically change this person from the inside out. He begins to shape this person's heart, their affections, their desires. And so when we talk about Romans chapter 8, and it says, what the law could he do? And that it was weak to the flesh, God sending his own Son, in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin condemned sin in the flesh, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit That is what sanctification is. That is how we're growing in our walk with the Lord. We are beginning to live consistent with the position that we have in Christ. And so I ask you this morning. Are you not thankful for what Christ has done with you? How He has uh done these things for you? If it wasn't for the gospel, if it wasn't for Christ's finished work, You and I couldn't be forgiven. Our sin debt wouldn't be covered. We wouldn't be declared righteous by the impeted righteousness of Christ. We would not be in the process of being transformed through the renewing of our mind and being changed from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of God. Those things wouldn't be taking place because we would be separated from God under his wrath And alienated from him. But because of the kindness and the mercy and the grace of God, we have access to God and all these things are true about us. I don't know about you, but that really excites me. It gives me something to be so deeply grateful for. And so I want to leave that with you this morning. Lord willing, we're going to continue in Psalm 32. Continue to pick apart this passage of scripture, look at the details, and my prayer is that it'll be a great encouragement to you. Have a blessed day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.