Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we're in Luke chapter 7, looking at verses 18 through 23. And that's the passage that we looked at this past Sunday. And this passage of scripture we're looking at has some very, very practical things for us to unpackage this week. So I'm really looking forward to each of our sessions. Let's go ahead and look together at this passage of scripture. We're going to begin reading in verse number 18. Here's what it says. And the disciples of John showed him of all these things. And John calling unto him two of his disciples, sent them unto Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come, or look we for another? When the men were come unto him, they said, John the Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come, or look we for another? And in that same hour he cured many of their infirmities and plagues, and of evil spirits, and unto many of them that were blind he gave sight. And Jesus answering said unto them, Go your way and tell John what things ye have seen and heard, how that the blind see, the lame walk, lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, and the dead are raised. And to the poor the gospel is preached, and blessed is he whosoever shall not be offended in me Now this passage of scripture is a fascinating scripture because what it ultimately shows us is that a person like John the Baptist was Uh he wasn't a sinlessly perfect person, even though he was clearly indwelt by the Spirit, even from his mother's womb, is what the text tells us. And John was an amazing man. He preached passionately the gospel that Jesus is coming, that he's uh he's the Messiah, behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sins of the world. Even though John preached that message John went through a low moment in his life, and during that time, his faith in Christ began to be shaken. And so what we see in these verses is that John the Baptist's doubt and how he dealt with that leaves us this timeless reminder that there are no people who are immune to low points in their Christian experience. Every single one of us, no matter how grounded we are in the Word of God, no matter how we've seen God work in our lives, It is possible, and we may very well go through seasons where the faith that we have in Christ gets shaken and it's tested. And so we're going to deal on with that passage of s or with that concept uh today and over the next several days. Really what it's going to show us is that when we go through moments like this, and most certainly They can come and they may very well come. We have to learn in those moments of weakness how to how to turn to the Lord. how to process what we're experiencing and how he can be the one who really shapes us in our weakness and strengthens our faith. So this is a very important concept for us to deal with. First thing I want to say as we introduce this passage is that sadly but truthfully, doubts are a humbling part of the Christian experience. Now I want to make a distinction between a doubt and unbelief. And we didn't really dig into this a tremendous amount this past Sunday. But when we talk about doubts, what we're saying is we have a person who affirms the truth. They have chosen, they have depended on the work of Christ. They affirm biblical doctrine. But in the midst of affirming the truth, this person is going through something or experiencing something that's causing questions to come into their mind. And these questions are not just passing questions, but they're questions that are causing them to get shaken. Their faith is weak. They're beginning to wonder, is this really true? That's what's going on when we talk about someone having doubts. When we talk about a person who is living in unbelief, what we're saying is that the truth is presented to them and they say, I don't believe it One is an example of weakness, I have faith, but I'm being shaken. The other is a form of rebellion God affirms this to be true, and I say, I don't believe it. I will not rest in it. I refuse to embrace it. And by the way, a person Can be doubtful yet trusting. It is possible for such a situation to occur. That's not a healthy way for us to live as Christians, but it is certainly possible. And what I want to do is I want to show you some biblical examples of what I'm talking about. For instance, in Psalm 73, this is what the passage says. This is Asaph speaking. He says, Truly God is good to Israel. even to such as are of a clean heart. He's affirming the truth. Asaf is a believer. But then he talks about his experience when he is affirming these truths. He says, but as for me, my feet were almost gone My steps had well nigh slipped. I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. In verse sixteen he says, When I thought on this, it was too painful for me ASAF is basically saying, even though I know the truth and I affirm the truth and I'm resting in the truth, my experience and what I'm seeing with my eyes It's shaking me. It's causing me to begin to have doubts. And I don't know how to process that. I'll give you another example. That's David in Psalm 4 43 verse 5 he says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? He's saying, why am I discouraged and why am I weary? And why why do I feel like I'm hopeless? If a person believes that God is sovereign and that he is good and that he is righteous and that he always does right and he's he's working all things together uh for good to those who love God, if a person affirms those things on paper, then most certainly they couldn't be cast down and they couldn't be discouraged like David is saying. Well the answer is absolutely they could. Even though they affirm the truth they may be shaken in that affirmation of the truth. And that's what the psalmist is expressing. And so amazingly he says, Hope thou in God. I will yet praise him who is the health of my countenance. And uh my God. And so when David is feeling this way, what does he do? He reminds himself of the truth, he turns to the Lord, and he's strengthened. But I want you to notice There is that possibility he's clearly affirming I am going through this time of doubts and struggle. I'll give you another example, an amazing example. That's in Matthew chapter 14. In Matthew 14, the disciples are in a boat and they're going through across the Sea of Galilee, and there's a terrible storm that comes up, and Jesus comes walking to them on the water, and the people are terrified. And Peter says, if it's you, Lord, then call me to come out to you on the water. Amazingly, Jesus says, come. And what does Peter do? He begins to walk on the water, and it says that he began to look at the waves that are around him and the sea that was whipping up around him. And all of a sudden he began to doubt. And the passage says immediately Jesus stretched forward his hand, he caught him, and said, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou here 's that word Doubt. Peter believed it was the Lord. He had enough faith to step out of the boat and start walking to the Lord. But in the midst of that trust, he got shaken. Another classic example is in Mark chapter 9, verse 24. There was a man who uh was crying out to Jesus to have mercy on his child. And it says, straightway the father of the child cried out and said with tears, Lord, I believe, help thou mine unbelief. And by the way, that is the only example that I saw in the New Testament where the word unbelief is really used as a weakness of a faith that someone has. In every other situation, as far as I could tell, the word unbelief is being used to describe someone who is rejecting the truth. But that's not what this man's expressing. He's saying, I believe this Lord But I have doubts. My faith is weak. Just like we see with Asaf and just like we see with David. We could continue on looking at example after example after example of this concept of what we're talking about. So the question is, why does it matter? Well, it matters practically because this is something that Christians experience. But it also matters because we need to understand that when we are shaken in doubts That's not necessarily a tragedy that can't be remedied. In fact, doubting is something that is indicating that the faith that we possess is actually being tested. It's being tried. And when our faith is tested and our faith is tried, it actually has the potential to go through that season and be strengthened and on the other side actually be stronger and more matured than it was before the test. So when a person is being shaped shaken and doubts are beginning to to uh get into their heart, that's an indication that that person's faith is tested and they have the potential to grow into mature. And a passage that kind of indicates that is first Peter chapter one. This is what it says. He says, the trial of your faith Notice how he puts it. The trial of your faith is precious, more precious than gold. Or in John or in the book of James, James chapter 1, he talks about the testing of our faith, the trying of our faith. produces patience. He says, let patience have her perfect work. That you may be perfect and entire one and nothing. The whole point of this is to say that that we can Be shaken just like this man John was. There's a lot more we can say about that, but it's possible. But when it happens, we can also come through that test stronger, more mature. You may say, Well Wha what causes this thing? Well, it could be poor teaching. The kind of teaching instruction we've gotten when we were young as Christians, or maybe the kind of church that we're attending right now isn't really preaching the word faithfully, or Whatever the situation, there's a lack of sound theology, that's going to affect this issue of the soundness and strength of our faith. Painful circumstances, and we experience them. Some people it's our it's our natural temperament. Some people are just they're more prone to being doubtful. They're more prone uh to asking questions, they're more prone uh to resting in their their experience and their emotions more than what is objectively true. Sometimes we're faced with difficult questions. Sometimes Persecution arises, sometimes we experience a disappointment that we were anticipating. The whole point of this is it doesn't matter so much what's causing it. It's the fact that we're in the midst of a test. And that test is an opportunity to grow and to mature and to be strengthened. This week what we're going to do is we're going to talk about the reality of doubting. And the remedy to doubting. How a person who is going through this season where their faith is being shaken, how God deals with people in that set of circumstances. I hope that this week you will be encouraged by our study in the word. I'm looking forward to Expounding this text. I'm thankful for the opportunity that I've had on Sunday, and I pray the Lord will really use this in your life. Have a great rest of your day. Bye now.