Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our study this morning. And we are again in Psalm 31. So if you have your Bible, let's turn there. We're just reading the first five verses because of the length of the Psalm. But I want us to dig into actually verses nine through thirteen together, and we're going to look at the weight of David's trouble. And if you can remember back to yesterday, we talked about the fact that the that that David in his trouble uh fled to the Lord, he poured out his heart to God, and he expressed his confidence, he expressed his trust. And we kind of left that study off asking the question, Well what about my situation? Maybe my situation is a lot worse. It's a lot more personal. It's a lot more painful. And I don't know if I really have something uh in this text to give me the strength that David had. I don't know if I really can process things the way that David did. Well well I want you to notice the details of how David expresses his trouble And ask yourself the question, are these words not for you this morning to strengthen you and to say, hey, as God uplifted David, he can uplift me? Let's go ahead and read together these verses. It says, In thee, O Lord, do I put my trust. Let me never be ashamed. Deliver me in thy righteousness. Bow down thine ear to me. Deliver me speedily. Be thou my strong rock for a house of defence to save me. For thou art my rock, my fortress. Therefore, for thy name's sake, lead me and guide me. Pull me out of the net that they have laid privilege for me, for thou art my strength, and to thy hands I commit my spirit. Thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth. Now as we read these verses, we cannot uh help but be struck by the fact that David has experienced something very treacherous, something very painful, very difficult. And if you remember back to our first discussion, our first episode this week We said that it's likely that David is writing after or even during the time that Absalom has revolted against him and he has uh led an insurrection and there is a civil war going on in the nation of Israel. And David is experiencing the personal weight of his own sin and how it affected his own house. And so while what Absalom was doing was extremely treacherous and evil, it is also true that David's decisions that were treacherous and evil in the past , they were beginning to affect his family. But even though that is the case, I want you to notice What David says about this treachery, this injustice. And I want you to realize that in the midst of what David is saying, there is strength, and it is available to him It was available to him, and it is available to us. So let's let's dig into these details. The first thing I want you to notice is what he says in verse number nine. Here's what it says. He says, I am in trouble. Mine eye is consumed with grief, yea, my soul and my belly. Now what is David saying David is saying that the level of internal pain that I'm experiencing is so great that it's literally affecting me physically. It's affecting me in my gut. It's affecting me in my spirit. It's even causing me to weep so much that my eyes are just overwhelmed with tears. This is a very difficult time for David. In verse number 10, he says, My life is spent with grief He's saying I'm exhausted. I I I think about this all the time. I can't sleep at night because this is weighing me down so much. Not just the fact that David's life is in danger and not just the fact that somebody's hunting to kill him and that he's losing his his kingdom, but the the weight of this this terrible treachery and betrayal. That is what's keeping him up at night. In verse 10, he says, my years are spent with sighing. He says, I feel helpless. I feel as if there's no hope for me. In verse 10, he says, my strength faileth because of mine iniquity. My bones are consumed. Now, this is a fascinating statement. Because what it tells us is that David is feeling that there is some level of culpability on his part for the pain that he's experiencing. Now, let me pause just for a moment. In David's situation, if it is the story of Absalom, then what David is saying is actually true. The reason that the sword did not depart from David's house is because there was a time many years before these events where David chose to betray the trust of one of his one of his mighty men And that mighty man had a wife who was young and attractive. And what David did is he took Bathsheba to himself. And the fact is he abused his authority, abused his power He took advantage of Bathsheba and then he tried to cover a conceal the fact that he had gotten Bathsheba pregnant, and ultimately what he did when his plan didn't work is he had Uriah murdered in battle. And so when David chose to act in such a treacherous way, there were consequences that flowed as a result of that. The trouble that David brought into his own home through his betrayal of trust is something that was affecting him in that moment. But let me pause and say this. Not every situation is like that. Some people are dealt a treacherous hand, not because of decisions that they have made. And in fact, the Lord Jesus Christ quotes from this psalm on the cross and he says, Into thine hands I commit my spirit. The martyr Stephen quotes from this psalm and he says, Into your hands I commit my spirit. And so in the example of Stephen and the example of the Lord Jesus Christ, they were not dealing treacherously, okay? They were being dealt with treacherously, but not as a result of their sin, the sin of others. And so we can see that this this psalm could be applied to someone who's experiencing treachery that in part they have brought upon themselves And in other situations when they haven't brought it upon themselves at all. Let me continue on. In verse 11, He talks about the fact that he was a reproach amongst his enemies, especially amongst his neighbors. He was a fear to his acquaintances, and they did see him and fled away. In verse 11, he's talking about the fact that because of the strength being on the side of his opponent, and the strength is on the side of his enemy. The people that would have normally associated with him, his friends, his close acquaintances, the people that would have naturally uplifted him in times of weakness and vulnerability They're running away from him. They're afraid of him. They're not necessarily standing against him, but they're not standing with him. And it's because they're Afraid. What is David saying? Even those who are not against me aren't with me. He experiences loss and betrayal Verse 12, he says, I'm forgotten as a dead man out of mind. People are willing to move on with their lives. without a thought of me because of what I've experienced. He says, I'm like a broken vessel in verse 12. I feel like life has broken me and I cannot be repaired. I can't tell you how many people in life feel this way. It might be because their marriage has broken down. It might be because one of their children has uh gone very wayward and has turned against them, has rejected God and has rejected the church. It could be because of a situation that's very painful. And you know what they say? They say People have moved on without me. My life is so broken that I'm not repairable. That's how David felt. Now pause for a moment. Was it true that David was forgotten and no one cared about him? Was it true that David was broken and unreparable? And the answer is no, it actually wasn't. God was still going to work through David. David's life story wasn't over. God was still going to use him in some pretty significant ways in spite of his sin. And his hardship and his pain and the treachery of this moment, God wasn't done with him. But that's how David felt in the moment. And that may very well be how you feel today, or how you have felt at some time in the past. Verse 13, he says, I've heard the slander of many. People are talking about him. They're speaking ill of me. They're talking about me behind my back. They're saying things that aren't true. They're undermining my integrity. And I feel the weight of this. And it's adding adding to my to my misery. And the last thing I'm going to mention is found in verse 13. He says, fear was on every side. While they took counsel together against me, they devised to take away my life. He says, the enemy is plotting my destruction, and I know it. So where do we go with everything that David's saying? Well, first thing I'm going to say is perhaps you can identify with David. Maybe some of the things that we have described, you say that's exactly how I feel at this moment. I feel like my life is broken and it can't be repaired. I feel like people have moved on with their life and forgotten about me. I feel like there's people That rather than standing with me, they're just standing off on the side and saying, I'm going to keep a low profile. I don't want to get caught up in this situation. They're not willing to defend me They're not willing to come alongside of me. I'm weeping. I'm miserable. There's no hope for me. I have good news for you. Even though you may feel that way, and even though you may have been through such circumstances, this song gives you hope. It shows you that even when you feel like that, even when you've gone through circumstances like that, God's not done with you. God still has something for you. And so I want to encourage you, as we talked about yesterday, turn to Him. Cast your confidence upon him. Draw your strength from him. Let him sustain you this morning. I'm looking forward to our next study. Because as we move through this psalm, we're going to see exactly how David takes the pain and the hurt and how he uses this moment to draw strength from God in a very practical way. So I hope you'll join us tomorrow as we continue our study. Have a blessed day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow by now