Philippians chapter 4, we're looking at verses 4 to 7 tonight. And the topic that we're going to be discussing, and the topic that really is the main focus of this text, is dealing with the roots. and the lingering effects of contention. Dealing with the roots and the lingering effects of contention. Philippians 4, 4 says this. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, Rejoice. Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your requests be made known unto God. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. You know, when we come to a passage like this, there are a lot of very well-known statements in Philippians 4, 4-7. Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say rejoice. In fact, we sing a song that goes around and around and around, and that's that's the words to the song. We have this statement Be careful for nothing. Don't be anxious or worried about anything. But everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. Another verse that we often quote a lot, we teach it to our kids, maybe we learned it in awanas, if you did iguanas or truth trackers, we learned that when we're children. The peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Again, it's another verse that we learn But one of the things that we fail to do when we learn one verse, and that's all we do, is we fail to realize the context in which it's given. Do you realize that all those statements are connected? And do you realize that all those statements are not only connected to one another, but they're connected to the statements made last week? I'll remind you what we said last week. He says, I beseech Yodius and I beseech Syntiche that they be of the same mind, and entreat thee also, true Yoke fellow, that you help those women which labored with me in the gospel. Do you realize that those statements, rejoice evermore in everything, let your moderation be known unto all men, be careful for nothing, let the peace of God which passeth all understanding keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus? Jesus. Do you realize that all those statements are connected to what he's just addressed with these two ladies and the people in the church? You might say, Well, how in the world are those concepts connected? I think after we look at this passage you'll understand. How they're connected. What was Paul's purpose in writing the section? Here's what I've written down. Paul writes this section Because in addition to his desire to see restoration between Jodius and Syntiche, he would also like to catch this uproot the source of the divisive behavior between them. and cut off some of the lingering byproducts of their contentious disposition. So what he wants to do is he wants to go down and he wants to uproot what has gotten these two ladies to be And he also wants to remove the lingering consequences of two people who have been at odds for a long period of time and have obviously affected other people. What God wants us to see here is that it's important that we uproot the source of contentious behavior. You might say, Pastor Joel, how in the world do those verses have anything to do with contention? Well, we've got to begin with this very important truth. We need the right perspective. Write the word perspective if you're taking notes. We need to understand how sin affects us as people. Sin is not just something that is the byproduct of wrong thinking and wrong heart attitudes, but sin is also something that leaves a lingering consequence with us. I want to give you the illustration of fire. We have this statement where there's smoke, there's fire, right? Well where there's smoke, there's fire, and when there's fire, there's a source of fuel for that fire. You don't have a fire if you don't have some kind of source, something that has to be burning. Well what's interesting is that when we sin, there is something that fuels a contentious Disposition and a contentious, we could say, relationship with people, but there's also this lingering smoke in the air that is the result of contention. Listen to what the writer of Hebrews says in Hebrews 12. He says, Lift up the hands which hang down. And the feeble knees, and make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way, and let it rather be healed. Follow peace with all men and holiness, without which no one will see the Lord. Looking diligently, lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled Lest there be any fornicator or profane person as Esau who for a morsel of meat sold his birthright. Now this is really important for us to catch The writer of Hebrews is concerned that people are going to have a bitter heart. And basically what he's saying is There is a soil source that produces a bitter heart. He mentions lift up the hands that hang down and the feeble knees. A lot of times bitterness begins to fester. When people are weary, when they're discouraged, when they're worn out. That's where bitterness a lot of times begins. And what he says is, if you're worn out, you need to strengthen your hands and strengthen your feet. Stand up and do the best you can. Another thing he mentions is follow peace with all men. Another thing that tends to breed bitterness is when people are not able to resolve their conflicts or when other people have issue with them. And so basically he's saying, if you're discouraged, you need to strengthen yourself. If there are people that have issues with you, you need to kind of try to address those issues. And then he warns that bitterness can defile people. So he kind of goes from the root that causes bitterness to the result of people being bitter. It actually ends up defiling a lot of other people. And then he mentions later on He says, don't be like Esau, who was a profane person who sold his birthright for a morsel of bread. And the idea is that when people get bitter, they lose discernment and they are willing to throw away what's important and what has value for what is not important and what does not have value. And Esau is that example. The reason I bring this up is because sin has a source, but it also has a lingering result or effect. When we sin It affects us. It affects our judgment. It affects how we look at other people. It affects our ability to see things reasonably and rationally. And so in this text, he's going to mention some very specific items that are both the roots and the results of the sin that is between these two individuals. What is the fuel for contention? Let me mention a couple of things. A disgruntled disposition. When I say disgruntled, what I mean is that You start seeing everything on the negative side. Now there's a lot of negative in this world, okay? We have to be realist, okay? There's a lot of negative. We see pain. We experience pain, we go through hardship, people don't always do things the right way. It's very easy to get negative. Well, when we're looking at things negative all the time, we start to get in a very bad position. We call that being disgruntled. We get to the point where nothing seems to satisfy. Everything is negative. That's very dangerous. Because when we get that way, that's when we start to get contentious. With other people. Second is this unreasonable expectations. Now we can say it like this: well, I'm a perfectionist. I like things done Very well. I like it to be done as good as possible. And I think that we should do the best we can to do things well. But the truth is, it's a messy world, guys. You can't do any i anything perfectly. You do the best you can. I remember when I was a student and we had we had You know, you take a test and you're fighting to try to do it perfectly, and the teacher says, well, this is the amount of time you have. Do the best you can with it. And that's sometimes what we have to do. A third thing that is mentioned here is a failure to trust God to settle matters in his own time. When we don't trust God To deal with our problems, to deal with those who trouble us, to deal with those who've done wrong. When we stop trusting God, we are on a crash course for contention. A preoccupation with your ability or inability to control your current situation. You know, this micromanaging mentality. I have to control every detail And an entitlement mentality. I deserve better than that. You didn't have the right to treat me that way. That might be true, but an entitlement mentality is very dangerous. Why do I mention those issues? Because all of them are going to be addressed in this text. That is where the root of contention comes from. When we begin to develop these kinds of patterns of thinking and these kinds of hard attitudes, we are going to have problems with people. It could be our wife, it could be our husband, it could be somebody in authority over us, it could be the people under us, it could be our neighbors, but we will have conflict with people. Because that is the source for those kinds of issues. We then come to the other side. That's the lingering smoke in the room. If a fire burns. You walk into the room later and you'll smell it. The other morning I was trying to get a fire going and uh I don't know why, but it was really, really smoky in the room and it was like it was hazy in there I think it was the paper I was using or something. And I thought, this is not good. When everybody wakes up, they're gonna come down here and be coughing and the fire alarm's gonna go off and everybody's gonna get woken up and it won't be good. When there's a smoke in the room, there'll be or when there's a fire, there'll be smoke that lingers. We'll stop having joy. We'll lose our ability to be reasonable. We'll get our eyes off of God's role as the judge. We stop praying and start trying to work things out on our own. And we forget the weight of what God has done for us. We see the root and we see the result of contention. And so when Paul writes this little section. It is connected to what he just said to the church about Yodius, Synthiche, and people helping them resolve their issues. The second truth I want us to see tonight is that we've got to be obedient. Not only do we need to see things clearly, but we need to see things as they are, commands, and we need to obey them. There are six commands in this passage that are directly connected to both the root cause of the contentions they dealt with. And the lingering smoke in the room that affected them after they had been contentious with one another. Let's look at these commands one at a time. I'm not going to deal with them in tremendous detail, but I want to mention them. and probably comment on some of them a little more than others. The first command is this, be joyful. If when a person is not joyful, it it breathes this ten tendency to become contentious. If when a person has been contentious, they lose their joy, what does Paul say? Rejoice. He says in verse 4, rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say rejoice. Now when he says that, he's not just saying it to one person, he's saying it to those individuals. They'd lost their joy. They'd lost their ability to rejoice. They had gotten so focused on one another and so embroiled in the controversy. And it affected so many people around them that those people lost their ability to rejoice. And so he says, you must choose to rejoice in the Lord. Uproots the cause of that contention and get rid of, remove the lingering smoke in the room. You've got to rejoice. You know, if we're rejoicing, that means we have a contented heart If we're rejoicing, it's because we're focused on the unchangeable one, not our circumstances. As long as we focus on our circumstances, we're going to be in trouble. Trouble, because we will always find negative aspects to our circumstance. The first command: be joyful. The second command, be reasonable. Be reasonable. You ever been in a controversy with somebody and you feel like their expectations are just irrational? You're like, that is not reasonable, and you say, I'm sure no one would ever say this. Be reasonable. That doesn't make sense. You're going beyond what is normal and natural and and and and good and appropriate. When he says, Let your moderation be known unto all men, the word literally means Your reasonability. The fact that you are gentle and that you are calm and that you're not extreme, you are being reasonable. You know, when people get contentious, I mean, they lose their ability to be reasonable about a situation. They lose their ability to be reasonable about how they look at themselves, about how they look at those who are in conflict with them. Somebody else has a very similar situation, they will not be able to give those people the right kind of advice because what they're embroiled in affects how they look at that situation. It happens to all of us. You know, when we talk about somebody that they need to let that situation go and let somebody else deal with it because they're too close to the matter. Like if you're jury duty, right? They ask you all these questions. They want to find out, can this person really be unbiased or is there kind of a conflict of interest here? We understand that in judgment, a conflict of interest can keep us From being able to judge clearly, but I want you to realize something. When we have contention, we have a conflict of interest when we deal with other people who have contention. Because we are not able to see ourselves clearly, we will not see their situations clearly either. And so he says: you must be reasonable. Moderation, gentleness, reasonability. And then he says, let it be known unto all men. It's interesting. He's basically saying that needs to be not only your character, but your reputation. When a person is reasonable and they have demonstrated that they are consistently that way, other people know it. And he says, that's the way that you need to be Consistent so when other people see you, they say, this is a reasonable person. Third command. He says, be watchful. Verse 5 says, the Lord is at hand. You say, what in the world does he mean the Lord is at hand? What's his point? To give you an idea , He's talking about Christ is going to come and Christ is going to settle the matter and so that needs to shape how you look at your circumstances. Three ways that the return of Christ, I think, affects how we look at contention. And these kinds of issues. The first is this: it's a balance to keep us in check personally. 2 Corinthians 5:10 says this: we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, and here's the key, whether good or whether bad You know, there are times that if we just stopped and said, you know what, I'm going to stand before Christ. And my attitude, what I just said, what I'm doing, how I'm feeling this issue. I'm gonna have to give an account for that. See how that keeps you in check? It's sort of like your kids go out and you're like, mom and dad are gonna be up, they're gonna be up when you get home. So you better make sure that uh when we see your face, you don't have to look down. That keeps them in check. They're like, I'm gonna come home and mom and dad are gonna be sitting there saying, how'd it go son? How to go, daughter, what were you guys doing It kind of keeps you in check. But you know, a lot of times as Christians we we fail to think about the fact that we're going to stand before Christ. Be watchful, the Lord is at hand. A second way that the return of Christ is going to affect us is that this is an encouragement to continue and press on. In James chapter 5, James is writing to a group of believers who are suffering. Because they're Christians. They're Jewish believers. They're part of the diaspora. The Jews who are spread all throughout the Roman Empire because they're being persecuted. So these are Jews living in Gentile communities, and they're isolated from their Jewish community because they're Christians. He says this in verse 4, chapter 5. He says, The hire of the laborer who has reaped down your fields, which you have kept back by fraud, he crieth. The cries of them which reaped are entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth. Now what is he talking about? He's basically saying, I know that some of you Christians are going through a hard time. You're working for people and they aren't paying you. They're cheating you. He's actually not addressing the Christian in this context. He's addressing those who are hurting and harming these believers. And what he basically says is, listen, you're abusing these people, God is going to deal with you. He's trying to encourage these Christians. Say God's going to deal with you. Keep pressing. Be faithful. God is going to deal with that situation on your behalf. James chapter 5 and verse 9, he says this, grudge not one against another, lest ye be condemned. The judge standeth before the doors. The idea is that he's about to walk into his courtroom. You're feeling the pressure of being in a very difficult and entangling situation. You're not being treated correctly. But the judge is about to step in there and set that matter straight. So be patient, be encouraged. He says, take the prophets who have spoken in the name of the Lord as an example of suffering, affliction, and patience. We count them happy which endured. Yea, have heard of the patience of Job and seen the end of the Lord, that he is very pitiful and tender in mercy. You see what he's saying? Because we know Christ is going to step in and judge. Not only does it keep me in check when I'm doing the wrong thing, but it encourages me when I'm doing the right thing, but I'm suffering for it. And here's the third. It's the basis for letting God be people's judges. Now we dealt for three weeks in Sunday school on this issue of soul liberty. And one of the points that I think is the most impactful in my own thinking on this issue of soul liberty is that the reason that I don't need to set everybody straight on issues of conscience. It's because one day they're going to stand before Christ, and I'm going to be standing before Christ. One of us is wrong, okay? He's going to settle that matter. It's not for me to settle it for them. I have not been delegated that role. He is the judge. He didn't say, oh, I have given this job to you. Now you can be the judge. He didn't do that. This is what he says in Romans 14. Paul writes Why dost thou judge thy brother? Why dost thou set it not, thy brother? We shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow. And every tongue shall confess to God every one shall give account of himself to God. Let us therefore not judge one another any more, but judge this rather that no man put a stumbling block or an occasion to fall in his brother's way. In that little statement that Paul makes, the Lord is at hand, I think he's reminding these Christians, that keeps you in check, that encourages you when you're suffering, and it frees you to not have to be the judge of other people. Let God deal with that matter. We then come to a fourth command. He says this in verse 6. Be careful for nothing. Be sound-minded. Now he's not suggesting that we walk out in the street. We don't look both ways. When he says, Don't be careful. That's an old English way of basically saying, don't let your heart be overcome with anxiety Don't let your mind be constantly bothered with all these cares and all these burdens and all these things weighing you down. Don't let that trouble you. Don't be anxious. Have a sound mind. Be able to see things as they are. And just be steady. That's basically what he's saying. In Matthew 6, Jesus tells us. That we are not to take thought for the morrow, sufficient unto the days the evil thereof. When we are consumed with anxiety, we're not going to be joyful We're not trusting God. We're trying to dominate and control everything. And God says, don't do that. A fifth command: be prayerful. Rather than being full of anxiety, he says, In everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. Be prayerful. One of the first things that we do when we get in contention is we take our eyes off of God. We start giving ourselves too much credit. We become very defensive and all of a sudden we want to micromanage and control everything. Prayer is the exact opposite of that. He uses three three words slash phrases. One, prayer. Acknowledge you've got need. Two, supplication. Supplication isn't praying for yourself. It's actually praying for another person. You know, it's one thing to pray, it's another thing for your prayer to be burdened about someone else's need more than your own need. And that's what he's saying. Three, do it with thanksgiving. If I'm saying thank you, God, that means that I don't have an entitlement attitude. That means I don't feel like I'm getting what I have common to me. I'm getting what I don't deserve. I've received grace. God's been kind. He's been merciful. I say thank you. I don't say thank you when somebody should give me something. Okay? I say thank you when I believe I've received something I don't deserve. And so when he says, be prayerful, he's saying, acknowledge your need, pray for others, and have gratitude. The last command is this. Be peaceable. Verse 70 writes, And the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ. A little phrase, the peace of God is an interesting phrase. I think when I was probably high school college, the way that I interpreted that passage was that he was talking about giving me peace in a decision. So if I don't know what I'm supposed to do, I pray, and when I get up off of my knees If I feel settled about this issue, that's what I do. If I don't feel settled about it, then I don't do that, I go this direction. Now, is that what the context is talking about? No, not at all. It's not talking about how to make a decision When he talks about the peace of God, he's talking about it has something that is not connected to praying for wisdom and making a decision or something like that. In fact, it's interesting, this little phrase, the peace of God, is only used one other time in the New Testament. And the context is exactly like the context we find here. Go to Colossians 3, verse 12, and see what I'm talking about. In Colossians 3, 12, this is what Paul writes. Put on, therefore As the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on vows of mercies, kindness. Humbleness of mind, meekness, long suffering, forbearing one another, forgiving one another If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. And above all these things, put on charity with this, which is the bond of perfectness. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you're called in one body, and be ye thankful. Now, don't miss the context He's clearly telling people how to respond to others when you're dealing with conflict. He says, be merciful. Be kind, be humble, be meek, be long-suffering, bear along with people, forgive them. If there's a quarrel, forgive them as Christ forgave you. Put on charity Do you see what he's talking about? Exact same thing. These are two contexts dealing with conflict. When he talks about the peace of God, he's not talking about getting some settled thing in your heart. So I know this is what I'm supposed to do. He's talking about something different. He's talking about what God has done for you, and that's he's made peace with his enemy. Romans 5:10 says this: When we were the enemies. We are reconciled to God by the death of his son. Much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. When he talks about letting the peace of God rule in your heart, Basically, what he's saying is this, you need to think deeply about what God has done for you, to take you being his enemy, and to make him His child. That's what he means by the peace of God. He's talking about that concept. And so basically, what he's saying is when you have a contention with somebody, When you have a problem, one of the biggest things that will bring that down is you think about how God has dealt with you. Enemy, not just friend. Not just the truce, child, beloved. He has very tender affection for us. That's what he's saying. Be peaceable like I have been peaceable towards you I want to bring this all to a close and ask make these final statements. God calls us to think practically about what causes conflict and what lingering effects will affect us as we relate to others. He calls us to uproot and confront both the root cause and the lingering effects. God calls us to obedience. Which will directly confront and replace these principles with godly graces. If you take each of those six commands and you put them into practice, you know what you're doing? You're taking fleshly responses and you're uprooting them and you're replacing them with grace-filled godly responses. You are removing what is fueling contention. You are removing what is lingering from contention. And you're living in a very godly way. May the Lord help us to be that kind of an individual , kind of a Christian, that kind of a church, that kind of a family, may the Lord help us to put into practice a very important and practical text. Let's put our hearts together in prayer. Father, thank you for moving Paul to write these words. I pray that you'd help us to rejoice always To be prayerful people, to be reasonable. Help us to be people who let the peace of God rule in our hearts. Help us to be people who pray for one another. Father, help us to take the things that we've seen from your word this evening and help us to act upon them. We pray that you'll bless our congregation. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.