Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And again, we've been in Psalm 32 all week, and so I'd like to ask you to turn there with me And we're going to look at the entire section, but I'm going to add on a couple more verses. We're going to read through verse 11. So Psalm 32, and we're going to read the entire Psalm all the way through verse 11. Here's what it says is a Psalm of David Mashal. Blessed is he whose for get her transgression is forgiven and whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me. My moisture is turned into the drought of summer. Sila. I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and mine iniquities have I not hid I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord, and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Sila. For this shall every one that is godly pray unto thee, in a time when thou mayest be found Surely in the floods of great waters they shall not overcome him. Though thou art my hiding place, thou shalt preserve me from trouble, thou shalt compass me about with songs of deliverance. Sila Now the section that we're going to focus in on this morning. It says, I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go. I will guide thee with mine eye. Be ye not as the horse, or as the mule, which have no understanding, whose mouth must be held with bit and bridle, lest they come near unto thee. Many sorrows shall be to the wicked, but he that trusteth in the Lord, mercy shall compass him about. Be glad in the Lord. Rejoice, ye righteous, and shout for joy, all ye that are upright in heart Now, if as you think over the last several days throughout the week, we've been talking about the fact that in order to be a blessed person, the issue of sin has to be addressed. We talked about that because the way that God created us, as image bearers who are morally conscious, He is the judge and he is the creator, we're accountable to Him. We know that this issue of sin stands between us and God and it has to be dealt with. In this passage, we also saw that it is God who ultimately deals with this issue, and it's wonderful to consider the theological implications of the things that are stated in Psalm 32 at the beginning of the psalm. Well yesterday we talked about the fact that not only does God deal with this issue of sin, but he is also accessible. We can approach him at any time. And his care encompasses all of life. Well this morning what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to focus our attention on these last couple of verses where the text Speaks directly to us. Now, whenever we're reading scripture, we're reading God's word. Every single word of scripture It's breathed out by God. That's what it says in 2 Timothy 3. 16. But there are certain places in Scripture where rather than God telling you through uh a prophet or an apostle what happened in his commentary, he actually speaks in the first person directly to us. And this would be a great example of this. Notice what it says in verse 8. He says, I will instruct thee. Now that I is not David the Psalmist. that I is the Lord. He says, I will instruct thee, and I will teach thee in the way which thou shalt go. I will guide thee with mine eye. So this passage of Scripture, the section that we're looking at from Psalm 32, is not just scripture, but it is scripture in the first person where God is speaking directly to us. And so I want you to notice the appeal that he makes. There are three things that he states. The first is this. He tells us to turn to him. Notice how he puts it in verse 8. He says, I will instruct thee. and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go. A lot of people say, I want to have wisdom, I want to know what God wants me to do with my life and how I should turn. Well this passage of scripture is basically saying listen up. I want to direct your path, but you have to be willing to actually turn to me and to listen and to observe what I have to say. So this is a very personal appeal. It is a call directly from God. The second thing that we see, and it is fascinating how he puts this in verse number nine. He says, Be ye not as the horse or as the mule, which have no understanding, whose mouth must be held in with bit and bridle. Now, in this passage of Scripture, Psalm 32, David is emphasizing the fact that in our humanity, there are consequences, natural consequences, that flow as a direct result of sin. And so he's really making the point in these verses that one of the reasons that blessing only comes through dealing with the issue of sin is because we are created in the image of God. We are moral We are rational creatures. We have a will. We can choose between what is right and what is wrong. But there are consequences when we choose to go against God's purposes and against the nature that God has given us. as image bearers. And so the second thing he says is not just listen up, but he says, don't be like an animal that does not have the same capacities, capabilities that you have as a person. He says, be not as the horse. Now a horse is a powerful, a powerful animal. A horse is a very usable animal But a horse doesn't have a mind like a human. A horse doesn't have the ability to rationalize and think through things and process information in a way that causes them to make moral choices between what is right and what is wrong. A horse doesn't have Fellowship and communion and relationship with God. He's an animal. He runs based on instinct. And then he mentions the mule. A mule can be a very stubborn animal. What God is ultimately saying is that he's appealing to us humans as people who can actually think and can reason and can actually make an informed moral choice. He's saying don't be like an animal that has to be trained and has to be guided with a bit in their mouth. Listen to what I have to say to you. But then here is the third point, and this is where he's driving it. And I would even argue that this is the driving point of the entire psalm. So if you remember at the beginning of the Psalm, he says, Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Verse number two, Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord impedeth not iniquities. That word blessed means He's happy. This is a person who's living life according to God's design and God's purposes. So there is a vibrancy to this person's life. Well, he ends by actually explaining what that looks like. Here's what he says in verse 11. He says, be glad in the Lord. Rejoice, ye righteous, and shout for joy, all ye that are upright in heart. How does a person enjoy The blessedness of life, and that word blessed has the idea of a person who's happy and joyful and a vibrancy of life. Well, the answer is that joy has to come from someone that is outside of them. Someone who is consistent, someone who is good, someone who is righteous, it's got to be rooted in the Lord. And so what is God doing in these verses? He's saying, turn to me. Think this through. Let me be your highest delight and your highest joy. If you want to live a blessed life, then you need a life that is focused on the Lord. Everything that we do is done in the light of who He is and His design and His purposes. And so we are living life in light of his purposes, not our purposes and our designs and our wishes and our wants, but his. Our will is conformed to his will and his purposes. That is really the driving point of this song. And until the issue of sin is dealt with, there's absolutely no way that this can be reality. You say, well Joel, what do you take away from the song? What do you want to leave us with this morning? Here's what I want to leave you with. The first is this, there is no greater joy in all the world than finding your highest delight in the infinite God. You know, every person that you know is going to let you down at some point and in some way. Things like money are fleeting and they can be taken away at any moment. They're not endless resources, things like our physical strength, the opportunities that we're given. Everything that we deal with and we encounter in life The things that people tend to latch on and believe that that will be the source of happiness, those things are going to let you down. And so the first implication is Find your greatest delight and joy in the infinite God. And the second is this. We were created by Him and for Him. And this delight is literally conforming our wills and our energies to the eternal purpose that He has designed for us. When a person says, my greatest joy is in the Lord, He is my highest delight, I long to do His will, that person is ultimately choosing to walk in the path of God's purpose for them. A purpose that is glorious but will only be realized to its fullest extent when we choose to walk in that. And so that is my encouragement to you this morning. Let's be a people who walk with our highest delight in the Lord And our wills press us into walking in conformity to his purposes. Hope this has been a good uh good and challenging study for you this week. Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to wrap up our study with some final thoughts. Have a blessed morning. Bye now.