Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our second Anchored in the Word morning reflection for this week. And uh yesterday if you joined us, we were in Psalm 32. And so I'd like to invite you to turn back again to that passage. I'm going to read verses 1 through 5 and uh kind of remind you what we talked about yesterday to connect yesterday's discussion to today's discussion. But then I'd like us to get into this concept of the the inability that we have to escape the reality of this thing called sin. And we are living in a time where people have redefined what sin is, people don't want to talk about sin. People want a Christianity that does not address sin. And the fact is that Christianity is, by nature, a faith that addresses the issue of sin fundamentally above everything else. And so this really is at the heart of the gospel and at the heart of understanding what it even means to be a Christian. So Psalm 32, we'll begin reading again in verse number one. Here's what it says. Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, and whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long, for day and night thy hand was heavy upon me. My moisture is turned into the drought of summer. Selah I acknowledged my sin unto thee, and mine iniquities have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgression unto the Lord, and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Selah. Now, as I mentioned earlier, this passage of Scripture is at the heart of the gospel. And when Paul is dealing with an explanation of the gospel in Romans 3 and 4, and then moving into chapter 5, He quotes directly from Psalm 32. And basically he quotes from that passage of Scripture to say this concept of justification by faith alone is not just a Paul concept, not just a New Testament concept. It is a thoroughly Old Testament, New Testament, biblical concept that goes throughout all of Scripture. And so when he quotes him this passage of Scripture, he reminds us that for a person to be blessed, then God has to deal with this issue of sin first. Because this is fundamentally a part of who we are as people. We are image bearers with a moral conscience. And because we have a moral conscience and because there's a God who we're going to answer to It's impossible for us to enjoy a blessed life in the biblical sense until this issue of sin is dealt with. And we are brought into right relationship with God by his act toward us. And so that's kind of what we dealt with yesterday. What I'd like to do this morning. is I'd like to kind of further develop the idea that it is impossible to escape the reality of sin. And we see this in verses 3 to 5. Notice what it says. Paul or uh uh Paul David writes, when I kept silence, my bones waxed all through my roaring all the day long. For by day and night thy hand was heavy upon me. My moisture is turned into the drought of summer sela. I acknowledged my sin unto thee, and thine iniquities have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord, and thou forgavest the iniquities of my sin. Selah. Now this passage of Scripture is really at the heart of showing us why people struggle internally when they refuse to address the issue of sin. And there are several things that David ultimately is affirming by what he tells us in verses 3 to 5. The first of them is this. Every one of us has a conscience. And because we have a conscience, we cannot escape the fact that when we violate that conscience, There is a natural consequence that flows from the violation of our conscience. We have a conscience, we cannot escape it. And that's really what David's talking about in verse 3. He says it this way When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long. Another way to put that, and by the way, he's describing in a very graphic sense, Is that when I sin and I try to hide it and cover it and I refuse to address sin and I refuse to call it what it is I refuse to go to God about this issue. When I do that, it plagues my internal conscience. Now someone might say, well , Well, Joel, that's only true of Christians, because if you're not a Christian, you don't believe in the Word of God. You don't believe that things like the Ten Commandments apply to you. And so you don't have to worry about this issue of conscience. That's only something Christians do with But folks, it's not true. It is true that all people have a conscience. All people have this issue of moral awareness. And it is true that when we come in contact with the law of God, that sense of what is right and wrong is even sharpened into greater focus, and we feel the weight of our sin to a greater degree, but that does not change the fact that we are moral creatures who cannot escape the fact that we are created in the image of God with a sense of what is right and what is wrong. The second thing is this. We all also not only have this internal sense of right and wrong, but we all have an internal sense that there is a higher being who created us and who we ultimately are going to have to answer to. Now a lot of people say, well, well, there's plenty of atheists, and there's lots of agnostics, and there's lots of people who are not theists who live in the world today. I say, well, that's true. Yes, there are lots of people like that But the fact is nobody is born an atheist. Nobody is born an agnostic. If you look at the world around you, You cannot escape the reality that this is an ordered creation that bears the reflection of a designer. a creator, someone who is outside of time and outside of space and actually made things the way that they are In verse number four, he says, Day and night thy hand was heavy upon me. Now, the first statement he makes is really reflecting the fact that he has this awareness of sin He has an awareness of what is right and what is wrong. He may not call it sin, but he knows something isn't right internally when I do these things that in my heart I believe to be wrong. But he goes a bit beyond just the sense of moral right and wrong, and he goes, and also God is a part of this picture. He is the one who is pressing me. You say, well, why does David express this? Because he has an understanding that I don't just have a moral sense, but I have a God's sense. You know, when we look at something like idolatry, what does idolatry do? Well, it tells you that people have an awareness that there's such a thing as God. Now, they don't want to face the reality of one God who created all things, but they understand there's somebody bigger than me, somebody stronger than me, someone who ultimately is the source of everything that we have here. And so there's a sense of God. In fact, in Romans chapter 1, he says, when they knew God, they did not glorify him as God, but became vain in their imaginations. Their foolish hearts were darkened. They worshiped and served the creature rather than the creator. And so what the scripture affirms is that everybody has a sense that there is a creator. They may reject that sense, they may try to diminish that sense, they may try to talk themselves out of this sense, but that is an internal part of us because we are created in the image of God. A third thing that we see is that we have to turn to God to address our sin problem. And notice what he says in verse 5. He says, I acknowledged my sin unto thee. Now, why does he talk about God first? I mean, when we when we sin, we tend to think in terms of, well, I've sinned against my wife. I've sinned against my children. I've sinned against my parents. I've sinned against my employer, my employees, I've sinned against A brother or a sister in Christ, we tend to think in terms of the horizontal, our relationship to other people. But that's not where David starts. He starts with our relationship to God. And the reason for that is because our sin, before it is against others, is ultimately against God. And so that's where we have to deal with sin first. And I love the way that it's stated in verse number five. I acknowledged my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid. From thee. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the Lord, and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Selah. Now, there are three statements that I don't want you to miss that are very important to understanding what David is communicating. The phrases are, I acknowledged I said and thou forgavest. These three statements are very important. The first two are in the past tense. I acknowledged and I said. Now, you say, well, why does that matter? Well, it matters because David is speaking as one who is a believer. And so he's saying that this issue of dealing with sin is something that I dealt with in the past. And that is why I stand before people as a saint as one who is a child of God. It's because in the past there was a time when he realized his sin against God and he actually addressed that sin before God. But then the third statement is interesting. He says, thou forgavest me. He didn't say you forgave. He says you forgave. Now, again, you might say, well, why does that matter? It's a perfect tense. And the perfect tense has the idea of this. This is something that happened in the past. And it continues to affect me even in the present. Not just it happened and oh it doesn't have anything to do with my current condition. It's it happened in the past and it continues to affect me into the present. And that is what salvation is. There was a time that I understood my sinfulness. I turned to God. I acknowledged my sin. I said, God be merciful to me, a sinner. I place my faith in Christ. And he forgavest me. He forgave me. Then he's forgiven me of all my sin up to today. And for the rest of my life, he dealt with my sin in the past, present, and the future. And so when we talk about the issue of sin, we cannot escape the reality of sin. We have to address this reality of sin. And when we do address the reality of sin, it is a once and for all done matter. And so then I leave you with this simple question. Have you Had your sin dealt with at the cross by the Lord Jesus Christ. Have you acknowledged your sin to Him? Said, God be merciful to me as sinner, placed your faith in the finished work of Christ, and He forgave you of your sin in the past. You are standing forgiven of your sin in the present, and thank God he will never bring that sin to your charge again. I asked this question, are you A forgiven sinner. That is the heart of this study this morning. Psalm 32 is all about the gospel. And that's one of the reasons we should really treasure this issue. Now, if this is something that's been an encouragement to you, I hope to take a few minutes to share this with somebody else. Perhaps give me some feedback if it would be helpful. And Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue our series. Have a blessed day. Bye now.