Okay, I'd like you to take your Bibles, please, and turn to 1 Timothy. And we are dealing with 1 Timothy chapter 4. We're looking at verses 1 to 5. We started this section last week, and we're going to continue in this section. Probably won't finish it tonight based on the material I have in front of me, but you never know. It all depends on how quickly we move Move through it. First Peter chir Timothy chapter four, verse one says this Now the Spirit speaketh expressly that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith. Giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils, speaking lies and hypocrisies, having their conscience Seared with a hot iron, forbidding to marry and commanding to abstain from meats, which God hath created to be received with thanksgiving of them which believe and know the truth For every creature of God is good, and nothing to be refused, if it be received with thanksgiving. For it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer We saw last time that we were here that the purpose of this section was to help Timothy identify false teachers and then to know how to handle their divisive presence in the church. And the reason that this section is here is because God wants us as a church to maintain doctrinal purity. In fact, what we're going to look at tonight, I think, is extremely practical because what we're seeing is an example in the Bible of a kind of false teaching that uh was filtering into this particular church. And the kind of false teaching, the kind of principles that were being violated with how people were interpreting the scripture and how they are basically applying the scripture is something that's extremely common today. In fact, I'm going to give you a lot of examples of ways that people will take passages and basically they will twist them out of context. And the whole point is to basically prove a point that has been predetermined in that person's mind, and the passage that's before them is simply a proof text. That is not being understood within the context that it's given, the purpose for which it's given, and then it becomes a point of authority And that's an extremely dangerous thing for us to do. And so we're going to look at the way that these false teachers were handling the Bible, the specific issues that are going on, why it was so damaging to the church. And then I want us to get into some very practical ways that we need to be careful that we don't get duped personally or we don't actually practice them ourselves on some level. The first truth that we saw last night was that we need to have, or last week, was that we need to have a realistic expectation about church life. So we talked a little bit about that topic. I'm not going to get into that again. This evening. But then we moved into a second second truth. We need to understand the nature of false teaching. I want to give you just a reminder of some of the statements we looked at Three general statements about the very specific kind of false teaching that was going on at Ephesus. The first is that the false teaching was dishonest. The people were speaking lies. Now, whether they understood that they were speaking lies or whether they were just, we could say, rehashing something that they had heard, we don't really know. But what they were saying was not true. A second aspect to their false teaching was that it was inconsistent. The words that are used in the text are they were speaking lies in hypocrisy. So the idea is not just that what they were saying wasn't true, but because it wasn't true, the kind of life they were trying to portray that they had was not actually what they had. There was an inconsistency In other words, true godliness flows from right doctrine. If you don't have right doctrine, then you have a form of godliness that is not flowing from a spirit-filled life. That's where hypocrisy lies. Then we saw a third statement about this false teaching, that it was a type of deconstructive teaching. It says that they have their conscience seared with a hot iron. You know, God gave us this moral sense so that when we do what's wrong, we'll feel guilty about it and we can correct the matter. Or when we're contemplating doing something that's wrong, we won't feel settled about it. And so it's something that kind of hinders us or causes us to think twice before we make bad decisions. Our conscience is a gift from God, it's a good thing. But our conscience is not an infallible rule. Our conscience can become duped. Our conscience can become, well, desensitized. And so the natural things that we're burdened about can begin to not be burdened. And so these people were basically teaching something that was taking that natural sensitivity of the conscience And it was deadening that conscience so that people didn't feel guilty about things that truly they should have. Truth is, there are things in our culture. If we were to sit down and talk about The way our culture is moved, I'll just give you an example of the Super Bowl. Boom, right there. Okay? There are a lot of Christians that watched commercials and the halftime show that they should have been absolutely embarrassed to consider watching. It's absolute truth. Things that are very immoral, things that are wicked, things that no Christian should be participating in. If there are lots and lots of Christians That have become desensitized on these issues. And of course the world around us has become quite desensitized. In fact, a lot of the things that were portrayed in those uh various venues. They're considered pretty normal in our culture. Things that might shock a Christian who's not watching these kinds of events, a lot of people in our culture say that's normal. That's just the way things are What is that? That's a deconstruction of the conscience. That's a complete desensitization to things that should be very shocking, that should be very worrisome to us, things that we should not in any way be comfortable with And this false teaching was basically creating that kind of an attitude. We also saw that there were some specifics about these teachings. The first was that these false teachings were undermining godly institutions. And I'm going to talk a little bit about this concept tonight because I think this is really important for us to understand. How the false teaching that was basically saying, don't do this, but God says it's good and right and wholesome by them encouraging people not to do what God created them for. They're actually undermining the very congregation that they're working in. And the phrase is forbidding to marry. We're going to talk a little bit about that concept. Two, these false teachers were attacking the Christians' freedom. Now this is legitimate freedom. And I know there's a lot of discussion about Christian liberty. Now, these are not areas that we would put in the category of they were wrong, but people because they're under grace can do them. That's not what this is. These are things that God says are totally fine. We're talking about things like eating shellfish and pork. There's nothing morally wrong with eating shellfish and pork. Under the Mosaic law, the dietary law was that they could not eat those things. But clearly in the New Testament, God says you can eat those things. They've been sanctified by the word. In other words, God says it's okay for you to eat those things now. For a period of time you couldn't. Now you can. This is an area of Christian liberty. In other words, you could choose not to eat them, or you could choose to eat them. It's truly liberty. But you don't have the right to tell somebody, though God said you can, you can't. That's the point. And so we'll talk a little bit about that. Abstaining from meat which God created to be received with thanksgiving of them which believe and know the truth In other words, he's saying things that you're telling people they can't do, they can't enjoy, they can't eat, God created them to be enjoyed. And if that person understands their liberty in Christ and they understand the scriptures, they can with gratitude eat that food to the glory of God. In other words, you can enjoy your crab with Old Bay to the glory of God. You actually can. That's what the text is saying. The third thing mentioned is this. The false teaching was striving in a theoretical realm. He says you need to refuse profane and old-wise, I love the phrase, fables Okay, it's not true. These are things that people are proclaiming to be true, but they're not. And basically the reason that people are embracing these things is because they're theorizing about things that maybe can't be known. They're not really revealed by God. It's just an assumption and they're building doctrine on assumption. So these are the three categories. So let's get into the topic here a little bit. Why was it so important for these three things to be addressed? How were these three areas of false teaching undermining the church? The truth is a lot of people probably wouldn't look at something like telling people don't get married as a false doctrine that's going to destroy a church. You might not think of it that way. You might say, well, somebody's just being a little too strict here. But in Paul's view, it was a heresy, okay? Or somebody saying, you know, you can't eat shellfish anymore. You can't eat shirk. There are Christians that believe they shouldn't eat those things, that they should follow the dietary laws, because that's a higher f view of law, and they should follow those. A lot of Christians are vegan. I'm not doubting anybody that's a vegan here, okay? But you have no biblical basis to be a vegan, all right? Some Christians actually make the argument that there's a biblical basis for being vegan. No, there's not. So, how are these things actually damaging to the church? Let's pick up the first one. The first one is this: here are some observations. Fact number one. These people were teaching in a way that was undermining the stability of the future of the church. The stability of the future of the church. You say, how was this teaching undermining the future of the church? Here's some observations. They were basically telling people, don't get married. Now, what would happen if every single Christian single starting today for the rest of church history decided that they were not going to get married? What do you think would happen to the church? You ever thought about that? Did you know that there are actually Christian sects, groups that taught that you shouldn't get married? They don't exist today. You know why they don't exist today? Because there was no perpetuation of the truth, okay? And there are also people that say, I want to join that group. I want to get married and have a family. Well, you know, this is something we might laugh about, but the reality is this. Marriage is a good thing. God created marriage with good purposes And the fact is that if you want to have a future in a church or in a society, then you need to follow God's good plan for marriage. It's just that simple. Let me give you a couple of observations that we can see from the scriptures. One is just a practical observation, then I want to get into some biblical observations. Marriage is the most fundamentally important institution in any society. I really believe one of the reasons that we have so many problems in our culture today is because we have lost a sense of marriage and family. We really have. The fact is, there are a lot of people that are growing up without mom or dad, without any sense of stability, and that's an important part of life. It's something that can really damage a society and especially the church. Think about it this way, our values. Our future, our development as individuals. These are just a couple of the factors that are affected by our view of marriage and family. You know, a lot of my my thinking about things like work ethic, you know where I learned that? Mom and dad. It's true. It's not like my dad sat down and he said, This is what you have to do. I just I watched my dad every day and he said, let's go do this project. And we went and we did it. And you know what? Every time we did that, he was teaching me. He was reinforcing things. Something as simple as, we need to get ready to go to church. I mean, there was never this discussion like, are we going to church on Sunday morning? There was never that discussion. It was you're getting up at this time, you're going to be at the table at this time, you're going to eat your breakfast at this time, and if you don't Then you don't give breakfast. That was how it went. There was never a discussion. Are we going to be at church, Sunday school? Never a discussion. Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday. Never a discussion So why do you think I have a conviction about being in those places? It was shaped in my home. Absolutely shaped in my home. And the truth is that when people have a conviction I'm gonna be here when the doors are open, I want to be there to worship and serve the Lord. In many, not all, I know there's exceptions, but in many of those situations, it's because mom and dad just they reinforce this over and over and over and over again. When it comes to just being respectful, showing common courtesy, where are those things learned? When you give your word and you follow through with it, even if it's going to hurt you, where do those things come from? You know, a lot of kids that grow up in church, you know who leads them to Christ, their mom or dad? You know who really shapes A young person's worldview more than anybody, if they have mom and dad who are involved in their life, it's mom and dad. And the truth is that if the church stopped having marriages and people stopped having families and people stopped having church uh fam uh having families, This body over a generation or two would be gone. It's really that simple. And so this teaching, while it seems so spiritual, To say, give your life to God and don't get married and pour all of your attention into prayer and fasting and don't enjoy any pleasure and don't enjoy the good life of being a father or a mother and having kids. The fact is, that thinking had the ability to just decimate the church. And you know, in the Middle Ages, that's exactly the way people thought. If you want to be a spiritual person, then be a monk or be a nun. Go to a monastery. And look at what the church was like in the Middle Ages. Think about some of the things that we read in the Bible about marriage and family. God created marriage for our good and the good of those around us. Matthew nineteen, he's personally involved in the union of husband and wife. Jesus says, Have you not read that he which made them in the beginning made them fe male and female? And said, For this cause shall a manly father and mother shall joined to his wife, and they twain shall be one flesh. Wherefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. In other words, when people get married, God is the one who unites them. It's an amazing concept, but God does that. Personally involved in that union. He's personally involved in the conception of children. It's amazing how many times in the Bible you will find statements like God gave her a child. God gave her. Let me just give you a couple of examples. Genesis 29, verse 31. When the Lord saw that Leah was hated, he opened her womb. But Rachel was barren. And Leah conceived and bare a son, and she called his name Reuben, for she said, Surely the Lord hath looked upon my affliction. The text clearly says God gave her a child. And she understood that that child was a gift from God. Look at the story of Ruth. In Ruth 4. 13, it says the Lord gave Ruth conception and she bare a son. Psalm 139, 14 to 16. I will praise thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are thy works, that my soul knoweth right well. My substance was not hid from thee When I was made in secret and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth. We could continue, but the idea is this God unites couples. God gives them children. He's personally involved in that process. He's personally involved in building our homes. Psalm 127, 1-5, Except the Lord build the house. They labor in vain that build it. Lo, children are in heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward, as arrows are in the hands of the mighty man. So are children of the youth. Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them. Yet these people in Ephesus were teaching you, don't get married. You see why God said it's a false doctrine? It was a heresy in the church. Why does God create families and give children? One of the reasons, closed fate in Malachi II. He cares because he created marriage in part to pass on the faith from one generation to another. He says, And did not he make one, he being God, yet had that he the residue of the Spirit, and wherefore one? Why did he do it? That he might seek a godly seed. Therefore, take heed to your spirit and let none deer treacherously against the wife of his youth. I basically put it this way If a church or an individual teaches you that it's wrong to get married, they're attacking a very important institution that God created. That is created in part and largely in part so that one generation passes on the truth to the next generation. In other words, one of the reasons that our churches are not thriving today is because we're not having families. Or our families are not passing the torch on to the next generation, and that generation is embracing the gospel, and then the church is strong and thriving because there is a passing on of the doctrine of the faith. How do churches grow? They grow by reaching the lost and making disciples. Very simple. But I ask you, how do they meet those people that they lead to Christ and make disciples? Some of them they meet them in a hospital and they hold them in their hands. It's the truth. I got five kids If those five children trust Christ and they live for the Lord, and by the way, I have no aspirations for any of my kids to be in ministry. I'm serious. That'd be great if they are, but I'm not pushing them towards that. I'm not expecting them to do that. If they are, that's great. You know what I do expect though? I want to see them be disciples of Christ. And if those five kids are disciples of Christ, I will have left a tremendous heritage for the next generation. And every single person in here that is in that position. Well, have left a tremendous heritage. People whose worldviews have been formally shaped. And they're now needing to be reconstructed. Think about somebody who gets saved when they're 50 or 60 years old. What a blessing. It is a great thing to hear a testimony of someone whose life was And shambles and God graciously saved them. But I'll tell you what's a really wonderful testimony. When somebody trusts Christ when they're a little kid and they live for Jesus all the days of their life. That is a real blessing. And the truth is, if we had generations like that, our country would be very different than it is today. You know, I'm excited that God's people care about having a family and raising their kids. Because while our culture is going the other direction, There are some, a remnant of people, that want to pass on their faith. And the truth is that if a church attacks this concept of marriage by discouraging people from getting married and having families They're doing something that's very foolish and very harmful. We have the opportunity when we have little kids in our lives. to shape their worldview from the time they're a little guy. And that's an incredible thing. You know, think about all the conversations you can have with your kids. I know you know we have a lot of a lot of people with little kids in here. Not not everybody, you have little grandkids. See, I don't have kids, I don't have grandkids. But you know you can still work with kids. We got plenty of the church to work with. Let's not neglect that. And you know that this text is really about that. One of the things that Paul is coming down strongly is he said, there's people that are teaching you shouldn't get married. False teaching. Fact number two, their teaching was undermining areas of legitimate freedom One of the greatest areas of controversy in the early church was the blending of Jew and Gentile into one body. And I don't think you and I really can fully grasp the unbelievable tensions that were brought into the church because of that. You know, there are some churches that would never, well, they wouldn't be comfortable if you took people from another side of town and you just injected them into the church. There are churches that would just not have that. I'm not saying that they should. In fact, it's wrong. But there's a lot of churches like that. They'd like to kind of just rub shoulders at people that are culturally just like them. Think like them, act like them, the same backgrounds as them. But God in his wisdom said, I want the Jewish population in this town and the Gentile population in this town to be put into one body And I want them to learn how to get along, and I want them to learn how to love each other, and I want them to learn how to defer their rights. And I want them to actually fellowship with one another and be hospitable. In other words, I want Jewish families to invite Gentile families into their house. That's shocking. I want Gentile families to invite Jewish families into their house and they accept and they sit down and they eat in that house. That would be a shock. If you've ever been in another part of the world where the foods are so different than the ones that we are, and you can kind of experience a little bit what it's like to eat something that is just Well, you know, it's just not what you would really want to eat. I saw you guys when you were uh visiting your son. There were fried scorpions. Well imagine if you were a Jewish person that had never eaten pork in your entire life and you're invited to a Gentile's house and you're just like, cross my fingers, I hope there's no pork today. And you know what? God wanted the church to have those two just so different groups together. In one body. He wanted people from different areas of society, people that in the ancient world were very wealthy and very powerful, and people who had no rights, servants. He wanted them in the same congregation. He wanted them sitting at the same table, having the Lord's table together. He wanted them to be eating meals together and fellowshipping together. He wanted them to be singing hymns together. He wanted them to be communing around the Word of God together. He didn't separate them out. He put them together. And you know what was going on? There were people saying, You cannot eat this. You cannot do this. And you know why they did that? Because that was the way they insulated themselves. From people they did not want to interact with. That was how they did it. In other words, I don't have to worry about that person coming to my house because if I tell them that this is what we're having, they won't come. That's what's going on. In fact, in Galatians chapter 3, he says this, verse 26, you're all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. As many as you as been as have been baptized into Christ, have put on Christ, therefore is there neither Jew nor Greek. Neither bond nor free, there's neither male nor female. You're all one in Christ. If ye be Christ, then are ye Abraham's seed and heirs. According to the promise. Now he's not suggesting that you stopped being a male when you got saved, or you stopped being a female when you got saved, or you stopped being a Jew or a Greek. But he's saying this, this the distinction that is in your society and in your homes because Jew, Gentile, male, female, bond servant, master, the distinctions that are built into your culture, they're eliminated by the cross in that community, that local church. You don't recognize those things. It's pretty significant. Colossians 2, 16, he says, Let no man therefore judge you in meat. Or in drink or in respect of holy day or of new moon or of Sabbath days. We tend to think of the Sabbath as a day. It is a day. But there were Sabbath days. When we study the Old Testament, we find out that there were lots of Sabbath days. It was a part of their entire calendar. And so it wasn't just that they didn't work on the seventh day, but there were days set aside for all kinds of feasts and festivals and various other things. And he basically says, when you became a Christian, you didn't become a Jew, you became a Christian. And so don't let Jewish believers force their culture upon you. In other words, you have liberty here. Foods, Sabbaths, circumcision. That was a huge one. But the idea is that there were people within the church that were forcing on other believers things that God had told them was legitimate freedom. Very, very important. The Jerusalem Council, Acts 15, was really a discussion about these very issues There was such an incredible controversy between the people in Jerusalem that Peter refused, because of pressure, to go and eat in Gentiles' homes. This is the same Peter who preached at Pentecost. This is the same Peter who there was a vision and God said, Eat the food. You're going to Cornelius' house. He says, No. He says, Eat the food. He says, What I've called clean, don't reject. So Peter had gotten direct revelation from God that he can eat these things. And not just can eat these things, God told him to eat them. Because he wanted him to commune with Gentiles. That's an amazing thing. God was commanding him. For Peter, it wasn't actually an area of liberty. It was a command. You need to do this. Because you need to interact with these folks. Yet there was a council in Jerusalem over this issue. In Romans chapter 14, we have this discussion about the conscience. He that is weak in faith receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations. One believeth. He may eat all things, another who is weak eateth only herbs. Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not. So you have a person who's a vegetarian, he has a weak conscience. That's what the Bible says. That's the text, alright? Just saying it, alright? But what's that discussion all about? It's about this very issue of of what you can and can't eat. Why all this discussion? Because it was ultimately causing contention in the church. Let me give you some practical things that were taking place in the church because this was being taught And it was being embraced. The first word I think of is confusion. Young Christians were becoming confused in their early impressionable years of their early discipleship. You know, this is really true. When a person trusts Christ as their Savior, that first interaction they have, the first church that they attend That first group of believers that is injecting ideas and thoughts, it really shapes them in so many ways. That's why it's so important that a person is in a good, healthy, vibrant Bible preaching, teaching, church, when they get saved. Because the fact is, if they're not, then their worldview and their discipleship is not really being shaped by the Bible like it can and should be. But for these new Christians, there was unbelievable confusion. Am I supposed to eat this or not? This person's telling me I can. This person's telling me I can't. This person's saying it doesn't matter, and I don't know what to think. Incredible confusion. It was affecting their conscience. Young Christians whose consciences are being unhealthily shaped. The fact is that when we are a young believer, there are lots of things that we don't realize are wrong. And as we start reading the Bible, we start going, oh, I shouldn't do that. You know what I'm talking about? You interact with a new Christian. You don't have to take a growth list and say, here's all the things in your life you need to stop doing. You know what's amazing? They start reading the Bible, they start going to church, and all of a sudden they're like, I feel really uncomfortable about this. Why is that? Well, here's why. And just God starts working on them. But if they're in an environment where things are being emphasized that shouldn't be emphasized, and things are de-emphasized that shouldn't be de-emphasized. What happens? Their conscience is starting to be shaped in the wrong way. It's very unhealthy. Division. People begin to withdraw from one another over matters that should not be dividing them. You know, God wants the church to be unified. God wants the church to be strong. The fact is, one of the things that makes the church such a powerful testimony is when you walk through those doors and you look at the people and you go That guy comes from there, I can tell. And that guy comes from there. How are they sitting side by side and having such wonderful fellowship? You know what I'm talking about? Culturally, that person clearly doesn't belong in this community. But he seems very welcomed here. Why is that? There's such a rich interaction between these people. Well, that person, they got money. That person's struggling. There doesn't seem to be any issue between them at all. They seem to have this warm, healthy. Familial relationship. How is that possible? Do you realize how powerful that is in a culture? Think about all the divisions in our culture today. I mean think about the political environment. I mean, we just had the State of the Union yesterday. Just just shred that, why not? Who cares what was just said, right? So petty. You know what? We have a divided country in a lot of ways, but when you walk into this building, there should be this very easily seen unity there. And when you have doctrines like this, you know what it does? It divides people. It pits them against each other, and all of a sudden, when they should be unified, they're not. Doctrine that is true brings unity and truth. And doctrine that is not true divides people unnecessarily. And then we think of this issue of pride. Whenever you have divisive issues, people line up on their side. I'm standing here and I'm standing here and all of a sudden w what 's the point? Look at where I'm at. And pride begins to take root very quickly. People have an elitist attitude based on their opinion and the practices of how that they're working out in their conscience. And the reality is that when false doctrine takes root in people's hearts, and I mean we're talking about things like you can't eat porky, you can. To us it doesn't seem like a big issue, but let me tell you, that was destroying churches. Oh, that guy just thinks people shouldn't get married. Well, what's the big deal? That can destroy a church. There's a third area, and I'm not going to be able to get into it tonight, but I'm just going to mention it quickly. Their teaching was distracting Christians from thinking about the real issues of life. And faith by living in the theoretical. And basically what's going on here is this. You know, your brain can only focus on so many things at one time. Isn't that the truth? I mean if you're a if you're a man then that's really true. Okay. If you're me, that's really true Like my wife my wife's laughing right now, because it's true. It's like there's one task on my brain and that's what I'm focused on and that's what I'm doing. And you bring something else in, I don't even know what happens. And all of a sudden, if I'm thinking about that, I don't know what happened here. I just forget about it. There's only so much that you can focus on at one time. And the truth is, our minds ought to be thinking on what really matters. We ought to be consumed on what's really important. And the fact is that this form of false teaching was taking people, and instead of focusing on what was really important, and what really caused people to grow and thrive, become more like Christ. It got into areas that were completely debatable, completely theoretical, and the reality is it just brought tremendous division and trouble. And so next time we come together, we're going to talk about this third fact, and then we're going to get into some really practical ways that we can guard against the kinds of things that were going on in principle in this church. All right, let's bow our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to help us to be a people who are so cautious that we don't get caught up in these things. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you so much for your word. The kinds of problems that went on in Ephesus. That Paul was so burdened about and sent Timothy to address are things that to us seem so we are so far removed from them. But the fact is that these things are very practical to us because in principle we deal with the same kinds of issues. Father, help us to be a church who really focuses on what is true and focuses on what is most needful. Father, I pray that we'd be a place that really cherishes the young people that you have blessed our church with. Help us to lead these boys and girls to the Lord Jesus. Help us to disciple them and help our families to train up our children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Father, I pray that these little ones who you have blessed our church with will one day be mightily used in your service, that these will be people who have strong families. People who are passionate about the gospel, passionate about discipleship, passionate about your glory in their lives. I pray that you give us a strong and vibrant church as we are careful to do what is most needful. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.