Let's take our Bibles and turn to our opening scripture reading. And we are in the 31st Psalm this morning, Psalm 31, and we're going to read the first several verses together, and then we'll open up our sermon. Here's what the scriptures say. In thee, O Lord, do I put my trust. Let me never be ashamed. Deliver me in thy righteousness. Bow down thine ear to me. Deliver me speedily. Be thou my strong rock for an house of defense to save me For thou art my rock and my fortress, therefore, for thy name's sake, lead me and guide me. Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me. For thou art my strength Into thy hand I commit my spirit. Thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth. I have hated them that regard lying vanities, but I trust in the Lord. Lord. This morning, as we open up the scriptures, as we sing praise to the Lord, the focus of our attention is going to be on how God continually protects us. And in Psalm 31, we're going to talk about the very specific situation that David is dealing with that is likely the reason that he writes that Psalm. And so as we sing these hymns, I want to encourage you to think about The incredibly rich doctrine, the practical truths that we are expressing in song, and think about them in the light of the text of Scripture that we looked at in our opening. Let's bow for prayer, please. Our Father in Heaven, we thank you so much for the opportunity to assemble as a body of believers. We recognize that the only reason that we can come into your presence is because Christ laid down his life, shed his blood on that cross, so that we could be redeemed from the sin debt that we justly deserved. We are so thankful that Christ paid the ultimate price to redeem our souls. That we can gather together as a redeemed, forgiven, cleansed people. We are righteous in Christ because of the grace of the imputed righteousness of Christ, not because of any work that we've done. I pray that this morning that as we open up the scriptures, you would help our hearts to be gripped by truth Truth. Father, you know every situation that is encountered in this room. You know every challenge, every struggle, every weight. And I pray that as the word is open, that you would minister very personally in the lives of each person. May the Holy Spirit work and move in our midst this morning. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. All right, thank you so much for joining and worshiping us with us here at Anchor Baptist Church. Please open your hymn books to hymn number 81. Hymn number 81, please stand as we sing all four verses of a mighty fortress is our God. Hymn number eighty one. Sing out this morning. Oh might people 's love as I got up for work never never meet. Ah , body I mean , I don't know where we 're For still our race and for the mic to one of this water. And our webinar But they all went to wake up. Uh the uh uh the oh the We will not give one in the triumph. The friends are dark and friend, we swam on our for him , with great we can do. For love is so one That burn up all my The pillar and the can. God served up by And back a few pages to hymn number 63, Immortal, Invisible, God only wise. Again, we'll sing all four verses. De my man , I made more gay I came to my Thou will have been my dust and mountain my falling up To all my background, to perfect them for my Samson Viplasana Leave on the tree and where I 'm changing, but not say nothing Pray Father, your father applies, I am joining for bearing their sight. Our place we would never have us to see only after Great singing. Please be seated as we turn back to hymn number thirty-eight. Number thirty-eight, how great thou art And we have all four verses for this one. Oh Lord my God, when I am not the one that consider all the world thy hands have in I see the stars, I hear the rolling gun down Thy power, the universe is blessed, and take my soul quite saviour God to thee How pray thou art, how great thou art, and sing my Lord, my Savior God to thee When through the woods and forest play by wander, and hear the birds sing sweetly in the tree. When I look down from Locky Mountain Brandon And near the floor and feel the gentle breeze, then think my soul, my Savior God to me How great thou wants, how great thou wants, then sing my love, my Savior God to thee. How great thou art, how great thou and when I think That goddess are not very send him to die, I scarce can take it in That on the cross my burden gladly every bled and die To take away my sin and things my soul, my Savior God to thee How great thou wart, how great thou wart, thy things might love my favorite. How break thou break thou When Christ shall come , west thou the acclamation and take me home, what joys up in my heart Then I shall vow in humble adoration and their proclaim My God, how pray thou art, and think my soul, I say the God to thee. I'll breathe thou art, I'll break thou art, then sings my soul, my Savior God to me God break the wall. Amen. Great singing this morning. Our scripture reading will be found in the Psalms. We'll be in Psalm number thirty-one today. Psalm number thirty-one We'll be reading verses 15 through 24. Psalm 31, verses 15 through 24. The scriptures say, My times are in thy hand. Deliver me from the hand of mine enemies and from them that persecute me. Make thy face to shine upon thyself. Servant. Save me for thy mercy's sake. Let me not be ashamed, O Lord, for I have called upon thee. Let the wicked be ashamed, and let them be silent as the grave. Let the lying lips be put to silence, which speak grievous things proudly and contemptuously against the O how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee, which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men. Thou shalt hide them in the secret secret of thy presence from the pride of man, thou shalt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues. Blessed be the Lord, for he hath showed me his marvelous kindness in a strong city. For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes. Nevertheless, thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried Cried unto thee. O love the Lord, all ye his saints, for the Lord preserveth the faithful and plentifully rewardeth the proud doer. Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart Heart all ye that hope in the Lord. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Um , uh, but uh, yeah, I think it's a big thing. I have print number one fifty-one in our blue book. I run surprise when chased by fear and by love a beautiful I write surprise when torn by grief and find upon desp I too had yes, he gently speaks the joy and sorrow me I rise surprise when worn by life and find my story press Come on to me because right, but he gets way to rise I run to Christ land and find a mighty arm. But devil, please remember the words but cannot song I brought to Christ when sought by them and find us for escape Need I cry to him, temptation I run to Christ when plagued by shame and find my one defense. I for God rather please my case, my advocacy. And let's stand it once more As we turn to number 105 in the blue book. 105 in the blue book. For me to live is Christ. We'll sing all four verses and we'll sing the last verse a cappella. Sing out this morning, for me to live is Christ. In lie for death I'll not despair, my hope and him, I'll boldly spare To live his Christ, to die his games, I think to magnify his name, for me to live his price. So so you price nine proceeds and run to him He brings through me , confess and every stage, they'll all be strengthened by his grace For me to let me try, for me to let me try. Pursuing him my life I for me to give. Amen. Please succeed it. Lord Light More My heart me voyant, common my thoughts to serve and And capture my attention to your will Let it be your voice, the voice that I can hear Lord, let my Lord be quiet Let all distraction cease Make room within my heart for peace. When my brother life have filled my heart with no My Lord, I need to listen to your voice. Lord, let my heart be quiet and ready to receive Eternal words of truth you have decreed, and let me like to linger. In quiet times of prayer on hurry, let me often meet you Oh, let my heart be quiet, my restless mind subdued Let all my expectation come from you, from you, and really help me choose to let My inward man he said, so that your boy My quiet Lord of that my baby swine Lord loves my am of heart, please. My prayer is that that is where our heart will be, where we start this psalm this morning. Our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back. for their class and the rest of you let's all turn together to the thirty first Psalm, please. And we're going to look at this Psalm in two parts. This morning we're going to look at it and then tonight we're going to be partaking of the Lord's table. And so I hope that you'll be able to uh gather again with us this evening, and we're going to look at the 31st Psalm again, and we're going to look at it really in the light of how the Lord Jesus Christ, who quoted from this psalm on the cross, How he used it. And really how understanding the Psalm and how David writes it, it will really give us a greater appreciation for some of the very final things that the Lord Jesus said. He hung on the cross and he says, Lord, into your hands I commit my spirit. Here's what the text says, In thee, O Lord, do I put my trust. Let me never be ashamed. Deliver me in thy righteousness. Bow down thine ear to me. Deliver me speedily. Be thou my strong rock for a house of defense to save me Thou art my rock, my fortress. Therefore, for thy name's sake, lead me and guide me. Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me, for thou art my strength. And to thy hand I commit my spirit. Thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth. Let's bow together for a moment and ask the Lord to help us to understand that Text before us. Father, as we read this psalm, I pray that we would have a more thorough appreciation for The tremendous hardships that people like David and Stephen and the Lord Jesus Christ experienced as David wrote these words And as Stephen, when he was being martyred, and the Lord Jesus as he was hanging on the cross quoted directly from this psalm, Father, help me to be able to communicate this passage with the intent for which May we see how a godly man who was a sinner like David, how he processed treacherous behavior that put him in a very vulnerable and terrifying Place, a place that left him empty and isolated and fearful, a place where he felt the trauma of being Attacked by someone whom he loved and someone whom he had done so much for, and how he found his strength in you I pray that this morning as we open up this text of Scripture, we would recognize how to process situations that, though not fully comparable, are very similar. I pray that you would help me to communicate it effectively, and may the Spirit of God use it in our hearts. In Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a fascinating passage. In fact, when we read through the Psalms, there are so many word pictures In fact, when I was reading through Psalm 31 and I saw all these idioms that were being used and all these word pictures that were being used, I frankly I was a bit overwhelmed with where to even begin as far as laying out how to preach and teach But as as I reflected on the passage, I said, you know, I think what I'd really like to do more than anything is give you a big picture view of what is going on And as I think about what's going on in this psalm, I'm I'm convinced that there is tremendous practical implication that flows directly out of the psalm that we are reading this morning. And then I really think tonight as we reflect on the Lord's table and we think about how the Lord Jesus quotes from this psalm, it gives us a much more thorough appreciation for what he did for us and what it costs for him to You know, life in a fallen world is full of endless possible ways that we can be frustrated and we can experience intense pain. But there are few circumstances that are more b debilitating than someone that we love, someone that we respect. someone that we have laid our lives before, someone that we have invested in deeply, someone who is close to us, when that person turns against us in a treacherous kind of a way. It's sad to say this, but it's true that over the course of our lives, every one of us may very well experience this from someone who is a family member. Maybe it's somebody that we went to church with. Maybe it's somebody that we were under their authority. someone that we trusted, someone we admired, somebody we respected, and their behavior turned in such a way that it really personally wounded us, and it wounded us in such a way that in fact it's almost impossible to fully get over. Such treacherous behavior. That is kind of the sense that we're going to get as we read Psalm 31. Psalm 31 provides a powerful example of how to process The fear and the pain of betrayal in a godly way. It's ultimately going to point us to the sufficiency that is rooted entirely in Christ. Whether you realize this or not, the end of the psalm is really Jesus. Now I know he's not stated in the text, okay, but really he is the heart of where this psalm is pointing, David. He's going to use words like redeemed. He's going to say, let the saints of God glory in him. He talks in terms of redemption. And then the Lord Jesus Christ quotes directly from this Psalm as he is hanging on the cross. Jesus is at the heart of Psalm 31. Psalm 31 wasn't written so that we could say, oh, here's the grocery list of what I'm supposed to to do when I experience something like this. That is not the intent of the psalm. It's simply David pouring out his heart And processing what he's going through and turning his heart to God. And what what we're able to do is we're able to see how people Who fear the Lord, who love the Lord, who trust in the Lord, who their worldview is shaped by a God-centered perspective. When they get in these low places, how do they respond? What's also fascinating about Psalm 31, while treachery is at the heart of what's going on in these verses, there are other passages of Psalm. scripture that David really follows a very similar pattern, a very similar practice, and he's dealing with a completely different topic, but in Internally, he's dealing with the same kind of emotional ups and downs and those kinds of responses. What God wants us to do this morning is learn how to process our deepest troubles in a gospel. That's what this text is all about. And so I'd like us to begin first of all by looking at the pain of human treachery. Now I'm not going to spend as much time on this as maybe I would have liked to as I was thinking about it, because we have to move quickly through the Psalm. But there are two examples in David's life that may have been the catlass for what we're reading here. The fact is that we're never told in Scripture what David was living through when he wrote these things. But as we look through the details and what David describes as far as how we he feels, what he's experienced, what he's afraid of, all of those things, then we recognize that in David's life there are certain times that he went through things that would have very easily fit into that time period. For instance, in 1 Samuel 23, we see We see the story of a group of people in a town called Keelah. And in Keelah the Philistines had come upon this community, this town, and they were fighting against them, they were taking advantage of them. and stealing their produce before they could bring in their harvest. And at the time that the Philistines were coming against the town of Kelah, David was running from Saul. And God moved David to go and to put his life on the line and the life of his 400 soldiers that were with him to go and to defend the town of Keilah before the Philistines. What's amazing is within a few verses the town was turning on him, and they were willing to deliver him to Saul. So here is this group of people that David had willingly put his life on the line for. This is not a figurative thing. This is a literal physical putting his life on the line. He got other people who are following him to put their lives on the line for this community, and all they could do is turn on him. But there's another example that maybe is even more appropriate. That is what we read about in 2 Samuel 15-18. And that's the story of Absalom. Now, there are so many details in this story that if you read it carefully and you process it as a dab Or you process it as a king, or you process it as somebody who you have done so much for, and you think about the way that Absalom undermined his own father. And the way that he gathered all these people against his father to overthrow his father, and how he takes Ahithophel, one of David's most trusted and most loyal advisors. And he draws all these people together and he leads a massive overturning against David And David is fleeing for his life, and he's terrified for his life, and the way that Absalom disrespected his father. This is probably what David is writing about. I'd encourage you, if you want to appreciate the psalm, read that section of scripture and ask yourself: how would you feel if that was your son? Not just the fear of losing your life, but that is someone you took care of. That was someone you fed and you clothed and you invested in. And and by the way, a back part of that story is David Sun with Bathsheba. Is also a major factor into why he had these problems in his family and why there was tension between him and Absalom. But the bottom line is what Absalom did was absolutely treacherous. When people experience human treachery, they experience the loss of relationship. Sometimes they experience shame. I trusted that person and they tricked me. Me. They feel so vulnerable. Someone that had been close to them, someone that knows so much about them, someone that had been in league with them, who knows how to take advantage of them and exploit their weaknesses. That person has turned against you. them. They're completely confused. Now, those are not sinful responses. That's called the natural consequence of such a situation. If you feel those things, you're not sinning. That is what happens when people wrong you. However, what you do with the emotions you feel And what you do with the places that your mind will go, that is where sin begins or where sin is cut off. And the fact is that there are two roads that we can take when we experience these kinds of There is one that is an empty way, and it is an empty response to treacherously. You might say it's the broad way. Okay? There's a broad way and there's a narrow way. There's the way of the world. There's the way that of people that don't know the Lord. They don't fear the Lord. They don't have a God-centered worldview. And so all they have is their own ability to get revenge, or their own ability to cope with pain, or their own ability To forget or their own ability to get in league with other people. They're the center of their worldview. And the way that they respond to those things is entirely different than the Christian who says, I serve God. I submit to God. He's in charge. He's in authority. I'm supposed to submit to his authority and his lordship. I'm supposed to follow his path. I'm not supposed to walk in unrighteousness. And so when we talk about the Broadway, it's one of denial. We can pretend as if nothing's actually happened. Or pretend as if it hasn't really affected us, when in fact it really has. Or we can isolate ourselves. In fact, this is a very common response. So I feel this pain, and I I feel like I've been betrayed, and I feel like someone's dealt with me treacherously, and I don't trust anybody anymore. And so we withdraw from people. Who probably can hurt us, which is probably smart, okay. But we don't just withdraw from those people. We withdraw from people that really love us. From people that actually care about us. They want to come alongside of us. You know who withdraw from more than anybody else? Right there. God. We get angry at God. We ask all these questions. How could you allow this? We isolate ourselves. That is So common. That is one of the most common ways people respond in such situations. Bitterness. We nurse our wounds to the point in isolation. that we have nobody to come alongside of us, nobody is putting, we could say, a check imbalance into our perspective and thinking, and the grievance grows and all of a sudden we are filled with a root of bitterness. Guess where bitterness goes? Revenge. We want to get even We plot ways to get people who have wronged us to feel the pain we've felt. And maybe we don't do it directly. May we do it through others. That is what backbiting is. That is ultimately what people do. They will undermine another person through others so that they will do the work for them. Now, why do I bring that up? That's the way the world lives. The average person that has been treated treacherously is going to respond exactly like that. But that's how Christians do sometimes too. And by the way, throughout the time that we experience these things, sometimes we kind of go through right responses and wrong responses, and there's a sort of a cycle to this. What I want us to do this morning is I want us to see a godly way to process these things because that's exactly what David does. So let's break down the psalm. First of all, we see in 31 verses 1 and 2, and then again later in the Psalm verses 14 to 18. that David is crying out to God in prayer. Now you could make an argument that all throughout the Psalm you find examples of God crying out to God and praying to God. But in verses 1 and 2 And 14 to 18, that is really the heart of what David is doing. And several times as God is, or David is crying out to God, he expresses his trust in unique ways. For instance, in verse 1 he says, In thee do I put my confidence. Or in verse 5 he says, Into thy hands I commit my spirit. Or verse 14, I trusted in thee. Verse 15, My times are in your hands. Those are all different ways of saying, God, I'm trusting you. I'm walking by faith. Those are all different ways of saying the same thing. And then he even breaks it down further where he talks about specific aspects of how he trusts God. For instance, in verses one and seventeen he says, Let me never be ashamed. Says don't disappoint me. So so think of that think about it this way. You have a person who has been mistreated, that there's been a treacherous list treacherous behavior. And so some of their friends come alongside of them and they're processing this together, they're talking about what's going on, and the one person says, How are you going to handle this? And they say, Well, I'm going to trust God. I'm going to do this and I'm going to do this because I know this is going to Consistent with what the scripture teaches in such a situation. And they look at them and they say, Are you kidding me? That's not how the world works. You trust God, it's going to take years for Him to settle this matter. You need to settle it now You need to get that revenge today. That's the mindset. And he says, No, no, I'm going to trust God. And they say, All right, we'll see how it goes. We'll see how it goes for you. And David says, God, don't disappoint me. Don't let me be ashamed. There are people coming alongside of me and saying, Why are you doing this? God, please don't disappoint me. In verses 1 and 15, he says, deliver me or intervene on my behalf. David realizes that the ability to free himself is not within his power. He has a vicious foe. Frankly, Absalom could have killed David. Ahithophel was giving him the advice: go after him now. He's like a wounded dog. He has absolutely no ability to defend himself. Crush him while you have the chance. And there's another advisor on the side working for David saying, oh, this guy, he's gonna rise up and he's gonna fight you like a lion And God in his providence intervened so that Ahithophel was not listened to. And Ahithophel killed himself in misery because he knew that his advice was right. The point is, if Absalom had listened to Ahithopheld, David's story would have been done. God intervened. David says, Have mercy on me. In verse number two, he says, Bow down thine ear to me. I love the picture that's used here. I have little children, and I hear this a lot. Daddy, Daddy, Daddy, I have a question. Daddy, Daddy, Daddy, I have a question. Daddy, I have a question. It's repeated dozens upon dozens of times within a day. Well if I want to hear what my child is saying and I'm communicating to them that I actually care and want to hear and I'm going to respond, I I stop what I'm doing and I'll bend down and say, Can you say that again? You know what that is? That's my way of communicating. I care. That's my way of communicating. I care. And you know what? That's what David's saying. God do that to me. Stop what you're doing, and please have mercy on me. It's a beautiful picture. And verse number two In verse number two, he also says, Deliver me speedily. The idea is I can only handle this so long. Please don't push me to my limits. The quicker you move, the better it will be for all of us. Verse 16, make thy face shine upon thy servant. This is a this is an amazing idiom actually. You ever heard somebody make a statement at a wedding like, oh, that couple's just beam? Anybody ever heard that? Say, well what is it what does it mean they're beaming? Like does light like come off of them when they're standing there in front of everybody? Basically what they're saying is they're they're they're famous They're joyful. They're excited. They're looking into this person that they love and that they're going to commit their life to, and they're like, this is the greatest moment of my life, and they're thrilled. Faith He says, God, look at me like that. Look favorably upon me. Why does David say it? Because he trusts God He recognizes the vulnerability of trusting God. The second thing I want you to notice is the weight of the trouble that David was experiencing. In verse 9, we see The statement, mine eye is consumed with grief, my soul and my belly. Do you know what that is communicating? The word that comes to mind is the word traumatize. You know what that means? That means what you've experienced is so emotionally gripping that it literally affects you physically. It leaves this indelible imprint on you as a person. It is such an intense kind of sorrow. Verse 10, he says, My life is spent with grief, my years with sighing. It's another way of saying I feel absolutely helpless. And verse 10 he says, My strength faileth because of mine iniquity, and my bones are consumed. That is a fascinating statement in my mind. Because what David is saying is, I feel guilty because of what's going on. Say, well, what Absalom was doing to him wasn't David's fault. And in one sense, that's true. In another sense, actually, it wasn't true. Why was Absalom bitter against his father? Well, it's because his father really dropped the ball on many, many issues within his family life. Why was there so much turmoil and trouble within their home? Well, it was a direct result of his sin with Bathsheba. Why did Ahithophel despise David? Because Bathsheba was his granddaughter. So when Absalom and Ahithophel get together, let me tell you, there was a clear catalyst for the vicious response. And David's sin was a part of that. But let me tell you something. That is not always the case. There are times that people experience these situations, and it is not because of their sin. It's because somebody else has sinned against them. And by the way, when Jesus quotes from these verses, obviously he didn't sin against anybody. And when Stephen is quoting this passage of scripture, Obviously, he's not being martyred because of his sin. It's because of his association with the gospel. And so when David is speaking in these terms, what we see see is that part of David's experience was he had sinned and now there's consequence, but that's not always the case Verse eleven is also fascinating. He says, I was of reproach amongst all mine enemies, because I became But especially amongst my neighbors, and a fear to mine acquaintances, they that did see me without fled from me. David was isolated. Another way to put it is he said, They don't want to die with me. They don't want to experience what I'm about to experience, and so they just conveniently kind of take a step back. And they're gonna let me get crushed so that it doesn't affect them. People do this. There's a reason that a raging mob sometimes can do what they do. It's because nobody wants to get in the mob and stop it. They don't want to deal with the consequences of the raging mob. But if enough people stood up and said, We're not going to put up with this, guess what? It would stop David says, here I am, chased by my own son and his army, and everybody that I have invested in, that I have loved, that I have protected, that I have served, they're not with me. Not that they're against me, they're not with me. That's what he's saying. Verse 12, he says, I'm forgotten as a dead man out of mind. People have moved On with their lives. Verse 12, I'm like a broken vessel. Basically, what David is saying is, I don't feel that I can be repaired. I don't feel like there's any hope past the situation. When David experienced this, he was not a young man. It was the end of his kingdom. It really was. I mean, he was king after this for a period of time. But David was an old man. He was no longer as strong and as vibrant and as fierce as he had been as a young man. It was the end of his kingdom. And he's feeling I'm broken. I can't be repaired or restored or anything. He was slandered. Verse 13, he says, I have heard the slander of many. Verse 13, they took counsel together against me, devised to take away my life. They loathed me. Someone might be tempted to say, I I can't I can't apply what David did because my situation is a lot worse than his, and I go, Mmm. Perhaps you should go back over that and just process it a little bit more. What David was going through was very severe. But I want you to notice the third thing. David was not Not broken beyond repair. David wasn't done. David didn't die David didn't stay in the dirt. Amazingly, David rose up. He was strengthened. And the question we should all ask ourselves is, how in the world could a man who describes those kinds of things get back up? How in the world could he do it? And the answer is his confidence is in the Lord. Verses 3 to 8, we see several things that David states that are objectively true. Whether he feels it in the moment or not, they're true. You know, when our emotions are running crazy and we are experiencing fear and all those other experien uh emotions, what is true is forgotten, at least for a moment. And so David stops and he reminds himself of truth. We see words like for and therefore. You know what they tell us? These are the reasons David can get back up. That's what it means. Listen to what he says. Verse 13. Thou art my rock and my fortress. God was his protection. Verse 3 says, For your name's sake, lead me and guide me. This is an interesting point. God was his identity. David's literally saying, because I belong to you and I'm associated with you. You've got to defend me because I'm yours. It's an interesting and I'm gonna come back. I'm gonna really hit this tonight. Okay. I'm gonna really hit this tonight. Verse number four, thou art my strength. God literally strengthened his hands moment by moment. Verse 5: Thou hast redeemed me. God was his redemption. You say, Well, what did God pay for David? Well, that's where it points to the cross. That's why he could say, for your name's sake. That's why he can say later on, to the saints, let's sing praise to God. Why? Because of redemption. David believed in a coming redeemer. We're going to hit that one a lot tonight as well. And then verse 17, he says, You've considered my trouble, thou hast known my soul in adversity. Literally, God was. Merciful. So David lays out very transparently how he feels. And then he stops and he thinks about truth. And the question is: well, then what happens after that? Well, truth is going to push you somewhere. Does that make sense? I mean, when we hear the scriptures read, uh either either we respond by going, I don't believe that I don't want that. I'm gonna reject that. I don't want to hear that anymore. Or we go, Oh, that's good. That's good Internally, we feel this strength that begins to come among on us and we say, I can do this. I can do what God said I can walk with God. I'm encouraged. I can remember this. And all of a sudden we want to praise God. That's what happened with David. So it is truth understood that causes people to praise God. Not just we praise God because that's what we're supposed to do, but truth understood presses people to praise God. And I will even say this, that when we are really, really low and we meditate on truth thoroughly, that's when we really praise God. Because all of a sudden the truth sticks in us like it has never stuck before in a very experiential way. And so in verse 19 he says, How great is your goodness which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee. God is good. Verse 21, blessed is the Lord, for he hath showed me his marvelous kindness in a strong city. God has protected me. Verse 22. I said in my haste, I'm cut off from before thine eyes. Nevertheless, thou heardest the voice of my supplication. This is great. David's like, I was praying And I felt like quitting, and I said, You're gonna forget me and you you worked in my behalf anyway. I love that. Nobody's ever been there before. I've been there many times. Can't get back up. I know. But I'll get you up anyway. That's what God did. In other words, the answer to David's prayer was not entirely contingent on the strength of his faith Or because David just had this incredible strength that he could just keep pushing on. And God says, Well, I'll answer your prayer because you persevered in your faith in this moment. That's not what God did. God said, I'm going to be kind to you because I'm gracious. You're trying to pray. And you're falling short. I'm going to pick you up anyway. God's intervention. But this is where it ends. Corporate praise. Verses 23 and 24. He says, Oh, love the Lord, all ye his what? His saints. The Lord preserveth the faithful and plentifully rewardeth proud doers. Be of good courage, he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord. You know what that's saying? David's praise wasn't just in his closet by himself. Now it might have started in his closet by himself, but that's not where it ended. Because he walks out into the group of believers and he says, Let me tell you, we need to praise God together. That's corporate praise. That's what church is. It's the gathering of the church. And when we say things like, all ye that love the Lord. Praise him. He plentifully rewarded the proud doer. He says, Be of good courage, and he will strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord. And all of a sudden, together we're strengthened as a body. That's what's going on. So let me give you like a little summary of what we've just looked at together this morning. First word is confession. David directed his attention to God and he pours out his heart transparently. When we say confession, we always think I'm admitting my sin. That's not what David's doing here. He's just telling God how he feels. He's telling God what's going on inside. Sometimes we say, I can't tell God these things. He's holy and he's lofty and he's righteous. He don't want to listen to me, pour out my heart. That's not what David did. In fact, this isn't just one example. This is one of lots and lots of examples of David pouring out his heart to God. And that's where it started. If there's anybody that can actually help you, it's God. So that's where you need to go. The second word is prayer. He passionately pleaded with God to act on his behalf. He said, God, here's how I feel. Here's what I'm going through. I'm just saying, please do this. That's what he's saying. I mean, it's not fancy, deep theological. It's just I'm in trouble and I need your help. And I can't do it. And God says, okay I'll step in. That's what he did. That's why we continue to read the story. The third word is refocus. He reminded himself of God's character and So David doesn't just say, Here's how I feel, and then walk away. Or here's how I feel, please intervene on my behalf and then walk away. He goes and he reminds himself of God's character. He reminds himself of how God has dealt with other people. He reminds himself of how God has dealt with him personally. And he says, You've done it before. I know who you are. I'm trusting you to do it again. That's what he's doing. And then David is now in a different mindset. His circumstances around him haven't changed at all. Absalom didn't disappear. I mean at that moment. He he did later. But he didn't disappear at that moment. But what happens? David's perspective is different. In the midst of everything going on around him, he says I could Praise God. I can I can call all the people that I know that love the Lord. I'm going to call them and say, let's praise the Lord together. Let's encourage one another in the Lord. He calls others to join him in this passionate passionate, mutually uplifting praise. And he embraces a very intentional way of living, strengthened personally and corporately. So, how do we respond? Confession, prayer, refocus, praise, intentional living. That is really what it is. So that leads me to a final question: how do you apply this? How do you apply this? Well, we cannot escape all the trouble we have in life. That's not possible. Some trouble is our own sin. Some is because people sin against us. Sometimes it's just kind of a blend. We've contributed our side. They've contributed their side. Sometimes people just despise Christians, and that's why they hate us. It's true. There are people they hate Christianity. They hate Christ. Christ. They hate the gospel. And if you are associated with Christ in the gospel, guess what? They hate you. It's that simple. You could be as kind and you could be as nice and you can be as loving as you want to that person And by the way, I encourage us, let's be loving and kind to people, even those who despise us. But loving kindness doesn't change the fact that they hate God. The only thing that changes their hatred for God is the gospel. It's a new nature, regeneration. You can't escape trouble in life. No matter what course you take in life, you're going to face trouble. Just get that in your mind. You could take the path of least resistance, but there's problems there too. It might take a longer time to get there, but you'll pay for it. We'll all pay for it. You cannot escape trouble. You've got to process it biblically. And when trouble comes, there are two possible paths. One is the broad way, the road of denial, isolation, bitterness, revenge. It's what the world does, and it's what we do, and we're not thinking scripturally. And there's the narrow way. Confession. We've got to direct our attention to God. Pour out our hearts transparently to Him. Maybe today after church you need to just go to your closet, figuratively, literally, however you want to do it, and pour out your heart to God and say, This is how I feel. And he's gonna go, Oh no, I didn't know that. No, he's not. God isn't gonna do that. They say I've been waiting for you to say this. It's about time. And you say, God, I need you to work on my Behalf. Prayer. And then we need to refocus. We need to remind ourselves of God's character and his ways. He has continually protected us. We are identified with Christ. That's what a Christian is. I'm in Christ. I belong to Him. I am forgiven. I am cleansed. I am righteous in Him. Not In myself, in him. And because I'm identified with him , everything starts there. Everything's bound up in that. He continually strengthens us. He has redeemed us. He is merciful to us. We need to live intentionally. We need the church of God. We need godly Christians. We need the ministry of the preach word week in and week out. We need the scriptures to be in our hearts. And so I asked the simple question: which road will you take Which word you gonna take? You say I'll take the middle road. There isn't such one. There's no such thing There's the broad way and there is the narrow way. You gotta pick one of them. The middle ground is called compromise. It's just a fancy way of saying the broad way And so I want to encourage you, as God's people, let us be doers of the word. And not hearers only. I'm really looking forward to tonight because you know what we're going to do, we're going to take this psalm and we're going to. Apply it with the cross in the background. Let's bow for prayer. Father, your word is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. It goes into our souls and it presses us. It makes us uncomfortable. But it gives us what we need most. And so, Father, I pray that this morning you would take the word and you would apply it to our hearts. Father, help us when we have been dealt a very difficult blow to turn to you in the Same kind of way world. that David turned to you when he was facing the tremendous betrayal of his own son. I pray that as we think on these things We would love you more and more. We would recognize how many times you have intervened on our behalf, even when we stumbled and stumbled and stumbled. That our hearts would be pressed to love you a little bit more thoroughly. Father, help us to be a godly people who walk the road that is consistent with our position as Christians. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. I'm going to ask you to take your hymn books out, and I want you to turn with me to hymn 100 The hymn is Great Is Thy Faithfulness. And as you are turning there, I want to just remind you if you do not know the Lord is your Savior, obviously the gospel was something that we hit on a good bit in this message. Our position in Christ, being redeemed, being called God's saints. You say I don't understand that. Well then reach out. When when you you're leaving, shake my hand and say, Pastor, I don't know what it means to be a Christian. I don't know for sure that I'm saved. I need to talk to somebody. We could talk right after the service in a location where We could speak privately. Or we could speak during the week. But don't leave this place if you don't know the Lord is your Savior. It might be that you heard this message and you go, I gotta give a Along with the Lord, but I mean may need to talk through some things. That's okay. Do that. Reach out. Be glad to sit down with the Bible and help you work through What we've looked at this morning. Let's stand together and sing one hundred and nine Great Is Thy Faithfulness. Sing all three verses. Great is thy faithfulness O God my Father, there is no shadow of turning with thee. Thou changest not thy compassions, they fail not, as thou hast fell forever Will be great as thy faithfulness, greatest thy faithfulness, morning night By morning new mercies, I see all I have needed, thy hand And hat provide it. So that's I have a family uh with us today, and so I'd like to ask if the dad uh could close our service in prayer. Up here. Yeah, I'll recommend Oh you don't want to get too it's okay. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you for this congregation that's standing true to you in this community. Thank you for the encouraging message. Lord Jesus, we all have troubles. We all have felt betrayed at different times in our lives. We thank you for the example of David. He was a man after your own heart, and through that psalm you teach our hearts how we should respond. Thank you that he said he trusted in you. He knew that you are his God. We thank you that you are creator. We thank you that we can pour out our hearts before you, and you're a refuge for us at all times. Bless us this day. Help us to honor you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.