Well, good evening. Like to welcome you to our evening service. Hope you had a good afternoon and we're looking forward to our service this evening as we have been starting out our missions month. We're just going to sing two songs at the front side, then we're going to have our presentation, and then after that we'll sing a third song between the presentation and the sermon. So let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and then we will sing a couple songs together. Our Father, we're so very grateful for this Lord's Day and the opportunity that we've had to gather this morning, and the opportunity we have to gather again tonight. Father, help us as we uh listen to this presentation and as we think about missions that you would really stir up our hearts. Help us to have a greater understanding of the kinds of dynamics that are going on around the world. Help us to have a deeper burden so that as we pray for people that we we really care carry those requests to you with uh with a fervency. And I pray that you will really minister to our hearts this evening. Help us to have a tenderness to your word. And we ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Good evening everyone. Good to see you out. Nobody got too wet tonight today, I don't believe so. We need a break from a little bit of rain. Let's turn to page 353 to start off our music tonight. Please stand with me. Page 353. Search me, oh God. Oh God and know my heart in a I be home savor. No, my God. I present. Some wake it wake me where we promote Kubenätibe tehty. Amen. Please go ahead and have a seat. I 'm glad we didn't sing that song this morning with a microphone in my face. In one hand. Wow. Okay, page 391. Page 391. I love it when the sound guys are really on their game. So page 391, I am resolved. It's no longer no linger. Sing out. I never say no table and do that. The army are over the thing. You can run a great number. Amen. Now we'll have our missing presentations. Bill Smith? Thank you. Good evening. It is such a Page 400. Take my life and let it be consecrated, Lord, to thee. Please stand. All four verses Lord, make my hand and with murmur at the impulse of I love. At the airport of my life take my name is eating starting the method. Vida , vi. Amen. Please be serious. Turn with me to Psalm sixty seven. Psalm sixty seven This is probably a familiar psalm, a familiar passage, especially during an emphasis on missions. Psalm 67, and let's begin with verse 1. God be merciful unto us and bless us and cause his face to shine upon us. Selah. That thy way may be known upon earth, thy saving health among all nations. Let the people praise thee, O God. Let all the people praise Thee O let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for thou shalt judge the people righteously, and govern the nations upon the earth. Selah Let the people praise thee, O God. Let all the people praise Thee. Then shall the earth yield her increase, and God, even our own God, shall bless us. God shall bless us, and all the ends of the earth shall fear him. Let's pray again. Lord, we thank you so much for your word Ask for the Holy Spirit's help and guidance, and we pray that you will speak to all of our hearts this evening. Give us a greater burden for the nations. Lord, I thank you for the mighty work that you've done through Anchor Baptists. Continue to do it until Jesus returns for your glory. In Jesus' name, amen. In this psalm, it's a song, it's a worship song, and we see these requests given there in verse 1: God be merciful unto us, God bless us. Cause your face to shine upon us. And this request is being made. God, we want your blessing. We need your mercy. And we need to be praying this way. I don't know about you, but so many times I say, God, I need your mercy in my life. I need your grace each and every day. I need your hand of blessing. No matter the work that we do, whether we're missionaries, pastors, deacons, laymen in the church, serving in a professional role as a doctor, teacher, engineer, mechanic, No matter what we're doing, we need God's grace and our mercy in our lives. We need His grace and mercy and to salvation, but beyond that. But then we see for what purpose? It says, so that your way may be known upon the earth, your saving health among all the nations. And the psalmist is saying, God, we need your blessing, but notice it's not bless me for me Bless me so I'm comfortable. Bless me so I have all the things that I want and all the things that I need But no, the heart, the impact, the emphasis of the song is, God, we want your blessing, we want your mercy, we want your grace, we want you to shine your face upon us. so that your way, your salvation, your good news, your gospel is known among all the nations And then the result of that is verse 3. Let the people praise thee, O God. Let the people praise Thee. The heart of this psalm is, God, as you bless us and we're inobedient, what Pastor shared this morning and living in obedience and we're living lives that honor you and glorify you and we're living obedient lives that are preaching the gospel and your way of salvation. Your gospel is known not only among our neighbors and in our community, but among all the nations. As God's gospel power is at work, redeeming people, bringing people unto himself, seeing lives transformed. Then those people turn from sinners to worshipers and they're praising God. So this is the heartbeat of God. We desperately need your blessing, not just for our own good. But so that your gospel goes forward, your salvation goes to all the nations, so then that all the people praise you. Whether therefore you eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all what To the glory of God. We know ultimately that's our purpose. Is to give God glory in our lives. And as we saw from 1 Peter 2, of the way that we used to be in the world, and that we were liars and deceivers and adulterers. and living in rebellion to God. By God's grace alone. He redeemed us and pulled us out of that. And so we are to live lives set apart. sactivide, lives that give glory to God, lives that that have a testimony that say that we've been redeemed from our sin. Yes, we still deal with the flesh, but by God's grace have victory in sin and growing in Christ to produce the fruit of the Spirit. And that fruit of the Spirit gives glory to God. And at the same time, as we're living lives sanctified and set apart for God that glorify Him, we are to go and to declare His glory to the nations. We are to be involved as his people, as the church, sharing the gospel, taking to the gospel to the nations that are still lost. that are still in the world, that are still in that situation, that are still enslaved to sin, enslaved and in bondage to sin and spiritual blindness. because they know no better, because they haven't heard the gospel, because the miracle of salvation has not taken place in their lives yet. And when we do that And the gospel is taken to these countries, to those who have never heard. We're declaring his glory to the nations. Nations is used a lot in the Bible, and usually today we think of that as countries. The word nations in the Bible usually refers to language groups or people groups. It's estimated over 17,000 people groups in the world. Over 800 of them are in the country of Papua New Guinea. Papua New Guinea has more languages than any country in the world. And that's 800 languages. That doesn't count dialects. And so it's it's a country full of languages and different kinds of people, nations of people. And as I shared earlier, they are still lost in darkness. This particular village, this picture was taken the first day that I was at that village. And they were all dressed up to meet me. And what we see on the outside shows us or gives us pretty good hints that there's a different worldview going on deeper down, right? And they worship Satan. They had all kinds of rituals to appease the spirits, all kinds of wickedness and evil, and they were entrapped to that. And this is why we send missionaries. That as a church we want to be a people set apart. We want to peep be a people that live differently for the glory of God But also for the glory of God, we want to send those that the Holy Spirit calls, that the we as the church confirm, that we rally behind and send them so that they can go to these people. that are still lost in darkness and give them the light of the gospel and to love them and to share Christ with them to sit down on the dirt muddy floors and share the gospel and to teach Now a lot of times this process takes not only weeks but months and years That particular village that I showed you, there was so much confusion. They had heard the Bible when I started teaching and I started in Genesis. About Adam and Eve and the Garden of Eden. They were like, Dave, we know all about Adam and Eve. We know the Garden of Eden. You can skip that and move on to something else. And I said, well, wait a second. Tell me about that. And they're like, oh yeah, the Garden of Eden was right here in our village. I said, it was And they said, yeah, we know about Noah too. Noah was our ancestor. He built his big ship right here. It settled down in that valley over there. His sons went a far, far away, and that's where you foreigners come from. I found out there were stories in the village that where the leaders, the the village elders were telling the people that I was one of their ancestors coming back to them to open the doors of Western wealth and prosperity. You've got secretism, you've got animism, you've got prosperity gospel, and it's just all jumbled together. And so if you're just asking for hands, you're going to get hands. You're going to get decisions. But they're not going to be real decisions. It's going to be a lot of fake news. And so you have to teach God's word carefully and skillfully, like your pastor does. And you have to separate. And say, now when we talk about sin, we talk about God, you have these ideas in your worldview, but the Bible teaches us God is this way, man is this way, sin is this. And you have to totally build from a foundation, build it up, teaching the gospel, and it can take months and years to you get to a point to where the Holy Spirit is is working in in accordance with his word, and fruit begins to come forth, and people come to Christ, and churches are established. These people, because of the gospel, are transformed into a church And this morning is Pastor Joel his emotion. And when your missionaries go to really hard places, to people that have been enslaved in darkness for years. And that's all they've known. That's all they've heard. And you see God work in people's hearts. and the power of the gospel. You see it front and center. It is powerful. It is emotional. And this is why This is God leading his church to go and proclaim his gospel so that lives are transformed for his glory. I love David. David was always my favorite Bible character, and that's not too hard to figure out because my name is David. But even in the Old Testament. Hundreds of years before Christ, David's heart for the nations was fascinating. Turn with me, if you would, to 1 Chronicles chapter 16. Now this morning, our scripture reading was in Psalm 96. And when we turned there, I got all excited. Because this passage in 1 Chronicles 16 is the same psalm. It's the same passage in Psalm 96. You'll see very, very familiar. 1 Chronicles 16 gives us this passage in the context. David had just become king. He is bringing the Ark of the Covenant back into a place of prominence. He is desiring to lead his people in having the right perspective of God, putting God in his right place. Just after the the kingdom of Saul, in which Saul was all about Saul, all about himself, all about what he wanted, David is trying to lead the people to put God in his proper place. and shepherd the hearts of Israel to have the right heart, the right desire, the right passion for God. And so at as part of bringing the Ark of the Covenant back, he orders a special worship service. And he orders all the musicians and the choirs and everybody to get ready for this worship service. And as part of it, he writes this song. And in the song, we see the importance of the nations. Look with me at 1 Chronicles 16. We'll jump in at verse 23. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. Show forth from day to day his salvation. Just like we saw in Psalm 67. Show forth each day God's saving way, God's salvation. Declare his glory among the heathen, his marvelous works among all nations. For great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods. For the gods of the people are idols, but the Lord made the heavens. It's always so heartbreaking. One of the villages there in New Guinea, they took me to a house that's just for men. Only the men can be there. And they actually had an altar. They had an altar that they had built, and they said, Well, this is where we do sacrifices. They did pig sacrifices. I said, Why do you do that? Oh, we're worshiping God. They had uh when boys to become men, they had this initiation uh rituals that they would do where they would take spears. We have some small ones on our table that they would shove through the septum of the nose. And they would drain the blood on leaves from a tree that they called big. And they would take those leaves back to that tree, and they said, that tree is the tree of life, and we're worshiping God. No, they're worshiping Satan. You go to Asia and you see Asians bowing at statues and idols of Buddha and all kinds of gods and and pouring water and washing these statues and giving much time and effort, and your heart breaks. And David's heart broke. He said, The gods of these nations are idols, but the Lord made the heavens. Glory and honor are in his presence. Strength and gladness are in his place. Give unto the Lord, ye kindreds of the people. Give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. How much glory does our God deserve? How much of our heart does God deserve? Proverbs, when it says, trust in the Lord with all, how much is that? 100%. How much glory does God just his name deserve? He deserves all the glory. And I think where David's heart was in this David desired to be a man after God's heart. He wanted to obey God. He wanted to follow him. And he knew that as he obeyed and followed God with all of his heart, even though he committed some horrific sins, He knew that as he did that, as he obeyed God, as he was obedient, as he consecrated his life to his God Yahweh, that was pleasing to him. That gave glory and praise to God. But David knew that was not enough. And as God made him King of Israel, his heartbeat was that all the people of Israel walked in obedience with God. That all the people of Israel worship the one true. only God, the creator of the heavens and the earth. And that all the people of Israel walked in obedience. And he knew that as His people, the people of Israel, walked in in obedience to God. That gave God much glory, much honor. But that was not enough. David's heartbeat was for the nations. All these nations of people that were around them, that were worshiping these false gods. And David's heartbeat for himself and for his people was to be a light, to be a testimony, to be an example to the nations, so that God receives the glory that he deserves. As we think about missions, as a church, we need to be obedient. We need to be living for Christ. We need to be set apart. We need to be different. But we engage in evangelism for the glory of God. Yes, for those that are lost, but because God deserves the glory. We're involved in a missions program so that the nations, all those That have not heard can hear the gospel and their lives are transformed for the glory of God. And so during the ten years that we were there, as we would see church churches established and there were a few there when we arrived. The gospel went into this area without any missionaries. It it was a work of the Holy Spirit. And this really caught our attention during our survey trip. And that's why we chose to work in this particular area. But as we worked with these churches, helping them to become healthy churches, Living lives set apart, living lives that were dedicated to Christ, where the men no longer beat their lives, where they no longer try to attack and hurt and even kill one another, where their lives were totally transformed, and these churches were established that they would then reproduce. And so this is at a church down in the bottom of the valley called Wadaboom, and they sent Jack, one of their deacons, to plant uh uh a church in Amunk and start a church there. And we started to see working with these churches as they became healthy churches that God had called them to reproduce. Yes, to reach all these villages around them that are lost, but because God deserves the glory. God deserves all the glory, which involves all the peoples of the earth, all the nations of the earth. So we engage as a church making his salvation known so that all the peoples can know our Creator God. And all the peoples can praise our Creator God. And so it was exciting to see the churches grow in number as they're reproducing. And again, they're living in grass huts. Most of the churches were just a grass hut, but they're going and it may only be five miles, maybe ten miles, but for them to go those five or ten miles, it's walking. And sending leaders from their church to those villages to go and start other churches. And then as we zoom out As those churches, they're all within the same language group. So then we started talking with them about the Great Commission. How does that apply to them? And you've got these other regions, the Jimi, the Kopone, the Ramu, that are other language groups, other people groups. Now realistically, Simbai churches aren't going to be able to send missionaries to Africa, but they can send missionaries not only within their language group, but to other language groups. So we started doing survey trips And this is a a dugout canoe off the mountains, down at sea level, super hot, super humid, pythons, crocodiles, all those fun things to a village like this Serving in a totally different language group. They live in different kinds of houses. They eat different foods. And this was the first Simbai missionary family sent by the Simbai churches, they had to walk and hike two days and then get to a canoe and go six hours to get to that village. But they're doing great commission. Why? Because how much glory does our God deserve And time is short, and we won't go there, but if you look in Daniel seven, you look in Revelation five, you look in Revelation seven, we see the snapshot, the conclusion, that in heaven there will be those Of every tribe, every tongue, every language group, every nation. And I believe that when we talk about God receiving the glory that He deserves, The nations are a critical part of that. And that's why we as biblical Baptist churches, missions is valuable. Missions is important to us. us. So that, yes, though the heathen hear the gospel, but more importantly, that our God receives the glory that he deserves. It's estimated 25 to 42% of the world is not being reached. When you think of people groups, And you think of population, that 1040 window is the most heavily populated part of our globe. Just one example. I've been to a state in India called Bihar. And I'll compare it to your neighbor in the north, Pennsylvania. BR is just a little bit smaller than Pennsylvania in size, but look at the population. And you can see where Bihar is there in northeast India, just south of the country of Nepal. So Bihar is a state smaller than Pennsylvania with 10 times the population, and it's 99. 9 % unreached. I've been there, I've been in the different towns in that state, and there's just no gospel witness. People, the population is staggering. I know of one family that's there that's with us, and I can't give much information. But it's extremely difficult. The heat is mind-blowing. There is no air conditioning. I remember visiting Joel and Deanna just at the end of their hot season. And it was brutal. And they were enduring hardness as good soldiers. And this is what many of your missionaries do around the world in very difficult times. places like this. Why? Because it's ninety-nine point nine percent. The only churches are there are these tiny little house churches and the ones that are shepherding the national Pastors, if you will, most of them haven't received any Bible training. So they're trying, but a lot of what they're teaching isn't accurate, isn't according to Scripture. The needs are just staggering, and this is just one state, and in that part of the world. And so this is what God calls us as the local church. His body to be active in sharing the gospel. And it starts with every believer living on mission. And I love that Pastor Joel talked about that this morning, that as a church, we got to be healthy first. I would tell the Simbai churches, you need to become a mama church first, because babies can't have babies You exist because God wants you to reproduce as a church. But you got to become a healthy church first. And so we had it all laid out where we taught on doctrine, we taught on evangelism, we taught on discipleship. to where these baby fellowships can become healthy churches so they can become mama churches and then they can have baby churches. and reproduce. But it starts with every believer living on mission, living intentionally, living for the gospel. Being a light, being salt and light right where they are in their communities, in their homes, in their workplaces, living on mission. And then as a body, Taking on this aspect of taking the gospel to all nations. I believe this is for every church. I believe that every believer Even if God hasn't called you to the mission field to have a burden for the nations. And your Bible reading, if you start circling and looking for the nations, You will find it Genesis to Revelation. You will find not only King David, but the prophets had a heart for the nations. Why? Because they had a heart for God receiving the glory that He deserves And the nations are a part of that. And so, as a body, how can we engage in sending the gospel to those that have never heard? Probably the majority of you are going to be involved in sending And some of you, the Holy Spirit, is going to do the miracle, the work of saying in the same way that Jesus chose the disciples. The Holy Spirit working among you to choose some of you for you as a church to send them to those people who haven't heard. And so as we come together, we do a retreat with college students, and whether they're in engineering, they're in pre-med, they're in education, whatever their degree, whatever gifting. I challenged them. I said, would you please pray about being intentionally involved in helping to reach at least one unreached people group in your lifetime? That may be going, that may be actively praying, that may be giving and partnering with a team that is going to a people group And we do that for God to receive the glory that He deserves. We see in Psalm 67 We engage in missions for those that are lost, for the people. We're burdened for them that are in darkness, but our ultimate motivation is for God to receive the glory that his name deserves. Let's pray. Lord, I thank you so much for this church. You've had your hand a blessing upon it. Lord, just even at lunch today and talking with the folks, I see the heart permissions. and how many have sent their young people, their kids to go. Lord, I thank you for the impact on Joel and Deanna. and sending them and Micah and Debbie to plant Anchor Baptist Church in Cape Coast. Lord, we praise you for Pastor Eric and Michael and faithfully shepherding that flock to continue to go forward for your glory. Lord, we pray that you will do that again and again and again. We pray that during this month, that you will work in all of our hearts. Lord, some of us you want to be senders, and you want us to engage more in praying, giving, partnering, healthy. And then Lord, we pray that you will call those that you desire to go to the faraway places, to those where your name is not yet known, and we pray that they will go for the sake of your name. For your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Big time for the month. And uh really excited about the opportunity that we're gonna have this month to hear uh people comment to preach about missions. I love missions as a pastor getting to preach about missions, something that is a big burden on my heart. And the cumulative effect of this every single week, of us being able to stop and reflect on this. In the spring we have a revival focus. Well, this really is a revival focus too, just to be totally honest about it And so really take time to go back over the things that you've heard. Pray and ask the Lord to work in your heart. And just be open to however God is working in your life. One of the things that I would say too is that if God is ever tugging on your heart about these kinds of things, I would love to sit down and talk with you about that And um the truth is I have uh I have pastor friends that say, you know what, I never would want to send somebody to a foreign field who isn't ready. But there are people that God is working in their heart and uh we need to sit down and have conversations. And so whatever the Lord lays on your heart as you're thinking about that, we want to be an encouragement to you. And we want to really be a blessing to these missionaries. Alright, well let's go ahead and turn to our closing hymn, hymn 459, and we will sing the first and the last verses. 459 leaning on the everlasting arms. Please stand together and we will sing it. And uh Dave, I'd like to ask if you and your wife can stand over there in the back and folks can go by and greet you. Don't forget that if you would like to get on their email list so that you get updates, do sign up for that. And um really thankful for our time together today. 459 leaning on the everlasting arms. What a fellow, what our joy the God , leaning of the everlasting heart, what our blessedness, what our peace is God, leaning of the everlasting. I got to ask if uh Brother Grant can come and close us in prayer. And uh so thankful to see each of you out tonight. Let's not forget Wednesday night, where it's going to be our last message on the Sermon on the Mount before we start a new sermon series on Wednesday night. So I hope you can join us for that. Grant closes in prayer, please. Growing your church, we think Thank you for the work that you do around the world. We thank you for the sacrifices that many Christians make in the forwardness of the gospel. I pray that you will go with us this week and challenge us with that message to live our lives more for you, Lord. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.