Turn together to Psalm 96. We're looking at the 96th Psalm this morning, and uh I'm really looking forward to these missions. uh focused uh services. I'm I'm really looking forward to it. As we are singing that last song, I could not sing it. I pauled my eyes out the entire time. It is the most powerful mission song that I know. And it is is it's got an incredible message. And I hope that this morning as we look at the ninety-sixth Psalm, that we will have the heart that is being expressed in that very powerful psalm. That song. Psalm 96, verse number one. I'm going to read it again, and then we're going to dig into the content of this very important psalm. It says, sing unto the Lord a new song. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. Sing unto the Lord, bless his name, show forth his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory among the heathen. His wonders among all people. By the way, that is our our focus this month. It's to declare his glory among all people. Taken right out of this Psalm. He says, For the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods. For all the gods of the nations are idols, but the Lord made the heavens. Honor and majesty are before him, strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Give unto the Lord, O ye kindred of the people, give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory, do unto his name, bring an offering and come into his courts. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness, fear before him all the earth. Saying among the heathen that the Lord reigneth, the world also shall be established, that it shall not be moved. He shall judge the people righteously, let the peop let the heavens rejoice, let the earth be glad, let the sea roar in the fullness thereof. Let the field be joyful in all that is therein. Then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice, before the Lord, for he cometh, for he cometh to judge the earth. He shall judge the world with righteousness And the people with truth. When we read these verses from the 96th Psalm, we read verses that are an invitation for every aspect of God's creation to declare his glory. You know, everything that God has made gives him glory in some level. But there is one part of God's creation that gives him glory with understanding. Or chooses to refuse to give glory to him with understanding in rebellion. This psalm tells us that there are places in the world And there are in every single generation where his name is not worshipped in spirit and in truth. Where his name is not worshipped And there is a need for those who have the gospel to declare the good news of his salvation, the preaching of the gospel to every kindred, tribe, and nation. That really is what this psalm is all about. It's saying wherever God's name is not proclaimed, or wherever God's name is not worshipped, and wherever God is unknown, wherever people are refusing to bend the knee and re and to worship him through the sun The gospel needs to be declared in those portions of the world. God wants us to be a people who passionately declare his glory wherever his name is not worshipped. And the fact is, not everybody in this room can go to the uttermost parts of the world. God doesn't call every single person in this room to go to the uttermost parts of the world, but he most certainly does call every person in this room to to participate in the gospel going forward throughout all nations of the world. That's why we have a missions month It's so that we will pause and we will reflect and we'll ask the question, what role do you want me, Lord, to play in this declaring the gospel amongst the nations? We partner with wonderful missionary families who are starting churches, who are training pastors, who are discipling families who are making disciples for the glory of God all around the world, and they're doing it so that the presence of the gospel is going in that location for generations until the Lord Jesus returns. This is what God wants us to be about. But I want us to be begin with a few thoughts that I think are very important that I need to state at the front side so that we don't misunderstand what Missions Month is about and what it's not about. The first thing I'm going to say is that an active missions program is not the goal of this church. Now, some of you might go, well, then why are we having a missions month? Missions isn't the goal. Missions is the result, it is the byproduct, it is a fruit that is produced where there is spiritual vitality The reality is that my burden for this church more than any other burden is that we together as a body are growing in grace And in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, and if there is a vibrancy within our congregation, one of the byproducts of that vibrancy is a heart for the nations. It's a desire, it's a willingness to get partnered with people that can take the gospel where we cannot go ourselves. In other words, missions is really a spiritual grace. And it flows out of a healthy, vibrant church congregation It's not the product of an assembly line or a philosophy. It's not something that you can put a formula to. It is something that God, in his mysterious work of providence, produces in the hearts of healthy Christians. It is like a fruit that grows on a tree, not something that is built in a factory. And I think it's very important for us to begin with that very simple thought as we dig into this entire month. This month in my heart is all about revival more than it is about the mechanics of missions. In fact, we need to be very careful that we resist the pragmatic temptation to use the flesh to try to produce what only the Spirit of God can produce through the Word of God. If the Word of God is preached And the Holy Spirit is at work, there is something that He is able to accomplish that I could never accomplish and you could never accomplish through some kind of approach, philosophy, or formula. There is a tendency and a temptation in churches to kind of circumvent what the Holy Spirit does through the preaching of the word and to try to produce through guilt Or through emotional manipulation to try to get people to do what the Spirit of God gets them to do when the Word of God is preached. And it takes root in the heart. There is a temptation to appeal to ambition and pride. Lots and lots of churches set lofty goals. And those goals can be a fleshly means of motivating people to do what the Spirit of God needs to motivate them to do through the preaching of the word. If our hearts are revived, if we have a passion and a fervency within our own walk with the Lord, we don't need to really set a bunch of goals. The fact is we're going to do a lot for the glory of God. Because we have the right focus and we have the right burden. So this this year you're not going to hear anything about numbers. You're not going to hear anything about Here is our plan and our approach and what we're going to try to do and how we're going to try to do more. You're going to hear the preaching of the gospel. You're going to hear preaching about missions. And I'm going to let the Holy Spirit work in your heart, however he chooses to do it. We need to be motivated in a godly way, and that is what I pray happens this month as we think about missions. So with that introduction in mind, let's dig into this psalm because it is a rich and powerful psalm that talks about the need for the gospel to go to the nations. The first truth I want us to see in the text in front of us is that God commands all people everywhere to worship him. In verses 1 through 3, here's what he says: O sing unto the Lord a new song. Sing unto the Lord, all the earth, sing unto the Lord, bless his name, show forth his salvation from day to day. declare his glory among the heathen and his wonders amongst all people. Now that word heathen is one we don't probably use a whole lot anymore, okay? Because it's in the connotation with it, but he's basically saying people that don't know God. The heathen could be people in this community right here. In the context of it. He's talking about the Gentile nations. He's talking about people that don't know the Lord. But I want us to focus in first of all on the three simple commands. That he gives in these three verses. The first one is to sing unto him. He says, Sing unto the Lord all the earth Every single people group, every kindred, tribe, and nation, we're all supposed to sing unto the Lord. By the way, you can't sing to a God you don't know. You can't sing to a God you don't love. You will not sing in an appropriate way, in a God-centered, gospel-centered kind of a way, if you don't know the gospel, if you don't know the God that you serve. So when he talks about singing to God, we need to recognize that he's telling us there needs to be a preaching of the gospel. He's going to talk about that in just a moment. I think it's also very interesting, he says, sing to the Lord a new song. You say, well, why is that? Because if you didn't know the Lord, and all of a sudden you come to know the Lord, And the gospel takes root in your heart, and this overcomes you as an individual. There's a song you didn't sing before your conversion. That now is on your lips because it's flowing out of your heart. Because where there was a void and where there was spiritual deadness, now there's vitality. Seeing to the Lord in your song. Then we see the phrase ascribe greatness to him. The phrase is bless his name. Proclaim his greatness. We're going to talk about it in just a few moments. How great is our God? We'll find out in a moment. And then he says, preach his gospel, show forth his salvation amongst the heathen. Three simple commands. That he opens the psalm with, sing to him, ascribe greatness to him, preach the gospel. I want you to notice the context of the command. He says, testify in a wonder testify to his wonderful ways. He says, we are to declare his wonders. amongst all people. You might say, well, Pastor, why is this so important? Why does the psalmist put this before us? He's going to give the answer in just a moment, but I want to give you some Preliminary kind of theological concepts that are connected to the reason that this is the commands. The first is because our existence is owed to God. Colossians 1. 16 says, by him were all things created that are in heaven and in earth. He says all things were created by him and by for him. And there's another addition to that in verse number 17 it says, by him all things consist. So the fact that we have life And the fact that our life is sustained and the fact that this world doesn't just self-implode is all connected to the fact that God is sovereign and rules in the affairs of people. Our existence is connected to God's God God being who He is. Secondly, I'll mention our nature. When I say our nature, we need to recognize that there is no people that is naturally good or neutral. Now a lot of us don't have a problem saying that no people is naturally good But some of us have a hard time saying no people is naturally neutral. The fact is that there is no people that is neutral towards God or that is kindly disposed toward God In fact, we see this in Romans chapter 1, verse 17. It says that the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness of men who hold the truth and unrighteousness. That statement is a really interesting statement because when he says that we hold the truth, he's talking about not just holding it in front of us to examine it. But it's holding it and pushing it away. It's suppressing it. It's ignoring it. And the question is, why? Why do people suppress God's truth about Himself? It's because they hold the truth in unrighteousness. Because the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, their foolishness unto him, neither can he understand them because they're spiritually discerned. It's like what Jesus said to Nicodemus, where he talks about how light has come into the world, but men love the darkness rather than the light because their deeds are evil. They don't want to come to the light lest their deeds be exposed. And that is why the gospel needs to go to the uttermost parts of the world. Because we all exist because of God. But we exist because of God and our lives are sustained by his power, yet we resist and we suppress our knowledge of who he is because we hold the truth and unrighteousness. So notice what he says, secondly, that the command is pressing because of God's incomparable greatness and because of the false religions of the world. Truth number two, look down at verses four through nine. For, that word's important. It tells us here's the reason, or one of the reasons, that we're supposed to proclaim his glories amongst the people. For because the Lord is great and greatly to be praised, he is to be feared above all gods. For all the gods of the nations are idols, but the Lord made the heavens. Honor and majesty are before him. Strength? And beauty are in his sanctuary. Give unto the Lord, O ye kindred, give unto the Lord glory, do unto his name, bring an offering and come into his courts. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. Fear before him all the earth. These verses are giving us the logical reason that the gospel needs to go to the uttermost parts of the world. Let's just pause for a moment and examine the reasons. The first reason is talking about God's nature. He's incomparable. He says the Lord is great. Now when we talk about God being incomparable, what we're saying is there are some things about God's nature you can understand. But your understanding is only scratching the surface on some level. There are some aspects of God's character that though they are described to you. And though they are illustrated through what we observe in life, though we read about them in the Bible, we cannot fully understand them. It's kind of like looking at an iceberg and saying, The tip of the iceberg is the entirety of the iceberg. The answer is of course not. When I'm looking at the tip, I'm looking at the iceberg, but I'm not seeing the entirety of the iceberg. It's like trying to explain to a blind man what a sunset looks like. If this person has been blind their entire life, how do you describe to them what a sunset looks like? It's until they have sight that they can understand the beauty of the sunset. And folks, it's through the preaching of the gospel that the blinders are removed. And God allows this blinded person who is resistant to him, stumbling in the darkness, to begin to get a small glimpse of the greatness of God. And how we sinners can stand before a holy God through the work of redemption. It's an amazing thing to think about. He's incomparable. He has no legitimate rival. I think about his power. He is to be feared above all gods. You think about an NBA basketball star playing ball with one of his four-year-old children. They can't even dribble the ball yet. You say the the difference in ability is like there's no legitimate rival, okay? And there is no legitimate rival to our God His power is so great. He is the creator and the sustainer of all, of a well-ordered and beautiful creation. We think about his handiwork, it says that the Lord made The heavens. I ask you, when you look at the beauty of creation, do you ever pause and go, Wow, what was in God's mind to make such an amazing thing? I got to go out west not long ago. I was at a missions conference and we went to the Grand Canyon and the colors and the sun and the in the clouds. It was like just perfect in a couple of those locations where we had these amazing shadows and I'm just looking and I I said to my kids, I said this like panorama video because I didn't know how to do a panorama. like picture. So I did like this video. I just like like fifteen seconds of me just moving like this. And every time I go back and I watch that video, I'm just like, wow, this place is incredible. Incredible. It's just a big hole in the ground. But it's got incredible beauty. And you go like, how did that happen? God created all those laws that essentially built and made this thing called the Grand Canyon. You look at the beauty of the ocean. It just there's so many things in the creation that we can enjoy, and we need to ask ourselves the question: God's wisdom, his love of beauty. His incredible care, his order. Like it's all being displayed in this. Yet the nations don't know that it's the hand of our Creator. They don't know his name. They don't know how to come into his presence. And so there's a need for us to declare the Lord. His majestic splendor in his presence. Honor and majesty are before him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. The fact is that if you know this God and you come to him through the work of Christ. You're a person that can know the strength and the beauty and the majesty of this God. You can begin to understand him and know him personally. This is why the gospel needs to go to the nations. Because these people don't know this God. But there's a third reason. The command is pressing because of the emptiness of the false religions of this world. Now I want you to think about it. It's not just that these people don't know this God. But what they don't know about God, they are trying to imitate with something that has no value. They're replacing the infinite one with the finite. They're replacing someone that they can know and love and walk with for someone that can't know them at all. It's just something they've made with their hands. Listen to verse number five. It says, all the gods of the nations are idols. But the Lord made the heavens. That's an amazing statement. All the gods of the nations are idols. But the Lord made the heavens. That word idol means it's empty. It's like when we read the book of Ecclesiastes, it says, Vanity of vanities, all is vanity, say it to preacher. And he mentions this over and over and over again. You say, what is vanity? It's the wind, it's empty, it's something that it just doesn't seem to it's that's what the idols are. That's what he's saying Think about it this way. And notice the way that he puts it. These gods of the nations are idols. Psalm 135, verses 15 to 18. It says, the idols of the heathen are silver and gold, the work of men's hands. They have mouths, but they speak not. Eyes have they, but they see not. They have ears, but they hear not. Neither have they any breath in their mouth. They that make them are like unto them. So is everyone that trusteth in them. Now think about this for a moment. The idols cannot hear. They cannot speak. They are lifeless. And these idols are replacing a God who has spoken to us through his word. So they have embraced a God who has no mouth that can speak, and they've replaced the God who has spoken in his word. They've embraced an idol that cannot listen to them. And they've replaced the God who hears prayer. The God who answers prayer, the God who we can commune with and we can fellowship with. They've replaced that God with an idol. Think about the fact that there is a God who sees the plights of his people and he meticulously governs for their own good and for his own glory. We talk about God's providential work in our lives. Something we never fully grasp, but as we look back over our lives, we see the good hand of God, the strong hand of God. We see how he works and how he orchestrates, how he moves in our lives, and they've replaced that God With an idol that is lifeless. Folks, that is what makes this issue so pressing. That these people don't know the God who is, but in fact they have embraced a God who is not. It's going to take a few moments to talk about various types of idolatry, but I think we understand what idolatry is. The fact is, secularism in our society is a form of idolatry. When we talk about Christian light type imitations, we're talking about forms of idolatry. I would even go so far as to say that there are many Christians who in reality talk about Jesus, but the Jesus they talk about is not Jesus in the scripture. They talk about God and they talk about the scriptures, but we could say that the system of thought that they've embraced is not the system of thought we find in the scriptures. We could even say on some level it's a form of idolatry. And so the reality is that the world all around us does not know God as he is. And the consequences of that are absolutely devastating. But the fourth and final thing I'd like you to see this morning is that God's commands are pressing because He will one day judge the world. I want you to think about what what I just said. God's command is pressing because He will one day judge Let me read these verses and let's not move quickly past them. Let's allow these truths to kind of settle in our hearts so that we think about the implications of what's being stated here He says, say among the heathen, verse 10, that the Lord reigneth. Didn't say he's going to reign. Didn't say he used to reign. Didn't say he might rain. He reigns. The world also shall be established that it shall not be moved. He shall judge the people righteously. Let the earth rejoice, let the earth be glad let the heavens rejoice, let the earth be glad. Let the sea roar in the fullness thereof. Let the field be joyful in all that is therein. Then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice before the Lord. For he cometh. For he cometh to judge the earth. He shall judge the world with righteousness and the people with truth. I want you to notice what he's saying here. He states it four different ways. Four different ways that people who do not know God, who are embracing idolatry, need to be warned that one day they're going to meet this God who they either don't know in ignorance or Or they chafe at in rebellion. They're going to meet him. They need to be prepared to meet this God. So reminder one, he says, remind the people that God is sovereign. Not that he is going to be. Not that before the fall he was sovereign and then the world got messed up and everything's out of control and God doesn't know what to do. He's just Ring his hands, hoping that at some point the world will start moving in the right direction. That's not what the text says. It says, Say that the Lord reigneth. It is present. Tense. He reigns. Now, I'm not saying that we always understand the way God reigns at this present moment The way he orchestrates his reign today and the way that he will for all of eternity, it's different. We see that clearly in the Bible. But God rules right now, not just he's going to rule, but he rules. Second reminder, remind the people that he is coming to judge. Now there is a difference in the tense of he reigns present. And he says, the world shall be established, that it shall not be moved. That's different, isn't it? So he is reigning, but he is going to establish the world in a unique way in the future. That's very interesting. In other words, he is coming to set everything right. There is nothing more frustrating in a fallen and broken world. than looking around at the chaos and going, God, I know you're there, and I know you're righteous, and I know your power, and I know your hatred for sin. And it just seems like you let so many people get away with so much nonsense and so much evil and so much unrighteousness. Yet the text says, don't let that fool you Justice delayed is not justice denied. It's not The fact that God has not yet set everything right does not mean that he's never going to set everything right. It doesn't mean that he hasn't established everything that needs to take place in order for things to be made right. In fact, when we look at the cross, there is so much that we see in the cross of Christ. We see God's wrath and his anger against sin, and as his wrath was poured out on his son, we see that our sin being placed on Christ is punished in full on that cross. We see that particular aspect of God's nature. We see the faithfulness of God to his promise. We think about Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and David and Daniel. We go through the whole testament. And all these people died in faith not having yet received the promise. And they confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims in the world. And so they were looking for a city which has foundations whose builder and maker is God. So they lived in this world believing God's going to set it all right one day. And then at the cross. And then when that tomb is empty and the Lord Jesus Christ rises triumphant from the grave, what do we see? The fulfillment of promise. That is supposed to give us confidence that the promises to come are going to happen, in fact. And so he tells us God is sovereign and he is going to establish the world so that it won't be moved. We're talking about God setting things right forever. We're talking about Him making a world new again. We're talking about us. The redeemed being able to enjoy him forever in glory, glorified bodies, understanding God in ways that today we can't because of the brokenness of our own hearts, even as redeemed people. Third, remind the people that his judgment day is absolutely inescapable and it's eternal. He shall judge the people righteously. Everybody wants justice until they sit on the other side of the bench. You know what I'm talking about? Everybody wants justice until they're the one that is a defendant. Well, when you stand before a holy and righteous God, unless Christ has paid in full your penalty, You are the defendant, and there is no case to be made on your behalf for your innocence. There is no case to be made Made. There is none righteous, no not one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God. They are all together become unprofitable. There's none that doeth good, no not one. What the law could not do in that it was weak to the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin condemned sin in the flesh, so that the righteous requirements of the law might be fulfilled in us. We conclude that a man is justified by faith apart from the deeds of the law By the deeds of the law shall no flesh be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. When those books are opened And God's perfect justice is laid bare. If you do not have the cross of Christ and the righteousness of Jesus, then you have zero hope. Zero. You have no hope. And so the reality that we must proclaim to the nations is that He will judge the people righteously. There'll be no mercy on that final day. None. Why? Because this is the time of mercy. There'll be no grace for those outside of Christ on the day. Why? Because these are the days of God's long suffering. and patient hand. Through the preaching of the gospel, God extends his mercy, he extends his grace. He is long-suffering. He is patient. And this is one of the reasons we must be pressed in our hearts. To participate in this thing called the preaching of the gospel to the nations. The last point that he makes, so very interesting, is this: remind the people that his timetable is imminent. Now I know the guys that do my PowerPoint, they always ask, how do you spell that? Imminent. I probably spelled it wrong, which means they may have spelled it wrong. I don't know. But I can tell you what imminent means. Eminent means that there is nothing that needs to happen before God comes back. Nothing. He can come at any moment. We are to be living with this healthy and hopeful anticipation of his immediate return. The Apostle Paul lived that way. John the well, not John the Baptist, I was gonna say John John who wrote the book of Revelation. He lived that way. Peter lived that way. All of those New Testament saints live that way. We are to be a people that live with this anticipation of the imminent return of Christ. He says, he cometh to judge the world with righteousness. That's a really interesting way to put it, isn't it? Not his gonna come, but his coming. He's coming. That means that as we sit here today, there are things going on behind the scenes that you and I can't see. But God is in the process of coming. I'll give you this illustration. We lived in Ghana. We had meetings with people. And I was supposed to meet somebody at ten o'clock. Usually around ten o'clock while sitting there by myself, I would call like, hey, just wondering if you remembered. Oh, Pastor, I'm coming. Yes, you are coming. Which means, which means you just got up, you're gonna take a shower, you might eat some food before you come. Ah, you gotta press your You're you're closed before you come. I'll probably see you around eleven thirty, twelve o'clock. I don't know. We hope, we hope. When they say I'm coming, it means I'm guaranteeing I'm on my way. But I'm not telling you when it's going to take place You know what's funny? That's essentially what Christ has told us. I'm coming. Now, he's not a gun-in, okay? He saves many gun-ins, and he is still saving gun-ins. But the reality is when he says I'm coming, he means I am coming. So be ready. Be watching, be fervent, be faithful. Do what I've called you to do. Folks, God wants us to passionately declare his glory, the gospel, wherever his name is not worshiped. So I want to give you some very simple reminders as we close. One, let's never settle for cheap, short-sighted substitutes for repentance and spirit-produced change. Let's do it the right way. This is not something built in a factory. This is something produced by the power of God. Number two, let's never seek to do God's work by the power of our flesh. Kind of falls into the last one. Number three, let's get a bigger, grander view of God's greatness. One of the reasons that churches And Christians fall short of faithfulness in this area is not because we don't feel guilty enough. It's not because we don't have opportunity enough. It's because our view of God is too small. It's because God is really not the center of our life the way that he ought to be. Number four, let us get gripped by this inescapable command to ascribe God's greatness and to live God-centered lives. Lastly, let's be diligently involved in declaring his glory. Among all people. I am really looking forward to this month. This month isn't just about missions, it's about God reviving our hearts. Folks, revival isn't something we set out to do for ourselves. It's something that we plead with God to do in us. And then we get into the tools that He uses. His words. We get on our knees. We respond humbly to how God is convicting us in our hearts. And we do business with God. We let the Spirit of God work and we submit to what He is showing us in His Word. May the Lord do that this month in this church. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, please. Our Father in heaven, it has been so good to be in your house today, to be assembled with your people I'm so grateful that we have a gospel to proclaim, that we stand righteous in Jesus. Because of the cross, because of his perfect life and his triumph over death in the grave. I pray that you'd help us to be a people that are overcome by your greatness. That our hearts are deeply moved as we consider the nations stumbling in the darkness, the nations that do not know God and have replaced him with idols. Father, help us to recognize that it's not just the nations out there. It's the nation that we call home that is this way too. Father, help us to be active about your service and help us to be anticipating the imminent return of Christ. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.