Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you again to our final anchor in the word morning reflection for this week. And I hope that you've enjoyed this study. And it's the last of our studies on missions. Obviously, we're going to get back into our Luke study and get back into our psalm study. So this coming Sunday, what we're going to to be doing is getting into the Psalms again and then from there we'll be back in our Luke series and then we're getting into the Christmas season so um there there have been a lot of interesting uh side uh studies um as we've been working our way through Luke and Psalms. But I hope that you've found this to be an encouragement. This week our focus has has entirely been on what happens when a person places their faith in Christ. their conversion, their salvation testimony. In fact, it's a miracle. And it's something that when we when we witness it and we remind ourselves of it, it's something that ought to bring tremendous joy. and tremendous delight to our hearts. And as the Apostle Paul thought about the church at Thessalonica, he thought about what it was like when the gospel came to them and how they responded to that. He thought about how it changed their lives initially and their affections were affected by it. It's something that he was able to see how there was an endurance that developed in their lives as they matured in the faith And all of this was just a tremendous testimony to the power of the gospel. And so we could ask ourselves this morning, well, well, what do we take away from this? What is the final thought that we should take into the weekend? Well, before we get into that, I want to read the passage one more time. And I'm going to read the whole thing so that we can really get the sense of it, and then we're going to look at a couple of final things. Here's what it says. We give thanks to God always for you, making mention of you in our prayers, remembering without ceasing your work of faith and labor of love, and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, in the sight of God and our Father. Knowing, brethren beloved, your election of God For our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Ghost in much assurance, as ye know what manner of men we were among you, for your sakes. And ye became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Ghost, so that you were examples to all that believed in Macedonian Achai. For from you sounded the word of our Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achai, but also in every place your faith to God were to spread abroad, so that we need not to speak anything For they themselves also show of us what manner of entering in we had among you, how you turned to God from idols, to serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come. You say, well, Joel, what can we take away from the passage? Well let me give you these final thoughts. First of all, what the world needs more than anything else is not cultural Christianity. When I say cultural Christianity, what I mean by that is people that are willing to associate with the church. People who are willing to say that they are Christians, but in fact they've never fully understand what Christ understood what Christ did for them They've never understood that they are sinners whose righteousness is filthy rags, who are separated from God, and there's absolutely nothing that they can do for God that can remove their sin debt. There's nothing that can establish a righteous basis for them to be accepted by God in anything that they do. They recognize that their hands are empty of righteousness. and that only God can save them from their sin. In that position, they understand that Christ died for their sins. He shed his blood so that their sin could be forgiven. He bore the full wrath of the Father's justice against their sin, so that his wrath is now satisfied. And they can be forgiven and they can be cleansed. And through his righteousness that is available to them, they can be declared righteous in Christ through the imputed righteousness of Christ And by his resurrection from the dead, they can receive new life in Christ. People who are not cultural Christians They're real Christians. Their lives have been changed by the gospel. They have placed their faith alone in the finished work of Christ. That's what this world needs. It needs people whose lives have been transformed by the power of the gospel. And it needs that transforming power of the gospel to touch every people group. and to transform every person who embraces it. That's what the world needs. It needs the kind of transformation that causes people to hate sin and to love the Savior. the kind of transformation that leaves no doubt that this person is a new creature in Christ. It's the kind of transformation that causes people to love the lost. and to long for those people to come to the same saving knowledge of Jesus Christ that they have themselves. It's the kind of transformation that produces godly affections and develops an enduring resolve as this Christian becomes matured in the faith. The world, our nation, needs churches that are grit by the power of the gospel And they need churches that are regularly witnessing this transforming power. Churches where people are actually getting saved. Churches where people's lives are actually being transformed. Places where people are becoming disciples of Christ. Not just making professions of faith. Not just saying I'm a Christian. Not just saying, I'm a Christian, I'm willing to be baptized. but people who will continue in the faith that they have once received. That's what this world desperately needs And the fact is that we have absolutely no power to control what goes on in other churches or in other nations or in other regions of this nation, but what we do have a responsibility to do. is to make sure that the church that we are planted in is one that in fact is seeing the gospel's power grip them. And they're seeing people converted. That's what we desperately need. And so I want to encourage you to pray that that is exactly what God does in our church. When we come to assemble on a Sunday or on a Wednesday, let's be in a place with a heart of anticipating what God will do in our midst. We anticipate that he will take the word and he will use it in our hearts, that our lives need to be transformed through the renewing of the mind, and in fact the Spirit of God is going to do that work through his word. Let's be in our communities pointing people to Christ. When our church has opportunities to go out and evangelize the lost, I pray that you'll be there. You'll be a part of that You know, it's not just a program. The fact is our lives should be lived in such a way that we're constantly pointing people to Christ and we're always ready to give an answer of the hope that lies within us with meekness and faith. Let's be faithful in our homes to shepherd the next generation. Our children need to be saved. They need to be discipled. They need to see a good example from mom and dad. And let's pray for all those who are raising children right now in our church. And let's be on our knees pleading with God to do this work in us. The church needs to be revived if the church is going to impact the world. And so let's pray that as we reflect, on the miracle of conversion. And we delight in this work that God does in people that we say, God, let us see it firsthand in our church all the time that we're seeing people's lives being transformed. By this message. Let's take this encouragement into the week. I hope that you have a weekend. I hope that you have a blessed Friday, and Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday for our morning worship. Have a blessed day. Bye now.