Good morning, like to welcome you back again to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today for sake of time we're just going to look at the two verses that we're going to focus our attention on because There's a lot to say about these verses. So we are again in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, looking at verses 2 to 10, but today we're going to read verses 4 and 5 together. Here's what it says. Knowing, brethren, beloved, your election of God, for our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance As you know what manner of men we were among you for your sakes. Now, what I'd like us to focus on again this morning is the the the The concept of how the gospel and how what Paul is remembering about what it did in the lives of these people, how it ultimately addresses some of mankind's most fundamentally significant questions. And there are a lot of big questions out there. Questions like, where did we come from? Where did this all start? Why are we here? Where are we going? What is God's purpose for my life? These are some big questions. But there are at least three questions that are answered in these verses that I think are significant, and I want to address them, because it is these things, it is the things that Paul says here. that are going to be part of what gives him a tremendous delight in the work that God has done in these people. So the first question is why am I here? Lots and lots of different ways people can answer this question. When we go to the book of Genesis, we see that God made us for his glory ultimately. He created Adam in his own image and he gave him responsibility in the garden. But there is another piece that we're going to see in this verse here that I think is important. Notice what it says in verse number four. He says, knowing brethren, that's a word that's important. Beloved, another word that's important, your election of God. He calls them brothers. He reminds them that they are beloved of God, and he calls them elects. And you say, well, what does that word elect mean? Well the word elect is a word that is one of the ways that God describes his people. And the word elect has a functional focus. And I want to give you some illustrations of some other ways that God refers to his people, which also have a functional focus. So first of all, we see words like saints. Many, many scriptures talk about God's people, describes them as the saints. The idea is that our function is that we are a people who are set apart from the world to God and we are holy in Christ. Ephesians 1. 1, Paul says, I'm Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God to the saints who are in Ephesus Ephesians 2. 19, he says that you are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God. These are all different ways that God describes the people of God. Another example would be the Bride of Christ. It emphasizes that we are a people who are in covenant with God. And we are bound, and he is bound by his eternal unfailing love and faithfulness and these eternal promises that he's given to us. And so in Ephesians 5, he says that husbands are to love their wives as Christ loved the church. Why does he make this analogy? It's because we're referred to in other passages as the bride of Christ in Revelation. He talks about the marriage supper of the Lamb. And so we are a people who are described as God's bride. Another passage, or another way that we're described, is as the church of God. We're an assembly of people who have been called out of the world unto God. Matthew 16, 18, Jesus says, I will build my church. The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. 1 Timothy 3. 15 says that the church of the living God is the pillar and the ground of the truth. So when the scripture talks about the people of God, he says you're saints. He says you're the bride of Christ. He says you're the church. Another way it's described is you are the salt of the earth emphasizing the fact that we have been left in the world as a preservative to combat the rot and the moral decay that's all around us. Matthew 5. 13, you're the salt of the earth. Another example, you're the light of the world. We've been left in the world to display God's greatness and goodness, ultimately pointing people to Christ. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. You are the light of the world. Matthew 5. 14. He also refers to his people as a body. We are uniquely fitted together to function as one body working together, but we're all individual parts that are part of this body. Romans 12. 5, he says, we being many are one body in Christ, everyone members one of another. First Corinthians 12. 12, as the body is one and hath many members. And all the members of that one body, being many, are one body, so also is Christ. 1 Corinthians 12, 27. Ye are the body of Christ and members in particular. So in the same way that God describes his people as saints, the bride of Christ, the church the salt of the earth, the light of the world, his body. He refers to them as his elect. You say, well, what does that word mean? It means that we have been called out of the darkness unto righteousness. And this calling out of darkness to righteousness establishes us as a peculiar possession who is identified with God forever. And so when he talks about the church or the talks about believers as being the elect, he's saying, you are the people that are identified with with me, just like you are the called-out people, you are the people who are covenanted with me, you are the people who are holy, you are the people who are preservative in the world, you are the people who are light in the world. You are the people who are my body. He says you are my elect. Ephesians 1. 3 says that he has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ, according as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. You see this association, this connection that we have with Christ, one who is blameless before him in love, one who is holy and set apart to him. Colossians 3. 12, he says that we are to put on As the elect of God, those who are identified with Christ, called out of the world and separated to God, we are to put on vows of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering. 1 Peter 1. 2, he says, that we are elect according to the foreknowledge of God, through sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Christ. The point is that this is one of the ways that God uses to describe the nature of his relationship to his people and the function of these people in the world. You know what that ultimately tells me? The answer to that question, why am I here, is, well, you can have a conviction that your life is dedicated to a timeless and noble purpose You are saints, you are his bride, you are his elect, you are his church, you are the salt of the earth. All those things are encapsulated And so when people think about this, they can recognize I have a purpose in what God is doing in the world. The second question is, well, what is the truth? And he answers it this way. Well, you can have the conviction that you're resting in the truth. And verse number five, he says, Our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Ghost. Another way to put that is when you heard the gospel, it wasn't just words to you that were idle and meaningless, but when you heard those words, Those words convicted your soul. You became convinced that in fact what it's saying about you is true. And what it's saying about God is true. And what it's saying about his character and his nature and his purposes, it's all true. And what it says about the nature of salvation is true. You heard the message and you were convinced of it being the truth, and you were convinced by the work of the Holy Spirit. And then the third question is, well, what's worth living for and suffering for? And dying for. And the answer is that you could live with this unshakable strength and resolve and purpose. He says it in verse 5, in much assurance, as you know what manner of men we were among you for your sakes. You say, well, what does he mean that you know what manner of men we were among you for your sakes? Well, what we have to recognize is that when Paul was at Thessalonica , His time in that church was not very long, and it wasn't very long for a reason. In fact, he only spent, as far as we know, three weeks in Thessalonica. In Acts chapter 17, verse 4, he tells us what happened when he came to Thessalonica. This is what Luke records. He says, some of them believed. And consorted with Paul and Silas, and of the devout Greeks, a great multitude of the chief women chief women, not a few. But the Jews which believed not moved with envy, and took unto them certain lewd fellows of the baser sort gathered a company and set all this city up on an uproar, and assaulted the house of Jason, and brought and thought to bring them out to the people. And when they found them not, they drew Jason. And certain of the brethren unto the rulers of the city, crying out, These who have turned the world upside down are come here also. What happened is that Paul got kicked out of Thessalonica. The believers had to get him out of the city. But what we see is that in the very next passage of Scripture, the Apostle Paul does the exact same thing in Berea. So what these young Christians saw when they saw Paul was a man who suffered. And not only was he a man that suffered, but he was a man who suffered, but was still tenacious. and faithful in the proclaiming of the gospel. These things didn't move him. They didn't stop him. They didn't keep him from doing what he was doing. They saw that there was nothing that could derail his resolve to stay focused. And so the question is, what do we have to learn from this? Well what we have to learn from this is that the conversion of these people at Thessalonica answers the question, what is your purpose in the world? Well you are holy, beloved, the elect of God, you are his people. And because you're his people, you're associated with him. And you are here in the world to draw people to him and to represent him in the world. You have many, many functions that fall into that category. Or, well, what is the truth? Well, the Holy Spirit convinced us through the preaching of the gospel that this is true. And now we have this conviction that in fact we do know where the truth is. It's found in the Word of God and Scriptures. And then thirdly, well, what's worth living for and suffering for and dying for? And the answer is, well, it's the gospel. And so these young believers at Thessalonica, they saw how Paul responded to the suffering and the persecution that he experienced in Thessalonica. And they said, you know what? This message, it's legit. This messenger, he's for real. We can, we can suffer like that and endure because we know that this gospel is worth living for. I don't know about you, but that gives me some things to think about today, doesn't it? Well, Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue on in our series, and so I hope that you can join us again. Have a blessed day. Bye now.