Okay, good evening. Like to welcome you to our study tonight. We're going to go ahead and first of all start out with a word of prayer and then we'll sing a song from our blue book, 65 And then we'll get into the Word of God tonight. So let's bow for prayer, please. Father, thank you for the opportunity tonight to gather together. And I pray that as we spend time Time in fellowship, as we spend time in prayer, that you would strengthen our hearts through this time. Help us to have sweet fellowship together. And may our hearts be very burdened for those who have great need. And as we Lift up these requests, I pray that we would do it as a unified body. As we open up the word tonight, I pray that you will speak to our hearts, help us to have very clear thinking on these issues. Help me as I work through these concepts and through this text of Scripture to present these things in a way that will be very helpful to your people. And I just pray that your hand of blessing would be Beyond this time. Be with the children in the back as they're having their class. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, number 65 in our blue book is where we're going to be tonight for our song God Has Spoken. We'll sing three verses together, and then we'll get into the Word of God God has placed the creation, making all women We were getting a boy still. Do it now what we have done, all my kindness God has known , God through creation. God has not getters, making up his sacred word, we are glory waters. Having there 's an old standard of the same revives We must tell me the prize Jesus Christ by a scout And I'm hooked. Jesus I can have a wave gun seek and it's taking God on his God and through the state room. Good song, isn't it? Okay, well let's go ahead and take our Bibles and let's turn again to the book of Matthew. We're in Matthew chapter 6. We're working our way through the Sermon on the Mount, and the portion of the Sermon on the Mount that we're in right now is the Lord's Prayer. And we have spent quite a few weeks looking at the Lord's Prayer. It is something that there's a lot that we can digest when we think about how Jesus instructs us to pray to our Father. And so the text, I'll go ahead and I'll read the whole section again tonight, but then we're going to focus in on verse 13. So let's read it together. It says, when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are. They love to pray, standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the street, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. And thou when thou prayest, enter into thy closet. And when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy father which is in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly But when ye pray, use not vain repetition as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. Be not ye therefore like unto them. Your father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask him After this manner, therefore, pray ye, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom. And the power and the glory forever. Amen. Now, this more or this evening, what we are looking at is the second part of verse 13, which reads this way: Lead us not into temptation, but Deliver us from evil. Tonight we're going to look at that second part. Deliver us from evil. And in order to do that, what I want to do is kind of go back over what we talked about last week. Just remind ourselves, refresh ourselves of the content, because there's going to be some overlap between last week and this week. There are two sides to this. Lead us not, deliver us. It's showing us that there are times that God will actually keep us. from evil, and there are times that God will permit us to pass through evil. And when he does that, he has a purpose for that. And we need to think correctly about that. So first of all, the summary of these verses, Christ teaches us to seek God's intervention in and deliverance from temptation. What we can glean from that is that it is not always God's will for us to be preserved from evil and trouble and temptation. Sometimes it is actually his will, not for us to sin, but for us to face the struggle because he has a purpose in it. He wants us to admit that we need to be guided by his hand before the endless potential temptations that are all around us. The fact is, if it wasn't for God's intervention on our behalf, it wasn't for his protective hand, there are so many different things. That could go wrong. I I feel like every time I drive to church on a Sunday or a Wednesday, there is an accident on 190 It like almost every single week. The fact is, every time we get in that car and we drive, there is the potential for trouble. When we go through our prayer list and we look at all the different physical problems that people are encountering, guess what? We could get any of those things. We think about our our physical disposition. Every single one of us has certain kinds of things that the fact is under the right conditions we will get Cancer, heart disease, uh some kind of issue. Why is that? Well, because we live in a fallen world. God protects us from so many things. But God also wants us to grow and apparently listen as well, right? He wants us to grow. And in order to grow, The Christians' relationship to temptation and struggle, the kinds of things that we deal with with indwelling sin, are some of the most practical topics that are addressed in the Bible. It's a daily struggle. It's one we need to understand. It's one we need to stay motivated in. And so last week we introduced five questions that we wanted to answer. from the Bible that really are connected to this statement that we read. The first question was what is temptation? And then why does the Christian or why does Christ teach us pray to pray lead us not into temptation And then what is our responsibility in this area? What does this prayer teach us about temptation? And then how does God deliver us from evil? And that's what we're going to focus in on tonight. How does God deliver us from evil? It's not just God deliver me from evil and then he just magically takes it away. I I really wish that was the way that it worked. But in the same way that you say, God, please meet my needs, And he says, Well, here's a job. Go work it. And when you go and you do that job, don't be a difficult person to work with. And be honest and have a good work ethic. You say, God, I asked you to meet my needs. And he says I did it's called a job and I gave you the the the clear mind to be able to do the work the way you're supposed to. I brought you into favor with this individual at least enough that you could get the job and I want you to work at it. I'm going to meet your needs through the ordinary means of taking care of you through a job. And taking care of you through managing your money wisely and taking care of you by Well, keeping you in good enough health is so that you don't become bankrupt because of some physical infirmity that you deal with. God takes care of us through ordinary means in most circumstances. He's not bound to only do it that way, but that's the typical way. And so we're going to talk about that tonight. How does God deliver us from evil through the ordinary means that are available to us? And we're going to look at Only seven, because that's the perfect number, right? So our review from last week, the question one, what is temptation? Well, there are four sides to temptation. We looked at a couple of different verses in different contexts to kind of get a fuller picture of what temptation is. There's an enticement side to temptation. We feel a pull toward what God says is forbidden. There's a testing side. We're given an opportunity to demonstrate maturity and progress. And a lot of us say, well, I'd like to not have to have that opportunity to demonstrate maturity and progress. And God says, whether you want it or not, that's what's going to happen. And then a third, training. We are being developed by the stresses and the strains of life. Did anybody in this room ever have a dad who said, whatever doesn't kill you makes you stronger? Anybody anybody ever told your kids that before? Any coaches in this room ever told a kid that? Or anyone ever had a coach like that? Well, it sounds a little callous, but it actually is true. The strains and the struggles of life, they're actually serving a purpose purpose of developing strength and maturity and skill. And then the last one was re-evaluation. Hardships and confrontations cause us to consider our priorities again. And as we pass through life and life is smooth and gentle and easy, then what ends up happening is we never consider some of the directions we're moving. Some of the trajectory of where we're moving, some of what we're becoming or what we're not becoming. We don't consider those things. How we've taken our priorities and we've we've kind of inverted them so they're not the way that they need to be. And so God will shake us at times. To get her attention to say, pause, stop, reevaluate. Where are you? Where are you going? What are you doing? That's what we mean when we say temptation. It encompasses all of those things. The second question, why does God teach us to pray, lead us not into temptation? The simple answer is because we're supposed to, right? But there's a little more to that. We need to remind ourselves every single day we are dependent on God in this area. I think sometimes God lets us struggle because we're starting to get a little bit proud and say, you know, I've gone to this place where I'm mature, I don't deal with these issues. Issues anymore. That's not true. We're all made of the same stuff. We're still capable of things that we did in the past. And the bottom line is God has to remind us continually pray Lead us not into temptation. Deliver us from evil. You are dependent on God. I'm dependent on God. We've not arrived in the Christian life, and we will not on this side of eternity. Third question. What is our responsibility in this area? And some of the things that we mentioned last week, we're going to talk about them again this week, not to be redundant, but to re-emphasize things that are so very, very important for us to consider. So the first duty is consider your position in Christ, Romans 6. 1. Reckon yourself to be dead to sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. I'm going to develop that a little bit more tonight. Second, refuse to make provision. Make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. Third, give Satan no place. Ephesians 4, 27, neither give place to the devil. Psalm 19 Resist presumption. Keep back thy servant from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Where I have gone to this place where I feel like, you know what, I can do this because God is forgiving and God is gracious and God is merciful. And it's easier to ask for forgiveness than permission. God says don't do that. It's called presumption. And that's a serious thing. You can pick what you do, but you can't pick the consequences. And that's the way life is. The fourth question: what does this prayer teach about temptation? And again, we will talk a little bit about this tonight as well. But God's providential care governs our lives in every area, including the area of temptation. That's not to say that God ever allows us in a situation because his desire is to see us fall. Never. God doesn't lie to us. God doesn't trick us. He's not luring us into evil. But he allows us in situations where the intent of Satan is to cause you to stumble. is to cause you to fall. God's intent is not that you would fall, but He allows you in a real life struggle, a real wrestling match, if you will, a real battle And so the reminders are: he uses it to cultivate godly humility. He uses it to give an objective test of our progress towards spiritual maturity. Genesis 22, the story of Abraham. We're reminded that he uses it to train us, James 1 and Hebrews 12. I love this statement. Afterwards it yieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness. Unto them which are exercised thereby. There's a training that's going on. So God governs this area of our lives. And He uses it to cause us to consider our priorities again. We talked about those last week. Question five, and this is what we're going to deal with tonight. How does God deliver us from evil? Again, I'm going to say this. He uses real life means to do this. In the ordinary, we could say, motion of life, God doesn't just miraculously remove us from situations or miraculously take things out of our lives. A person is struggling with some kind of addictive behavior or pattern of life. They don't just say, God, take this away from me and it just goes away. That's how it works. No, it doesn't happen that way. And if you think that's how it works, you're going to be disillusioned. If someone teaches you that that's how it works, you're going to be disillusioned because that's not the way life works. I mean there are occasions where a person is they get saved and their life radically changes and certain things that they were enslaved to, it stops immediately. There are situations like that. But in the general course of life, there are ordinary means that God uses to deliver us from evil. And so when I say, God deliver me from evil, what I'm saying is, remind me to pick up those tools and to do what I'm responsible to do. And the rest is in your hands. That's what I'm saying. You are the enabler to empower me to do this. I have responsibility. So let's work our way through some of these means. The first means that God has established is that He literally liberates us from sin 's enslavement. Now, this is a positional statement. But it's not just a positional statement, it's also a dispositional statement. What I mean by that is that you are positionally no longer a slave to sin And when you become God's child, you're also now a new creature in Christ, and old things pass away and all things become new. Now that doesn't mean that you all of a sudden magically become sinlessly perfect. and don't struggle with sin. What it does mean is there is a dispositional change in you, something you did not have before that now you do. You were dead in trespasses And sins, and you're now alive unto God. Let me read to you a text that lays this out. One of many. Romans 6:1. Shall we continue in sin? That grace may abound, God forbid. How shall we that are dead to sin? That's who you are. You are dead to sin. You say, well, I don't feel dead to sin. Whether you feel it or not, you are dead to sin. That is an objective statement about the position of the believer. Dead to sin, and he says, how should we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? We are buried with him in baptism into death, like as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should Walk in newness of life. Now, a couple things to think about here. One is you are dead to sin. Number two, you have been buried and raised to walk in newness of life. Three, you should walk in that newness of life. Here's what it tells you. There is a positional reality that is true about you as a believer that was not true about you before you became a Christian. There is this identification with Christ's death and resurrection, but there's also a side where you have a choice. The choice is, are you going to live like you are, or are you going to live contrary to who you are? That's the choice. In other words, are you going to live like the person that God made you, created you to be, positionally he's made you, or are you going to live like the person you used to be before you were saved? He says, We've been planted together in the likeness of his death. We shall be also in the lightness of his resurrection. Knowing this, our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, henceforth we should not serve. Sin. He says we're to reckon. We talked about this um on uh Sunday in Sunday school. We're to reckon ourselves to be dead to sin. We're to make a calculation based on the facts, I'm going to live like I believe that it's true. So the first means, if that wasn't true about you, or if that's not true about you, well then you're not going to be able to pray this prayer I mean you can you can say the words, but the the the fundamental means, the starting point is not in your life. You are not alive in Christ. Second means. He teaches us how to think about ourselves. Now, going back to Romans 6, we are a freed people. And we are to actually live like we believe we're a freed people. Reckon you also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin and alive unto God. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies Neither yield your members as instruments of righteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God as those who are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments Now, I think I made this statement in Sunday school some time ago. A question we should all ask ourselves is, who am I? Who am I? Who do I feel like I am? In some sense that doesn't matter. I mean it matters because it's affecting how you feel and how you think, but it's not shaping reality. It's just it's a perception Who am I before God? How does he see me? Well, according to these verses, what Paul is saying is when you have this difficulty where you're struggling with sin, of which we all do , The very first thing you're to do is you're supposed to stop and think, not about the consequences of sin, that's what we often think, or how you're going to be ashamed if you do this. He doesn't say that. He says, think about who you are. That's where the starting point is. You are to reckon yourself to be dead to sin and alive unto God. And then there's a submission side. Because this is who I am, I'm going to submit my will and my desire and my energies to God's purpose for me as I am, not who I used to be. And that's to yield your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. Now, that's something you can do. Why is that? Because you've been positionally freed from God. from sin. And you've been dispositionally made alive in Christ. And you have the presence of the Holy Spirit. And as God takes his word and it begins to fill your heart, it begins to produce something in you. That is what the fruit of the Spirit is. So he teaches how to think about ourselves. We need to remind ourselves we are positionally in Christ, dead to sin, alive into God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Number two, we're reminded that we are under obligation. Ephesians 4 22 Put off concerning the former conversation, the old man, which is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind. You have an obligation as God's child. Colossians chapter 3, he says that we are to put on as holy and beloved vows of mercy, compassion, kindness. Forbear one another, forgive one another, as Christ has forgiven us. What's he saying? He's saying, because this is who you are, this is the obligation that you have. Because of how he's dealt with you, this is how you're to deal with others. That's the way he presents it. So I'm to put off the old way, and I'm to put on the new way, and I'm to yield my instrument. and s uh members as instruments of righteousness unto God as opposed to what I used to do. So we see the positional side. We see the obligation side. Here's the third. We need to remind ourselves that we're responsible. Now, that doesn't mean that you're being responsible or acting responsible. It means you are responsible. Okay? What that means is God's going to hold you accountable for your actions. You know, it's almost like when the Bible talks about husbands. He says that the husband is the head of the wife. He doesn't say, husbands, you need to be the head of the wife. He doesn't say that. He says, husbands, you are. So love your wife. That's what he said. In other words, this is who you are positionally because of God, how God structured the home But this is how you're supposed to function in that role and function in that capacity. And so what does he say? He says, you're responsible. Every man is tempted when he's drawn of his own Lust and enticed. You own it. When you and I sin, we can't blame God for it. We can't blame our spouse for it. We can't blame our kids for it. We can't blame our parents for it. We can't blame our pastor for it. Or the person that sits next to us on Sunday at church. Or our neighbor or our boss or the people that work under us or the devil. You know who's responsible? We are. We gotta own it. When God says, Why did you do this? You don't say, Well, the woman you gave me. Oh, the serpent, he made me do it. God says, Why did you do that? How did you do that? I didn't ask how you responded to your wife or how you responded to the serpent. I asked, why did you do that? We need to own it. So he doesn't just remind us about the first reality, but he reminds us of who we are ourselves. We are a vulnerable people. When David prays, he says, keep back your servant from presumptuous sins. We cannot get away with setting ourselves up for temptation. He says, put on the Lord Jesus Christ. Do not make provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. You can't give Satan a place to operate. Ephesians 4. 27. Do not give place to the devil. It's all different ways of saying responsible. You are responsible to recognize who you are. To not set yourself up for temptation, not to give place to the devil, be responsible. Means number three. He teaches us how to think about temptation. So he he he he makes us alive in Christ. That's a positional reality. He tells us how to think about ourselves. And then he tells us how to think about temptation itself. Recognize that temptation is a process. In James chapter 1, verse 15, he says, When lust hath conceived, It bringeth forth sin. And sin when it is finished bringeth forth death. What is that? That is a process. Well, some of you in this room say, well, when I when I get tempted, man, I mean it's like that quick. I mean, when you get tempted to be angry, like how does this work? Is it like, you know, things are going on and you're like kind of processing this and you know 50 Now, there are some kinds of anger that we we just get a little bit more and more set in our ways and then all of a sudden we explode. But a lot of anger is just kind of like its reaction. So we'll say, well, I don't see what the process is there. I'll tell you what the process is. It's not the moment that you lash out in anger. It's everything that happened. Leading up to that, the response was just the fruit of what was going on internally. That's very important for us to understand. In other words, there's a seedbed that produces lust, and there is a seedbed that produces anger, and there's a seedbed that produces covetousness. And so this momentary response where I just give in to temptation Actually, I was feeding temptation a really, really long time before I gave into it in just a moment like that. You could say I was cultivating it. I didn't think of it that way, but that's what was going on internally So sometimes it seems quick and explosive like gas and a fire. Sometimes it's slow like the erosion of a beach. But the bottom line is there is always a process And so when I do something sinful or you do something sinful, we need to stop and not ask, what did I do? Alone, but we need to ask, what is going on inside? That produced that. You know, a lot of people that struggle with anger and lust, that's not really your real problem. You say, of course it is. Because because when I'm angry, I say things I don't want to say And then I gotta apologize, but I want to apologize because I'm all too proud to do that. It's actually not the anger. The anger is what everybody sees The anger is what makes you feel bad. But the anger is something that came from somewhere else. And the lust came from somewhere else. It's down in the heart of people that these things that these things flow. Sometimes it's our worldview. Sometimes it's some bitterness that we've been hanging on to. There's lots and lots of different things, but we need to ask the question, what is the cause? The real root of the problem. James 1:15, Sin when it is finished bringeth forth death. The end is destructive. It hurts us, it hurts people, it's very detrimental. Means number four. He teaches us how to think about this life in the light of eternity. So we talked about our position, we've talked about how to think about ourselves, we've talked about how to think about temptation itself. Now we look at This life and perspective. John 14, 15, he says, if you love me, you'll keep my commandments. 2 Corinthians 6 Chapter 5 verse 9. He says, We labor that whether present or absent we may be accepted of him. For we will must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive the things done in his body according that he hath done. whether it be good or bad, knowing the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. Now, this is a question that probably a lot of us are going to ask ourselves. I thought that we're not going to be condemned, right? There is, therefore, now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus? Well, the judgment seat of Christ is not about condemnation. The judgment seat of Christ is not the great white throne judgment. The judgment seat of Christ is an evaluation of the quality of the way that you managed what God gave you in this life. You say, so at the judgment seat of Christ is God punishing me for my sin? No. He's evaluating your stewardship and your sin affected your stewardship. I mean to give you a very simple example, how we raise our kids isn't just what we tell them. It's what we show them. So sometimes we'll say the right thing, but we won't show the right thing. And our children see this inconsistency, and when they see this inconsistency, guess what they do? They get angry. And then we get angry because our kids are being rebellious against us. But what we fail to realize is our children are being rebellious because we've provoked them to wrath. Now here's how it works out. My sin is not what God's going to hold me accountable for at the judgment seat of Christ. It's the fact that I didn't raise my children the way that I should. And why didn't I raise my children the way that I should have? Well, because my sin had consequences. And so there are things that I lost, and there are things that I did not do well, because rather than living like God made me to live, and rather than managing the resources that He gave me, which I I'm fully capable of doing and I should have done. Instead, I wasted the opportunity. And so the bottom line is I have to think in terms of how does this sin ultimately affect My ability to be a faithful steward of what God has entrusted to me. Now, am I going to go to hell because I sinned as a Christian? Of course I'm not. There is no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. My sin affects my effectiveness and my service. And so what does Paul say? He says that I labor that whether present or absent I'll be accepted of him. I want what I do I want the the work that I do, the management of those resources, the ministry that I'm involved in. I want it to be effective. And you say, well, ministry, what's that? Like your husband? Your husband? Being a good husband to your wife? Raising your kids right. It's not just like the preaching of the gospel and the disciples. I mean, those things are those are ministry, don't get me wrong. But they're not the only kind of ministry that we have. Maybe not even the most significant ministry that we have. So means number four. He teaches us how to think about this life in the light of eternity. What I do matters. Why? Because I'm going to stand before Christ one day. And he is going to say, well done, or well, not so well done. And he's not going to make that evaluation based on how other people perceive what we've done. Sometimes people we think have done a great job, God knows. And sometimes people that we overlook, they have labored through tremendous things. Sometimes we have Christians who they they labor through very difficult sinful patterns and struggles. But they don't give up. They keep fighting. They keep enduring. And they keep growing and maturing. And where they were and where they come, we may look and go, wow, you only got to there. And God goes, you didn't grow up in a good home. You weren't raised by a mom and dad who loved you. You didn't have this. They that person didn't have the stability that you have. They didn't have the opportunities that you have. They went through all these struggles. And the fact is Their progress is far more than yours based on what they were before they came to know Christ and what they had and what they were given. And so what other people think is really irrelevant on that day means number five. He teaches us how to respond to our failures. There is nobody in this room. Who's gonna get through life without some real life failures? Every single one of us. You say, well, I I'd like to get through life without failures. Well It's already happened, okay? Every single one of us. You know, one of my absolute favorite stories in all of the gospels, believe it or not, is the story of Peter when he went back to fishing. You know what I love that story? What I love about that story is that you have Peter who denies the Lord three times. Peter says, he says, I'll die for you, and Jesus says, You're gonna deny me three times. It's not a chance. That's exactly what he did. And Jesus dies, and Jesus rises from the dead, and Peter knows he rose from the dead. From the dead. Why? Well, because he saw him firsthand, eye to eye, face to face. He was in his presence. But what does Peter do? He goes back to fishing. Why do you do that? I mean I'm not gonna like psychoanalyze Peter or anything, but I'm just gonna make a guess that he thought Jesus was done with them. I'm just gonna put it like that. He's like, you know, I used to be a fisherman. I guess that's what I'm supposed to do. I'm gonna go back to that. That's what he did. He goes back to fishing. And guess what? He didn't catch anything. Nothing. And they're out there in the boat. And it wasn't just Peter. I mean, he took the other disciples with him. I mean, they all did this before they met Jesus. And there's Jesus on the seas on the side of the shore, and he says, hey, have you guys caught anything? That's not something you ask fishermen that haven't caught anything. Nope, haven't caught a thing. Hey, catching that on the other side. That's what they did. And when they did, guess what? Their nets were full of fish. And Peter goes , That's Jesus. Now, I don't know if you've realized this, but that is exactly what happened on the day Jesus called those men to follow him. Exact same miracle. With one great difference. The nets broke the first time. The second time they did it. Exact same miracle. And then Jesus is there and he says, hey, come and eat with me. And they're sitting down, and there's Peter. You know, he's probably a little awkward like, I think I've been here before, all right? And Jesus says, Hey, Peter, do you love me more than you love these? You say, well what are the these? We don't know what they were. We don't know if you talk about the fish. We don't know if you talk about the other disciples. We don't know. Do you love me more than you love these? He's like, Yeah, you know I love you. He says, feed my sheep. Alright. Hey Peter, I got another question for you. Go ahead. Do you do you love me more than you love these? Yeah, I do Feed my sheep. Okay? Hey, got one more question for you, Peter. Do you love me more than you love these? Lord Jesus You know everything. You know I love you. Feed my sheep. Why does that matter? Because he said the very first time he says, I will make you fishers of men And he still wanted him to fish. Not for the fish, for people. And you know what that that shows that shows you that even though Peter failed He absolutely failed. God still was working in his life. He still had something for him. And we come to the end of 1 Peter. 1 Peter chapters 3 to 5. He talks about the role of an elder. He says, I'm an elder. And he says, feed the flock of God, taking the oversight. He's saying, Do what God told me to do. What's the point? We need to learn how to respond to failure. Proverbs twenty four sixteen, a just man falleth seven times and riseth. of them again. Now he's not saying, okay, on number seven, number eight's too far, you're done. Okay, that's not his point. His point is we do it over and over and over. over again. We are frail people. Even the strongest in this room, even those who, I mean, we are all all out for God, we're going to have times that we stumble. And what are we supposed to do? While in our misery? Nope. Just get back up. You say, well, I don't feel like getting back up. He says to do. He didn't say go run. He said just get back up. Get back up. In other words, stand up. He might need to pick you back up. He's like, you could do that. This. That's what he's doing. 1 John 1:9. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Not only do we need to get back up, but sometimes we have to admit, this is what I did. And guess what God says? The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. Forgiven, cleansed, get back up. There's a reason that that that's in the Bible. It's because we need it. We absolutely need it. Means number six. He puts us in Christian community. Galatians 6. 1 He says, Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Bear one another's burdens, so fulfill the law of Christ. Two problems here. One is there's a lot of people that don't want to bear each other's burdens, and then there's some that aren't spiritual, but they want to bear others' burdens. They want to restore. Well, guess what? If you're not spiritually minded, don't jump into that. It will not go well. For you or for them. But there's another side. He also says bear each other's burdens. So we we tend to think of, you know, someone's done wrong and I need to go and correct them and I need to have a confrontation of some sort, that kind of a thing. But there's another side. It's also come alongside and lift them up, strengthen them. Sometimes, like the just man falls, he needs to get back up. Maybe it's he needs to get back up with the help of some people around him. That's what Galatians chapter 6 is talking about. Or Hebrews chapter 10 verse 23 says, let us consider one another to provoke unto love. And good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another so much the more as you see the day approaching. Provoking. Poke. To loving good works. There are times that people come into this assembly on a Sunday morning. You know what I pray on Sundays? I pray that people will come to church even though they don't feel like it. And I bet that there's people that come here and they don't feel like it. And there's lots of reasons. Sometimes you just you don't feel good. You're feeling kind of sick. Sometimes you're you're weary of life There's lots of reasons that people they say, man, I've sinned so much this week. I I don't think I belong in a place like that. The bottom line is there are people that come here and they did everything in their power just to get in this place. They're afraid what the preacher might say on Sunday morning. The text gets open, they're like, oh no, here we go. I'm gonna get crushed. But you know what? When people say start singing around them and the word of God is opened and read, the Spirit of God starts working in our hearts. And that can uplift a person who said, I didn't want to be I mean I it's not that I didn't want to be here, but I didn't feel like being here. And that's what the congregation is supposed to do. It's to provoke to love and to good works. It's to exhort and to encourage and to build up. We need it. Very very much. Ephesians 4 eleven, he gave for the perfecting of the saints, that we should no more be children tossed to and fro, carried about by every wind of doctrine, by the slight of men, and cunning craftiness. whereby they lie in wait to deceive us. He gives prophets and apostles, this is talking about the scriptures, and pastors and teachers Who teach the word to build up the church of God? He builds people through the ministry of the word. And he does it especially in the congregation, in the assembly of the church. The last means I'll mention is sometimes he just removes the evil. You know why I mentioned that one last? Because that's the one that probably happens the least. That's just the honest truth. Sometimes he does though. He governs the nature of our troubles, the duration, the intensity, the timing. He can. Sometimes he does. So what can we learn from this? Well, we've got to arm our minds with truth so we're able to face the evils we encounter in this world. We cannot allow ourselves to neglect even one of these tools that God has appointed to strengthen us to endure hardship. We've got to trust God with the unknowns in the midst of the fiery trials of our faith and temptations. I'll remind you again, He will always provide a means of escape. That may not be apparent immediately, but it's there. It's there. You ever had a really tough situation? Everybody's talking about how we're going to handle it and nobody comes up with a good solution. And then you're out doing something later in the day and your mind is on other things and all of a sudden this thought pops into your head and you're like, why didn't I think of that? That's a great solution. You call people up and say, hey, this is what I just thought of and they're like, that's a great idea. Well, where'd that come from? Where'd that come from? I just got lucky. I'm just so smart. Just had to pull it out while I was doing something else. That's not how it works. God in his grace said, here's the solution. you didn't think about there it is go do it he provides a means of escape sometimes it's just it's leaving the area where you are Get out of that room, get out of that situation. Call a friend, phone a friend, open up the word of God. There are ways The evils we face are always seasonal. Here's what I mean by that. There's going to be an end date You say, well, I'd like to know when that is, so I can, you know, have some kind of an encouragement along the way. And God says, Well, I don't tell you when it's going to end. I just tell you it will. And so trust me. 1 Peter 1, 6, he says, You greatly rejoice, so now for a season. Season, good word, if need be, you are in heaviness through manifold temptation, at the trial of your faith, being more precious than gold that perisheth. Though it is tried with fire, might be found under praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. There's a lot we could say about that text, but here's the word that I don't want you to miss. For a season. Season. That means it doesn't last forever. It's intense, it's hard, but it's going to pass. Thirdly, he actively steps into our hardships and removes them. James five, seven, be patient, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. The husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it until he received the early and the latter reign. Be ye also patient. Stablish your hearts. The coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Behold, the judge standeth before the door. Take my brethren, the prophets who have spoken in the name of the Lord as an example of suffering, affliction, and of patience. Patience. We count them happy which endure. You have heard of the patience of Job and seen the end of the Lord. The Lord is very pitiful and tender. That word pitiful isn't like God's weak. He's kind. He's gentle. He comes alongside of us very tenderly. He is the God who created all things with the word of his power. But he is very tenderly So may the Lord help us to remember these things. Let's be off for prayer. Father, we thank you for the passages of scripture we've looked at this evening. May you use your word. To uplift and strengthen our hearts. Father, we pray lead us not into temptation. Deliver us from evil. Help us to embrace the means that you have appointed. To bring us to those ends. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen