Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And this will be the last part of our series on missions. And so I hope that this uh has been a good study for you. I hope it's been very encouraging. And so Lord willing, as we think about all the things that we've talked about over the last month, um your heart has been stirred and encouraged in this area of missions. And it's something that is dear to my heart. I love missions. I'm thankful for the work that the Lord has done through our church over the years. And I'm thankful for the part that our family has been able to play on the field. And so this is something that I'm very passionate about. And when we talk about missions, missions is not just what's going on overseas. Obviously that's a major part of what's going on. But missions also involves what we're doing within our own local church. here in Ana Rundle County. And so I hope that it's not just been an out there thing, but it's also been an in here thing as well. The passage that we looked at this past Sunday and that we're going to dig into throughout this week is 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, and we're looking at verses 2 to 10. It's a lengthy passage of scripture. And it's focused on how Paul is rejoicing in the miraculous work that God did in the lives of these believers at Thessalonica. So let's go ahead and read the text together, and then we'll jump into this first piece. to the study we'll be doing this week. We give thanks to God always for you, always making mention of you in our prayers. Remembering without ceasing your work of faith, labor of love, patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, in the sight of God and our Father. Knowing, brethren, beloved, your election of God. For your gosp for our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power, and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance, as we know what manner of men we were among you. You became followers of us and of the Lord, having received of the Lord in much affliction, with joy of the Holy Ghost, so that you were in samples to all that believed in Macedonia in Achai. For from you sounded out the word of our Lord, not only in Macedonia, in Achai, but also in every place. Your faith to Godward is spread abroad, so that we need not to speak anything. For they themselves show of us what manner of entering in we had unto you, how ye turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God And to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come. Now, we start out this passage looking at how Paul has this continual sense of joy. And so I want to remind you again what we've talked about throughout the week. not just uh this week, but the last four weeks. And then from that we're going to jump into this passage. So first of all, as we were working our way through this missions topic throughout the month of October, we emphasized the need for a robust biblical motivation in missions. We talked about where mission starts and in many ways where it starts is also where it's going to end this week. And that is glorying in the miracle of how God saves people. Through the preaching of the gospel, our hearts are convicted of sin, righteousness, and judgment. And ultimately, God, through the gospel brings us to a conviction that in fact this is true and there's a repentance toward God and there's faith alone in the finished work of Christ. We choose to trust Christ and we do it as a response to the work that God is doing in our hearts to the preaching of the gospel. The second thing we saw is that we examined the kinds of priorities that a person who's motivated in this area of missions is supposed to actually have. So we looked at scriptural priorities and missions The third text that we looked at emphasized a reminder of what the nature of the church is. And as we understand the nature of the church and the nature of Christ's relationship to the church, It should motivate us to have confidence, to be encouraged rather than discouraged in what is going on around us. And then last week we talked about the importance of a gospel-centered culture in the local church. And how when there is a gospel-centered culture, it unites the church and produces a fruitfulness in ministry. Well from there this week what we would like to focus our attention on is delighting in the miracle of conversion. And if people are going to be motivated about missions, it starts with them being motivated by a love for God that comes out of their understanding of the gospel. It is through a a heart that is gripped by the gospel that a person is motivated in these areas. And so we'll look at the first thing that Paul says in the text in front of us. He talks about this continual source of joy. and encouragement that he experienced in what is ultimately a very miserable world, a broken world, a terrifying world. a discouraging world, Paul has this sense of joy that is continually bubbling up. It's almost like a spring that's feeding into a river. The river continues to flow because it is it is fed from a source. And the source is springs. This continual joy that Paul had was rooted in something. And so we see it in verses 2 and 3. He says we give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers, remembering without ceasing your work of faith. your labor of love and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ in the sight of God and our Father. Now this is an amazing statement that the Apostle Paul makes about how he is encouraged by the people in this church. He mentions two specific blessings. One is that it provokes him to a spirit of gratitude. He says, we're giving thanks always for you all to God. It also provoked very sweet memories. So as Paul remembers these things, it's something that brings him joy And so we see that in the statement, remembering without ceasing. So every time this church comes to mind, Paul is both grateful to God, and he's reminded again of these things, and it produces joy in him. And if you've invested in people's lives to some extent and you've seen the work that God has done, both in them and through them, And you see how God's compounded that that investment of your time and energy and that giving of your heart, it's going to bring this sweet remembrance. That's the kind of stuff that Paul's talking about. But then the second thing that he mentions are the specific ways that remembering the conversion of these people brings him joy. The first thing he mentions is their initial faith in Christ. And we see that in the statement work of faith. Now he's not saying that faith is a work that people do. What he's actually saying is that faith is a work that comes from God. In other words, God does the work in people that ultimately ends in their faith in Christ. You say, I don't understand what exactly he means by that. Well, let me give you two passages of Scripture that I think will help us to understand this. The first is in Acts chapter 2, verse 37. It says, when they heard this, they were pricked in their hearts. And they said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? Now, what Peter says is he says, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what they're supposed to do But when when we see that people who were formerly callous toward who Jesus was, callous toward the fact that he had been crucified, and all of a sudden they're convicted in their heart, And they they know there's some kind of response that they need to have. That's what Paul is talking about when he says a work of faith. God worked in them to bring them to a point. Where they were convicted, pricked in the heart, and they desire to respond. And the response is they choose to believe in the gospel Another example if in Acts chapter 16, verse 14, it says there was a certain woman named Lydia who heard us. whose heart the Lord had opened. That statement the Lord had opened through the preaching of the word is what he means by the work of faith. This is a repentance toward God that turns into faith alone and the finished work of Christ. In John 16, verse 8, it says, when the Spirit comes, He will reprove, that means to convict or to convince the world of sin and of righteousness and judgment. That is a work that God does in the hearts of people. And then in Romans chapter 10, verse 17, it says that faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Again, faith is the result of the work of God and people. People get saved because God works in them. He convicts them of their sin. He convinces them of the righteousness of Christ in their own unrighteousness. and the person of Christ and the nature of his work and the reason why he did this work. And so when he talks about remembering their work of faith, he means, I remember when you got saved. Secondly He emphasizes the evidence of their new life in Christ. And he says it this way. I remember your labor of love. Philippians chapter 2 verses 1 and 2 says, if there be any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies, fulfilling my joy. What is pe what is Paul talking about in Philippians chapter 2? He's basically saying that when a person becomes a Christian, one of the most um one of the quickest ways that you see the evidence of new life is that we begin to see a change in a person's affections, their desires, what they love, what they hate, what's most important to them. And so he says, if you've experienced the comfort of Christ, the consolation that is in Christ and the comfort of love and having vows of mercies. These are indications that in fact you have understood the gospel, you've placed your faith in Christ, you've been born again, there is a regenerate heart, the Holy Spirit indwells you. We could say evidences of new life in Christ are in the area of the affections of the heart. 1 John 2, verse 5, we see the same concept. Where he says, Whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God perfected. Hereby know we that we are perfected in him. We see this concept of affection. The love of God is perfected in them. It's brought to maturity. As a person has placed their faith in Christ, now we see evidence of new life in Christ. Christ. And then 1 John chapter 4, verse 12, he says, No man hath seen a God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. So as Paul is thinking about the church at Thessalonica, he remembers when they were converted, and he also has observed This change in the affections that is a clear-cut evidence that there is new life in Christ that was not there before they were converted to Christ. They are laboring because they are motivated by love. It is a matter of the heart. But then he gives a third quality that causes him to remember these people with great joy and gratitude to God. And that is that he recognizes that there is an endurance that is accompanying spiritual maturity. He says their patience of hope. So he goes from someone being converted to beginning to grow into Christ-likeness, and we see the evidence of new life in Christ. And then he talks about an evidence of maturity. It's not that just that they're a believer, but they're a strong believer. They're a matured believer. They are a laboring believer. They're an enduring believer. They' patient type of believer And this reminds me of what Jesus says to the church at Ephesus in Revelation chapter 2. He says, I know thy works. and thy labor, and this next statement is important, and thy patience. That word patience means that they've gone from being young believers working to believers, to being enduring believers, matured believers. He says, for my name's sake thou hast labored and hast not fainted. And so when Paul remembers the church at Thessalonica, his heart is overwhelmed with this deep sense of joy in the midst of all the troubles of life, because he remembers the work God did in them to bring them to faith. He remembers how God changed their affections when they were born again and now they are new creatures in Christ. And he sees that they have matured to a point where there's an endurance. There is a faithfulness even in the midst of hardship and struggle. And so I want to remind you this morning that if you've invested in anybody and you've seen this, you have experienced one of the sweetest blessings in life. The blessing of seeing God bring a sinner to repentance. faith, new life in Christ, spiritual maturity. And that is a sweet thing. We ought to pray that this is a regular part of what we witness in our local churches. It is a regular part of what we witness in our families. May the Lord help us to be a people who continually see these things. I hope that that gives you something to think about this morning. Lord willing tomorrow we'll continue in our series. Have a blessed morning and I hope to see you tomorrow. Bye now