Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back again to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we've been working our way through this passage of scripture kind of methodically. And we've been looking at the miracle of conversion and how God takes a person who does not understand the gospel, who's stumbling in the darkness, walking according to the course of this world. And he interrupts their life through the preaching of the gospel. He brings people across their path. The Holy Spirit convicts them of sin and righteousness and judgment. And this person all of a sudden understands something they never understood before. that there are sinners separated from a holy and righteous God, and that Christ died for their sins and rose from the dead, and through his sacrifice and his resurrection, They can be forgiven of their sins. They can receive new life in Christ. And by his imputed righteousness, they can be declared not guilty. When we think about that truth, it is a wonderful, wonderful message. And one of the things that accompanies a conversion is a change in life. And that change in life is something that leaves an unmistakable witness to the power of the gospel. Now, some people, their conversion story, especially if they were young, It's not something radical and transformative like it would be if it was an older person who'd lived their entire life, really not not having any concept of the way that a Christian should live or any concept of what the Bible has to say about some of the most basic things And that was the case for many of the people that the Apostle Paul led to Christ there in the Roman world who were basically living in lives of idolatry. They were living just after their passions and their lusts. And their lives were unmistakably changed by the gospel. And the Apostle Paul talks about that in these verses. Notice what he says in verses 9 and 10. He says, they themselves show of us what manner of entering in we had unto you, and how ye turned God from idols to serve the living and true God and to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come. Now when Paul talks about this unmistakable witness of the gospel's power, the first thing that we see is that the gospel, when it takes root in a society, It radically changes those people who become Christians. Now he's alluding to that here, but I want to give you another example that is very powerful, that is basically showing you exactly what Paul's talking about. We find this example in Acts 19, verses 18 to 20, and he's talking about the story of the Ephesian Church. how there were people living in Ephesus, a city that was known for its idolatry. And the crowning jewel of the city was a temple to an idol. And so it says in verse number 18, many that believed came and confessed and showed by their deeds, many of them also which used curious arts, brought their books together and burned them before all the men. And they counted the piece the price of them and found it fitly that found it fifty thousand pieces of silver So mightily grew the word of God and prevailed. In fact, when the Bible talks about what happened at Ephesus, the gospel coming into that city was so disruptive. because of the people whose lives were changed by the gospel, that the silversmiths who their livelihood was dependent on making idols for the temple, they became furious. because it actually affected their work. They were losing jobs. It would be like a person who is living in a community that's full of vices. And all of a sudden the gospel begins to take root in hearts and places that were filled with vice and drunkenness. and immorality, places that were known of as places of ill repute, all of a sudden those places do not have customers because the customers' lives have been changed by the gospel. And they no longer want to go to those places. They no longer want to be involved in those things. Their lives have been transformed. It's so transformative that those places actually go out of business. I mean think about during the pandemic where there are people that lived in areas that their livelihood was based on people coming into those communities during certain seasons. and buying and selling because uh there were tourist areas and then because people could not travel and because of all the restrictions all of a sudden the the the source of income for these people had dried up and sadly businesses were no longer able to function. Well we understand it in that context this literally happened in cities where the gospel came Literally, business dries up because there aren't people going to these places. That's what the gospel does. This is leaving this unmistakable witness to the power of the gospel. And he states it both negatively and positively. He says that negatively you turned to God from idols. That's the negative side. And then positively says you did this to serve the living and the true God. Idolatry is categorically empty. I think about Psalm 35, verse 15. It says that the idols of the heathen are silver and gold, the work of men's hands. They have mouths, but they speak not. They have eyes, but they see not. They have ears, but they hear not. Neither do they have any breath in their mouths. And so when he says that you turn to God from idols, he's saying you turned to God from the emptiness of idolatry. But there's also another side to idolatry, and that is that idolatry is categorically evil. There are other passages that talk not about the emptiness of idolatry, but the evil and the wickedness that is associated with idolatry. And in Deuteronomy 32, verse 16, he says, that these people provoked God to jealousy with their strange gods. They sacrificed unto devils, not to God, to gods whom they knew not, to new gods that that came newly up, whom the fathers feared not, of whom the rock that begat them, thou art not mindful, and hast forgotten God and that formed thee And in Psalm 106, verse 35, he says, that they mingled amongst the heathen and learned their works, and served their idols, which were snares unto them. They sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils and shed innocent blood. What these verses show us is that idolatry is both empty and very dark and very evil. And so if there's a person who has lived in the emptiness of idolatry, and the wickedness of idolatry, and they see the light of the gospel, and they turn to God and they place their faith in Christ, they're literally turning to God from the emptiness of idolatry. and from the wickedness of idolatry to serve the living God. Reminds me of Romans chapter 6. where he talks about the fact that we were buried with him in the likeness of his death, and we were raised to walk in newness of life We're to reckon ourselves to be dead to sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. And so when someone is able to see what this does in someone's life, It leaves this unmistakable witness to the power of the gospel. A third aspect, not just the negative and the positive, is that now they're living with a purpose-filled anticipation of the coming return of Christ. He states it this way. and not only to serve the living and true God, but to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come. He's saying you're looking for Jesus. You're anticipating his return. You know that he has saved you and you can't wait to see him. All of a sudden these people's lives are bearing evidence, witness. to the gospel's power. And let me ask you this question. When's the last time you saw this take place in a person's life? The answer might be, I've never seen this take place. Or it's been a very long time. Well, I want to encourage you, if you want to see people's lives transform , then you've got to get active in the work. You've got to go out and tell people about Christ. You need to pray for people. You need to listen to what missionaries are saying and And and observe what's going on in the church context. Healthy Christians who are reaching the lost are people who witness this on a regular basis. And so we should be a praying people that say, God help us to see with our own eyes firsthand the kinds of things that Paul is describing that took place in Thessalonica. When people's lives were wonderfully transformed by the power of the gospel. Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to close out our week going into the weekend, thinking about some final thoughts that are applications from the text in front of us. Have a blessed morning. Bye now.