And we are thankful that we have been saved to walk in newness of life. I pray that tonight you'd help us as we look into These truths, that we'd embrace them, that we would glory in your very good purposes for our lives. Father, help me as I work our way through many important topics to address these issues appropriately and carefully, and I pray that you would work in our hearts through them and help our lives to be built on biblical truth and as we uh teach and train our children I pray that our lives uh would be uh founded on the rock of Christianity We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, the song we're going to be singing is number 105 from our blue books. 105. Okay. We're in uh one hundred five in our blue books. It's for me to live as Christ. We'll sing the first The second and the last verses together, please. Christ should be given my to win this Christ on the last So joy in Christ and never sees And run to Him He brings true peace, content in given every state in all. We strengthen by disgrace for me to live is Christ For me to live his prize , pursuing care my highest Christ, for me to live his price Great singing. It's a great song too. Okay, well if you could, let's turn in our Bibles together to The very first page of your Bible, Genesis chapter 1. And as you're turning there, I want to talk to you for a few minutes before we get into our uh our lesson tonight on the new sermon series that I'm going to be doing on Wednesday nights. When I say sermon series, it's really going to be a teaching series. And I believe that this is a very important teaching series. And we're going to be looking at the glory of the Christian home. And what I wanted to do is I wanted to kind of give you a preview of the topics that we're going to be addressing And I have twenty-six topics, so I would assume that it'll take me probably at least a year to go through all of these topics because probably several of them are going to be two and three point uh part uh part lessons. But I want to talk through some of the things that we're going to be looking at over the course of this series. The first place we're going to start is where we're going to start tonight in just a few minutes, and we're going to be talking about God's design for male and female There are, yes, males and females and there's nothing in between. God created mankind in his image, male and female, and we're going to talk about the fact that that concept that God created was a part of his good design for us. And we're going to talk a lot about that issue. And we're going to really look at a contrast of worldviews. One worldview that says that we are really the result of random chance. And another worldview that says there's a God in heaven. He made us and the way he made us was purposeful. It was designed. In fact, we are designed to serve a function in God's creation. And so very important for us to understand that before we could ever talk about a family or having children. We've got to deal with the most basic things of God created us, male and female. Second second uh area that we're gonna look at is how God 's design is affected by us being in a fallen world. God's design hasn't changed. But the fact is, because this is a fallen world and we are sinners and everyone around us is a sinner, this concept of the family is going to come under a lot of pressure. Because we are not going to function the way that we should unless we are submitted to Christ's authority in our lives. And so we're going to talk about how that how that actually affects The roles that we function in as husband and wife and how we relate to our children, why people even want to have children or not have children. All of those things are going to really be flushed out in that particular topic. Then we're going to talk about encouragement for the anxious. The fact is that there is a sense in which Choosing to have a family is an act of faith as a Christian. We recognize that this is a broken world. It's a messed up world. And if we're going to raise our children to honor the Lord, we're going to have to depend on him. And the fact is that there's a lot of unknown. In fact, as you get into raising your children, it's a terrifying thing at times. And so we're going to talk about some encouragement for those who may be anxious in this area. We're talking about how the gospel is our only hope. And how the gospel has to be the center of our lives and our family life and what we need to influence our children with. We're going to talk about the importance of sanctification. One of the things that I think is sometimes left out when we talk about issues, as in how a husband relates to his wife or a wife to her husband or how a father relates to his kids or a mom to her children. One of the things that's often left out is that your closest neighbor, dad, is your wife and mom it's your husband or parent it's your children these are your closest neighbors and we're to love our neighbors As we love ourselves. And so when it comes down to how we function in our home lives, we're supposed to relate to one another in biblical love. We're going to talk a lot about how sanctification plays a heavy role in a healthy home. We're talking about God's design for men and God's design for women. And I'm going to look at a lot of different contexts within what we see in the Bible as to What are the roles that men are supposed to function in when it comes to things like society and things like the home and things like the church? What about women? We're going to talk about those issues. We're going to focus on the importance of being a godly husband, a godly wife, biblical view of children, the parent-child relationship. We're look at God as our father and how He is the ultimate example for us to follow dads as fathers. We're talking about the importance of a godly example. If we want our children to be godly people and we're not godly people, then we really are asking a lot of them, we're asking them to embrace something we ourselves haven't actually embraced fully. We're going to talk about some practical considerations for family worship. Maybe you've never even thought about this concept of actually gathering together as a family, singing praise to God. sitting under the ministry of the word as a family worshiping the Lord. I want to talk about some practical considerations with that. Corrective discipline. Character training. Those are not necessarily the same thing, though they overlap. Preparing our children for life. And when I talk about preparing our children for life, I'm talking about practical stuff, like making sure that they're educated appropriately. Making sure that they learn how to relate to people in cultural grace. Making sure that they learn how to have healthy interaction with people of the opposite sex. All different kinds of things. We need to train our children and prepare them for life. Not just teach them the word of God, pray that they'll be godly, give them the gospel, try to disciple them. But teach them how to live practically in this world, giving them practical skills. That's a parent's job. We're to talk about practical considerations for the premarriage season. And we're going to talk about the importance of church life in our families. We're going to talk about some considerations for people who do not have children. You know, this is a family focus, but the reality is not every husband and wife is able to have children. And I think that we need to have a biblical view even of those kinds of scenarios. What about single parents? You know, we we obviously are encouraging our men to marry and to be faithful to their wives and to do things in a biblical and godly way, but what happens when someone's spouse dies and they have small children? What happens when someone has been abused and mistreated? What happens when a mother is having to raise her children alone because she has an irresponsible and selfish husband who has abandoned her? These are the kinds of considerations we also need to talk about in this issue. What about consideration for young couples? How should young couples relate to their parents as they're establishing a new home? What about how do we look at our aging parents? How should we respond to them biblically? So these are some of the things that we're going to do. These are a lot of practical topics. And it's a little bit daunting as I look at them because I'm going to be digging into each of them and hopefully giving a very good presentation of some of these issues. Now I'm going to tell you that to the best of my ability, I'm going to try to stick with the biblical principles. But there are going to be times that we're going to move into some practical areas and I will say This is kind of my opinion, okay? When I'm saying that, just take it as that. This is my opinion. I'm trying to practically apply biblical principles. And so I will try to make a clear distinction when I'm expounding a text of scripture versus when I'm saying I think this is a practical implication. And in my opinion, this is a very practical way to apply this text of scripture. I'm going to try to get into that one. So the reason that I highlight that is because I want you to realize this is really foundational stuff. This is really important. And I also tried to think about the fact that There's a lot of other conversations we have. What about grandparents? I know we got a lot of grandparents in here. Obviously, there's so many different scenarios that I cannot get into, but I think that these are some of the very important basics. So with that in mind, let's go ahead and look at our opening text and our first sermon, our first topic that we're going to deal with in this series. And that is the topic of designed male and female. That word designed is extremely important. And we're going to talk about why the word designed is very important. So, Genesis chapter 1, and we're going to begin in verse 26. Here's what the scriptures say. And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth. And over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. So God created man in his own image. And the image of God created he him, male and female created he them. And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth and subdue it. and have dominion. Then if you skip down to verse thirty one it says, And God saw everything that he had made, and behold it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day. Then skip down to verse 18 of chapter 2, because what chapter 2 does is it basically takes us back to day number 6. And it it gives us further information about what was just stated in Genesis 126 through 31. Here's how God made man and and and woman. Here's what it says in verse 18. It says, And the Lord God said It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make him and help meet for him. And out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every fowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them, and whatsoever Adam called them, every living thing that was the name thereof. And Adam gave names to all the cattle and to the fowls of the air and to every beast of the field. But for Adam there was not found and help meat for him. And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept. And he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh instead thereof. And the rib which the Lord had taken from man made he a woman, and brought her unto the man, and Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh She shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, And they shall be one flesh. Now, when we read these verses, what we are reading is an actual literal account of the way that God created the world. God didn't just leave the world to some random processes, and he kind of somehow guided in those random processes, or he hoped that things would work out. Or it's not just some uh figurative story that's being told. This is a literal account of the way that God created the world and the way that God created Adam. and the way that God created Eve. Now what's very interesting about the creation account is there are many different details that are extremely important and they're extremely specific. For instance The text is extremely clear that he created man and he created woman. Okay? Very clear. You can't get around that. If you're trying to add other things into there, you're misusing and abusing, and you're taking the Bible and you're using it however you choose to use it. It's very clear. It's very simple. Another thing that's very interesting about this text is he makes it extremely clear that he created Adam first, and then he drew attention to Adam that he was incomplete in some way. Now the way that he showed him that he was incomplete is he had him name all the animals, and as all of these animals come by, he sees male and he sees female. He sees male and he sees female. He sees male and he sees female. He sees this over and over and over and over again. At some point the guy must have been saying they're going. So what about me? Okay. I mean really, he's naming all these animals and he's not he doesn't have a helper for himself. He doesn't have a female that is compatible with him. He doesn't have that. What's the problem? Well, the problem is that God is going to make a point to him that that's what he needs. And he's going to create his wife, and he's going to bring him his wife, and then God is going to establish marriage. All of these are very important details. It's also very clear that God makes Very clear in the passages that they were to reproduce after their own kinds. Alright, so Male-female produces another dog, another cat, you know, all of that. All right? Male-female, two humans, what do they do? They produce a new human. But there's something very different about Adam and Eve from the rest of the creation that is also laid out in these verses. One of the things that's laid out that's very different about Adam and Eve is that they are stated to be created in God's image. That's never stated about the animals. Now he doesn't explain what that means. We have to go to a lot of other scriptures to understand what he means by creating his image, but one of the things that we see is that people are Rational, not always rational, but they have the ability to think rationally, okay? People are moral creatures. That means we have a will that can choose between what is morally right and what is morally wrong. We can actually have a relationship to God. All of God's creation brings glory to him and the unique function that God designed for those particular parts of his creation. But we relate to God directly in a relational manner. We can know God and we can love God and we communicate with God and He can communicate with us. We see that. We also see that God established, when he created man and woman, the concept of marriage. Marriage is not something that society said, you know, we really have this problem with women having children, but their children aren't being taken care of. They're not being they're not being uh dealt, they're not being controlled by uh someone who's a little bit bigger and stronger, they're not being taught, they're not being nurtured. They are kind of on their own. And these women are all having to take care of their children by themselves. So how can we help this situation out? Oh, I know what we can do Let's force the men that actually gave birth to those children that that impregnated those women Let's force them to be responsible to take care of the children that they fathered. Society didn't come up with that concept God created marriage. And what God said is there's a covenant that's established between one man and one woman, and they are to stay together for the rest of their lives together, and they're to bring up their children within that covenantal relationship. That's God's idea. God designed it. God stated exactly what it was. He even goes to the point where he says that a man leaves his father and his mother. Notice it doesn't say his father's and his mother or his mother and his father's or his brothers or his fathers. It says his mother and his father. What why is that? Because that's what a marriage is. It's it's a mother and father He leaves his mother and father, and he cleaves to his wife, and the two of them become one flesh. We now have a new unit. That's what marriage is. So when we come to Genesis 1 and 2, we're talking about the most foundational matters that you can ever imagine. And what's really sad Is that we've gotten to a point in our society where we are completely rejecting, I say we, I don't mean you and I, but our society is rejecting what is foundational. You don't even need a Bible to recognize that marriage is good. You really don't. In fact, when people study society and they look at where uh where we have a lot of the problems in society, poverty. People ending up in prison, violence, all those kinds of things. You know it's amazing what we continually find out about these scenarios? It's continually generally young men who didn't have fathers. Why is that? Because God created this thing called marriage, and when marriage is honored, it's for our good, and when marriage is not honored, it ends up being extremely detrimental. So let me summarize it this way. Genesis 1 and 2 record foundational truths regarding God's purpose for creating mankind in his own image, male and female, as well as their new functions. in his creation. Now I tend to use the word role, and I think that's probably the word that you normally hear, but I'm going to make a distinction between function and role. Because function actually is a It's stated even more clearly, I think, than even the concept of role. But I want to get into that a little bit later. I think as we read these scriptures, what God would want us to understand is that we are to celebrate his glorious purpose for us. God's purpose is good. He's not against us. When God created male and female, he did it for a good reason. When God created marriage, he did it for a good reason. The fact that people don't want to follow God's plan is not for their own good. They may believe it's for their own good, but it's ultimately going to be detrimental to them and to those children that they may bring into the world. Okay? It's going to be detrimental even for society, for the strength, and for the foundation of society. God 's purposes are good. And we should celebrate God's design. We should embrace God's design. We should strive to the best of our ability to submit ourselves to God's purposes for our lives in these areas. And so I want to start with this concept. We are living in a time when a foundational understanding of who we are Why we exist is being lost and replaced with a worldview that is inconsistent with reality and a vicious rebellion against God's revealed design. Let me say it again. We are living in a time when the foundational understanding of who we are and why we exist is being lost. and replaced with a worldview that is inconsistent with reality and a vicious rebellion against God's revealed design. There's really a great battle between two worldviews. And I know that within these two worldviews, you have a biblical worldview, and then you have theistic worldviews, okay, that would not be a biblical worldview, but There would be some similarities to a biblical worldview if somebody believes in a God, okay? And then you have all different kinds of secular viewpoints. But really what it comes down to fundamentally is there's a view that you're created by God or the view that you evolved from the dirt. Okay? It's one or the other. That's really what it comes down to Either you were created by somebody who is wise, who is purposeful, who is good, who is righteous, who's got it all figured out because he is fully wise. Or you're just the result of random chance. Now, which one would you rather be? Okay? Which one you'd rather be? Doesn't matter. It's what it is. Okay? Which one is the truth? Well, view number one is that we were created with a purpose. And that's what the Bible teaches. That means we have an obligation to the Creator. If God made me That means I'm responsible to him. Hey, that's why my conscience bothers me when I violate his laws. Okay? Because I know intuitively that I'm responsible to him. We talk about common grace. What we're basically saying is even though we're we're sinners and we live in a fallen world and there's a lot of mess in this world, there are still certain principles that they're just universally understood by people. Even when we used to talk about the concept of common law and natural law. In other words, people understood that there's some some things that just kind of everybody seems to understand. Why is that? because we are rational moral creatures who have a conscience. We're obligated to our Creator. Two, our existence reflects his design. In other words, when God did it the way that He did it, He had a reason for it. What's so interesting about studying science And studying mathematics is that you begin with a presupposition. You know what that presupposition is? There are orderly laws in the world Okay? Like it would be pointless to study science, and it would be pointless to study mathematics if you believed that everything was random. No, you you discover laws. You don't create laws. You discover laws, and then you figure out how to use those laws for good purposes Or if you're thinking evilly for evil purposes, okay? But you are discovering laws. You don't create laws. You don't make laws. Well, if a law exists that is consistent Then it's an indication that it was established by somebody. Our existence reflects a design. I want to say this: our greatest happiness lies in his purposes. If I'm willing to do things God's way, then that would be the best way for me And if I'm going to resist God's way and reject God's way, I'm going to get chewed up in the process because what I'm trying to do is inconsistent with the natural purpose for which God designed things. That's what a biblical worldview teaches. Our value comes from God. In other words, I do have value as a person because I'm made in the image of God. He actually loves me. He actually cares about me. He sent his son to die on the cross for my sins. God cares about me. There's value ascribed to you and to me because we have a creator and a designer. Our pursuit should conform to his creative design. There's an absolute standard for what is right and what is wrong. You say, well, what is the standard? Well, the standard isn't what I think. Or what you think. We're just creatures. The standard is what the Creator has established. In other words, what is right and what is wrong simply flows out of God's character. These are incredibly important presuppositions. If we hold a biblical worldview, then all of these things fall into play. They naturally flow out of that biblical worldview. But on the other side, view number two is that we've evolved through random chance. And I want you to see the chaos that is associated and the lack of order that is associated and how devastating the consequences of a mindset that I'm not answerable to a God that made me, and my life isn't actually the result of a designed and orderly manner that reflects God. And there's not really right and wrong when we take this worldview, which is where our society has gotten. It is devastating. It's dangerous. The first, we have no moral obligation to anyone but to ourselves. You ever heard the statement you do you? Yes? Or is that now an old statement? I don't even know. What is what is that? What is that expressing? It's no more absolute. Whatever you want to do, do it. If it makes you feel happy, then do it. If if your life and my life, it does it, it doesn't matter. I'm I'm gonna just keep my mouth shut and just let you do what you want to do. Our existence is random and ultimately meaningless. Why do you think there is a massive spike in not elderly suicide? In middle-aged suicide, but in teenage and even preteen suicide. Why is that? It wasn't like that fifty years ago. Like what's changed? It's called the worldview of this country. You have young people that are growing up and they just do what's right in their own eyes. They believe that their existence is entirely random. It's meaningless. Our value in this worldview comes from self-expression, not from a creator. It's all about me expressing myself, how I want to express myself. Our pursuit shouldn't be limited by culture, peers, or a higher power. Is that not the thinking prevailing of our day? Folks, this mindset will eat itself up. I don't know how long it takes, but it will eat. itself up. Because freedom without responsibility is extremely self-destructive. The ultimate danger of this worldview is that there is no absolute standard for morality Folks, if somebody holds a worldview that doesn't have a creator who has designed them, they have absolutely no right to say murder is wrong. Because there's no basis for that statement. According to who? They have no basis to say that theft is wrong. They have no basis to say that there's an abusive form of language. They have no moral basis because they've rejected the ultimate lawgiver. And so these two views are in conflict. And when we talk about the family and what a family is, and we talk about our function as men and as women, we have to recognize that one worldview stacks up and says, God made us God designed us. There is a purpose in that. There is a glory in that. And I want to embrace God's design. The other side says, there's no order. There's no design. You can do whatever you want. It doesn't matter. And folks, at the end of the day, reality is going to set in And the side someone chooses, as time goes on, is going to leave a startling difference between these two worldviews. We live in a culture that was formerly heavily influenced by this first Let me give you a couple of examples. Just two. Our Declaration of Independence. Now I'm not saying that everybody who signed the Declaration was a Christian. Most certainly that's not true, okay? But some were. Some were very devout. But one of the things that is very clear About the signers of the Declaration of Independence is that they believed in higher power. Listen carefully to the way that they write it. We hold these truths to be self-evident. That all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights. Question When will there be a movement to cancel the Declaration of Independence? I I don't know. We hold these truths to be self-evident. All men are created equal. They are endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights. Creator, designer. Value, rights, all coming from the fact that somebody made us. Pretty amazing, isn't it? Maryland's Constitution. We the people of the state of Maryland grateful to Almighty God for our civil and religious liberty and taking into serious consideration the best means established a good constitution in this state for the sure foundation and more permanent security thereof. Folks, our forefathers believed that there was a creator. And because they believed that there is a Creator, it shaped what they believed was morally right and was morally wrong. They weren't perfect people, and we can find their flaws. We could see them. There's no doubt about it. But they're being judged by a society that doesn't believe in moral absolutes makes no sense. We live in a society that has been overrun by the second view. Every way of a man is right in his own eyes. That's really what we're seeing. And so I want to ask this question: what happens When people who know God reject Him. What happens in a society where people move into this direction where they say, you know what, I'm not answerable to God? I derive my value from somewhere else and I can chart my own course and I can do things better. What's the result of that? Here's the answer. Romans chapter 1, verse 21. Let me read it and give you a couple thoughts, and we'll stop after this. Romans 1:21 says, When they knew God, they glorified him, not asked God. Neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish hearts was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. Verse 26. For this cause God gave them up unto vile affection. Even their women did change the natural use into that which is against nature. Likewise the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burned in their lust one toward another, men with men working which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompense of their error which was meet. Verse twenty eight, even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind, to do those things which are not con Let me break it down to some very simple principles. One, they were not thankful Now, when I know that there's a God who made me, and that he designed me, and my life is really dependent on him. That means that every good thing that I have is a gift from him. I don't deserve it. I'm not entitled to it. But all of a sudden when a person says no God, you know what they do? They have this attitude that they're entitled. They've really taken God and set him to the side and they put themselves in his place. And the result is ingratitude, not humble appreciation for God's design, the privilege of what God has designed for us instead. We reject it in ingratitude. Second week. They profess themselves to be wise, though they have become fools. They arrogantly reject God's wisdom and seek to establish a new and better way that is in direct contradiction to God's ways. Now, you can either say, okay, what God said is true, and I'm just going to keep doing it. Or you could say, it's not true, I've got to figure out a new way. It's like a person who looks at the laws of nature. They've studied physics and they've studied chemistry and they have all these established laws and they go, you know what? I reject those laws. I'm going to create my new laws. Well your new laws are inconsistent with what the laws actually are And when you try to make determinations based on the laws you've determined that are not consistent with reality, what happens? Major problems. People believe that they've got it all figured out, but instead it's He says that their men and women change the natural use into that which was against nature. They take the functional differences between men and women. and the accompanying roles that were designed by God for the complementarian purposes, and they twist them to their own unnatural, self-centered purposes. That's our society today. And we as God's people need to teach our children what the truth is. We as God's people need to function to the very best of our abilities according to God's design for us. Third, they were working things that were unseemly, their abuse of God's good gift. is not only unnatural, but it's shameful and indecent. That's what the word unseemly means, shameful and indecent. They do not like to retain God in their knowledge. They have a rebellious disdain for God's authority. They do not they do those things which are not convenient, living in a way that's inconsistent with God's good design. The reason I bring all this up is to say this. For us to look at the biblical pattern , There are people in our society that hate what is going to be taught in these Wednesday nights. It's true. Now I don't want to be nasty and inflammatory. I just want to speak the truth. But the fact is that when a society has rejected God's clear design and has established their own ways, they despise what is true. And so I want to encourage you, as we take time to look into this, we need to have the mind of Christ. We need to ask the Lord for wisdom. Wisdom so that we will understand the truth. Wisdom so that we can teach the truth. Wisdom so that we can model the truth. Wisdom so that we can celebrate and Brace the truth We need to be a people who recognize the good design of God because ultimately, you know what it comes down to? When we function as God designed us to function, we bring glory to him because it shows the wisdom and the goodness and the value of his will. And that's what we should embrace. That's what bringing glory to God is. It's learning to function according to his design And doing it for his purposes. May the Lord help us to do that. Let's bow together for prayer and commit to the Lord this series that we're going to be going through for quite some time, dealing with lots of important topics. Father, we're so grateful for your word. And we recognize there is a tremendous war going on in our land, and not just in our land, it's all around the world. It's not a new war. Every society has faced Satan's onslaughts, the undermining of submission to God's will. The undermining of family and the undermining of responsible fatherhood and motherhood. A biblical worldview on children and family and all these issues. Father, I pray that you would help us as your people. to understand your ways and to glory in your ways, to celebrate the goodness of the Lord and his design. Father, I pray that we would model godliness in our homes and in this church and in our communities. Father, help us to have the strength and the grid and the determination. To walk according to your ways. Father, help us to wisely and persistently communicate the truth to our children and the generation to come so that they might embrace these truths as well. Father, our greatest desire is that we would bring glory to our Lord, Savior, and Creator. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.