First John chapter two, verses eighteen to twenty-one. Little children, it is the last time. As ye have heard that Antichrist shall come, even now are there many Antichrists Whereby we know that it is the last time. They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us. But they went out from us that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us. But you have an unction from the Holy One, and you know all things. I've not written unto you because you know not the truth, but because you know it, and that no lie is of the truth. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer as we look at A very important passage of Scripture and a very important concept for us as God's people. Father, we thank you for the service that we've had thus far. We thank you for The time of singing great praise to you, and I think of some of the hymns we've sung, deep, rich truths about our Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you so much for the attention of our hearts being drawn to those truths. I pray this morning as I open up your word and as I go through this passage. you might open our understanding to understand the weight and the significance of these truths. As we look at this passage, help us to understand how vitally and important it is. That we as Christians develop biblical discernment, that we're people who dig into your word, who study it in its depth and its richness. who are very careful to examine detail so that we develop a mind that draws attention to truth. I pray that you'll help us as your people to love you, to love your word, and to love one another, and help us to love sound doctrine. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. As we come to 1 John 2, verse 18, we can summarize this passage with the following statement. Since John has just stated the sobering fact that these Christians are living in the last days, he wants to give them encouragement that they are well equipped. To recognize and to reject false teaching. Remember, last week we talked about the fact that Antichrist is coming And there are many Antichrists, if you will, in the world. When John was writing that to these Christians, he believed that he was living in the last time period. He believed that there was nothing left on God's timetable that had to take place before the Lord Jesus Christ could come back and take his church to be with him. We today are living in the last days. Now that doesn't mean that Christ is coming back today. He could. We should anticipate his return. But the fact is we may be all dead and gone, and the Lord still tarries. But that does not change the fact that we're living in a time period that is anticipating the return of Christ. And because we are living in the last days There is a lot of misinformation, if you will. There's a lot of teaching going on in our time period, as there has been throughout church history, that is not sound in doctrine. And one of the things that John is drawing their attention to is the fact that even from within their own congregation, there were folks that had At least on paper, if you will, embraced the gospel. They'd gotten baptized. They had joined that local church They had worshipped with that local assembly, but at a point in time, because they had embraced false doctrine, they eventually went out from the church of God. John is warning them that the reason that those people have gone out from the congregation is because they were never truly a part of the Church of God. Just because they had made a profession of faith, just because they were baptized, did not mean that they were truly God's people. And so as time went on, that was demonstrated, and that is why they have left the Church of God. And so he wants them to be able to think clearly about that issue. Well, he moves on from that topic to something that's also very, very important, and that is how can we recognize if the message that is being preached by someone is true or is false How can you sitting in your pew this morning, when you go home and turn on your television, when you turn on your radio, when you get on the internet and you go to sermon audio or some other place where you can listen to preaching, how can you know that what you're listening to is truth? It's sound teaching, sound doctrine That is really the topic that John is addressing in this particular passage. And he's doing that because God wants us to develop biblical discernment. He wants us to recognize and reject false teaching. So that brings us to a question, how do we do that? How can you sitting here today get to a place where when you hear something that is not true, you go, that's not true? How can you get to the place where you have that kind of a discernment? Because not everybody does. Some people flip on the television and listen to a preacher and they just accept everything that he's saying because He's holding a Bible, he's preaching, and he's saying, this is what God says. Some people can sit in a service and no matter what the pastor says No matter what the person communicating the word of God is teaching, they just embrace it, they wholeheartedly absorb it. We can't be that way, folks We have to be discerning. We have to be able to say this is true and this is not. How can you get to the place where you can recognize those kinds of things. Well, here are a couple of questions that we're going to ask this morning and we're going to answer one by one in the form of some little propositions or truths. Question one, am I really equipped to recognize false teaching? Are you today, do you have the capacity, do you have the tools, do you have the equipping that you can make that kind of a judgment First question. Question two, if indeed you have that, then how can you actually recognize false teaching? And then question three, what steps do you need to take to develop what we call discernment? The ability to make a judgment and to say this is true, this is not. So are you equipped to be able to do that? If so, how can you make that judgment? And lastly, how do you develop or build up in that particular area? So let's begin with truth number one. You have all the necessary equipping to recognize and reject false teaching. You have all the necessary tools. to understand what is right and what is wrong. Now that doesn't mean that you're taking up the tools that you have. It doesn't mean that you're well practiced in the tools that you have. But if you're a child of God today sitting here with a Bible in front of you, you have what you need to be able to discern what is right and what is wrong. Look down in verses 20 and 21. He says this, you have something, and you know all things. Now please understand something. When John says you know all things, he's not suggesting that these people have become omniscient all of a sudden. They've just got the ability to know everything that there is to know. He's talking about a specific body of truth, if you will, and we'll talk about what he means by that. But before we get into that, I want to make just a little side note. This statement is not a blanket statement about everybody living today. It's not necessarily a blanket statement about everybody sitting in this room. You say, well, how can you say that, Pastor Joel? There is a narrowed audience based on who John is writing to. In 1 Corinthians chapter 2 verse 14, Paul writes this, the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God. Neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. Not everybody has the ability to determine what is right and what is wrong. Not everybody living today has the tools. Only those who are born again. Only those who are God's children. Because as we talk about this passage, we're going to see that he narrows his audience and he makes some statements about this group that isn't true about everyone. If you're sitting here this morning and you say, I want to know what is right and what is wrong, but I don't understand the gospel. I'm not sure that I really embrace that message. Well, let me tell you, that's the starting point. If you're not a child of God, you don't have the Spirit of God indwelling you, like others who do. If you're not a child of God, you are not a new creature in Christ. You don't have a new nature. You don't have the ability to understand and comprehend the kinds of things that John is talking about here. You need to experience a new birth. You need to come to the gospel and repent and believe in the gospel message. You need to see your sin. You need to see that God is holy and God is righteous. He cannot accept you in your condition. And you must turn in humility to trust in the finished work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Please notice that he is writing to a group of believers. Not universally everybody living today. And so when I say the statement that you have all the necessary equipping to recognize and reject false teaching, I'm making this one assumption, you're a child of God. You are the kind of person, if you will, that John is writing to. But notice how John describes their equipping, if you will. He says this, ye have an unction, and that word unction means that you have an anointing from the Holy One. When he makes that statement, he's talking about something about those Christians that is new about them now that they are in Christ that was not true about them. before their conversion. If you will, they have an anointing to a position of service. He mentions a second thing. You know all things Now he's talking about a specific body of truth. If you will, he's saying, you know everything that you need to know about the Christian faith. Well, how can you make a statement like that? Well, if you go back to chapter 1, verse 3, notice what John says. He says, that which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you. Now when John makes that statement, he's talking about two things that he's focusing on. Number one, he saw the account of Christ. He actually wrote a gospel and said, here is what I witnessed. I'm writing these things that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you'll have life through his name. So he says, the things that I saw, I declare to you. I'm an eyewitness, and I'm telling you this is what I saw. I saw Christ. I witnessed the miracles. I saw him crucified. I saw that he died. And I saw that he rose from the dead. I literally spent time with the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm testifying of history to you. That's what he's saying. But then he goes beyond that. He says, what we heard, we have declared to you. The apostles' primary message was to communicate what Christ taught them. What Christ taught them through the Old Testament. What Christ taught them through things like the Sermon on the Mount, what Christ taught them, they're communicating that verbally to the church, and then they're also writing it down so that we have God's word preserved for us today. So John is saying, I saw and I've communicated to you what I saw. I have heard and I'm communicating to you what I have heard. And he says, the reason is so that you may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. John is basically making this statement. Listen folks, what I gave you, what Paul gave you, what Peter gave you, what we the apostles have communicated to you is a sufficient record of the Christian faith. There's not more that needs to be added to what we have given you. What we have given you, don't take away from it. This is the body of truth that you need to know. And so he's beginning with this premise. He's saying, if somebody is departing from what we've given to you, whether by cutting it out or whether by adding to it, what they're doing is teaching a false message. You don't need anyone to teach you anything in addition. You know everything that you need to know about that body of truth. That is essentially what John is saying. So he mentions these two equippings, if you will. One, they have an anointing or an unction from the Holy Spirit himself. And number two, they have that full body of truth called the faith that he has given to them as an apostle of Jesus Christ. So I want to go beyond that and look at truth number two. God 's Spirit, through his word, gives you the only sufficient standard. God 's Spirit, through His Word, gives you the only sufficient standard You know, if you're going to build a house and you want to go out there and do the work, one of the things you need to buy is a tape measure. Okay? Now let's say that the floor plans for that house are written in metrics. Okay, most of the world that's how they'd be written. We as Americans do it our own way, right? So we use inches and feet. You have a tape measure that uses inches and feet and you're reading a diagram that uses metrics. How's that going to work out for you? Not going to work out so well. Your standard has to be the standard that's given in those documents, or you're going to have a problem with your house. You're gonna have a really small house, okay? You know like or you're gonna have a really huge house depending on which direction you're going with that, okay? Well, the fact is that God has given us a standard. That standard is sufficient. That standard is the rule by which the faith is, we could say, taught If we depart from that standard, we have something called false teaching. If we add to that standard, we have, again, false teaching. It doesn't matter whether you're taking away or adding, you have the same problem ultimately. You have something outside of the standard of truth. So notice what he mentions, the presence of the Holy Spirit. That little phrase, you have an unction from the Holy One. I want you to just think about that for just a moment. What exactly is he talking about by an unction or an anointing, if you will? Think back to the Old Testament. Why did they anoint people, and what kind of people did they anoint? Well, one of the biggest examples that I think of is the priest. So when the priest was being put in front of the people to be the high priest, what did they do? They anointed him. Now that olive oil that flowed on that guy, there was nothing spiritual, if you will, about that oil. It was physical oil, but it was symbolic of something. God has taken this individual, he has set them aside for an office. And because they're a part of that office, the Holy Spirit who has set that individual aside is going to empower them, he's going to equip them. He's going to help them to do the work that he set them aside to do. Think about the king. What happens when Samuel is going to anoint the first king Saul? The exact same thing. He anoints him with oil. Again, he's setting aside Saul to be the king. And Saul is going to be empowered by God himself, and he is to function in that office the way that God wants him to. Now, by the way, did Saul function as he was supposed to in that office? Nope. He didn't. He did for a while. We see the evidence of God's work in his life, but what we see is that he departs. We see then the same thing with David. So what we see is that though you've been set aside and though the Holy Spirit empowers you, that doesn't mean that you're going to automatically do what you're supposed to do. But that anointing is very, very important. God is setting aside an individual for a task. He's going to anoint him, he's going to empower him, he's going to use him through the Spirit's help. Well, he's not talking about a priest here in the Old Testament sense. He's not talking about a king here in the Old Testament sense. He's talking about you. He's talking about me. He's talking about the average Christian. The fact is in 1 Peter 2, verse 9, this is what Peter writes to those Christians. Ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people that you should show forth the praises of Him. That hath called you out of darkness into this marvelous light. That statement is talking about you today. It's talking about me. It's not just talking about Aaron and Saul and David. It's talking about every single person who is born again, who is a child of God. When he talks about this anointing, he's saying this, God has set you aside, Christian, for a special purpose. He has empowered you to do what he has called you to do. You know, one of the Baptist distinctives that we believe and we embrace is what we could call the individual priesthood of every single believer. So we don't have a priest in this church. We have priests. We all are. We're all priests. We all are set aside. And so folks, you don't have to go to a priest who tells you, here's what the Bible is saying. You can go to God and the Holy Spirit who indwells you can help you to understand the significance and the weight and the value of those truths. This is a wonderful truth. The presence of the Holy Spirit in your life, Christian Is something that gives you the ability to be able to discern between what is right and what is wrong. Now that doesn't mean that you're going to be a discerning Christian, but you can be because of his presence. But then we see a second aspect, and that's this. They have access to the Word of God. When he makes that statement, you know all things, he's saying, you have that body of truth, Christian. I, an apostle, have taught you personally as not only an apostle, your pastor. That's what John is saying. And we have what John taught them and what God wanted to preserve so that we would know what John taught them. We have the Word of God. And so God's Spirit, through the Word of God, gives us the only sufficient standard that is there for us to be able to discern what is right and what is wrong. Folks, we need to be scripture-saturated people. We cannot neglect the word of God. Psalm chapter 1 says this: Blessed is the man. that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. His delight is in the law of the Lord, in his law he meditates day and night, and he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth his fruit in his season. What is it that makes the blessed man a productive individual? It's the presence of God's word. Instead of delighting in what the world is teaching him, he embraces the word of God. And the scripture is the thing that gives him vitality and strength. We come to Second Timothy three sixteen. It says that the scriptures are profitable for doctrine, repu reproof, correction, and instruction in righteousness, so that the man of God may be perfect, meaning complete. fully matured, not a little child, but a matured individual and thoroughly furnished for every good work. The scriptures give us what we need to live a godly life. We continue on to Psalm 19. And I love what Psalm 19 says. The law of the Lord is perfect to do what? Convert the soul. And when he uses the term convert, he's not talking about a person's conversion in the sense that they're born again, but he's talking about the progressive sanctification of that individual. How God begins to mold and change and progressively changes him into the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. He says the testimonies of the Lord are sure, making wise the simple. How does a simple man get wisdom? It's by the word of God being in his heart. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure. Enlightening the eyes, if you will, it's like the light bulb comes on. You will not have wisdom, you will not have strength, you will not have vitality, and you will not have the ability to see clearly if you neglect. God's word. And that's why in 1 Timothy 4, Paul makes the following statement to Timothy. He says, Till I come, give attention to reading, to exhortation, and to doctrine. Now, where did that doctrine come from? It's what Paul taught him. And it's what Paul recorded for us in the Word of God. He says, meditate on these things On what things? On the doctrine that Paul has delivered to him. And he says, take heed unto thyself. And to the doctrine continue in them, for in doing this you will save both thyself and them that hear thee. Do you see how important the word of God is to the Christian? The scriptures are our they are our only inerrant standard. Anything that I pick up that talks about the Bible, as helpful as it might be as a tool, is subject to error. But when I study the word of God itself, I'm seeing what God said. Now that doesn't mean I'm always going to interpret it right, okay? We've all heard in a lot of ways in that one, I'm sure, over the course of our lives, and we'll continue to But when I come to the Word of God and never have to ask, is this true? I say, what's God saying? And there's a really big difference. God 's word is critically important. God's word is the standard by which we judge false teaching In the Old Testament, it's interesting, there were several tests that God gave to his people to say, this is how you identify if someone is a false teacher, a false prophet, or if they're speaking the truth. There was a content test. What is the content of the doctrine they're teaching? Is it consistent with what I've already revealed? There was a verification test. They would say, Thus saith the Lord, this is going to happen. Did it happen or not? If it didn't, then they could Ignore the guy, if you will. There was a product test. What was produced? What was the fruit of that teaching? In the New Testament, we find a very similar situation. Let me mention a couple. The content test. Listen to what Peter says. 2 Peter chapter 2 There will be false teachers among you who will privilege bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord which bought them. Many will follow their perdicious ways, by reason of whom and listen to the next statement. The way of truth will be evil spoken of. The way of truth is that body of doctrine. And he's saying by them coming into our midst They're going to undermine that body of doctrine that was once delivered to the saints. They're going to attack the Word of God, the content test. 2 Peter 3, 1, he says, I now write unto you to stir up your pure minds by remembrance, that you may be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets. Of the commandment of us the apostles of the Lord and Savior. Did you catch what he said? I want to remind you what we taught you. We the apostles have taught you what the Holy Spirit through us has said. I want to remind you of those things. The content test. If you don't know what God's word says, you won't be able to recognize when you're hearing truth and error. You won't, because your mind has not been trained in that way. We have the validation test, and I'll skip through a couple of these because they're not so pertinent, but what I want you to recognize is that our Bibles were written by people Who were verified to be God's prophets and apostles, if you will. So that's a whole nother discussion. I won't digress too much into that. But this book is verified. We have the product test. Listen to what Jesus said in Matthew chapter 7. He says, beware false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. You shall know them by their what? Their fruits. In other words, it's not just what they say that should trigger something in your mind going, this is not true. But you see what what they're saying produces You can see the results in the lives of people. And by the way, let me just make this comment. What's sad but true is that when you see the fruit of that teaching, it's already done tremendous damage. The content test is one that we need to be really zeroed in on. Because the product of what they're teaching may leave people decimated. We then have the motivation test. 2 Peter 2, he says, through covetousness, they will with feigned words make merchandise of you. When you see someone who is a televangelist flying around in private jets and obviously is filthy rich, you should ask the question, why is this guy doing what he's doing? Is it really that God's blessing or that he's a covetous person who has preyed on people that don't have the ability to recognize truth and error, and they have become powerful and influential and wealthy off of the naivety of others? But then we have the character test. In 2 Peter 2. 10, he says, These walk after the flesh in the lust of uncleanness. They despise governments, presumptuous are they, self-willed, not afraid to speak evil of dignitaries. The truth is that we should be able to recognize when someone is teaching truth and when they're not. We should be able to see it by the things they're saying. by the product of their work, by the motivation that is coming out into why they are doing it, and by the character of those people. We then come to a third truth and that's this. We must take up and use God's instruments, or we will lack biblical discernment Let's just assume for a minute that you had a job to do here in the church. Maybe you were going to fix a light bulb or you were going to patch a hole in the wall or you're going to do something uh with one of these doors, you're going to fix something mechanical. And in your, if you will, toolbox you have screwdriver, you have hammer, you have nails, you have screws, you have all kinds of tools. And you go up to do that job, and instead of using a hammer, you decide you're going to use a screwdriver Do you have the tool that you need? Do you? Well you do in the toolbox, but you're not using it. Okay? That's how a lot of us are as Christians. We have the tools here, but we just kind of like We just leave them there. We try to do the work the wrong way. We take the screwdriver and we want to hit hit in the nail, okay? We take the hammer and we want to Well use it for the wrong thing, whatever. Okay? We have the tools, but we're not picking them up. And as Christians, we can do the exact same thing. The fact is there are Christians who have everything they need to be a godly, discerning individual, but they're not, and it's because they've neglected those tools. Great example is in Hebrews 5. 12. He says, when for the time you ought to be teachers, you need that you that we teach you again the first principles. You have become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat. He says, You should be discerning. You should be able to teach. You should be mature. But you've lost your sense and your ability to do that. But the question is, how did that happen? He says, strong meat belongs to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use have exercised their senses to discern both good and evil. Did you catch that phrase? By reason of use They have exercised their senses to discern good and evil. In other words, there is a sense that has to be exercised. There are tools that have to be picked up. There is a process by which you have to develop the ability to have clear thinking and discernment. If you neglect those tools, you will not have what you need. You say, well, what are the instruments that God uses? I just want to mention two, and they're really important. The first instrument, obviously, is God's Word. Do you read the Word of God on a regular basis? Do you set aside a time in the day and say, I'm going to study the Bible? I don't mean like you're going to read ten verses because you want to check it off on your list and say, I got that done. But I mean you sit down, you open up your Bible, and you study it. You digest it, you meditate on it, you write down some notes in your Bible, you write down some things on a three by five card. You carry it around with you throughout the day. You think about what is there. You chew on it. You begin to try to understand what has God said here. And then you ask the question, what is God trying to show me In application of this text. Do you do that, Christian? We absolutely need to be people who are students of God's word. In Proverbs 2, Solomon says this to his children If thou criest after knowledge and liftest up thy voice to understanding, if thou seek her as silver and search for her as hidden treasures, then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord. There's a whole lot of heart that comes before understanding. He says, For the Lord giveth wisdom. Out of his mouth. Comes knowledge and understanding. He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. God's word, if it's just sitting on your coffee table And it's not open and it's not read and it's not meditated on, and you're not digging into it, is not impacting your life at all. You have to dig. You have to work. You have to search. You have to want to understand. There are some things in the Bible that are very simple and easy to understand right away. Other things are not like that. You've got to really dig. You've got to really search. You've got to work to understand. You cannot neglect the study of the scriptures. and be a discerning Christian. You cannot. You cannot neglect the sharpening influences of godly people in your lives who can help motivate you and encourage you and talk with you about these things and be a discerning Christian. You cannot approach the Bible with arrogance as if you've got it all figured out. How many people go, I wrote through the Bible once in my lifetime, I got it all figured out now? Really? You didn't read it very carefully, did you? You can't neglect the Spirit's work in your heart through the word We are dependent on the Holy Spirit to help us to understand the weight and the significance of these truths. You need to surround yourself with good tools to help you, and they're available. There's a second instrument that I want to mention, and this one's very important, and that is the Church of God You know, there are lots of Christians today that say, hey, I don't really need to go to church because we got all kinds of tools on the internet. I can go to Grace to you and I can listen to sermons for four hours a day if I want to. I can go to sermon audio and I can listen to sermons on sermon audio from good Bible preachers and teachers as much as I want every day while I'm driving to work in that DC traffic. That's true, you can. But I want to tell you there's a huge limitation there. There's a huge limitation. And I'll mention it in just a moment. But see what by the scripture says in Ephesians chapter 4 verse 11. God gave some apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers, for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry. That perfecting of the saints, the maturing, the building up of God's people, to the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come into the unity of the faith That we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro, carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the slight of men and cunning craftsiness, whereby they lie and wait to deceive. I'll put it real simple. God gave you the church so that you'll have discernment. God gave you the church so you'll be edified. God gave you the church so that you will grow. And God has not created a replacement to that. I'm not saying that listening to preaching and teaching is bad. I listen to preaching and teaching a lot. Every morning when I go out and walk, I try to listen to sermons, but that does not replace my church. I don't walk away from the church and say that now is my church. You say, why is that? Because in the church there are some things that happen that don't happen in your car when you're listening to sermon audio. Do you exercise your spiritual gifts in the car by yourself? No, you don't. But you do in the church. And God gave you those gifts, and He wants you to exercise them in this body. He wants people to be benefited by the use of those gifts. He wants to grow you and mature you by the use of those gifts. Does that pastor that you listen to on sermon audio care for your soul? He doesn't even know who you are. He doesn't know y he doesn't know your name, he doesn't know anything that's going on in your life. But you know, God puts you at a local church where there are leadership who know you. And love you and pray for you and care about you. And when things aren't right, they're going to come to you and talk to you. And when things are going well, they're going to encourage you. And they're going to come alongside of you. At least they're supposed to. But you don't get that in that other situation. You don't get a warning through sermon audio unless you choose to listen to that message. And let's be really honest, when we go to listen to messages, we pick the ones we won't listen to. It's true. You know, so there are certain topics. It's like I like listening to sermons on that topic. And so what do I do? I go to sermon audio, I type in what I'm looking for, and I listen to four, five, ten, whatever messages over a period of time on that topic There's some other topics. I'm not going to touch those. But guess what? When your pastor preaches verse by verse through the New Testament, you know what's going to happen? He's going to hit those those passages you didn't want to hear, but you absolutely needed to hear. And God in his providence said the reason you're sitting in that service today is because that's what you needed. But you don't get that in these other venues. The fact is, I love to read, I love to use commentaries, I love to listen to sermons, and I encourage all of you to do those things. But that cannot replace the local church. You don't have to get along with those authors. You don't have to serve alongside those authors. You don't have to listen to their rebuke. You don't share your prayer requests with them. And this dynamic is how we grow. Think about how much you have changed because you got married. How much you learned about your own nature by just getting married. Got some young married couples in here, you know? You're like, wow, I didn't know this about myself, but now I do. Think about how much you changed when you had your first child. Then the second one. Whoa. How about when your kids leave the home? Or when your kids want to go into something, there's nothing wrong with it, but it's not what you had envisioned for them. All these kinds of things. You know what happens? It's in relationship that we grow. We are forced to make decisions and to change and to mature. And that's why God gave us the church, because that's how we grow. Let me share some quick practical implications with you as I think about this passage. For our man, I want to encourage you with this thought. You're the head of your household. You need to lead your family in the area of commitment to the local church. And I'm not saying this for the sake of a self-serving kind of a thing, because I like seeing a lot of people in church. That's not why I'm saying it. I'm saying it because this was given by God for the care of your soul. And for the cares of the souls of your family members, your wife, your children, and future generations, believe it or not. What you give your family now is going to impact what your family is in 20 or 30 years. And so I encourage the heads of households be committed to God's program. Guide your wife. Guide your children. Take young Christians under wing. I want to encourage are family members. Be committed to God's program. You know, there are people who say, well, I'm not in the ideal situation. You know, my husband isn't a believer. He doesn't come to church ever. He's antagonistic towards church. Or my wife's antagonistic towards church. Or my kids are antagonistic towards church. Or my dad's antagonistic to Funster The reality is that God will give you the grace with your situation. He absolutely will. Don't neglect what he gives you. Get in your Bible. Study it. Get godly people that you interact with who will sharpen you in the faith. Get around people that God can use to stir up your heart. I want to encourage our young people, you have no authority in your home right now. Okay? A lot of young people wish they did. And then when they get it, they wish they didn't have it. Okay. I want to be an adult and be on my own and then it's like, wow, I gotta pay for this and I gotta pay for that, and all of a sudden the taxes are just like boom, boom, boom, and you realize life's a little different than you thought it was without responsibilities. Young people develop godly habits. Study the scriptures at an early age. You might be six, eight, ten years old. You might be fourteen, eighteen Be a student of the Word of God. Develop those disciplines now. Hey, pay attention in church. A lot of times young people just check out. We say, let's just throw them in the back and let's have a little program for them. Hey. Young people can pay attention in church. Young people can learn in the preaching and teaching. And I really want to encourage our young people. Your mom and dad love you. Communicate with them. They know more about God's word than you probably think they do. The fact that they're taking you here means that they put God as a very high priority in your family. Communicate with them. This whole passage can be boiled down into one simple fact. God's giving you everything you need to be a discerning Christian. The one thing that he doesn't give you is the will to take up those things. He doesn't force you. He calls you through a passage like this one. He stirs up your affections, but ultimately you have a choice to make. You have to take up these tools, and I encourage you to do that this morning. Let's bear our hearts together in prayer. Our Father, we are reminded through this passage that you've given us as your people everything we need to be godly, discerning individuals. To lead our families well, to grow in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. But we've got to make choices on a daily basis. To pick up those tools that you've given us, to not neglect the tools that you use to shape and to mature us and grow us. Help us to be people who are committed. To picking up those tools and to exercising ourselves in godliness. We ask that you would work in the hearts of your people today through this text in Christ's name. Amen.