Okay, well good evening. Hope that you had a good afternoon. Looking forward to our service. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our time together tonight. Let's pray. Father, thank you again for the blessing of the local church, and I thank you for our church family. Help us tonight as we're gathered together to have just a wonderful time of fellowship around the Word of God. Bless the preaching of your word as we sing praise to you. Help us to think about the rich truths that we'll express in song. And as we have opportunity to share testimonies, I pray that the things that we're able to share will be an encouragement to every person that's here tonight. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Good evening and welcome back. Had a great Sunday morning. We're going to keep going this evening, aren't we? Now As we start off our song services, we're going to start in the back of the book tonight, first with page 577. Please stand with me and let's sing, be strong in the Lord. So I 'm not trying to bring us to the next one, and we have one we have. Okay, let me flip this over. Page five hundred and eighty-seven. Page five eighty-seven. Victory in Jesus, Amen. We are like, I don't know how to do it, we are. What we are the end of the chorus, I heard the free. Amen. You know there's there's a little spot in there when you say blood. The kids could almost say hallelujah in there. Give them a little idea. Okay, page 571. Please have a seat. Please. See, please have a seat. When we all get to heaven, we will be singing that hallelujah song. All four verses when we all get to I know I know it's all making it in the brain. When we all when we all make it When we are On a day of when we when we are Amen. At this time we'll have Vision's Moment, Braxton. Well, shall we do 482 verses 1 and 2? Oh, you're giving me twice the Twice the uh run-through on this song. Page 482, Dwelling in Beulalin, first and second verse. Yeah. Eugene, I was listening for you, but boy, we got a bunch of them over here. Your dad'll have to help you next time. All right. Let's go to the blue book. I've got one here, page 96. What's page ninety-six in the blue book? It's right after 93. Oh my goodness Can you play this through once for me? Okay, here we go. That has so many time changes in it. Wow. I need to practice that one. I can sing it, but not lead it. All right, page 96, 482, 482. Let's see ya. Let me see just a couple things here real quick. Okay, let's let's see. Let's see. Which one? Oh. Well let's try 558. When I can read my title clear. Play it through once for me. Five fifty eight. Okay , no. Boy that reminds me of another song. That's not the words I remember, but that's a good one. That's a good one. Okay, page 62 The Steps of a Good Man. Both verses. And please stand with me. Stretch your legs. Open that diaphragm out. And sing out the steps of a good man. Well Please be. All right, good evening. If you guys would, open with me to First Samuel three. First Samuel three. When we look at this passage, uh, I want someone to kind of like think back with me. Think back to a time in your life where either maybe you were Trying to discern God's will. Whether that may be thinking about a new job, a place to move, and just needing to change your location, see where God may be leading. Maybe dating someone that you hopefully might become your spouse. Or maybe it's thinking about where you're going to college. I'm sure as many of us in this room can think back to a time, maybe that's today or yesterday or many years ago, about Trying to just figure out what God's will was. And we look back and we read passages like 1 Samuel 3 and we go, it was so much easier because God would just speak to us. And he would just use his audible voice, and if only he would do the same today. And as much as we like to look back and we give this ever typically anytime we look back, even if we look back decades or whatever, we give this at the golden era aspect. Where It's it was just perfect. We look back and it was so much better. Pastor kind of touched on that this morning about we look back and it was so much easier. And we wrap things up and it But when we look at 1 Samuel 3, it shows something different than what we perceive. When we think about how that God always seemed to speak, it says a different story here. When we read 1 Samuel 3, I would summarize it as God calls a young man who responds with an open heart and willingness to serve. God's calling will be a task, although hard, will change everything in Israel. The Lord will have his hand of blessing as that boy becomes a man and becomes the prophet of God. This story, this chapter, is one of the biggest turning points in all of Israel. It's the beginning of raising a man that Moses talks about, saying, There will be a prophet like unto me, I will call out from the midst of you. And he just kind of references this man. And Samuel is oftentimes believed to be that prophet. That things are going to change drastically. But one thing we can also look at though is that God is working and God He goes, hey, things are going to change, but I'm still here, I'm still Gata, I'm still working. And that leads us to just as Samuel needed to be, and Eli, Hopni, Phineas, Hannah. We today need to be sensitive to his calling. The question we are, are we listening? When God speaks, are we listening? When he calls, do we move as necessary? Read with me 1 Samuel 3, 1 through 3. And the child Samuel ministered unto the Lord before Eli, and the word of the Lord was precious in those days. There was no open vision. And it came to pass at that time when Eli was laid down in his place, and his eyes grow his eyes began to wax dim that he could not see. And ere the lamp of God went out in the temple of the Lord, where the ark was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep. When we first begin, before we can really get into this passage, God sets up a picture for us. He sets up everything we've seen so far. And he kind of even prefaces it very shortly saying, all right. Time has elapsed. Samuel has grown older. Let's see what's going on now. First thing we have to look at is in verse 1: God's silent. This was something that as I was studying that I had never realized before. And it says the child Samuel ministered in the Lord before Eli, and the word of the Lord was precious in those days. There was no open vision. I don't know how many of you are like me that when you read the word of the Lord, you think Scripture. The very first thing you go, Scripture was precious in that day, which I hope it was. But when we read word of the Lord specifically in the Old Testament, I want us to change our thoughts that it's not necessarily referencing Scripture. When you think about scripture being mentioned in the Old Testament, it is qualified by the law. The law is scripture Whether it be the law of the prophets, Moses, the history books, that is what we think about when you think about Scripture. So the question is, what is the word of the Lord? The word of the Lord is God. Well, let me show you kind of what that means. Think about John 1, verse 14. And the word of the and sorry, and the word was made flesh and dwelt among us. The word of the Lord can be a voice or a vision. Jeremiah 1:4. Then the word of the Lord came unto me. Jonah 1-1, now the word of the Lord came unto me. Came unto I, Jonah. And as we go throughout the prophets as they're calling, we typically will see something about the word of the Lord came to the prophet. He came to him. It wasn't, oh, the scripture just floated and it came to me and it said these things. It was God actively visioning. And To even give it a better perspective, think about John 1, the word became flesh. We think about Samuel and Jonah and Jeremiah and so many other prophets. It was a Christophany, it was Christ showing up before these men saying, I'm calling you. Will you come and do my work? And I I like I said I have never seen that or heard or thought that through before. And it just I would say it's one of the things that I as I was reading through this changed. I would say it's going to change how I read scripture going forward is that the word of the Lord is not scripture. Not to say that it diminishes it, but it's God speaking directly to these men. It's a vision. It is a Christophany many times appearing. Just as the word of the Lord was precious, God's visions were rare. It says there was no open vision. We can kind of see a need for revival, specifically in the temple. We read verse 2 and it came to pass at that time. So we kind of get this idea in verse 1 that there is this passage of time and then we're talking about at that it came to pass at that time A specific day that Eli was laid down in his place and his eyes began to wax dim. Eli was old. The temple needed someone to step up and take his place. And he didn't really have any good sons to replace him as we talked about last week. His sons were problems and he couldn't, Eli couldn't minister properly. It was also neglected. It says, and heir, and the The lamp of God was went out in the temple of the Lord. It gives us an idea that the lamp had not gone out, but it might. And the air and the lamp of God went out in the temple of the Lord. It's this idea that the lamp that was always to be burning, that was always there, it wasn't being taken care of. It was being neglected. The lamp was not burning as necessary as it was. They were neglecting serving God. I even want to go as far as talk about verse 3 even farther where it says, where the ark of the Lord was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep. Why do you think that was mentioned there? Why do you think it mentions exactly that where the temple, where the ark was, Samuel was laid down to sleep? One of the things I want to make mention is that as we know Samuel was a Levite, he was not of a priestly lineage. Which means he would not have been welcome in certain parts of the tabernacle. We read here where the ark Lord was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep. Sam , how I read this is Eli couldn't do his job, so he uh he made an exception to allow Samuel to sleep in a place he should not have been allowed by Scripture. I don't see otherwise they would have mentioned those two locations specifically unless they were in reference of close proximity to each other that we can be able to say Samuel probably wasn't where he needed to be. Not saying that's his fault. But he needed but he wasn't where his foot should have been And Samuel should have been moved to be in a different location that Eli could fulfill his place or the next high priest to step up and take that role. Samuel was almost kind of being the interim high priest as a boy, not how it should have been. And that takes us to verse 4. Everything begins to change. Now we read through this passage. This is something that maybe many of you are very familiar with. Many of you guys may have read this to your children when they were young. Maybe you learned this as a young boy, girl. It's a very familiar passage about the Lord coming to it. But I want us to, as we go through this today, revisit it, maybe hearing it for the first time and kind of, if I can give it some artistic literature or some artistic license to rethink this through. The Lord came unto Samuel and he answered, Here I am. And he ran unto Eli and he said, Here am I, for thou callest me. And he said, I called not. Lie down again. And he went and lay down. And the Lord called yet again Samuel. And Samuel rose and went to Eli and said, Here I am, for thou dost called me. And he replied, I call not my son. Lie down again. Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, neither was the word of Lord yet revealed unto him. And the Lord called Samuel again the third time. And he arose. Sorry, let me Again the third time. And he rose and went to Eli and said, Here am I, for thou didst call me. And Eli perceived that the Lord had called the child. Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, Go lie down, and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his place. I want to kind of think about maybe some different people in this aspect. The first thing we look at is Eli. Samuel. Was a young man being over here, but Eli was an old man. He was ready to go looks like he was I bet you he was ready to go down to bed. He's going to low down, he's turning off, he's blowing out his candles, ready to go down, and next thing you know you hear Sam he comes over to the door, the curtains kind of open them and goes, what do you want? And Sam was like, you called me. No, go away Now he's an old man. I want to believe it kind of took him a little while to get over to his bed and about time he about sits down he hears again at his door and he has to work his way back across and go, what do you want? He goes, you called me. No, no, no, go lay down. Now I wonder about Samuel if he's thinking that maybe Hofni or Phineas is playing a joke on him. saying just going Samuel it's he it's he like Samuel and he comes he's trying to come over here like hey you calling me no I I don't know I don't know what was going through his mind I just read through that going, Hof Nine and Phineas, they were belial, worthless. Maybe they were pranksters. Maybe this was something they've done before, and he goes, maybe that's something that happened again. Eli, I wonder as an old man having to get bothered three times as he goes to lay down, how he's feeling about this, saying, I just want to get some sleep. What do you want? But we see that ends up happening is the Lord, scripture again makes a special reference to about the person of Samuel. It says in verse 7, neither was the word of the Lord revealed unto him. Neither was the word of the Lord revealed unto him. Remember what we said earlier. That's not a reference to Scripture. It wasn't that Samuel had no idea what the law said. If anything, in verse chapter 2, verse 18, it says, And Samuel ministered before the Lord, being a child, girded with linen ephod. I would say so much that Samuel did know the law. He knew what he had to wear. He knew how to get dressed. But he had never experienced the Lord calling him before. It was something so distant and different than he's ever experienced. He didn't understand. It wasn't that he was insensitive, it's an experience that he had never understood before. Which is that illustration I had at the very beginning. When you were growing up the first time you made it, you had to make a big decision. And you're asking, what is the Lord's will? But as soon as you made a decision, whether it was college, marriage, job, anything like that, as soon as you're able to kind of figure out the Lord wants me to do X, and you take that step of faith. The next time you have to take the step of faith, it's a little bit easier. You know, I think the Lord's leading me to go here. And you can take that step of faith a little bit easier. Why was it easier? You had ex- I'm gonna use the word experience that maybe the Lord's leading again. You have I don't use the word a feeling, but you're saying, all right. God, I believe we've drawn closer over the years. I think I can experience a little bit better of what you're leading me. I'm trusting in your will. Let it be so. And that, to me, that's exactly what's going on here is that he's never experienced it. He's just questioning. And the Lord's not. And if you read through here, you don't see the Lord condemning him for, didn't you know my voice? It was Samuel. Samuel. He repeats it two times to really get his attention that, hey, it's me. That's rare we see verse ten. And in verse ten it goes on even farther. And it says the word of the Lord came and stood. Again, an example. It's not scripture, but it was the word of the Lord, Christ came and stood in his presence. And said as the other time, Samuel, Samuel. And Samuel answered, Speak, for thy servant heareth. Samuel was able to, I believe, hear, but also is able to see the Lord and say, Speak, thy servant here is God, and kind of recognizes who God is. He puts things in his proper perspective. Now what's talk about when we read through here it is very easy as Christians to look at Scripture, especially the Old Testament, and expect how does God work? And I want to make a few statements that what the word of the Lord, the call is not. The first thing, it will not be contrary to scripture. If you are searching for the will of the Lord, it will not be contrary to Scripture Hebrews 13. 8. Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, forever. 2 Peter 1. 20. Knowing this first that no prophecy of the Scripture is any private interpretation. God 's word will lead and guide us. Period. In the 21st century, Christians with the Holy Spirit, we have to look to his scripture first to lead us and direct us. We cannot say, all right, the Lord wants me to go do this. But his scripture says otherwise. Ah, forget that. This is a new interpretation. This is new scripture. Mr. Mitchell 113, I don't know, whatever you want to say. We have to trust his scripture first and foremost. What it's not is a feeling from the heart. Jeremiah seventeen, nine and ten. The heart is deceitful above all things, and death relieved wicked. Who can know it? I, the Lord, search the heart. I try the reins, even to give every man according to his ways. And according to the fruit of his doings. When someone wants to abuse the will of the Lord, I feel my heart leads me. And I'm sure many of you have heard More examples than I can even list today about people saying something deciding based off of feelings. I do want to say one little thing though. I do believe the Lord uses your heart to help lead you. You though. One of the things that when it comes to making a decision, especially through here, is the Lord called multiple times It wasn't a once time and Samuel knew and did everything. It was the Lord was patient and kept calling to help him listen to what the Lord was saying. If we think about missionaries, they may have had a desire saying, I want to go be a missionary. If I actually were to ask Pastor Joel, he would say at one point, maybe he wanted, you know, I I think the Lord wants me to be a missionary. All right, well, the scriptures say, oh yep, Joel be a missionary. We say it kind of begins as a heart little feeling. And then years go by, maybe months, and he still keeps and you know he keeps praying and he keeps speaking with God. He spends time and the the feeling doesn't go away. I would say that leads us almost to Psalm 37, 4. Delight thyself in the Lord, and he shall give thee desires in the heart. The heart to begin with and make a rash decision off of, that's wrong. I believe this story shows that. That Samuel may have wanted to serve the Lord, may have been a desire of his heart as he was serving in the temple, and he saw these terrible people before him, and he goes, Lord, I speaking Not as what scripture says, but I wonder if he was like, Lord, I just pray that you will send someone. The Lord goes, Sammy, I want you. And he's just like, mmm. What's he kind of waits on the Samuel, Samuel, Samuel three times, and he's trying to get his attention. It was repetition, repetition, repetition of time. The Lord leads. And again, as I said, it is not a rash decision. Psalm 27, 14. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. Again, he called multiple times. As we seek the Lord and his wisdom of what to do. We may see, you know, I want to do this. We have to weigh on the Lord and just pray and ask for wisdom. Let time Work. Time oftentimes settle out feelings. I I can you can maybe think about as a kid where your first crush, how as time went by it kind of settled down that crush. You didn't like him as you got older. or something like that. Now for those who marry their high school sweethearts, this doesn't apply to you. But for those that you like someone and you take a little time and you get to really know them, you're like, that's not no, that's not what I'm interested in. Time will settle out a lot of feelings. But seek the Lord, trust him. Notice something else as the Lord repetition called on knowing his voice. He sent Saint He sent Eli there. He had the help of others. It was not by himself. He goes, and the Lord said to Samuel again, the third time. Then Samuel goes, ah. Or sorry, Eli goes, ah. That's the Lord's calling you. Say this next time. I remember in college, I was I don't remember what decision I was, but I remember calling up a pastor, might have mentors and talking to many mentors about what I wanted to do and this question, how do I make how do I know the Lord's will? And he just said, know his word. I was like, that was stupidly simple, but thank you. It's one of those things that it was right in front of me, but I just needed a little guidance. I need a mentor to step up and lead I I think about First Kings 19, uh third oh sorry, that's not the reference. Verse 9, it talks about Eli send to Samuel. He acts like I think the thing that also catches me off guard as I read through the story is Eli acts like it was normal. He just kind of recognizes he goes, he's perceived that the Lord had called him. Therefore Eli said to Samuel, go and lie down. He just kind of like, ah, another day in the temple. Go lay down. It says a little different that it was rare in those days, it was precious, but Samuel acts like it was or Eli acts like it was normal. Kind of an interesting perception Scripture gives us a lot of opportunities to listen to what's listening to our elders, whether it be in the church, 1 Timothy and Titan and 2 Timothy, talk about just listening to those that have gone before us, not rebuking an elder. In verse 10, God solidifies the call. Knowing his voice, we wait, we gotta know, we gotta listen. For the multiple times, it's finding elders, mentors to help guide us and direct us, but then the Lord also solidifies it. The Lord came and stood. He removed all doubt. He says, you're going to step out here and you're going to wonder what what to do next. And he's just going to say, take a step. You may not see it now, but I want you to take a step. And when you do, I want you to recognize. And he says, hey, the Lord came and stood. There was no doubt if it was someone on the other side of the wall, if it was Hof Nai or Phineas just hollering through the temple to try and fool him, it was I am am calling you But once we do hear his voice, the question can be, what do we do with it? No, and I would say that's the next logical step as we read through the passages what to do with his voice. Verses 11 through 18. Let's finish out most of the chapter. And he's like And the Lord said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of the Lord sorry, the ears of everyone that heareth it shall tingle. And that day I will reform against Eli all things, which I have spoken concerning his house. When I begin, I will also make an end. For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever for the iniquity which he knoweth Because the sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not. And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be purged with a sacrifice nor offering forever And Samuel lay until the morning and opened the doors of the house of the Lord, and Samuel feared to show Eli the vision. Then Eli called Samuel and said, Samuel, my son! And he answered, Here I am. And he said, What is the thing that the Lord has said unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me. God do so to thee, and more so if thou hide anything from me Hold that thou hast said unto thee. And Samuel told him every wit, and nothing from him he and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is the Lord. Let him do what seemeth good. When the Lord gives a message, it is challenging. I think the first thing we have to recognize is the challenge oftentimes when the Lord calls. If we were to pause and reflect through scripture, kind of a lot of what's going on, when we think about what's going on and having to pass the message on. It's very easy to think about how challenging it will be. But I think the Lord's message, I think we look at the message here. I think it starts off with excitement and it dies quickly. It says in verse 12, In that day I will f Sorry, not verse 12, verse 11, behold, I will do a thing in Israel. Samuel's like, yeah This needs to happen. There is a lot of things going on in Israel right now. And he says, I'm about to do a thing. That everyone that heareth shall tingle. Tingle literally gives the idea of quiver or shake. It's not a positive. It's everything that you're going to hear what happened, I'm going to change everything. And it won't be good. It's going to literally shake the people to their core. It's gonna rock if I can use a more current term, it's gonna rock their will. It's gonna m it's gonna shake up everything. Jeremiah 19, 3 and 4, the Lord says something similar. And he says, Hear the word of the Lord, O king of Judah, and it happened to Jerusalem. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Behold, I will bring evil upon this taste, sorry, upon this place. Which whosoever heareth his ears shall tingle, because they have forsaken me and estranged this place and have burned incense unto other gods whom neither they nor their fathers had known, nor the kings of Judah, and have filled this place with the blood of innocence. It begins with he's going to cause, he's going to change everything. And you one of the words here is he's a child. Now it's very vague on what his age would be, but we think about a boy probably 13 or younger, realistically. He hears, oh man, what is God doing? He's going to change everything? And then it doesn't get any better. Verse 15 it says, and Samuel lay unto the morning. He doesn't even sleep. He has to think about what God has just said to him. He's laying about Your mind's busy going so much you can't go to sleep at night. He's just laying there in bed staring at the ceiling about what God has said to him and he's he doesn't even know what to do with it. To make things worse, Eli comes along and he says, I want you to tell me everything. And if you hide anything from me, I hope the Lord does to you what he said. Think about what he just said. I'm gonna wipe Israel I'm gonna wipe Eli's family off this planet. Eli imagine Samuel going, Well now I really have to tell you, I don't want that to happen to me. It's a kind of a fearful saying He said, God do so to thee and more also. Earlier verses, he's gonna restrain them. He's gonna wipe Eli 's family off the earth. What a terrifying thought. But I also want us to recognize hard messages put us in great company. Samuel, I would say is one of the few that doesn't respond with anything negative. Samuel says, Here am I. And the Lord tells them a challenging message. And the next thing you notice is Samuel stares at the morning. I also do things you read through here, it says that he opened the doors of the house of the Lord in verse fifteen. First thing you do is see Samuel. As soon as he can get up, he's trying to make himself busy, hoping that s maybe Eli will forget. He opens the doors, he starts opening everything and just gets busy to work. Because he feared to show Eli the vision. He wanted Eli to forget. He's not the only one. Moses called to the Lord. Lord, I. I I I I I st I stutter. Are you are sure you want to send me? Eli we think about Sa Isaiah, he's a popular one. He says, who will go He says, here I am. The Lord gives a message, and Eli Isaiah's response is , How long? This is going to be a hard message. Jeremiah, he calls it at a young age, and Jeremiah's response is But I'm but a child. The Lord's messages are hard. But it doesn't make them any less necessary and challenging to br to bring. We read through and we see how challenging it is. And I think if anything, that shows even more so that it's the Lord calling. Normally, we're not going to want to bring pain and hardship onto ourselves. That's the Lord saying, it's going to be painful, but it will be worth it. You read through each of these men, and I would think the same thing with you with us, when the Lord calls, and we can think of all of these excuses. A question comes to my mind that I hope you ask yourself, who knows us better? Who knows you better? You or God? I can think back to in college. All I knew is I wanted to serve the Lord full time. I had no idea what that was. I went to college as a pastoral major. I took all these Bible classes and I kept going and I enjoyed it and I loved it. And I was like, all right, I'm going to be a pastor someday, maybe church planner, and I was in college. And the first job I get out of college was an educator. Teaching at a Christian school. The plans were to go there, and I I you know I was orchestrating all the things that God had planned. You know, they were a church-planning church, and they were they've sent out other m pastors to be church planters. So I was like, I'm going to get planted here and grow a little bit and I'm going to learn so many things underneath them. But when I started telling some of my mentors, and I talk to my family about I you know I think the Lord might be sending me to this job to be an educator I I reflect back at many of them saying that suits you that was I think about my mom saying, actually back in high school that I should have been a teacher, and I said, I hate teaching. Why would I I hate school? Why would I want to do teaching? And Being a teacher, Ms. Doris, as I'm sure you know, is challenging work. If anyone's taught before it having to work in a Christian school, it is exhausting. It is long days, long hours dealing with hard children that don't want to be there most of the time. And there's a the the laundry list of making teaching miserable can go on. But as I go back to that question, who knew me better? I would say the Lord. And I I look back and I love nothing more than teaching. It's something that I look back and I look forward to the opportunity of doing it again. I I loved the opportunity to teach One thing that I will even say as we have future coming up is I have the exciting opportunity that the influence that began with education doesn't typically doesn't have to end in Easter. The school that I taught at all the way down to Miami, Florida will be here to as they're doing their senior trip and they'll be swinging through before they go to the wild. So I am excited for that opportunity to be connecting with those students again and just That God knew me better than I knew myself, that I had all these plans, and he goes, I have something better. His call is challenging. You read through this passage, you read through the Bible, anytime he calls someone, it's usually because there's hard work ahead. But you read through their ministry and you see what God did. It's not always positive. But they're in scripture, and that's a blessing more than they ever could have realized if they would have denied him and said no. So how do we deal with God's leading today? How do we apply this? The first thing is Listen for God 's call. Each and every day, whatever it is, listen, wait, pray, whatever God's leading us for the next step. But also, as I read through here, it's not in this passage, but it makes my mind think of sharing the gospel Sharing the gospel is hard, but it is necessary, and Scripture clearly says that he wants us to do it. It is the will of God that we are to share the gospel. So we ask about what is the will of God. We can start off by saying the will of God is to share the gospel. That's one thing we can clearly say. But it's hard. And today's day and age is more challenging than it has ever been. Listening to a speaker one time say, he said that Today's generation is probably the hardest generation to share the gospel with. And a lot of that has to deal with today's generation, they're asking, what is truth? We think about teenagers to share the gospel. What they are saying is the world is saying what is truth. And to kind of put it in their perspective, we are being prideful to say that we have the truth. It's not that it's wrong, but it's to say that we're prideful that we have the truth. And it it is in the face of everything that they believe. We look at generations. My generation even there was still the same, if I can use the word the sanctity of truth, that there was a truth. And we are there whatever how you want to get about that. We go through different generations for last hundred years there was some idea of truth and it was much easier to come to a grounding and understand that there was truth. But today's generation they don't even have a grounding. Young people have some of the hardest tasks ahead of them of sharing the gospel with their classmates. It also they have the greatest blessing that when someone says, ah, this is the truth, they're gonna be radically different than anyone in our generation ever was. That they're just adding God, but this is this will be their God in many aspects. The way to present the gospel, sharing the gospel, requires the Spirit leading. Just as the Lord has to lead and call. When we share the gospel, it shouldn't be the same A to Z message every single time. I've heard many people say if we go to A to Z every single time we'll never win someone, but sometimes the the message is A, then Z. Maybe it's A, B, C, F, E, and you kind of jump around as necessary and it's a conversation. It requires the Lord's leading to just walk through and say, Lord, we want to witness, bring people across our path, we know that's your will, but it's also having to As I present it, it's entirely your it's all entirely your work. And having to lead and trust and follow his leading. Nothing I said tonight is everything. The Lord's will is some of the hardest to really nail down, and we talk about each person's life and how the Lord leads. But the s the truth is simply that if we can just pause, listen, wait, he will make himself known. I I think about the story of Elijah. That it wasn't in the fire, it wasn't in the storm, it wasn't the earthquake, but it was the still small voice. It was waiting through everything that Lord, what do you have? Let us pray. Father Lord, thank you for today. Thank you for your word. That we can know who you are. And we can we can know your spirit, that it leads and guides us. I pray though, Father, that we don't miss it I think about the young people that are looking to college for that next step about where to go. Father, I just want to make your will clear and evident wherever it may be. And know that you are still God no matter the choice, the circumstances, that you are still working, even in our inability. Father, I just trust. That as we leave from here, that we take your your word, your gospel, and share it among this nation and proclaim you our truth. It's no less hard, but Father, we know that you are comforter and you make things easier. Your yoke is easy, your burden is light. Praise the Him's fresh holy name. Amen. You know, one of the most tumultuous times in Israel's history was the time of the judges. And Samuel is kind of like the connecting point between the time of the judges and ultimately some of Israel's greatest years under David and then Solomon. And as a general principle, God accomplishes his purposes through people. And uh God can use all kinds of things. He doesn't have to use people, but that's what he generally does. The general way that God reaches people with the gospel is through conversations over and over and over again. I I know people have gotten saved just picking up a track, okay? Uh but somebody printed that track. Somebody handled that track. Somebody dropped that track. Whatever the situation. God uses people. And if God's gonna use people to work in situations, sometimes the things that we are planted to do are not easy. And Samuel is a great example. Here he is, he's a boy. Um we don't really know how old he is, but when God gave him his first prophetic word that he had to speak. It was to Eli, and it was, God's going to judge your family because you have lived a wicked life. And you know what he did? He told him. And uh we need to be faithful in whatever God uh plant where he plants us and what he uh calls us to do do so let's remember that please let's take our hymn books out and let's turn to 389 and the song is is your all on the altar Okay, 389. Please let's stand together and we'll sing um let's sing the first we'll sing all four verses actually I think we have all of that on there. 389 is your all on the altar. You have long for sweet days and for pain. And then heard we heard and we pray, but we cannot have rest or be a It left until all but three borders play all the same. Your God has to be ready for can only be blessed and happy as we dress Here in the home put in walk with the Lord in my word and the heat. And happy can be right and is here for me to go. For we never can know, oh no more, will be shown, oh no , when we were praying. If he did a murder We have these as we breath as you give in your eager soul can come on. He was standing from a lot and come back in the Well I hope that you'll be able to join us back on Wednesday night as we continue our series through the Sermon on the Mount. And what we're dealing with right now is we're talking about how to love people in tough situations. And we're looking at principles that are connected to um what it means to love people in tough situations. So I hope that you'll join us uh Wednesday for that if uh if you're able to. And uh let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to Take what we have heard throughout the day today and really help us to apply it in a very practical way. So let's bow together for prayer Our Father, as we think about this day, I pray that you'd help us to be a people who take the scriptures that we've heard expounded, whether in Sunday school, morning, and evening service. And that we would take those things and apply them. Father, help us to recognize the freedom that we have in Christ. And as people who are no longer under condemnation, but we are in position of your grace. That we would walk in a way that's consistent with the position that we enjoy. And as we think about walking in wisdom in a fallen world, I pray that we would remember Psalm 37. And the text that was laid before us and what it means to walk in wisdom. And Father, as we think about the life of Samuel as a young boy, you spoke to him because he was going to be your prophet. And this young man who had a very tough message that you gave him to deliver to a man that he loved very much, was willing to speak the truth. And he did it even at a young age. And so I pray that you'll help us as we are planted in different places that we would be faithful in whatever capacity you have directed us to at that time. time. Help us to be faithful in our families, help us to be faithful in our workplaces. Help us to be faithful as members of this body. And I pray that you would uh strengthen us to step up and do what we need to do. Do in tough places. We ask for your blessing on our week, and we ask it all in Christ's name, Amen