Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our service today. Hope that you're having a great week. Looking forward to a wonderful series of uh services today. Uh we've got a couple of announcements and then Pastor Josh will come and open up our scripture with our scripture requests. Reading, sir, script reading. Oh, it's calling you. I think I'll let Josh give a little more insight, but the teens uh from my understanding did very well yesterday. They placed So I'll let him talk a little more about it. But if you do see the teams that were at the Bible competition yesterday, just encourage them and say congratulations as they they did very well. Tonight, this evening, we do have a business meeting. At the welcome desk, as you walk out, there will be two pieces of paper. I will be out there as well, so meet please feel free to grab them. But remind there are two pieces, so Make sure you want to grab both of them as well. This Friday, we have a baby shower for four ladies in our church. There is a registry in the bulletin board that for the ladies that kind of talks about it as well as a sign-up sheet. So just have opportunity to come out and encourage some of the ladies. Saturday, there is an elder estate planning at 9 a. m. in the fellowship hall. There is more information at the welcome desk. It's being done by Mr. FC Morgan there. And then in a couple weeks we have the ladies' lunch and it is being catered, so please Take the time to go to the Bulletin board, sign up, and then see all the other stuff that's going on. There are several things to look at on the Bulletin board. So encourage you to head down the hall and just see what's coming up. Pastor Josh. Yeah, yeah, I was very excited about yesterday in the Bible quizzing. It was our first time quizzing as a church. And I was very, very thrilled with how they did with individual and as a team. And we did officially get third place, but it was like a really strong third place. We had a very cl well, I think from what I know, it was the closest match against the team that got first. And that was very, very exciting. And that was over 1st and 2nd John. And I'm just thrilled that they took the time to memorize and that just had a good result. And now my prayers that that would just not go away. You spend that much time, months preparing to be quizzed on 1st and 2 John. that that would be a good pattern for life, principles, and scripture that they could always recall since they spent so much time thinking and meditating upon it. And uh now we're excited for James next year. I'm already pumped myself. Can't wait to do that. And so be praying for them. So thank you for your prayers. Appreciate that. I think the Lord honored that and helped them. And I was just very, very pleased. Personally, Becky and I were very happy for how they did. And now we will go with our opening reading to open up the service in Psalm 2, starting with the first verse. Why do the heathen rage? And the people vagin a vain thing The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord, and against his anointed, saying , Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from us. He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh, and the Lord shall have them in derision. Then shall he speak unto them in his wrath and vex them in sore displeasure. Yet have I set my king upon the holy hill of Zion. I will declare the decree. The Lord hath said unto me, Thou art my son. This day have I begotten thee. Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. Thou shalt break them with the rod of iron, and thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Be wise now, therefore, O ye kings. Be instructed, ye judges of the earth Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son, lest he be angry. And ye perish away, but perish from the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all they that put their trust in him. Our focus of worship for today is on our need to have discernment in the last days. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our service and help us as we look at these truths together. Father, we're so grateful for Scriptures and what they've reminded us this morning. We recognize that this is your world. We recognize that you rule and reign, and that there will be a day that the Lord Jesus Christ will return, establish his kingdom forever. We're so grateful that as your people we have the privilege because of his sacrifice by grace alone, through faith alone in him, that we get to be a part of that kingdom forever. And so I pray that you'd help us as we think about the time that we're living in and the times as they move toward their ultimate end. What you are doing in the world, that we would be men and women who walk in wisdom. We'd understand these times. We'd understand how to live. how to honor you, and that ultimately you would be pleased with the way that we conduct ourselves. Pray that you bless this service. May you be exalted. Be with those who cannot physically be here today because of sickness or traveling. May you bless them today and be at work in their lives, be with those who are recovering from procedures, surgery, sickness. I pray that you would strengthen their bodies as they're doing now. And I pray that our fellowship around the Word of God today would be very sweet, and that you would be exalted. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning. Thanks so much for joining us for worship. Please stand with me and open your hymns to hymn number 65. Hymn books to hymn number sixty-five. Oh worship the king. We'll sing all four verses. O worship. And gratefully water our seal and defender. And darkness with It brings and wheel with springs from the hell it descends to the plane and sweet meeting. Well children are talking and we want us well, we do. Thy mercy house and make a better Great singing back to page forty-six Continue that great singing 46. Crown him with many crowns to sing all four verses. This is another one of those songs that really lends itself to singing out. Crown him with many crowns. God is wrong, our common family and ask them, all make my own, I'll make my soul and see. But they would die for me and my mass with always turn a single. Crown him on a remote and hand. Red World City. We were ever no way to lend the God can only find by. Wondering I have a resurrect crown him the Lord of my coach I abored the grave The rose victory must find Jesus slave, his glory now we speak. And then that may I cry In the Lord of One with the Brotherhood, one with the wheel and Amen. Please be seated. We'll turn back to page 26. Great singing this morning. Praise the Lord. Praise to the Lord the Almighty. We'll sing all four verses. Praise to the mortal mighty, the king of real. Oh my soul women won 't be sure for me Join me in one song Praise. God will all things on every wear stout be on the beach. Praise to the Lord when my I went morning and guided and was angry I wanted Spreading his wings for me, praise you , and all anything. Let me let me start with me for the Great singing this morning. Our scripture reading will be found in the Gospel of Luke. It'll be in Luke. Chapter 12, we'll be reading verses 49 through 59. Luke, chapter 12, verses 49 through 59 The scriptures say, I am come to send fire on the earth. And what will I if it be already kindled? But I have a baptism to be baptized with. And how am I straightened till it be accomplished? Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on earth. I tell you, nay, but rather division. For from henceforth there shall be five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three The father shall be divided against the son, and the son against the father, the mother against the daughter, and the daughter against the mother. the mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. And he said also to the people , When ye see a cloud rise out of the west, straightway ye say, There cometh a shower, and so it is And when ye see the south wind blow, ye say, there will be heat, and it cometh to pass. Ye hypocrites. Ye can discern the face of the sky and of the earth. But how is it that ye do not discern this time? Yea, and why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right? When thou goest with thine adversary to the magistrate, as thou art in the way, give diligence that thou mayest be delivered from him, lest he hail thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer And the officer cast thee into prison. I tell thee, thou shalt not depart thence till thou hast paid the very last might. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. This was over for me, but this is the system. Man, praise the Lord. Thank you for that. Ian, we're gonna stand for our next song, 177. Please stand with me. We're gonna sing the first two verses and we'll take a couple verses. We'll greet one another, and in the last verse we'll come together and sing out on that last verse. Sing out this morning, our great savior. She 's one of the one. My soul friends make them. Richard Abor. And our last song before the preaching number 105 in our blue book, For Me to Live is Christ. We'll sing all four verses and we'll sing the last verse without instrument. Acapella on lap. Looked it up. Great singing this morning. In lime more night. Thou art despair, my fore men, how holy share, to live his price, to die escape, I seek to make Step by his name for me to let his voice For me to let his voice pursuing And my life right for me to live his price He came to earth and turned more to ever The same as long with mine and price , I made my own to serve with the whole heart for me. Cursing man my mind for me. To know my Lord's pass as long, to pray for them, I sing all. To know his victory on the grave, to know his mighty power to say. For me to live as doing my life, for me to live. So joy in Christ and ever sees and run to him. He brings truth, content. And every single and all be strengthened by his grace for me to live his cross. For me to live, pursuing him my highest prize for me to live. Amen. Please be seated. I must be a fine dream. God will make all it go that today. Come on in the brother, some just come down You will be used to be a no more night No more day All more tears, never crying again. We will highlight my see all around. Now the nation has come down to the stand The only God is the praise prize of game. I know the king over me to No more lies, no more day, no more tears, never crying again. With this good library, we will listen to my See over there is the man shot previous when my sail is the No more, no more kill, no more fear, never cry again. Great and girl, great I will live in the high of the. . We will live in the line of the Wow, isn't that a great What a powerful message. Let's all take our Bibles and turn to Luke chapter 12 this morning. Our children who are junior church age can be dismissed back to your classes. The rest of you, we're going to dig into this passage of Scripture this morning, a passage that is really the continuation of what Jesus has been saying all throughout Luke chapter 12. And yes, or last Sunday we dealt with the issue of God's kingdom, and this is going to be continuing in that same vein of thought. So Let's read the text together, please. Here's what the scriptures say. I am come to send fire on the earth. And what will I if it be already kindled? But I have a baptism to be baptized with. And how am I straight until it be accomplished? Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on earth? I tell you, nay, but rather division. For from henceforth there shall be five in one house divided. Three against two and two against three, the father shall be divided against the son, and the son against the father, the mother against the daughter, the daughter against the mother, the mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, the daugh Daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law And he said also to the people, When ye see a cloud rise out of the west, straightway ye say, There cometh a shower, and so it is. And when ye see the south wind blow, ye say, There will be heaps. It cometh to pass. Ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky and of the earth, but how is it that ye do not discern the time? Yea, why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right. When thou goest with thine adversary to the magistrate, as thou art in the way, give diligence. That thou mayest be delivered from him, lest he hail thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and the officer cast thee into prison. I tell thee. Thou shalt not depart thence till thou hast paid the very last might. Let's bow together for a word of prayer as we dig into this passage of Scripture that has a very sobering truth for us to consider. The great need for us to have discernment in these days in which we're living. Let's pray. Father, as we've heard from you through your word. I pray that you would continue to impress upon us the significance of the truths that we will look at this morning. What wonderful truths we have sung this morning in these hymns. That choir special, that offertory, all of these pieces of this service have just exalted the Lord Jesus as King. Yet this text reminds us that when he comes, there will be great opposition to him on that day. And those who are living at the time of his coming will experience great turmoil because of the animosity of the world against the true and rightful King of His creation. Father, as we read this text and as we work through these truths, I pray that you would work them into our hearts, that they would help us to understand what we see around us. That they would help us to understand how we are to live in this time. And that ultimately we would be a more godly and a more wise people today as we look at this text. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us has a very simple summary associated with it. Christ is teaching these verses to have discernment in the times that we are living. Such a simple statement. God wants you to understand the times that you are in. But the simple fact is a lot of people do not understand the times that they're living in, and it's not just the world. that often struggles with understanding the times that they're living in. It's also the church many times that struggles in these areas And so I want to remind you kind of what we talked about last week, and I want to tie together what Jesus was teaching leading up to this passage that we're looking at this morning, which is a lengthy passage. a heavy passage. I want you to see how the two pieces, actually three pieces, they all fit together. So last week we examined how Christ compelled his disciples to be ready for his return. And the way that the text was laid out was actually emphasizing a focus in verse 37. In verses 35 and 36 he puts it very simply Be ready for his return. And he says it like this Let your loins be gird about, and your lights burning. The idea is prepare yourself to work and be ready at all times. And then the next part of this focus is that those who are prepared are blessed people. Verse 37 says, Blessed are those servants whom the Lord when he cometh shall find watching. But then Jesus expands that blessing that those who are ready for his coming will enjoy, and he states it this way in verse 37. I'm going to serve those who are ready and I'm going to host them. And Jesus is referring to what's going to take place when the people who are ready for him at his coming will have the privilege of entering into his kingdom. This is not the ultimate eternal kingdom, but this is the kingdom that is a foretaste of that future kingdom of Christ, this thousand-year reign. And here's what he says in verse 37. He shall gird himself, make them to sit down to meet, and will come forth and serve them. And I just paused for a moment last week and I asked the question, can you imagine The King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, the Lord of Glory. The same one that we just sang about. What a powerful song. All of these songs that emphasize that he is the king. Praise to the Lord, the Almighty, the King of creation. Oh my soul, praise him. He is my help and salvation. I mean, what amazing, rich songs. That same Lord is going to get on his knees and serve his people. Like that's a stunning thing to consider. And when the disciples saw him in the upper room that night before he was betrayed, he began to get down and he pulled out a basin and he begins to wash their feet and he's saying, I'm going to do this. in the kingdom for you. Peter says, you can't touch my feet. Jesus says, if I don't wash you, you have no part with me. What an amazing thing to consider. And that really is the focus of that first part what we talked about last week. And then he says it again, again, I tell you. They are blessed. Blessed are those servants. Verse 38. And so the focus uh he ends that little section in verse 40 by saying, So be ready. Be therefore ready also, for the Son of Man cometh at an hour when ye think not And so we talked about that last week. Then the second part of the message last week was emphasizing the fact that when he comes, there are really two kinds of people that are going to meet him. One category of person is one who is wise. This is someone who is convinced of Christ's person, his authority. There's a future kingdom. This person is ready. They're wise. But then the second group is foolish. They're complacent. They're opposed to what the scripture teaches about who Jesus says that he is, his rightful authority, his future judgment. They are not ready. He says they are fools. Not ready. This week we're going to examine how Christ compels his disciples to be discerning in the times that they're living. Because the simple fact for us to consider is if in fact the Lord is coming, and when he comes there'll be two kinds of people, those who are wise and they're ready, and those who are fools who disregard him. Those who submit to his authority and those who throw off his authority, those who recognize he's going to judge, and those who say he's not going to judge, there's going to be a massive conflict between those two groups of people when it comes to that time That Jesus is going to come at his second coming. And when he comes, those who are living at that time may find even in their own households That contrast between the wise and the fool. It could even be between a husband and a wife. It could be between a parent. And a child. It could be between a couple and in-laws. And the question is, when that kind of a conflict arises, how is a believer supposed to respond? Who is supposed to be his ultimate allegiance? How is he supposed to make sense of the kind of contention that is there in his midst? You know, most of us, I I say probably the vast majority of us, we don't like contention. We don't like dealing with people who are upset at us. But the simple truth that this text of scripture shows is that that is not always possible to eliminate from the world. Because of the kind of world that our Jesus will meet. And so the first truth I want you to notice this morning is that discernment understands the urgency of God's program. Verses 49 and 50 tell us how Jesus expresses this. He says, I am come to send fire on the earth. What will I if it be already kindled? But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how am I straightened till it be accomplished? Now, there are really two statements that Jesus is making here, and the way that he is speaking is you could say a bit of a proverbial manner. For instance, when he talks about a baptism that he's going to experience, he's not talking about the water baptism of John. He's not talking about the water baptism of believers baptism. He's talking about something that he is going to be placed into. It's going to be a severe thing. He's talking about his death. And when he talks about this kindling of fire, what he's ultimately expressing is that there's going to be a day that all the troubles that are going on in the world, they're going to be put right. They're going to be set straight. The true king is going to establish his rule, and he's going to remove sin and unrighteousness and he's going to judge the wicked and he's going to establish a kingdom of eternal righteousness. That is the sense of what Jesus is talking about in these verses. And so, first of all, in verse 49, he's saying, the world needs to be set straight. I am come to send fire and what will I if it already be kindles? Another way of saying it is, I wish it would happen now. That's what he said. When he looks at this world and all the trouble and all the grief and all the sin and all the misery, he says, I want to put it right. You say, well, why doesn't he do it then? Why does he wait? There are still people to be saved. We don't know who they are. The fact is, there might be people who haven't even been born yet who still need to be saved. They need to be born. They need to come in conduct with the gospel. They need to place their faith in Christ. There is a certain number of people that are going to enter into that kingdom until that day that he determines it's time, we're going to continue to live as it is today. But when Jesus looked at that world, he said, I wish that it were now. Why is that? Because he understands the urgency of the need to put things right. But the second statement is important. It cannot happen without the cross. Jesus cannot establish his kingdom and have sinners unredeemed to be a part of this kingdom. It cannot happen And so in order for people to be redeemed, there's got to be a cross. And there's got to be the resurrection. There has to be a basis for people to come into that kingdom. And so when he says, and how am I straight until it is accomplished? It's Jesus' way of saying, I want things to be put right and I'm ready to go to the cross and establish that way so that the unredeemed can be redeemed and can be citizens of that kingdom. That is what Jesus is ultimately saying. He's feeling the weight, the urgency of this moment, because he wants to set it all right. What is this urgency that a discerning person will have? I want to break this down a little bit practically for just a moment. When a Christian looks at the world, they should feel some measure of conflict in their soul. Now, when we look at this world, we see God's order and we see God's design and we see God's goodness, but we also see the curse of sin. And we see the horrible effects of sin. And we see the terrible consequences of sinful choices. And when we see things like physical pain and suffering, you know what? It should make us say, this is not the way the world's supposed to be. And I wish it wasn't like that. When I go visit someone in the hospital who's physically declining, and you knew them in their strength, and you knew them when their mind was strong and sound. And the fact is they were smarter and they were stronger than you at their time, but now they are laying in a bed before you and they are weak and they're frail and they're in pain and they're suffering. And you look at that and you go, that's not the way the world's supposed to be It's not the way it's supposed to be. You ought to feel conflict in your soul. We should feel conflicted when we see the terrible effects of sin. When you see someone who has sinned grievously against their spouse or against their children or against somebody that they work for, against the church, against their neighbor, whatever the situation. And you see how that sin hurts the people that are touched by that sin. That 'll send conflict to your soul. When you see injustice in the world, and oh there's a lot of it, when you see powerful people that do what they will as if God doesn't exist, you go, this isn't right. It bothers you in your innermost sping. That's normal. That's good. When we look at misery in the world, we should lament at it. We should long for it all to be put right. I think every person in this room ought to look at the things that we see in the world that are the effects of the fall, and our hearts should groan. As we think about it. But that's not where we stop. And that's not the only way that we're supposed to respond. The second thing I'll mention is this when Christians feel this conflict, they need to be discerning about the solution. The simple fact that medicine advances is good, but the advancement of medicine will not end death. The advancement of medicine will not end suffering. The advancement of medicine is not going to bring some utopia to the world. It will never happen on this side of eternity. We think about education. It's good when people become more knowledgeable and they learn how to think clearly. And you know what's bad? When people who are really smart do really bad things. Sometimes people just become smarter sinners. They can kill more people more quickly. They can wreak more havoc more quickly. The fact is education doesn't save humanity. Politics. I mean we're seems like we're in an everlasting election cycle. Is that not exhausting to think about? Yeah, step back. It's gonna be election in November. You want to think about it between now and then, right? No, no, you're going to vote for it. Do your duty as a citizen of this country. But the simple fact is whoever's in power isn't going to make this country godly. There's only one way that this all gets reversed. It's God's work. He's got to establish his kingdom. In fact, what's so amazing about the millennial reign of Christ is it shows us that even when Jesus rules and reigns and his people rule and reign with him. So long as there are people on this planet who are on this side of glorification, there will still be rebellion against God the King. Isn't that an amazing thing? The only way that there won't be rebellion is if you have a redeemed people, and that's it. And they're in their glorified state forever. And God's going to do that in the end. When Christians feel this conflict, we've got to embrace his purpose and timetable The simple fact that we know that education and money and politics and the advancements of medicine are not going to bring a utopia to this world. That does not mean that we as Christians are supposed to check out our brains and just hang on until the Lord returns. There are a lot of Christians who almost take this mindset. And I would say that that is sinful, and that is wrong, and that is foolish. Because the simple fact is we live in the midst of a conflict by God's design. I think of this parable that Jesus taught where he talks about the weed and the tares. growing up together and they said, why don't you just uproot all the tares? And he says, if you uproot the tares, you uproot the wheat with them. Leave them together until the end. You know what Jesus is saying? That's the way the world is. And the fact is, until he says it's time, you and I are supposed to live faithful lives. who are salt and who are light, here for the preservation of God's work, and ultimately for the exposing of truth. We are not to stick our heads in the sand and live as if You know, it's going to happen today, and so I just presume I'm not going to, you know, die, and my children are going to live, and their children are going to live. And we have no idea what God's timetable is We've got to live purposeful lives and submit to God's timetable. We've got to walk by faith. In 1 Thessalonians 5, he puts it like this Ye are the children of light, the children of the day. We are not of the night, nor of the darkness. Therefore let us not sleep as do others. But let us watch and be sober for they that sleep sleep in the night. They that be drunken or drunk in the night, but let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for an helmet, the hope of salvation, for God hath not appointed us to wrath And so you know what Paul is basically saying to the church at Thessalonica? He's saying, it's true that Jesus is going to return. And it's true that you will not face that ultimate wrath. And it's also true that you don't know the day, you don't know the hour, and so you need to walk by faith, however long he has planted you here That's the conflict that we as God's people are going to experience. There is this tension between the already and the not yet. So that moves us to a second truth. The sermon embraces the exclusivity of Christ's person and work And this is where the text gets really interesting because he's going to emphasize the fact that when Jesus comes, there's going to be a conflict between people who are relationally close And they should be in community with one another. And Jesus is like the dividing between those parties. There's a reason that he says that. Because Christians need to recognize that they may find themselves in such a place, and if they do, their allegiance has to be to God supreme. No matter what it costs them. In verses 51 to 53, here's what he says. Suppose ye that I'm come to give peace on earth Now, you might say, hold on a second. I thought that when he talks about the Messiah, he talks about the fact that he's going to be the prince of peace and the government will be on his shoulders and he's going to be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, and there will be no end to his rule. And the answer is that's true. But there's going to be conflict before he establishes it. And that's the point that Jesus is getting at here. He says, nay, but rather division. From henceforth there shall be Five in one house divided, three against two, two against three, the father divided against the son, the son against the father, the mother against the daughter, the daughter against the mother, the mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law The daughter-in-law gets her mother all. Pause for a moment. Jesus isn't saying that it's okay to be disagreeable with the people that you live with. It's not what he's talking about. He's talking about a very particular kind of scenario. I hey, let me tell you, when when children grow up in a Christian household where mom and dad love Christ and they love each other, and they take the word of God seriously and they obey God and they raise up their children and the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. There is no person in the world that grows up in a more blessed position. There is no person that will have a more peaceful home environment than the child that grows up in such a household. But that's not how every household is. What about the person who's saved later in life? A teenager who gets saved, a wife who gets saved, a husband who gets saved. When you married that person, you were in the world, living of the world, and loving the world. And all of a sudden you have a new allegiance. Does your spouse like that? Maybe not. Do your parents like that? Maybe not. You can't predict how everybody's going to respond in such a situation. And so Jesus addresses this very scenario. Christian doctrine is exclusive. It's exclusive. Christ's nature, John 8. 24, he says, if ye believe not that I am he, ye shall die in your sins. Like, well, what's like the other option? That's it. What you do with Jesus, what you believe about him, determines everything. Well well couldn't there be like a gray area? No There's no gray area. You've got to choose who your God is. You've got to choose who your savior is. You've got to choose if you believe who he says that he is, it's true. Acts 4. 12 is redemptive purpose. There is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. You say, well, uh certainly God is kind towards people of other viewpoints. No, he's not. He doesn't have room for that. I mean, think about what it says in Psalm 2. He says, kiss the son, lest he be what? Angry. He says, why do the heathen rage and imagine a vain thing? And they set their armies in array against the Lord and against his anointed. What's he saying? There's only one Savior, folks. It's Jesus. And he loves people, but he's holy, and he's righteous, and he's just His authority, Acts 17, 30, the time of this ignorance God winked at, but now commandeth all men everywhere to repent. Because he hath appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he hath ordained, whereof he hath given assurance unto all men that he hath raised him from the dead. You know who the final judge will be on that day? Not the Father. The Son. It's the wrath of the Lamb that will be poured out on humanity who rejected his offer of salvation. You see, there's an exclusive demand when we talk about scripture. And then in the future, Revelation twenty verse fifteen he says, Whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. You say, Well, is there like purgatory? You know, maybe a couple years and then it's over? Nope. Doesn't say that. Doesn't say that Say that. We all have our time. It's now. He says, prepare. He says, there's fools and there's wives. Why does he speak in such blunt black and white language? Because that's how it is. So we notice the details of this text. Verse 51 he says, Suppose you that I am come to give peace, I tell you, nay, but rather division. Verse 52, from one henceforth there shall be five in one house divided, three against two and two against three. Someone might say, well it was easier before I became a Christian because then my mother she was okay with me, then my dad was okay with me, my my children were okay with me, my parents both, they were okay with me, and now there's this conflict. What's the deal? He says, who's God? Are you going to stand on the side of truth or convenience? John 15, 20 says, Remember the world, remember the word that I said unto you. The servant is not greater than his Lord. If they've persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they have kept my me saying, if they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also. Listen to what the scripture says about the last days. And listen, we are living in the last days by the technical statement of that in the scriptures. 2 Timothy 3. 1. Know that in the last days perilous times shall come 2 Timothy 3. 12, all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution, evil men and seducers Shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived, continue thou in the things which thou hast learned. First Timothy 3:14, if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye Be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled. In Matthew 24, 4-10, Jesus says, Take heed that no man deceive you. Many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ And shall deceive many, and ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that ye be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. For nations shall rise against nation, kingdom against kingdom. There shall be famines and pestilence and earthquakes in diverse places. All these are the beginning of sorrows, then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted and kill you and shall be hated of all nations, for in my name's sake, then shall many be offended. You say, I didn't come to church to get this kind of teaching. Do you want to hear the truth or not? This is what Jesus says. The simple fact is he loves people and he longs to establish his kingdom, but he speaks very, very clearly about how it will be on the day he comes. Let me summarize it this way. Every one of us may find a time when we are forced to choose a side by conviction. Now, I cannot predict that that's happening in anybody's life at the moment, or that it's going to happen this week or next month. I'm not here to make such predictions. I'm simply here to state it this way: God says That when that day comes, you've got to be prepared. And when that day comes, you've got to stand on the side of truth. You say, I don't want to do that. I don't want to suffer. You will suffer no matter what. If it's a nasty world, we're all going to suffer. The question is this: which side will you stand on That decision may set you at odds with people that you love dearly. You say, is it possible for me to love a person dearly and be in opposition to them? Yeah, absolutely. It's possible. You say, I don't like that. I wish there was a way to get around that. I wish there was a way to get around it too. The only way to get around that is redemption. God's grace. In fact, I might even add this it's possible that a person could be saved and live in a family that has great opposition and struggle and misery for a season, and God uses that to ultimately bring the whole. family to faith in Christ one day. There are many stories of such things. But the principle is you've got to choose the side of truth. This contention can be personal and painful, but discernment chooses truth over family, over trying to establish peace. When there is an irrevocable conflict. Truth number three: discernment does not procrastinate matters of the soul Now in verses 54 to 59, he gives us some very interesting teaching. Here's what he says. When ye see a cloud rise out of the west, Straightway ye say, there cometh a shower. And so it is. When ye see the south wind blow, you say, There will be heaps And it cometh to pass, ye hypocrites, you can discern the face of the sky and of the earth, but how is it that you do not discern this time? Now, Jesus is talking about how people who lived in that region understood when it was going to rain or not. Now, we all know where where modern-day Israel is. Okay? So this is where Jesus is living. And he basically says this. He says, you look out to the west and you see clouds gathering, you know what? It's gonna rain. How do you know that? Well that's where the Mediterranean Sea is, and that's where all the rain comes from And so a person's sitting there and they're looking out and they're going, you know what, we're going to get rain. And he says, you're right. You are going to get rain. But you know what's amazing? You have more sense about whether or not it's going to rain than what's going on in your soul. You have more sense about this very practical and very simple thing that is just going to keep you from getting wet or not, okay? But you don't think about your soul. He makes the point with the illustration, and then he goes on to say this. He says, Yea, why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right? When thou goest with thine adversary to the magistrate, As thou art in the way, give diligence that thou mayest be delivered from him, lest he hail thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and the officer cast thee into prison. I tell thee, thou shalt not depart thence Till thou hast paid the very last might. Now, the first point that he makes is that people can look up into the sky and say it's going to get hot because the wind's coming from the south, the desert. Or it's going to rain because there's clouds coming from the west, the sea. But they can't figure out that, you know what, one day Jesus is coming, and they need to be ready. And he's standing right in front of them and he's offering them salvation through his death, and they don't see it. And he says, I'm the Lord, and they don't submit. He said they know the simple thing, it's going to rain, it's going to get hot, but they don't seem to understand what's really important He says people would be better off to swallow their pride and settle with something taking them to court than to delay and face the wrath of the court. That's what verses 58 and 59 are all about. So picture in your mind you have this person They owe a debt, okay? And uh as they owe this debt, the person comes to them that they owe the debt to and they say, Hey, you need to pay something. They're like, oh yeah, I'm gonna get around to it. I'm so sorry. I'll pay you at some point. They're like, all right, all right. And they give them a little bit of space and then they come to him again and they say, hey, you're not paying on your debt. I know, I know, I know. I'm going to get to it. I'm going to get to it. And they give all these excuses and All right, I'll let you go this time. They come again. And they come again. And one day, when they come, they're shaken. I'm sick of saying this over and over and over again. You owe a debt. You haven't paid anything. I'm taking you to court. He says, what does a smart person do? Okay, let's talk about how we cannot go there What do I need to pay you right now? Hey, look let me go to my house and see what I could come up with. He says, he says you would settle with that person before they drag you to the court And you stand before the officer and they throw you in a debtor's prison and they say, you're paying every single penny while you're there in the prison. He says, you know better. You're going to take it seriously. When you see that the demeanor's change, and all of a sudden this person, they're not playing games with you anymore. They're serious. You're going to pay. You pay up. He says, and here I am, the Creator and the Lord of all things. And I tell you, be ready. Alright. Be ready. Alright. Be ready. All right. He says there's going to be a day that it's too late. That's the point of what Jesus is saying in these verses. His point is, why is it that so many people can be practical about lesser matters? They can be sensible about lesser matters. and ignore the greatest matters of all, the state of their soul and where they will spend eternity. Matthew 16, 26, he says, What is a man profited if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? What shall a man give in exchange for his soul? You can't bribe God. You can't trick God. You can't get there on the final day and say, hey, give me a little bit more time. Let me work this out. Too late. He says, do not live your life for a lesser thing and have wisdom and skill and be sensible and admit or admit the greatest matter of all: your eternal destination. So I asked this question, how are we supposed to respond to this this morning? I mean, this is a very weighty matter, I'm going to be very frank with you. Sometimes when we come to church, we are just uplifted and it's encouraging. And this one, it's like sobering. You need to think. But there's also a very positive side to this as well. Because what Jesus is saying is telling us that all of history is moving to an end. And we can live in the light of that end. But let me give you some thoughts to think about. First of all, recognize that God wants you to be a discerning person in the time that you're living in. It shouldn't be hard for us to figure out that we need to be discerning, that we need to be wise, that we need to think clearly about what we are living in. But this discernment calls for a perspective that thinks correctly about two matters. The first matter is this moment in history. God wants you to live wisely today. But there's another side to this. It's also concerning the movement of history to its ultimate end. It's not just living in this moment, but realizing that we are living in a history that God is guiding to an ultimate destination. And because He is guiding to an ultimate destination, we've got to be very sobered and very wise about how we live in this moment. That's what Jesus Jesus is saying. There are three great tragedies that we need to consider here. One is that some people fail to discern the moment. Some Christians have a longing for Christ's return, and that's a good thing. We know the eschatology. We know about the rapture of the church. We know about the tribulation. And we could talk about all of the flows of what it's talked about in the book of Revelation. And we could talk about the second coming of Christ. And we can talk about the millennial kingdom, and we can talk about the great white throne judgment, and we can talk about heaven and eternity, and we can tell people about all those things, but we're not living wisely today You know that? There's a lot of people like that. They are entertained by eschatology. They like talking about end times. They're not living wisely today. None of us should be that kind of a Christian. The second kind of tragedy is someone who fails to discern the moment of history, or the movement of history, someone who's not a Christian. They're astute when it comes to their ability to study history, but they reject the ultimate end of all things. There are some people that I listen to in podcasts, that I read their books. I really appreciate their insight in history. And I learned so much. They have tremendous wisdom, practical insight based on what they have learned studying history. And it's helpful to me. You know what the tragedy is? Some of those same people are not Christians. You say, well, at least they have wisdom in the moment. That's the tragedy. They have wisdom in the moment. But not about that one. And the simple fact is there are a lot of people, they are wise in the moment. about what's going on in the world. They they can look at what's going on historically in the United States. They can look at what's going on historically in in the Middle East. They can look at what's going on in Europe. They could talk about how things were going on in the 1930s in Europe and and what they can learn from that or pre-Civil War or uh leading up to the American Revolution. And they could talk about all those things and they can lay out so much amazing information that's helpful to us. But they don't get it on the most important issue. That's a tragedy. The other tragedy is those who fail to discern both. I might say that's like a lot of people today. They don't get where they're living today. They don't understand what's going on around them. They don't even care. All they care about is what's on their phone, what gets fed to the next by the algorithms. That's all they care about. They're not thinking about eternity. They're not thinking about this moment. You gotta pray that in God's grace he shakes them out of their blindness. The deadness of their heart. What is Jesus saying? Be discerning. Discernment produces a balanced perspective, and I'll just lay this out very simply. When we look at the world, I kind of already touched on this, when we look at the world, we should feel some measure of conflict. If you don't, something's wrong. When we feel this conflict, we need to recognize the ultimate solution cannot be through human means like education, politics, money. All those things. Hey, it's true that your political system affects people for good or bad. How you handle money affects people for good or for bad. Education helps people for good or for bad. Medicine advancements they affect people for good or for bad, but they cannot bring what God will ultimately bring in his kingdom. When we feel this conflict, we need to embrace the function that God has given us in this moment with a submission to his timetable that is unknown to us. This is one that I think is really important for us Christians. We should be living as if Christ will return today, and we should also be living as if he will not return for a thousand years. You say, why is that? Because I know he's coming. He has promised that, but I don't know the day and I don't know the hour. And so that means I should be ready if it's today, and I should be ready if he tarries. That means how I raise my kids really matters. What I do with my money really matters. The way that I conduct myself in the workplace, it really matters. We are salt, we are light. We need to submit to what God is doing in the world today What is beyond our ability to understand? And nobody in this room can tell you, oh, I know how it's going to end five years from now. You can't. And if you think that you can't, you're fooling yourself. Because Jesus says you can't. So, how do we live practically? Be a faithful Christian. Raise your family to the glory of God. Do your work for his glory. Be an engaged citizen who contributes to the good of your community. Be a faithful gospel witness. That is what discernment does. It brings us to this tension. I'm ready if it's today, and I'm living faithfully so that if it's not for a thousand years, my life was not away. Let's bow together for prayer. There might be somebody here this morning in this service who's never trusted Christ as your Savior. Never understood the gospel? Jesus died for your sins. You hear about the kingdom and all this stuff, and you're like, wow, I don't even know how this starts. I don't even know how to enter God's kingdom. If you don't know for sure that you're saved, please do not leave this place without reaching out and saying, hey, Pastor, salvation, I don't understand it. Can we talk about that? I can tell you what Jesus did for you. I can tell you what it accomplished. I can tell you how you need to respond. Please don't leave this place without responding to the gospel message. And to our the rest of us who have trusted Christ, I want to encourage you: let's live with that tension. He could come today, we better be ready. If he tarries a thousand years, our life wasn't wasted. Let's pray. Father, as we think about these truths, I pray that you would uplift us and strengthen us. Help us to think wisely. Be discerning about the times that we're living in Help us to be faithful men and women. Give us wisdom as we work with our families. Help us to do our work honorably as to the Lord and not unto men. Help us to be good citizens who are faithful in the duties that we have as Americans. I pray that you will help us to function appropriately as we are, salt and light in this world. And Father, we look forward with great anticipation to that day when your Son returns and sets it all right. Help us to be found faithful on that day when you begin that work. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.