Philippians chapter 4, and we are going to look at verses 6 to 9. Philippians chapter 4, verses 6 to 9. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true. Whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report. If there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things. Those things which you have both learned and received and heard and seen and me do. And the God of peace shall be with you. Philippians 4, 6 to 9. Wonderful passage. Last week we looked at verses 6 and seven. And we saw that those verses were written in the context of a conflict between two individuals in the church, two people that had been co-workers of Paul's. Well, I want to remind you again that this is continuing in that context. And so the very specific issue that is being addressed is in the light of that controversy that Paul is addressing. But before we get into that, I want to ask the question, what exactly was on Paul's mind, or what was the purpose for this continuation of the theme that he's been dealing with? Paul wants these Christians to grow through the struggles that they're dealing with. Therefore, he reinforces the concept that they should not only root out harmful thoughts and processes. and actions, but they should replace those harmful thoughts and actions with godly thoughts and actions. One of the things that we talked about last week is that when a person is becoming bitter or they're embroiled in a con in a controversy with other people, there are some symptoms that or there's some things that are going on in their life that kind of make it easier for them to be in that position. You could say there are root causes for controversy and bitterness and those kinds of problems But once a person has gone through a season where their heart has been through that for a while, there are some lingering effects that come out of being involved in those kinds of difficulties. And so basically what we saw last week is that Paul understands that. And so understanding the root cause of controversy and conflict, and understanding those lingering effects of being in a bitter state of soul, Paul tells them some specific things that they're supposed to do. For instance, he says you need to be joyful. You need to be reasonable. You need to be watchful. You need to be in a sound mind. You need to be prayerful. You need to be peaceable. He mentions those things in that context because he understands he's digging out the root that brought them to contention. And he's clearing the air of those lingering effects of being in a contentious spirit. Well, not only do people need to root out those roots that bring them to that place. And not only do they need to clear the air of the lingering effects of contention, but there's something else they need to do. This is something that's going to be preventative. It's going to keep them from going back into the place that they just were. And that's really what we're looking at today. The Christian needs to be disciplined in his thinking. disciplined in his thinking. Now all of us constantly think. Your brain does not turn off Your brain gets diverted, but it doesn't turn off, even when you're sleeping. You know what dreaming is? Dreaming is you continuing to think about the things that were going on in your day. And so when a person is, you know, very troubled in their heart, a lot of times when they go to bed, They have very disturbing dreams. Why is that? Because the mind is so active that it's continuing to work. And because they're not sleeping well, when they wake up, they remember their dream. That's really what it is. You know, when you don't remember your dream, that doesn't mean that you don't dream. Okay? You continue to dream. Your mind is actively at work. You know, when a kid is sitting in a math class And he's daydreaming. It's not that his mind is not working, it's his mind is not working on math. Okay? His mind be might be at a football game. His mind might be out on the, you know, the playground His mind be might be on you know something he watched on television or something that went on in his house. His mind is working, but his mind is not fixed on the right thing. The truth is that God gave us minds that can work through things, but because we are fallen creatures , We don't focus on the right things. Because we are sinners, our minds get diverted onto the wrong kinds of things. And so basically, what Paul is going to say in this passage Is that you are a thinker, you need to be a disciplined thinker. In other words, the things you think about need to be on the track that God wants it to be on. We all are thinkers. The question is, what are we thinking about? What is the direction and the channel of that thinking? God wants us to be healthy biblical thinkers And that's really what this whole thing is about. Paul has just said, remove the roots, clear the air, and now he's saying, prevent. You don't want to go back into the contention, folks. So you have to have a disciplined mind. You have to think clearly and biblically. So how in the world can we do that? How can we have healthy biblical thinking minds? Well the first truth is this. We need to remember the context. So the word you might write down if you're taking notes is context. We need to keep the big picture in view. There's a specific context. I've already mentioned that, and that's that there are Christians who are dealing with conflict. Now maybe I'm the only person in the room like this. But I can remember back to some key times, especially my teen years, okay, and when I was in college, where I got embroiled in a really significant controversy with somebody or some people. And I can remember being so overwhelmed by the things that were going on. It's all I thought about. I was angry. I was debating. I was talking to myself. I was thinking about how I was hoping that person would get it because they They didn't seem to be getting justice. I wanted to see justice. Those are the kinds of thoughts going anybody ever thought like that before? Okay. At least one or two is honest here. Never, never, right? No, the truth is that when we get embroiled in a controversy It's amazing how meticulous our thinking can be. Well the fact is that if there was ever a time that we needed to address our thinking, it was when we were in the midst of conflict. If there's ever a time, it would be when we've dealt with conflict. That's the specific context, conflict. But this is a general principle. Not only do Christians need to think biblically and in a healthy manner when they're dealing with conflict or when they've just come through conflict, but they need to think biblically and clearly all the time. The truth is that when we talk about bitterness, when we talk about greed, when we talk about pride, when we talk about fear, when we talk about anxiety, these are big issues for Christians. They're big issues for everybody. It depends on your season of life. You know, you might go through a a period of time where you don't deal with greed very much and then all of a sudden you hit a certain age and And you're very covetous. You're looking at your neighbor and the people around you. And you start to have a real different sense about your position in life. Maybe the first time you go to buy a house and you realize, wow, I can't buy that kind of house. I can only get that kind of house. And you start thinking about that. Or when you start seeing people at at work, they start advancing and you don't seem to be advancing to the same level. And all of a sudden, there's an area that we find we have a problem with. The truth is that we need to be disciplined thinkers, not just when there's conflict, but in all areas of life. It's a general principle that is very, very important. Thirdly, this is really foundational in our Christian lives. The source of where our life goes, the way the channels move, is rooted in how we think. I don't know if I've given this illustration in our church before or not, but when we lived in Ghana, I loved to fish a lot. Now I didn't get to go fishing nearly as much as I wanted to, but I did go from time to time. And there was a place that I liked to fish, and it was a really neat place because there were three rivers. that were that found their source up in the rainforest that was nearby where we live, and those three rivers would work their way and eventually they came and they met in they in a little estuary they called it, and then it went right out into the ocean. Well what's kind of interesting is in that estuary, during the rainy season, that water looked like tea. It was so muddy because of all the rain that was pouring from the forests. But during the dry season, because there was very little rain up in the forest, that would become a really clear and the water would be really salty because of the source being in the ocean. Now if you went at the right time of the year There was enough water flowing from the rainforest and enough water flowing when the tide would move that you could see the color of the water change. during the course of the tide change. So as the water is going out, it would get like kind of tea looking. And as it started coming back in, you could see the clear water would start pressing into the river and eventually you could stand in a place Where you could see a line in the water. Clear water, muddy water, salt water, fresh water. It was the neatest thing. How is it that it got like that? It's all about the source of the water. Where the water came from determined what was at that location. So if there was a stronger push from the rainforest, that water was fresh. If there was a stronger press from the sea, that water was salty and it was clear. Pretty interesting. The fact is our hearts are kind of like that too. Wherever the source is of our thoughts determines what's going on inside of us. And it ultimately determines our attitudes, it determines how we treat people, how we respond to situations. Our life in many ways is determined by the source of our thinking. Our passions, our goals, everything is rooted in that. In Luke 6, 45 it says, a good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good. And an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is evil. For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. Basically, what's being stated is your heart is going to express itself in what you say. And what's going on in your heart is what's going on in your head. What you think about determines how you feel about things and what you want and what you don't want and what you decide to do. In Genesis 6. 5, when when when God is talking about mankind and how they've departed from where he wants them to be. It says, God saw the wickedness of man, it was great in the earth. And listen to the statement. And every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. God was saying, look, what's inside the heart, the thoughts of these people, it's constant evil. They've got to be restrained. Proverbs 23, 7. As he thinketh in his heart, so he is. Proverbs 21, 2. Every man, every way of a man is right in his own eyes, but the Lord ponders the heart. Proverbs twelve fifteen, the way of a fool, right in his own eyes. But as he hearken uh but he that hearkeneth unto counsel is wise. When he talks about the heart in these contexts Talking primarily about how we think. Because how we think is so important. The second truth we need to look at tonight is this. Not only do we need to remember the context, but we need to remember this word. The word is uproot. We need to pull some things that are residing deep down in our heart. We gotta pull them out. Anybody like the garden? Any gardeners in here? Got a couple of gardeners in here? Okay. I like the garden. You know, you've got to pull stuff out that's not supposed to be there, or it kills the good stuff. I remember one of my, you know One of my experiments I tried when I was doing some gardening, or we could call it farming. I don't know. My garden was probably bigger than this whole section here, that wide and double as long. So what I did was I planted peanuts and I planted corn together. And I thought, hey, this would be good. I'll plant the corn. Once the corn is starting to get established, I put in those peanuts. And when they start growing, it'll keep the soil nice and moist and wet because the sun won't beat down in there and it'll put all the nitrogen into the soil. It was a really good idea. Except my timing was a little bit off. I put the peanuts in too early. And you know what happened? It just choked out. It just choked out all of the corn. If you're trying to grow something and there are things all around it that are choking it out, you gotta pull them out or the good stuff doesn't grow. You know, in your heart and in my heart, there are things that have to be pulled out. They have to be uprooted. We have to be able to identify and say, that doesn't belong there. That is destructive thinking That is a destructive attitude. That is a flesh-guided and flesh-sourced thought and heart action. I've got to pull that out. And that's what he said earlier on. I mentioned these, I'll just state them again quickly. He says in verse 4, he says, Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I say rejoice. Be joyful. Uproot out of your heart. That unjoyful attitude and replace it with joy. Verse 5, let your moderation be known unto all men. He says, be reasonable. There's something that needs to be uprooted and replaced with a reasonable spirit. Command three, be watchful. The Lord is at hand. You're not thinking about the fact you're going to stand before God and they're going to stand before God. So pull out that weed and replace it with this watchful attitude. Be sober-minded. He says, be careful for nothing. Be prayerful. Verse 6, in everything give thanks. In everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. The fact is that there are things that have to be uprooted. They need to be pulled out. But I want to ask you this question. Is that the end of the story? If you pull out the weeds, what happens? They grow back if nothing's there. So what do you do? You weed it out and then you put something there to keep the weeds from coming back. Okay, maybe maybe maybe you get a a black tarp. And you put that down there. Maybe you get some mulch. You put that down there. You put something in place of where the weeds were, and that keeps them from coming back. Did you know in the Christian life we've got to go from just pulling everything out to pulling out and replacing? If you just pull weeds all the time, you're gonna do nothing but pull weeds. You've got to pull the weeds and you've got to replace them with something that's right and something that's good. It was funny the other day, uh Scott, you we walked out and You you said something to me about like don't think about do you remember this? Don't think about it. I don't remember. We'll just say cookies and cream ice cream. It wasn't cookies and cream ice cream. I don't remember what it was. Oh, don't think about cookies and cream ice cream. Are you talking about cookies and cream ice cream? Down don't think about cookies and cream ice cream. Is anybody thinking about mint chocolate chip right now? Not at all. You're thinking about cookies and cream ice cream. The more I tell you not to think about it, the more you get focused on it. And you know a lot of times we we get like this In the Christian life, I remember when I was a teenager, I'd like, I'm not supposed to think this. I'm not supposed to do this. So I'm like, don't do this, don't do this. And all I do, I'm just fixated on this thing. Has anybody ever been there before? The fact is, if you want to deal with something, uproot it and replace it with what is right. And that's exactly what he tells us to do in the text we're looking at. Look at verse 8. After dealing with all these things that need to be pulled out, he says, finally, and when Paul says finally , He's still got more to go, okay? But he's kind of pulling this thing in. He's gonna land his letter at some point in the next chapter, right? Finally, my brethren. Whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, If there be any virtue, if there be any praise Think on these things. Do you know what Paul's saying? Uproot and replace You're not thinking right about some things. Pull it out, address it, isolate it, remove it, but then replace it with the right kinds of things. What kinds of things is he talking about? In fact, well, before I get into that, let me tell you, this is a concept we find a lot in the Bible. Let me just mention a couple of verses that have the same concept. Romans 13, 13 says this, the night is far spent, the day is at hand, let us cast off the works of darkness. That's uproot. And let us put on the armor of light. Do you see what he's saying? Uproots and replace. When we come to Ephesians chapter 6. And he talks about putting on the whole armor of God. He talks about taking off and he takes talks about putting on. He says, Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness. Not in chambering in the wantonness, but put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. He's saying up roots Replace. Romans 12, 1-3. I beseech you, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your body as a living sacrifice. He says, be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. I love the way that this that this little statement looks in the original Greek. Kind of has the idea of this. Let God change what you are by renovating your mind. To give you an illustration, I remember when I was in college, my parents had a really bad hurricane. You know, just like what happened in Panama City. I know the Harveys family, they're dealing with this stuff. Okay? Our house is completely completely flooded. Think about four, three and a half, four feet of water came into the house. So we had to go into that house and we pulled out everything. In fact, I remember my my dad, he's a professor. He had put all of his His notes. My dad wasn't a computer PowerPoint kind of a guy. He was a binders kind of a person at the time. Anybody ever like that before? He put all his binders. He had them sitting in a raft, sitting on the bed. It's a good thing that he did because when the water came up it just floated and it stayed there and then when it went down he didn't lose all of this stuff. And he said, he said, if I lost all that stuff, I don't know what I would have done. I would have just wanted to quit. We had to go into that house and pull everything out. I got pictures somewhere of these huge piles of trash We ripped out drywall, we ripped out insulation, and we ripped up carpet, and we ripped out toys, my whole baseball card collection. 10,000 plus cards. It was like it was worth it was it was worthless. We had to gut it. But imagine if my parents Had gutted their house down to the studs, cleaned it all up, and then moved in and lived like that. You think you'd do that? No. They pulled all that stuff out and they rebuilt the house. And that's what we need to do. And their house was it was a wonderful it was nicer when they got done than it was before. They they got some gray hairs in the process and you know, it wasn't it wasn't an easy process. But they had to remove the old and replace it with the new. And that's the idea. Let God transform you as he guts out all that junk in your head and he replaces it with good, solid biblical thinking. Colossians 3. 5, mortify your members which are on the earth, in which you walked in some times past, and you lived in them. Put off all these anger and wrath and blasphemy. He lists the whole thing and he says, and put on the new man which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him. Put off, put on. This is a very solid biblical concept. So what are some of the details? Let me mention them quickly, because I think they're really practical. The first thing that he mentions is meditate on what's true. Don't meditate on what you've imagined. Meditate on what is true. When he talks about what is true, I don't think that in his mind he's saying you need to reject lies. He's going to say something in the neck the his next statement. What is true, what is honest, that's when we'll talk about lies. But he's saying, reject your imaginations that are not true. You know, let's just say that you you got some kind of uh event coming up and you're starting to get nervous about it. As you start thinking about it, you start thinking about all the possibilities. You know what I'm talking about? Oh, what if this happens? And what if this happens? You think about 150 different things that could happen. Now I got a question. Are those lies? I wouldn't categorize them as lies. They're imaginations. They're possibilities. Maybe it happens, maybe it doesn't. Should you burden yourself down with what is bouncing around in your head about what could happen? Nope. And that's what he's saying. Don't get fixated on your imagination. What might happen. Focus on what is true. What you know to be true, let that be the content of your thoughts. So many times when people get into controversy. A person makes a statement. A person does something. There's no malicious intent in it at all. But because you feel this thing inside about them, your imagination goes crazy. Anybody ever done that before? That's what he's saying. Don't get focused on bogged down on your imaginations. Think about what is true, what you know to be true. Let that be your focus. Two, don't meditate on lies. Meditate on what is honest. You know, sometimes the things that we're thinking They're flat out lies, not in the realm of imagination, like maybe this could happen, maybe that could happen, and we get worried with all these things. We have embraced a lie. We are thinking about something That's not true. It's biblically false. We've embraced that lie, and Satan uses it as a foothold to drag us down, to press our hearts, to make us that we can't move. He says, don't meditate on lies. Meditate on what's honest. Three, don't meditate on what is unjust. Meditate on what is morally just. You know, when we talk about the conflict situation, I know for sure this is an area where we get bogged down. When somebody has wronged us in our mind. We want to see them get it. And I tell you, we will not have a properly balanced view of them and what they actually deserve. We will not do it. Because our thinking is going to be clouded because of controversy. We have been hurt. We are emotionally involved. We will not look clearly and rationally at that situation. And so he says, rather than thinking about things that are unjust, Think about what's just. When somebody's wronged you, you rarely have the ability to look at that situation objectively. Please keep that in your minds. We have to constantly realize that. Don't meditate on what's perverse, meditate on what is pure, he says. Don't meditate on the negative. Meditate on what is lovely. You know, this happens a lot of times in marriages. We were talking about this on Monday night in our in our marriage topic. And basically what he he gives the illustration of this couple and They loved each other. They had a great start to their marriage. But as time went on, the husband and the wife got to the place where they constantly looked at each other in the negative, and they got to the place where they literally hated each other. And there was not even a real big thing that caused that. It wasn't like they could go and say, that event right there destroyed my marriage They just laid blocks one day after another, thinking negative things about their spouse, picking out all of their flaws, and constantly fixating and focusing on that, and they lost their ability to enjoy them. to love them and to be in their presence and be happy. It was gone because they had laid these foundations over and over and over again. The truth is that we get this way sometimes. We constantly get focused on what is negative. He says, meditate on what's lovely. When you got a person that you got a contention with, and you can't look at them as if they're they're not an enjoyable person anymore. You just you don't like them. Realize you got there over time to a process. And you've got to start focusing on what is beautiful about you can't say there's nothing beautiful about them. That's not true. God loves them. The same thing could be turned around and said to you. Same thing could be said about me. There are things about all of us that are very good and things that are very bad. And what you focus on will determine your attitude towards people many times. He says, don't meditate on gossip, meditate on good reports. This is really interesting. You know, when Yodius and Syntachi get into this conflict, and Syntachi hears something about Yodius. She's just salivating. It's just like, ooh, this is gonna be really good. Tell me more of this evil report. Right? That's how we get. He says, don't listen to that Don't meditate on gossip. Meditate on good reports. Listen to the good news, not the bad news. That's what he's saying. And lastly, don't meditate on the weaknesses and failures. It says think on what is praiseworthy, worthy of praise. You know, the truth is that the initial context of this particular situation It's dealing with people who've just walked through conflict. But I want you to realize something. You take these principles into all of your life, and it'll really change how you relate to people. You know, there are people that as they get older, they become more and more negative and there's nobody they like. You know, it's easy to get that way. We can go through a season where we get that way, and then by God's grace he opens our eyes to how we're getting. And we get a fresh start and you start looking at those people differently. The last truth I want to hit is this. That's the word imitation. We need to learn from godly mentors. Look down in verse 9 at what Paul says. He says, Those things which you've learned and received and heard and seen in me do. Paul had a mentoring relationship with the church at Philippi. It's kind of like his relationship to Timothy. He writes in 1 Timothy 1 unto Timothy, my son, in the faith. It's kind of like his relationship with Titus. Titus 1. 4 to Titus, my son in the common faith. It's kind of like what he encouraged Timothy to have. with the men that he was working with there at Ephesus. He says, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. The things you've heard of me, among many witnesses, commit to faithful men who'll be able to teach others also. It's kind of like what Paul encouraged Titus to do at Crete. He says the older men need to teach the younger men these things, and the older ladies need to teach the younger ladies these things. Mentoring relationships are really important. Christians who grow many times can look back and say, that man right there, he's an old feeble man now, but he's the one who taught me so. So much. That lady right there, if it hadn't been for it, Ken Caulier, he talked about this lady He's the only person in his church who is willing to teach the boys. I don't know if you guys remember that. Because every time, you know, we would graduate out of one class, we'd end up in a new class, and the teacher would quit. And this lady she'd raise her hand and say, I'll do it. He said that happened all the way up to the junior high. He says, that woman's my hero. That's the word he used. The fact is, there are people that we need to learn from. We need to be the kind of people that teach others. Notice he says, you've learned it. That word learned has the idea of there's an appraising process. It's as if you're walking alongside somebody, and as you get to peek into their life, you start realizing something. That's a good quality. That's something I need. That's something I want. You have gotten close enough to them and they are vulnerable enough to you that you realize that's a good thing. I want that. That's what we need with our kids. Our kids need to walk along and say, you know, mom and dad, they got a real faith. This Christianity is true. I can see it because I know my parents. They're good people. They're doing right. They have something that I want It's something that they've learned by appraisal. He said you've received it. It's the idea of it's passed on and it's become a part of us. You receive things from people who you spend time with. He said, you've heard it. There had to be some instruction and some teaching. And then he says, you have seen it in me, observation. The fact is, if we're going to be biblical thinkers, then we have to be around people who are biblical thinkers. You know, as our church begins to develop in our older generation biblical thinking and good patterns, our younger people are going to start realizing there's something true here. It actually does, this doesn't start with the younger generation, this starts with the older generation. This starts with our teachers and our, this starts with pastors, this starts with our leadership in the church. People who can teach and people who can come alongside. Paul wants the church to uproot what is wrong, replace it with what is right, think biblically, and learn from godly mentors. That's what he's saying. Paul wants the Christians to grow through struggle. He reinforces the concept that they're not only roots that need to be removed. But there are thoughts that need to be replaced with godly thoughts. How do we do that? Let's keep the context in our minds. Let's pull out the negative, replace it with the positive, and come alongside those who are worthy of imitation. May God help us to take this text. And live in the light of it. Let's bear our hearts together in prayer here. Father, thank you for this passage. I ask that you'll help us as Christians to be godly thinkers. Help us to be people who focus on the right things. Help us to uproot what is distasteful and what is sinful, what is folly, what is Self-destructive. Help us to root it out by your grace and help us to replace it with godly thinking. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.