If you guys would with me, open to 2nd Chronicles 7. 2nd Chronicles 7. So kind of we've been if you remember we've been kind of jumping back and forth between Kings and Chronicles. Um last time we were together Pastor Josh was he was preaching through and he was teaching us about or talking about how Solomon was given a choice and he asked for wisdom and how because he asked for wisdom he was being given everything else that he was being offered. But in Chronicles, that was the last time. That would have been many years, believe probably the very beginning of Solomon's ministry. Or sorry, ruling, if we can say it that way. He was ruling there, and then We're going to jump to the very kind of the middle more than likely to where he finishes the temple. This is anywhere between 13 to 20 years after the first meeting. So to kind of catch us off what's been going on, we're in first 2 Chronicles 7, but if we were to kind of flip through and just quickly glance through the chapters, we're going to just make out a few points worth noting and paying attention to. The first thing is in 2 Chronicles chapter 2, we start seeing the planning of organizing the events to build all the preparations necessary for the construction of the temple. Chapter 3, we start seeing the actual construction beginning, laying of the foundation. Chapter 4, the furniture, all the pieces that are going to go inside the temple. Chapter 5, the temple actually ends up being completed. And then chapter 6, to kind of set the tone of what was going to happen, you end up seeing Or sorry, also going on chapter five, you also have the ark um being brought to the temple, the temple being completed, and you just see the glory of the Lord falling and filling the temple. To set the tone, Solomon begins with this long prayer that takes up almost all of chapter 6, starting in verse 12 and goes till 42 of just being this prayer. And then afterwards, we kind of pick up and we're going to pick up the middle of chapter 7, but even to get to there, there are offerings that are made. And it talks about how that in verse 1, chapter 7, verse 1, that a fire came down from heaven, consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices. The glory of the Lord filled the temple. We're also going to see that the nation begins to make sacrifices and hundreds of thousands of sacrifices were made at the time. And then there's a celebratory feast made. And I want to make a special point to look at verse 3. It says in verse 3, when the children of Israel saw how the fire came down and the glory of the Lord filled the house, they bowed themselves with their faces to the ground upon the pavement, worshipped and praised the Lord, saying, For he is good. For his mercy endureth forever. We have the sacrifices, the feast. And then God meets with Solomon again, the second time. Kings places this possibly not immediately after this there It could have been right after, it could have been a little bit after, but there's a little bit of time, there's a few chapters separating what actually happens between the temple here and God meeting. But the writer of Chronicles wants to combine these events to bring the attention how God's response, God's divine response to Solomon, is very directly related to Solomon's prayer. Let us read. We're going to pick up verse 12, and we're going to read to the end of the chapter. And the Lord appeared to Solomon by night and said unto him, I have heard thy prayer, and have chosen this place to myself for a house of sacrifice. If I shut up heaven, that there be no rain, or if I command the locusts to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people, if my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways. Then will I hear from heaven, will forgive their sin, and will heal their land. Now mine eyes shall be open, mine ears attent unto the prayer that is made in this place. For now I have chosen and sanctified this house, that my name may be there forever, and mine eyes and mine heart shall be there perpetually. And as for thee, if thou wilt walk before me as David thy father, and do according to all I have commanded thee, and shalt observe my statutes and my judgments Then will I establish thy throne of the throne of thy kingdom according to as I have covenanted with David thy father, saying, There shall not fail thee a man to be a ruler in Israel. But if ye turn away and forsake my statutes and my commandments, which I have set before you, and shall go and serve other gods and worship them. Then I will pluck them by the roots out of my land which I have given them, in this house, which I have sanctified for my name Will I cast out my sight, and will make to thee a proverb and a byword among the nation all nations. And his house, which is high, shall be an astonishment to everyone that passeth by it So that he shall say, Why hath the Lord done thus unto this land and unto this house? And it shall be answered, Because they forsake the Lord God of their fathers. which brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, which laid hold on other gods and worshipped them and served them, therefore he hath brought all this evil upon them. When we look at this passage, there is, if you many of you are probably very familiar with 714. And the way this connects to the whole Mitch, much of what's been going on here is actually in the middle of a kiassic structure showing that this is the one of the main themes of the first nine chapters is this response right here. This portion is very, very important. And Solomon wants to make that point. God wants to make that point and the writer comes to make that point. Ultimately, the chronicler, the writer of chronicles, reminds the people listening that God appeared to Solomon, giving him the nation a conditional promise. The position of judgment is not to be seen as a negative, but let the people see that God is good and he keeps his word. And when we look at this, I want us to look at the proposition as we think through how God wants us to find comfort that he keeps his word. God wants us to find comfort that he keeps his word. Before we get into it, let us pray. Father. Thank you for the opportunity just to reflect on your word and look back at what you did, just as those that were reading it for the first time were able to do, that they were able to look back and see what you did. And Father, that you Keep your word. You're a fulfiller of promises and you are faithful. Let us not forget that. You are faithful. Lord, you are good. And as we read through this passage, help us to see that you you're working. And as we apply it to our lives, we leave here, a lot that be said the same. Praise in his precious holy name. Amen. The first thing I want us to see is God's message of hope to Solomon. God's message of hope to Solomon's prayer. The first thing we're going to see is this is the second time it says the Lord appeared by night, appeared to Solomon by night. We have a theophany taking place here and that he's able to see and be excited about the meeting having to appear to Solomon. This is very different than the first time. One of the main things is in the first time it was in the temple. Now he's not the temple, but the tabernacle, but now we're going to see him at his house. He's he's seeing and he's appearing by night. Some differences from the first time. Second thing worth noting is this chapter can be broken into two sections. One of the first sections we're going to look at here is the 12 through 18. And there's a personal, the second personal pronoun, you, rather these and thou's, are used repeatedly towards Solomon. It's specific that God is talking to Solomon in response to his prayer. And we're going to be flipping, if you have a page you're going to want to look back at chapter 6, we're going to make several mentions. Two things that Solomon prayed at the beginning of the temple and how God responded directly to that. And this is directly to Solomon. And then we have the 19 through 22. We're going to also look at it there and how it changes from the singular second pronoun. to the plural. Yees. And he's talking no longer to Solomon individually, but the nation as a whole. And how there's going to be some differences to look at. But just as Solomon began, it says God appeared and says, I have heard thy prayer. And that's actually the first thing I want us to note, is that God heard Solomon's prayer And I want to just pause and just remember that how comforting that is that God does hear prayers and he answers prayers. It begins with verse 12 saying, He had heard thy prayer And if we look back to 6. 19 through 21, I'm not going to read all of these. I'm just going to read some highlighted verses. But it says, Solomon praises, have respect therefore to the prayer of thy servant and to his supplications. O Lord my God, to hearken unto the cry and prayer which thy servant prayeth before thee. Solomon begins just pleading with the Lord to hear his prayer. And the Lord wanted to make it very clear. Solomon, I've heard your prayer. Doesn't stop there. We were to keep going. Verse 13. It continues on. He says, or sorry, verse 12. We're still in verse 12. He goes, and he chose the place for myself, a house of sacrifice. I have chosen this place to myself. This phrase is a very unique phrase, and we're going to point back to this later, but this is a Deuteronomic promise from Deuteronomy 12 that God has said, He's a look for the place that I choose. But here, it's that Solomon, when he was praying, really colored this very well. And he wanted to say how powerful and how magnificent God is. Verse 18, Solomon says, But will God bury indeed dwell with men on earth? Behold, heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain thee. How much less this house which I have built? Solomon's just praying saying, Lord, you're so much bigger and better and more powerful than this building. But will you come and dwell with us here? What a powerful prayer if you were to really pause and think about what Solomon was asking. And God positively responds to that as we were if we were to look how he says, I will dwell here. I'm going to listen. That's what he says later on in verses 15 through 18. He said, I am going to listen. But before we get there, he has some things to deal with, to talk with the nation of what to expect. Verse thirteen. He is faith he is faithful to keep his covenants He has chosen this place as a house of sacrifice. Thou which kept the f um serv sorry. He hath chosen to keep this place a house of sacrifice. Earlier, chapter 6, Solomon also prayed, Thou which hast kept thy servant David, thy father, has promised him and spake us from thy mouth, and fulfilled it in thine hand as to this day. You start saying that this is going to be the place of sacrifice. He's going to be worshiping. He's going to be meeting, and things are going well. And he wants to make this attention that this is my place. I will dwell here. And I'm going to keep emphasizing this because it's going to carry major implications later on in the section. By the way, Deuteronomy 12. 5 says this. But unto the place which the Lord your God shall choose out of all of your tribes, to put his name there. Even unto his habitation shall ye seek. Thither shall thou command. This place was going to be unique and important. And just as Solomon had prayed that this place would be unique and important. God responds saying, it will be. And this is the fulfillment of the promise. Already we can begin to see how God is working and that God is bringing forth his promises together. Verse 13. I can know I kept saying that I'm getting ahead of myself. But verse 13, judgments by drought, pestilence, and plague. If I shut up heaven, there'll be no rain, command the looks to devour the land, and if I send pestilence among my people, I'm going to pause. If you remember when Chronicles was written, it was written after they had come back from From the exile. If we were to think about, if you were to think about a story where it says God shut up the land that there was no rain, you might be thinking of Elijah. These people already know the story that God has done that. Why? If we know the story about Elijah and he meets with the prophets of Baal. They, the people, were serving other gods, just as they say here. Locusts had came to the land before, pestilence has fallen among the people. This phrase here, looking back, was something that God kept his word. The people at Solomon may not have understood that. Solomon himself may not have understood exactly what was going on, but the people of Ezra knew what was going on and that they saw this going, God kept his promise. By the way, this is the exact wording of Solomon's prayer. Verse 26 in chapter 6 says, When heaven is shut up and there is no rain, because they have sinned against thee. Verse 28, for there are dearth on the land, if there is pestilence, if there be blasting, or mildew, or locusts or caterpillars, if the enemies besiege them of the cities. He starts pointing out exact language. He goes, Hey Solomon, I heard your prayer. But at the same time, verses 14 through 16 also goes with Solomon's prayer as well. Fourteen through sixteen talks about God 's grace to repentance. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land. And how is he going to be there and hear these things? Because God's going to dwell among them. Notice what it says in 15, 16, Now mine eyes shall be open, and my ears attent on the prayer that is made in this place. He's going to be listening to the prayers that happen in the temple. Furthermore, he says, For now I have chosen and sanctified this house, that my name may be there forever, and mine eyes and mine ears shall be there perpetually. One of the things we're going to see that when they're going to walk away, God 's going to be there saying, Will you come unto me? Come back to my temple. Make sacrifices. Pray. I'm right here. I'm not far away. I'm not in this extravagantly far-distant place. I'm not in the heavens of heavens, but I am dwelling among you in this temple. Will you come to me? But even more so, when we look at verse 14, while this has been preached very heavily, we point to this verse and we say, God can heal America. I want to be very careful that this verse is surrounded by covenantal promises on all sides. This is directed to Solomon and to the people of Israel. But as we read through here, we're going to see some things that are going to be very important. One of those being and how God works through and how he's planning and he's working through these people. Just as earlier Solomon says, if these people sin against thee and heaven is shut up, or if there be dirth in land or pestilence or blasting or caterpillar or locusts. He doesn't stop because Solomon also prayed that if they sin against thee, and thou be angry with them, and deliver them over their enemies, and they carry them away captive unto a land off or near. Yet if they bethink themselves in the land, whether they be captive, and turned away and pray unto thee in the land of their captivity, saying, We have sinned, we have done amiss, we have done wickedly. If they return to thee with all their hearts, with all their soul, in the land of their captivity, whether they have carried them captives and prayed towards the land, That thou gavest their father and toward the city which thou hast chosen, toward the house which I have built from thy name, that hear thou from heaven, even from thy dwelling place, their prayer and their supplications, and maintain their cause. And forgive thy people which have sinned against thee. Solomon earlier prayer was saying, God. We're going I almost want to say Solomon used the word if, but it's almost like he knew the people of Israel were going to do it. And says when they do it. Please forgive them. We see this interceding aspect of Solomon's prayer. And God responds saying, if they do that, I will bring them back. I will be faithful. The people there of Ezra, Ezra 's day and age, coming out the exile. They're sitting there and they're listening. And they're hearing these verses going, we did return. God did bring us back. What comfort there is that God does keep his word Let us continue. Verses 17 and 18. Solomon's God gives a simple, faithful reminder to Solomon. It says, for now I have chosen and set sorry, seventeen. And as for thee, he's talking again to Solomon, if thou wilt walk before me as David thy father walked. And do according to all that I have commanded thee, and shall observe my statutes, my judgments, then I will establish the throne of thy kingdom according as I have covenanted with David, thy father, saying, There shall not fail thee a man to be ruler in Israel. There's a couple parts of this that is very interesting. One of the first things is that this is a condition given to Solomon that was not given to David. David was given that there will be a ruler, period. Solma is going, if you saw if you follow me and you serve me and you are faithful to me, I will. Then I will We see something different here, but ultimately what we're one of the main things we're being reminded of is God 's specific Davidic covenant. If you guys notice it in verse 18. He says, I have covenanted with David thy father, saying, There shall not fail thee a man to be ruler in Israel. We were to pause for a moment and think. When they were, where they were. They're at the temple. Ezra. Time of Ezra. They just got back from exile. Was there a king over them at that time? No. At least not a Davidic king. So they're reading this going, God, you said this. How is this true? Ultimately they have to reflect back and saying, God, you keep your word. We've read these last several verses and how you have been faithful. You did everything you said in 12 through 16. What about this one? The simple answer is they had to look forward by faith. They had to look forward to a king that was given to them. A message of hope ultimately, God's presentation of hope, is that they had to look forward to something that wasn't yet there. That God was going to fulfill his promises, that God was going to be faithful to his word, that we were going to see it. The entire message is given to Solomon. It says at the beginning, and the Lord appeared to Solomon by night and said unto him. Ultimately the hope of the nation was resting on Solomon's shoulders. And if we know the story of Solomon and we're going to talk about, he doesn't do everything as he should have. He was not the perfect king that they were looking for. We know that the perfect king was yet to come. And we have seen him come. That was Christ. And even as we sit here today, we're going to be looking, we look forward to the time when Christ will rule again And true or not rule again, but truly rule at the for the end for all eternity. So as we look through these times and we're looking through everything, we need to recognize that when this was written And what it meant to the people and how they can constantly look back saying, God kept his promises. And this verse section is really driven towards Solomon of will you so will you serve me? Will you be faithful to me? It's on your shoulders. We have this individual expectation. But the second half, 19 through 22, is not just the individual, but it's also pointed to God's response to the nation. We're going to see the shift from the these and the thous to verse 19, and you'll notice it right away, but if ye turn away. Now he starts talking to the nation. By the way, this is given to Solomon, who was expected to give it to the people. Now again, the nation is listening to God speak to Solomon, and they're listening going, yeah That means all of us now. There's this difference that they're going to start understanding. And we start seeing here that these people had to listen. And God's response to them, and this is a conditional promise given to them that is Mini Aries, it's going to be the same as what we read, the same message almost, delivered to the same people, but a different result than we saw in verses 13 and 14. Read with me verses 19 and 20. Notice how similar this message is to verse 13. But if ye turn away and forsake my statutes and my commandments, which I have set before you, and shall go and serve other gods and worship them. Then will I pluck them by the roots out of my land which I have given them, and this house which I have sanctified for my name, will I cast out of my sight, and will make it a proverb and a byword among all nations. If you notice the similarities there, that if you're going to serve other gods, you're going to walk away, you're going to do these different things. Verse 14, it says, basically, it says, then If you are going to repent. Verse 1920, there is no repentance. There is a clear dichotomy here that the parallel is going to sit being made that you either have two choices Serve me and repent of your wicked ways, or serve other gods. There is this two fork-in-the-road choice being placed before them. One gives blessing, healing of the lands, returning of the people from exile, or more or less a return to exile a second time. They're being given a choice. Their turn away from the wicked ways and heal led to forgiveness, but now the turning away leads to God's removal from the land. One of the parts of this is the judgment in both of these stories is earned. Can we agree that they walked away from God? Their judgment is deserved. But the other side of that, if we read through verse 14, restoration is so undeserved. They don't just because they turn back to God doesn't mean they deserve. They don't deserve to come back to, but God's graciousness does And ultimately, we're going to see that repentance is at the heart of Solomon's prayer and the difference between the beautiful ending we saw in these first several verses and the ending we're going to see here in verses 22. And how we're going to see this is really exemplified in them trading God's goodness with their selfish desires. Also, that's all what we always wind up doing is that we're going to be choosing something else over something that's better or best. And what was once a blessing will now be considered a curse to the nation. Notice verse 21. And this house which is high. That is to say, this house which was exalted. This house that was lifted up, if we were to even think about how Jerusalem is laid out, Jerusalem's already on a hill. And then you even more so we think about this temple, Mount Moriah, even within Jerusalem, it's even higher. Literally, this house is exalted. Everyone has to look up to it. But that house which was a blessing will now be accursed because As, so we continue, verse 21, this house which is high shall be an astonishment to everyone that passeth by it. He's going to look up and be astonished at the result and the status of the temple. They're looking there. And they're going to be shocked. It's going to be both a proverb and a byword, a curse among all nations of having to see ultimately a stumbling block for the nations to serve God. And if we were to continue going down, we keep reading, now we see in verse 22, and it shall be answered, because they forsook the Lord their God of their fathers. The other nations are going to know more about God than some of the people of Israel, it seems like. How do we know that? Because they their father, which brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, these people are recognizing that this is the same God that took them out of Egypt. Israel is going to forget that. And they laid hold to other gods and worshiped them and served them. Therefore he hath brought this evil upon them. One of the painful things, like I said, the difference between the ending and verse 16, mine eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually. Verses 22 brought all this evil upon them is the difference of one word, repentance. When we look at all this, we try to bring it together, we bring it in the New Testament, we say we want to look and how to apply this to our lives and tying it all together. I want us to notice a few things and how we look at this and it seems a bit harsher, unfair maybe. We read saying, God, if they do this, which seems like this imperfect standard, like how can they serve you faithfully? How can they do all of these things? There's so many laws. How could they have been faithful to you at all times? And that's an honest truth, is that it is an impossible standard, but that's part of it. That this impossible standard is not something that they have to try and rigorously uphold, but that they turn to God saying, I cannot do this, I have to trust in you. Have faith in what you're doing and your perfect word. This judgment is to realize that his grace is good and that without judgment there is no grace. The people listening were experiencing God's grace in this time. These people were listening were given a choice that much of us that many of us are probably familiar with from Matthew 7. Matthew 7, 24 through 27 is the story of the foolish man and the wise man and where they build their foundation. Both are given a choice on how and where they want to build their foundation. One decides to build it on the sand, one build it on the rock. And Jesus says there. He goes, Everyone that heareth these saying of mine's, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto the foolish man, which built his house upon the sand. And the rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon the house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it. Those that were listening to this were the second time. Some of those that were listening were there when the temple first were was filled the first time. They may be listening to the story going, I remember my parents talking about this. There were those that experienced the temple both, initially with Saul, not Solomon, but before they left, and they saw it again now, after the exile. And they're seeing this and they're saying, wow, we really are given a choice. God's been gracious to us, but we are given a choice. Are we going to serve God? Are we going to serve our selfish desires? Serve Mammon. Another thing to look at as we can look forward to here is that we have a better covenant. One that is not based on conditions that if we do these things and we will have to be faithful, but simply that we have Christ. Something a bigger and better covenant that we have. 1 John 1 9. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. This opportunity we have. We don't have a temple to go to and meet and make sacrifices. But an opportunity to meet daily with Christ. I bet we are given a better covenant God's gracious that even in our sin if we repent he offers forgiveness. I think there's no better way to show this story than as we have been looking at over a period of time, we've been looking to the life of David that, man, both of these have made Both him and Saul have made horrible mistakes. And yet the difference between them is their heart and where it was and how it one was ready to repent and the other one was hardened. And wanted nothing but his own selfish desires. So we see that through the awareness to, if we can just repent, realize the heart that doesn't mean there won't be judgments, but God offers forgiveness. Faithfulness and repentance are both required for a healthy relationship with God. If we were to go back to 714 and just kind of break this down into parts that he says, hey, if you want to have fellowship with me, there's these four things that are necessary. Humility. And by the way there's going to be some verses here, James 4, 6, and 7. And having to recognize that God's going to resist the proud, but exalted the humble. Prayer, having to spend time with him regularly, as it says, humble themselves and pray. Seek my face. We're going to see, I call that faith, having to seek God and having to come to his word. By faith, that his word is true and he fulfills his promises. And the last part of it is repentance, realizing our wicked ways. Our notice that it says turn from our wicked ways. There's this ideology of having to look back and to see what I want. But having to turn towards God and what He wants. Not to make that a formula, but to think that those are the four things that are necessary to have a healthy relationship with God. But ultimately, as we read through this, and I hope you got the message, was that we can find comfort that God's faithfulness to keep his words Ultimately, I cannot repeat this enough. Israel is hearing all this ultimately for the second time if you want to think about it like that. From 1 Kings 9 to 2 Chronicles 7 was almost 500 years. And yet what they heard from Solomon was fulfilled. And what they're hearing now. And they can look back saying, God, what you said, you did But we can look forward saying we can still expect. And just us as New Testament, we can look at the New Testament here and we can read through here and how what God is doing and what He's will do. He's not done working And we can look through here and find comfort that not everything's fulfilled, but God, you're going to keep your promises. You're going to keep your word. And that gives us something to look forward to because just as they did not have a king sitting over them, that they had something to look forward to. We look back at that king and what he did and the sacrifice he made on the cross. And ultimately, we're looking to him, looking forward just as they were, to a time when he will rule forever. So as we look at this passage and as we read our Bible each and every day, let us come and find comfort that God does keep his word. Let us pray. Father, thank you. Thank you for your faithfulness, that your mercy endureth forever. Lord. As we spend each and every moment, opportunity with the moment with you, help us remind each other and those around us that you are still working. That you're not a God that's dead or absent-minded, but you are present and listening. Father, you are so good. Let us not forget that. As we leave here, allow that to be encouragement, one with another, as well as those that are meet each day. Praise in his presently name. Amen.