Good morning, like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And today we are back in Ecclesiastes 9, just looking at a couple of verses, verses 10 through 12. So if you have your Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it. And let's look together at these verses. Ecclesiastes nine, ten through twelve. Here's what the scriptures say Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might. For there is no work nor device nor knowledge nor wisdom in the grave whither thou goest. I returned and saw under the sun that the race is not to the swift Nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill. But time and chance happened to them all. For man also knoweth that his time as the fishes that are taken in the evil net, and as the birds that are caught in the snare, so are the sons of men snared in an evil time when it falleth suddenly upon them. Now we come to the passage in front of us. A very simple way to kind of break down the passage is is this summary statement. Do everything to the best of your ability, but also remember that success is ultimately in God's hands. Let me say it again. Do everything to the best of your ability. But also remember that success is ultimately in God's hands. Maybe another way to put it is don't settle for mediocrity. Make sure that you give your absolute best. and you strive for excellence in everything that you do. And so there are really three very simple challenges that he gives us from this passage. The first challenge is if you're going to do something, do it to the best of your ability. Here's how he puts it in verse ten. He says, Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might. In other words, Give everything that you have to the things that you're doing. If you're going to set out on some kind of endeavor, don't go into it half-heartedly. Don't act as if it's just a difficult task that you're going to quit in the middle of. In fact, a lot of times we see examples of Jesus telling the disciples, people that are following him, if you're going to follow me, then you need to count the costs first. You need to ask, do I have enough to pay to build a tower if I'm going to do it? Do I have enough to actually finish the task that's in front of me Am I really committed to following Christ? He gives those examples when he talks about discipleship. Well in Ecclesiastes 9, he's not talking about discipleship, but he's just talking about as a general rule in life If you're going to do something, then do it with everything that you have. Give your very best to it. And the reason is because If you don't do that, there's going to be a day that you look back and you're going to regret that the opportunity that was in front of you was not seized properly. He puts it this way. He says, There's no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom in the grave whither thou goest. One of the things that Solomon keeps emphasizing in the book of Ecclesiastes is that life is short Life has opportunities and challenges, but there comes an end point. There's going to be a time when you breathe your last breath and you have the last opportunity to do the things that God has given you opportunity to do. And so he says, with that understanding, make sure that you seize opportunities and make sure that you give your absolute best to the opportunities that are before you A second challenge that he gives here is realize that God's blessing is the key to effectiveness in your labors Now, just because we give our absolute best to something doesn't mean it's going to be successful, or it doesn't mean that it's going to be as successful as we wanted it to or expected it to be. It's also true that there are times that we don't really follow through to the extent that we should, and we still see that God blesses it. The point that he's trying to make is that even though a person can give everything they have to what they're doing, it's not a guarantee that they're going to be successful. Yeah, you think about the coach who's challenging his players. And what should the coach challenge the players to do? He should say, give your absolute best. Don't leave anything on the field. A lot of you know I'm a big Clemson fan. And one of the things that Dabo Sweeney always tells his players, he says, be all in. In other words, give everything Once the once the game is done, you can't go back and change what's happened. Give everything that you have. But there is a certain element to this that you just cannot control the outcome. It's interesting when you watch a sports season, you'll see how it's not always the best team that wins at the end of the season. Sometimes it's a team that throughout the season was good, but it's like they peaked at the right time. When you're looking at events in life where there's competition, what you'll find out sometimes is that you'll be surprised by the one who ultimately excels. And the question is, why is it that that individual or that group ends up excelling more than others? And the answer is we don't know sometimes other than It's in God's hands. God does that. So this is kind of the counterbalance. We should give absolutely everything that we have to doing the best that we can, to excelling in the endeavors that we take up, but we also have to have that. that excellence tempered with the fact that that success is ultimately in God's hands. He puts it like this in verse eleven He said, I returned, I saw under the sun that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill, But time and chance happen to them all. Solomon's saying life is full of surprises, and many times there are unpredictable outcomes. That's one of the reasons that we love watching sports so much, because when you're watching sports you see people excelling, giving their absolute best to something, but sometimes it'll be one play in a in a game, it'll be one change in momentum That completely changes the outcome. And you say, How in the world did that happen? And the thing that we're reminded of is it appears to be just random chance when we're looking at it from a human perspective. But the fact is that God's hand is involved in these things. God is the one who excels people and who blesses their endeavors, who makes what they do actually be successful. The surprising outcome is a result, or excuse me, it's a reminder that we're not in absolute control of our circumstances. And so the challenge to do the best that you can is tempered with the challenge to be humble, recognizing, hey, success is not completely and ultimately in your hands. He then gives a third challenge, and this one's extremely interesting. This one is a bit on the negative side, but it's also a very important part of challenging us to excel in what we do. The third challenge is be proactive and decisive, because you don't know when your circumstances will turn against you. And verse 12 he says, Man also knoweth not his time As the fish that are taken in an evil net, as the birds that are caught in the snares, so are the sons of men snared in an evil time when it falleth suddenly upon them I think what Solomon is ultimately saying is that the reason we should be motivated to excel and give all that we have to what we do Is that we don't know how long our circumstances will stay as they are. We don't know when things are going to change. And when they change, they can change rapidly. Something can happen in just one moment And that one little moment is a decisive moment that completely turns the course of events. And so he says when you have opportunity Seize the opportunity. When you have an opportunity, give your best to the opportunity. Because when it changes, you'll look back and realize, I don't have the opportunity to do this again. What's done is done. The task is finished. Whether I did my very best or not, it's over. I can't go back and change it. And so Solomon's reminding us of that. All three of these challenges really drive us to one simple point. Don't settle for mediocrity. Try to excel in what you do. Give your very best to the labors that you have. And the truth is that from a biblical worldview We're supposed to do things heartily as to the Lord and not unto men. We need to recognize that our labor is not in vain in the Lord. And so as Christians, when we serve God and when we do our work as to the Lord, we recognize that there's value, there's actually an eternal significance to the things that we're doing. So the question you may ask this morning is, how do I practically apply a verse section of Scripture like this? Let me give you three simple applications that I jotted down. as I was thinking about the passage. The first is this. Give your best in whatever you do. Are you a student? Do your very best. Are you just working in a regular blue-collar job? Give your very best to it. Are you studying so that you can teach others? Well then excel in your studying. Are you managing people? Are you working under people? Are you a dad? Are you a mom? Are you a son? Are you a daughter? Whatever your position in life is at the moment. Realize that this season will eventually change. You won't be able to go back and redo what you missed. Give your absolute best to what you have. And do it for the Lord. Do it because there's eternal significance in the things that you're doing. Secondly, don't be overconfident. Just because you give your best, just because you're talented in what you do, just because you're knowledgeable and are well practiced. Does it mean that the ultimate outcome is in your hands? Recognize that if you're successful, it's not just because you did your best. But it's because God blessed what you did. This morning I was reading in the book of Daniel and I was reminded again of Daniel's life. And when Daniel ended up in Babylon, He ended up in a very difficult circumstance. But this is what's interesting about Daniel chapter 1. It says that Daniel found favor in the eyes of the person that was over him. And when we say he found favor, there are really two reasons to explain that. He found favor because he was an excellent young man. He was intelligent, he carried himself well, he worked hard, he was a cut above his peers. So what he did was a part of that. But there was another dimension. It's the Lord who put him in favor with the people that were over him In other words, God allowed his work to actually come to the eyes of the people over him. And when they looked at him, they said, that's a sharp young man. That's somebody that can be trusted. That's somebody that has wisdom and depth. Far above his peers. The point that I'm making, and the point that the scriptures make, is that we shouldn't be overconfident in our abilities The fact is it's God who ultimately is going to cause our endeavors to be successful or not. And then the third thing we're going to say here is don't expect things to stay the way that they are. Are you going through a good season in life? Are things smooth and going well? I hope they are for your sake. But the fact is that things can change suddenly. You can very quickly have a complete turn of circumstances. One of the things that we're reminded of when we are young is that we should give God the strength of our youth. The question is why? Because there's going to be a day that the strength that we have now is gone There's going to be a day that the opportunities that we had available to us in our youth are no longer with us. And we will look back on those days. Either with joy that God blessed our labors, or we'll look back with regret, saying, I wish I had done better. I wish I had done differently. And so I want to remind you this morning, give your best in whatever you do. Don't be overconfident, and don't expect things to stay the way that they are. Things can change rapidly in our lives. And ultimately it's God who controls the circumstances as we go through them. I hope this has been a challenge to you today. Lord willing, we'll meet again on Monday. assuming nothing uh comes up. Looking forward to a great weekend. If you're local and you're a member of Anchor Baptist Church, I hope that you'll be with us this Sunday looking forward to some wonderful services as we continue our missions emphasis month And as we continue Skyping with some of our missionaries, it's going to be a wonderful weekend. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then Lord willing, we'll meet again next time. Father, thank you for the opportunity that we've had to study your word together. I pray that you will bless the things that are said, use them to encourage and strengthen your people. And we ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to talk to each of you this morning. I hope that you have a wonderful weekend, and Lord willing, we'll meet again on Monday. Bye now.