Good morning. Like to welcome you to another edition of Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And I'm a bit late this morning. I had a hard time getting everything together. And really there's a lot to reflect on in this passage. The passage of Scripture that we're looking at this morning is James chapter 2. If you have your Bibles, take them out and look at James chapter 2. We're going to look at verses 1 to 7. And because of how much there is in this passage, I think I'm actually going to deal with this in two parts. So this morning we're going to kind of deal with the main details, and then the next time we get together, I want to kind of expand some of the things that we talk about in this passage. Let's begin reading in verse number one. My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons. For if there come unto you in your assembly a man with a gold ring, goodly apparel, and there come also a poor man in vile raiment. And ye have respect unto him, wearing the gay clothing, and say unto him, Sit thou here in a good place, and say to the poor, Stand thou there, or sit here under my footstool, are ye not partial in yourselves, and are ye become judges of evil thoughts? Hearken, my beloved brethren, hath not God chosen the poor of this world, rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he hath promised to them that love him? But ye have despised the poor. Do not rich men oppress you and draw you before the judgment seats? Do not they blaspheme that worthy name by which ye are called? We come to this passage of Scripture. This is a really practical, important, hard-hitting passage of Scripture, and it really gets down to uh an expansion of something that he said in the verses before this section. So let's begin with a summary statement. The following section of James is an expansion of his statement on pure religion with a warning about how we should treat the poor. So if you remember, one of the things that he said is pure religion is helping the fatherless and the widows in their affliction. In other words, a person who's really been impacted by the gospel, who's really growing in the knowledge of the Lord, has a vibrant, healthy walk with God. is going to have compassion on those people who have no ability to repay them. They're not going to advance any kind of agenda for this person They're simply ministering to them because they see their value and they have compassion on them because of their position in life. And so he's actually going to expand that. He's going to say, let me give you a real practical example of a way either you do or you don't demonstrate that there's a healthy worldview, that there's a healthy walk with God going on in your life. And so in chapter 2, verses 1 through 7, he expands that by saying, how do you treat people who are disadvantaged, people who are poor, people who don't have a lot of material strength and prosperity? So let's look at a couple of the details of this passage and then kind of break them down a little bit in a practical way. The first thing that we observe in this passage is in verse number one, he commands us not to play favorites In verse 1, he says, My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons. And that phrase respect of persons has the idea of showing favoritism or showing partiality. In other words, you're not treating two people the same way, and the reason you're not treating them the same way has to do with their position in society. Do they have money? Do they have education? Do they have power and influence? How can they a how can they affect your potential to move forward maybe in the little niche in society that you have? That's That's the idea. You're not treating those two people the same way, and it's because of what they have. And it's because of what they have to offer you In other words, what he's telling them to not do is don't treat people differently because of what they have. And there are two little details in that statement that stood out to me that I think are very important. The first is he says you need to have the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ in a certain way. In other words, this attitude that I'm going to address It's something that's in complete conflict. It's in contradiction with the gospel message that you claim to hold. You say that you've embraced the gospel, you understand that your righteousness is not acceptable. And so you've humbled yourself in repentance and placed your faith in Christ. You recognize that the gospel is equally available to all people. Rich and poor, they're saved the same way. People have education and people have no education. They're saved the same way. It doesn't matter your status in society. So you've embraced that gospel message. Yet you're going to hold that message with partiality in the the assembly of the Christians. That doesn't make sense. That's where it started A second thing is he emphasizes that this is the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. He's going to emphasize the position of Christ over us, that he is our ultimate master. He's the ultimate Lord. And he wants us to remember that the way that we treat people is always going to be brought before a higher courtroom. And that's Christ's courtroom. In other words, he will examine how we treat people, how we judge people. And that needs to always be in our minds. So when you are impartial, you're reflecting the impartial nature of God's justice. And when you are evil and unjust in the way that you deal with people, you're contradicting the ultimate standard. You're not following a set of values that ultimately you say that you've embraced. A second observation is that he gave a very specific example. And then from that example, he asks a question and he says, you've got to answer this question. Let's look at the example that he gives. In verse 2 he says this, if there come into your assembly a man with a gold ring, goodly apparel, and there come also a poor man in vile raiment. And you have respect to him that weareth the gay clothing, and say unto him, Sit thou in a good place, and say to the poor, Stand thou there and sit here under my footstool. He says, here's what you're doing. You have a person who comes and joins your assembly. The local church is gathered, and a person walks in. the back door into that room where everyone is assembled and you have people that are sitting there they're going to worship together they're going to sing praise to God they're going to pray together They're going to sit under the ministry of the word together. And because that person has money, obviously by the way they're dressed, you say, hey, come here, why don't you sit in this place of honor? And you have a person who is poor, they don't have a lot of stuff. It's obvious by the way they're dressed. You say, why don't you come and move and stand here to the side so this very honorable person can sit in your place? He says, that doesn't make any sense That's a complete contradiction to what everything the gospel says about people is true. In other words, that action that you just took is a betrayal of what you claim to believe. He says, that's a serious problem. But not only does he give that example, he says, what does this say about your judgment? In other words, you've observed appearance, your attitude towards this person and that person, it's different simply because of what you've seen in them. You've taken action to honor a person that you know absolutely nothing about their character. All you know is the way they're dressed and what that says about how much money they have. And you have this other person who you've actually dishonored, you've removed them from their place to give honor to a person That shouldn't be honored. They should be treated equally. He says, What are you doing? In reality, the poor and the rich man should be brought together in the assembly. If there was ever a place Where our status in society should be set to the side and it doesn't matter, it's the local church. It's a place where we're in where we're focusing on the gospel and we're worshiping Christ together. And he says, in this example You have showed favoritism. Verse 4 he says, are you not then partial in yourselves and become judges of evil thoughts? Don't miss what he's saying. You are an unjust judge and you have followed an evil standard of reasoning. There is no difference between the way that you're thinking by the actions you've taken and a world that doesn't know God. People that are not living for eternity, people that don't value people in light of God's creation of them and God's love for them and the cross. You're not looking at people the way that God does you're actually looking at them with an evil heart. That's a very hard-hitting statement. And so he says, if you give preference to one person of another over another simply because of the way they're dressed And what they have, then you're an evil judge. That's what he's saying. Third observation. He reminded them that God actually put the poor in a better position to receive the kingdom. that actually matters. Now he's not suggesting that all people who are financially in poverty are going to be in heaven and all people who are rich and prosperous are going to be rejected and they're going to spend eternity separate from God. That's not what he's saying. But what he is saying is this, when a person doesn't have much in this world, they're in a place where the gospel is more appealing to them. They recognize that this world doesn't have as much to offer them as eternity does. They're in a humbled position, and they're more willing and more ready to embrace the gospel than a person who says I've got everything that I need. I don't need God. I don't need to think about eternity. This is heaven for me. Look at what I have. He's saying God actually has put the poor man in the better position To be able to recognize the gospel and his need and embrace it. And he's actually already kind of addressed this earlier. He talks about the poor man being exalted. And the rich man being humbled. And he says, God blesses the poor man who's exalted and the rich man is humbled. Because what does it do? It reminds them of the goodness of God and their need. And so he says, you need to remember how God has actually given that person a better place in relation to their recognition of the gospel. In verse 5, he puts it this way. Hearken, my beloved brethren, hath not God chosen the poor of this world to be rich in faith, heirs of the kingdom, which he has promised to them that love him? He emphasizes two things that are very important about those who don't have much, but are really put in that honored place by God. They're rich in faith. They have to trust God in so many circumstances that a person who feels like they have everything set for them doesn't have to have to trust God in. They understand that their faith is being tested and tried constantly. And so what does that do? It grows them, it matures them. They love Him. They recognize how good God is And so he basically says, listen, you're not acting like your father in heaven. You're acting in a way that's very serious and evil. A fourth observation. Their values which were being expressed in their actions did not reflect the values of their father in heaven. In verse 6, he says, you have despised the poor. In other words, you don't value these people. You don't value them because of some arbitrary factor, how they're dressed, some temporary status, the fact that they have money right now. And he says that doesn't reflect the value of your Father in heaven. A fifth observation. You've acted just like people who have no fear of God and have ultimately despised you. Verses 6 and 7 he says, Do not the rich men oppress you? And draw you before the judgment seats? Do not they blaspheme that worthy name by which you're called? He says, hold on a second. A lot of you people that are part of the church, you're not the richest people in society. You're not the ones who are in the most dominant positions. A lot of you are, well You have meager means. And you know what that means? That means that you're disadvantaged in society. And because of the disadvantage that you have people who have more power and more money, they've taken advantage of you. He's saying you need to stop and think about the way that you've been treated. by some of these people that are in that honorable position. The judgment seat, the law courts have favored them over you because they have a strong status and you don't And he says, that's bothered you, that's oppressed you, that's part of the trying of your faith, that you're dealing with those very difficult things. Yet here you are doing the exact same thing that they're doing In other words, the way that they've treated you and you felt the pain and the frustration of being in that very difficult position, you are doing the exact same thing in the church setting. And he said, there's absolutely no way that a Christian should be thinking this way and acting this way. Showing partiality in the local church is a terrible, dishonorable sin to God. And it reveals a lack of a worldview that's been shaped by the Bible. So how do we practically apply this? And by the way, my plan is that next time we come together, I want to break down some of these things a little bit more. I haven't done that in any of the other studies, but I actually want to break this down a little bit more than I have this morning. But what are some practical ways that we can apply the text in front of us? Let me share with you a couple of thoughts. The first is this, as a Christian, my values need to be shaped by eternity and what really matters. And we talk about something like the way that a person appears, the amount of money that they have in their account, their position in society, those things, though they matter at the moment in light of eternity, they're pretty arbitrary. They're not the main thing. And so as a Christian, my values need to be shaped by what actually matters in God's eyes The second thing I've jotted down is this, the stuff that I have and the status that I attain in society is not where my true value lies. You know, the truth is that what I have, I may not have tomorrow. The position that I have right now, I may not have it one day And the truth is no matter how much I grow and I advance and I prosper in this world, there's going to come a day When I leave this world, there's gonna come a day when I face the Lord Jesus Christ, the ultimate judge. Everything that I did in this world, everything that I created. Everything that I built, it's going to be left behind for somebody else. And you know, ultimately I'll be forgotten, and so will you And so the reality is that the stuff we have and the status we attain, that's not where our true value lies. And so as Christians, that should be expressed in how we deal with other people. A third thing are my real values are exposed by the way I treat people. In other words, what I really believe deep down inside, not what I ascribe to believe, like, oh I I make statements about I believe this. My church believes this. Now what do I actually believe in in a practical way? Well, it's revealed in how I treat people. When somebody walks into a room, and I kind of have disdain for them, It might just be shown in my body language. It might be shown by a statement that I make towards that person or to somebody else and that person never hears it. It could be something as simple as just moving away and say, I don't want to sit by that person What's being expressed there is what I really believe deep down inside. In other words, my true values, they're being exposed by those actions. Favoritism really is revealing some very troubling things that are going down in my heart. There are some major problems with the way that I think and the way that I judge. when I show favoritism. And that's what's being communicated in this passage. And the last thing I jotted down is this. What I believe theologically must shape how I relate to people, or I actually don't really believe it. If I say I believe this and that it's a part of this system of thought that's supposed to it's supposed to touch every area of my life, if I really believe that, then it is going to touch every area of my life. Now I'm not suggesting that Christians are unable to show favoritism. Lots of Christians do. We can find examples in our own lives and the lives of people, but what I am saying is this. When we do that, we better recognize it's sinful. And we better ask God to help us overcome that sinful practice and that sinful pattern of thinking. And we need to grow past that. We need to begin to relate to people the way that God wants us to relate to them. I hope that this passage of Scripture has been very encouraging and helpful. And I know it's a hard-hitting passage. It is a tough passage. But it really speaks to the heart and soul of how we think and what we do. And James is one of the most practical books in all the Bible. James basically says, you believe this, then this is what you'll do. You believe this, this is how you'll relate to people. And that's what this passage is all about. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to just bless the things that we've learned and that they'll really be a help to us today. We'll practically apply those things. Father, I pray that you'll help us this morning to live in the light of the truths that we've discussed. This is a very hard-hitting passage, very practical. Very simple and it's also very convicting. I pray that you'll help us to not just hear the word, but help us to do it, help it to really shape what we believe, and help what we believe to really shape what we do. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see some of you this morning, and I hope that if this has been a blessing to you and encouragement, you'll jot down a little note of encouragement. Perhaps we can share this with somebody who can also be blessed by it, and I hope that you'll be able to join us next time. My plan is to take what we've talked about this morning and dig into a couple of the whys So I hope that you can join us tomorrow as we talk a little bit more about the passage before us. Have a wonderful morning. Bye now.