Another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good day. This is the coldest morning we've had so far. And uh let's go ahead and get into our discussion this morning. We are in Luke chapter 1. We're looking at verses 18 through 25 together And really the topic we're going to be addressing is the topic, don't doubt God in the details that we are dealing with. So Luke 1, 18 through 25 says this. And Zechariah said unto the angel , Whereby shall I know this? For I am an old man, my wife well stricken in years. The angel answered and said unto him, I am Gabriel that stand in the presence of God. I am sent to speak unto thee and to show thee these glad tidings. Behold, thou shalt be dumb, shall not be able to speak, until the day that these things shall be performed. because thou believest not my word, which shall be fulfilled in their season. And the people waited for Zecharias and marvelled that he tarried so long in the temple. When he came out he could not speak unto them, and they perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple. For he beckoned unto them and remained speechless. And it came to pass that as soon as the days of his menstruation were accomplished, he departed from his own house. After those days his wife Elizabeth conceived and hid herself five months, saying, Thus hath the Lord dealt with me in the way or in the day wherein he looked on me, to take away my reproach among men. Now when we look at these verses, we see really the continuation of our discussion yesterday, how when Zechariah is working in the temple. He sees an angel, the angel Gabriel, and the angel Gabriel tells him that his prayer has been heard, and that he and his wife are going to have a child, and this child is going to be really the forerunner of the Messiah. So the question is, this continuation of this discussion dealing with the birth of John the Baptist, what really is the main point of it? Well, this section recounting the details regarding the birth of John the Baptist reminds us that even when we doubt God in the details of life, he still will accomplish his sovereign purposes and his will. in our lives. What we see is that Zechariah was a man who trusted God. He was an obedient man. He was a very faithful man. He was somebody that did his duty from all that we could see in the scriptures. But he wasn't a perfect man. He was a man who stumbled when it came to this this promise that God had given him on this day. And so what I'd like us to do is look at a couple of the details and then try to just practically apply the passage The first detail we'll see is this. Zechariah and his wife are both faithful believers. Now we say believers, I know that Luke is a New Testament book. But we need to realize that the details that are being recorded for us are really happening under the old covenant. They're not happening after the cross, after the resurrection. They're leading up to that. So These people, their perspective of the cross is they're still looking forward to the coming of the Messiah. They were saved in the same way that we are by faith alone in the finished work. of God's redemption. However, their their point of reference when it comes to the cross and the resurrection is they're looking forward to it as a part to look as a as opposed to looking back at it like we are But when the scripture says that they were believers, what it's saying is that they believed that God was going to send a redeemer. Now we don't know the full content of what they believed. In other words, they would not have known his name, but they would have known details about the Messiah. These were people who were anticipating the consolation of Israel, just like Simeon was in the temple, who we'll talk about later on in this this book. But I want you to notice the detail of verse 6. It says, They were both righteous before God. They were walking in all the commandments and the ordinance of the Lord, blameless. Three statements that are very important. One, righteous before God. Another way of putting that is they were justified people They had been declared righteous by God. The same way that Abraham was, Abraham believed in the Lord and it was accounted to him for righteousness. The fact is that David was uh Saved the same way. It says that he said, Blessed is the man whose transgressions are forgiven and whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man whom the Lord does not impute sin. So when we talk about Old Testament saints, these people are Old Testament saints, righteous before God, looking for the coming Messiah. The second thing we see is that they were walking in the commandments and the ordinances of the Lord. They were obedient to God's expectations. They followed the Levitical sacrifices and the rituals and the feasts and the festivals. They were part of all those things. Those things were not what made them righteous before God. That was the outflowing of a righteous position. In other words, because they believed, they obeyed. We could say it's kind of like what James says in James chapter 2, where he talks about a person who says they have faith. Well, the the reality of that that faith that it's truly possessed and that person really is a child of God is that we're going to see that that position in Christ is going to outwork And in obedience to God. In other words, it flows out of the position. It doesn't secure the position for us. And we see that with this couple. And then we see the words blameless. The idea is if you looked at their life, you would see that there was a completeness to the way that they lived. It didn't mean that they were infallible people, that they were sinless. It simply meant that they were people who lived consistently. And there was nothing in their life that you could point to and say, hey, these people are unfaithful. These people are doubters. Yet with that very important detail, that they were both faithful believers, we see this second detail. Though they believed God in the big picture, they were looking for redemption. They doubted him in the details. This is really interesting. They believed God was going to send a Savior. They believed that there was going to be a forerunner to the Savior. They didn't realize that that forerunner was going to be their own child. And so while they believed that God was going to send redemption and he was going to send someone who was going to prepare the way for the Lord, they doubted it when it became personal. In other words, when God said, you're going to be the parents of the child that's going to prepare the way for the Lord, all of a sudden they said, are you sure about this? Is this possible? We're too old. We've been barren our entire marriage. We've tried to have children for decades and we cannot have children and we are past that time. How is this possible? In other words, they believed in the big picture of redemption But they struggled when it came to the personal way that God was going to actually accomplish this through them. Zechariah knew his limits. He knew his wife's limits. Physically, he knew they were beyond the ability to have children. He believed in redemption, but he doubted that God would actually work in his life personally. And that's a really important thing for us to recognize. The fact is that we can be just like Zecharias. We can say we believe God is sovereign. We believe that God is good. We believe that God is infinitely wise. We believe that He is going to turn all things to good in our lives. We believe those statements of doctrine, but when it comes to actually living out practically in the light of those things Many times we're doubters just like Zecharias. It's like we're waiting for the consolation of Israel, and God says, oh, by the way, you're going to have a child, and that child's going to be the forerunner of the Messiah. All of a sudden the big pictures doubted in those little details. And that's what was going on with this couple. Didn't mean that they lost faith in the fact that God was going to send redemption. It's that they doubted he would do it through them. Then we come to a third detail that's very important. Even though they doubted the details, God still worked through them. You know, a lot of times when we read the Bible, we tend to think of the people that we read about as the heroes and as the center of the story. We talk about David as being a great man of God or Jacob being a great man of God or Abraham being a great man of God. The fact is that these people did do some great things. God used them in amazing ways, but they were flawed individuals. In fact, we can find terrible stories of terrible failures as we look at the lives of these people that we see as great people. The fact is that God doesn't work through them because they're perfect. God doesn't work through them because their faith is unshakable God works through them because that's what he's decided to do. In fact, it's a measure of God's grace that uses these flawed people. And by the way, when God uses us, he's using us as flawed individuals as well. Notice what it says in verses twenty-three to twenty-four. It came to pass, as soon as the days of his ministration were accomplished, he departed to his own house, and after those days his wife Elizabeth conceived. Now, the fact that this man Zecharias doubted what God said through Gabriel the angel when he first hears this message from God. The fact that there was a doubt didn't mean that God set him aside and said, I'm not going to work through you. God said, I'm going to work through you in spite of your doubt. If he had said, I believe, God would have worked through him. The fact that he said he doubted didn't mean that it was over. God's faithfulness to his promises and his plan of redemption We're not going to be thwarted because of the weakness of these people or because of the doubts of these people. He was going to work through them because that was his purpose and that was his will. That was what he had determined he was going to do. It was his grace that accomplished his plan of redemption. In other words, the reason that God used these people is not because of something good in them. It's because God was going to show them a favor that they didn't deserve. You might say, well, they were righteous people. They were blameless. They were obedient. Yes, that's true in the big picture, but that's not why God chose them. God didn't choose them because of that. He chose them in spite of the fact that they actually did falter in this moment. And we see the same thing is true with Abraham. You know, God makes a promise to Abraham, and Abraham makes an incredible step where he's willing to leave his home country. But let's remember that there's also the story of Hagar in the life of Abraham. There are also examples where he lied in Egypt and said, tell them that you're my sister, so that my life will be preserved. So even though Abraham was a faithful man, an obedient man, a man of faith, he wasn't a perfect man. He was a man that stumbled and faltered. God worked in spite of Abraham's stumblings. God worked in spite of Zechariah's stumblings We should never doubt God in the details. But even when we do, it doesn't stop God from accomplishing what he wants to do. Another point I want to make is this. This really demonstrates that God is sovereign, and it reminds us that He is the center of the story. Not us. When we read the Bible and we read of these people's lives, we need to realize that the Bible is really not about David and not about Zechariah. It's about God. It's about God's plan of redemption. It's about God's will. It's about God's purposes. It's about God's power and sovereignty and goodness. And we see that demonstrated in the text before us. Lastly, I'll mention this. It should remind us that when God does work through us, and when God does work in a very good way in our lives, we should be grateful that he has chosen to include us and really to allow us to have a front row seat and seeing him work in our lives and in the lives of the people around us. We should be grateful that God chooses to let us see his power and his sovereignty on display, see his wisdom at work. And so we shouldn't get proud and we shouldn't get to a place where we feel like we've arrived. We should be humbled and we should be grateful And I think that that's the effect that we'll see in this man, Zecharias, as we continue to move through the story the next time we're together. So here's the question, how do we practically apply what's in front of us this morning? How can we take this text and just dig into it and really take a couple of thoughts for the day that will be a help to us? Here's the first thing I'll say is this. Don't doubt God in the details of life. You know, it's easier for us to say, I'm going to trust in the Lord Jesus Christ for my eternity. It's easier than to say, I'm going to trust you in this little detail today of what I'm dealing with. You know, it's easy to say, I believe God's sovereign. I believe God's good. I believe he's infinitely wise. I believe he's all powerful. I believe he's aware of what's going on in my life. It's easy to make those statements. It's much more difficult to, in a very practical situation, a situation that's really tough. A situation that we can't fully make sense of, it's much more difficult to trust God with those details than the big picture and those propositions of truth that we say and we truly do believe are true. The second point I'm going to make is this. We need to trust God to be faithful to his word. When God says he's going to do something, he's going to do it. We see example after example after example of this in his word. The reason that we talk about God's word as the testimonies of the Lord is because they're really examples of how faithful God is and how he works in the lives of people. And so we need to trust him to be faithful to accomplish what he says he's going to do. And the third thing I'm going to mention is this. We need to trust him in the way he actually sets about doing what he's going to do. In other words, it's not just that I'm saying, I know God's faithful to do what he says he's going to do, but I'm going to trust him to do it in the best way possible. I'm going to trust him with the actual details that I'm dealing with in life. I don't know what you're dealing with at this moment. I don't know what practical situation you are in the midst of, where you are struggling with doubts about God's goodness or his power or his ways. But I want to remind you that even when you have moments of weakness and even when you struggle, just like God didn't let uh Zechariah go to the side and he didn't say, well, I can't accomplish what I chose to accomplish or wanted to do. God can do the same thing in your own life. The truth is when you doubt, he's faithful. He's going to continue doing his work. And when you look back at the ways that God works in our lives, you will look back and say, it's all of his grace. It's all of his kindness, it's all of his mercy. And we will look back with clearer eyes than we have today. And so I want to encourage you to really learn from this man, Zecharias. and his wife Elizabeth today to learn about how God works in spite of us. Hope this has been a challenge to you this morning. It was to me as I reflected on it. I hope that you have a wonderful day. Stay warm. I know it's pretty cold out there. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then I hope that we'll be able to meet again, Lord willing, tomorrow. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study your word. To be reminded of your ways. Help us to trust you in the details of life, not just the big picture, but in those practical little details. And help us to be humbled and grateful that you allow us to play a small part in the things that you accomplish in this world. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hope you have a wonderful morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.