This evening we're going to be in 1 Kings 17. 1 Kings 17. I love this chapter. There's so many things. that are exciting about this chapter. It's a kind of nice change of pace of where it comes out of chapter 16. But this evening we're going to look at Elijah's prophecy and God's provision. Elijah's prophecy and God's provision, and we're going to pick it up in verse 1 of 1 Kings 17. And Elijah the Tishvite, who was the inhabitants of Gilead, said unto Ahab, As the Lord God of Israel liveth, For whom I stand, there shall not do nor reign these years, but according to my word. And the word of the Lord came to him, saying, Get thee hence and turn thee eastward and hide thyself by Brook Cherith, and is before Jordan. And it shall be that thou shalt drink of the brook And I've commanded the ravens to feed thee there. So he went and did according to the word of the Lord, for he went and dwelt by the brook Cherith that is before Jordan. And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening, and drank of the brook. And it came to pass after a while. But the brook dried up, because there had been no rain in the land. And the word of the Lord came unto him saying, Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. Let us go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we are just so thankful that you are our personal God. You can take care of our needs. You can provide for us. Sometimes it's good for us to recognize what we need and sometimes separate that from our wants. And we're thankful for the word of God tonight that you would just speak to us individually, that you would do a work in us that the Spirit of God uses his word in the hearts and lives of your children. to change them to be more like your son, Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen. So here we are in 1 Kings 17. So Elijah in verse 1 says, first off, we're just going to look at how God is going to use unlikely people to provide through uncommon ways. And this is what happens right off the go in verse 1. It just says Elijah the Tishvite. It's just like he drops from nowhere, he comes in, and he confronts the king, and for a minute you're like, wait, can we take a timeout already? Who is this guy and what is going on? Well, we don't know a lot about him. We're just introduced to him. It's just bang here he is. Sometimes these guys have introductions, the son of so-and-so, and you have a good idea who the father is or what his family was. Not in this case We just came from Ahab is king, he is wicked, he marries a wicked woman, and all of a sudden we have Elijah. What is going on here? So we don't know very much about him at this point. Little is stated other than this verse. He's just thrown in, and there he is But what we do know from this verse is he is a Tishbite and he is an inhabitant of Gilead. What does that mean Well, not much more is known about that. We know very likely that he was on the eastern side of the Jordan. Yes, that would be correct. On the eastern side of the other side of Jordan, where the half tribe was and Gana uh Manasseh and and that side. So that general area, but not much is known about it. There was probably a lot of fertile ground there from what we know. It was very likely that he had an agricultural background or had dealing with livestock just to the richness and the fertility of the land, and so it was a great place for that type of thing. So really Not much is known other than just those quick little things about him that there's not much going on. And so this is the guy. that just comes onto the scene, who is doing what, so we have a very unlikely person. It's not some big name confronting this wicked king to help put him in his place. That's not what's taking uh shape right here so far But what we what do we know or what will we know about him? I just thought it'd be good to, at this introduction to Elijah, to kind of take a sneak peek at what we will know eventually about him. Although he started just on the scene very quickly. So what do we know about him? Well, his name means my God is Jehovah or Yahweh is God. And we also know this. This is very interesting. He's the only one with Enoch. So Elijah and Enoch were the only ones to be translated or to not see death. They were just taken up. In Genesis 5. 24, we see Enoch walk with God, and he was not, for God took him. In Hebrews 5. 11, it says, by faith, Enoch was translated that he should not see death. and was not found because God has translated him. From before his translation he had this testimony that he pleased God. So he's in good company with Enoch, who was translated up. And then this happens to himself. He goes up as well, a little bit more of a fiery way. But in 2 Kings chapter 2, verse 11 says, And it came to pass, as they still went on, and he talked. But behold, there appeared a chariot of fire and horses of fire, and parted them both asunder, and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven. So a little bit more dramatic than just, oh, he was walking with God and he's not. But he is in good company. That is going to happen. So he was one of two that just all of a sudden got taken up, did not see death, and was with the Lord. He is also seen with Moses at the transfiguration with Christ. We see this in Matthew seventeen, starting the first verse. It says, And after six days Jesus taketh Peter and James and John his brother, and bringeth them up to a high mountain. And was transferred before them, and his face did shine into the sun, and the raiment was white as light. And behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias, that's Elijah here, taking or talking with him Then answered Peter and said unto Jesus, Lord, is it good for us to be here? If thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles, one for thee, one for Moses, and one for Elias. So that's what's coming. He's in unique category of he was taken up. He was there, transfigured before Peter, James, and John with Christ. And then his name throughout the rest of the Bible, starting right here in this verse, not so much. We don't see it. We're just, here's a guy stepping on, he's gonna have a confrontation with the king, and then he goes to hide, which we'll see in a little bit. But what is coming? His name was associated with power and miraculous events. We see this in James. This gives us a little bit more of what we're going to get into later in this first verse. But James 5 17 says Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain. And it rained not on the earth for the space of three years and six months. And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit. That's an amazing feat. So we get a little more from James that there was a prayer involved here. He just speaks to Ahab, no rain, and that's all we know. But also, his name is spoken with great power in mind in Matthew 27. This is at the death of our Savior. It says, some of them that stood there, when they heard that, said, this man called for Elias. This is Christ, crying out on the cross. And straightway one of them ran. He took a sponge and he filled it with vinegar and put it at read and gave it to him. And the rest said, basically, let us see whether our lives will come and save them. No, don't give anything. We don't want to see what happens Because Elias might come, he's calling Elias. Why? Because Elias, his name is associated with power, with resurrection, with something great and miraculous that can happen So when it comes to our minds, that's what we know about Elijah. But at this verse in chapter 17 of 1 Kings, we know none of that. He's a no-name guy from we're not sure where. But what we do know in this first verse is that he confronts the king. So in our minds, I said all that to say that's where we're going. That is who he's going to be. But at this part in the Old Testament, we know none of that. Not that I want to erase that, but I want us to think right here, right now, this is a no-one that we know of. And he's stepping on, he's confronting. How did all that happen? I'm not sure. So what's he do here? So he, this is Elijah, this Tishvite from somewhere over there, from whose we don't know who his parents are or what is anything much about him, and he said to Ahab As the Lord God of Israel liveth, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to thy word. This is pretty incredible. This uncommon, likely source, this person, confronts the king. And he has a message for this king, and it's not a kind one. And he seems to confront him very boldly, very briefly, from what we can see. And when he does this, let's be reminded very quickly of who King Ahab is. Elijah must have truly believed in God and had great faith in him. From the very beginning here that we know of. Because he's gonna go confront the king. And who is King Ahab? A wicked man. If we just look at the chapter before. In verse 30 of chapter 16, we see that Ahab, he did evil in the sight of the Lord above all that were before him. So he's got a great testimony for being evil. And it was a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam. Evil, he's willing to change the story, twist the truth, appoint people to himself. He found a very light thing to walk in the sins of Jeroboam And then he takes a wife, Jezebel, from a king from a wicked place who used to be a priest and served Baal, so his wife is not very good. His father-in-law is very evil. And so they worship Baal. He rears up an altar unto Baal. And then by verse 33, the a couple verses right before we're going in chapter 17. He makes groves, and he did more to provoke the Lord God of Israel to anger than all the kings that were before him So do this evil, wicked king who is very bold in his evil, who's aggressive, who is worshiping false gods, and he is doing everything he can to push away God, to make himself one, to worship these other gods, he is just evil. He's provoking the Lord. This is who this no-name man comes and confronts. And he goes to him and says, Oh, you know what, King Ahab, you know what? The God who's alive. Not a dead God like Baal, not some limited to some piece of stone or a grove or any of these places of worship. The living God that I serve He's the one I'm coming to you with a message. He says, The God of Israel that liveth, before whom I stand, there shall not do nor rain these years. Now just take a minute to think about that. This no-nin guy comes in representing the God that you despise and that you hate, and he's going to give you a message, and then he says, oh, by the way, it's not going to be arranged for a couple of years. He said years. What who do you think you are, you little flea? Get out of here. He may not have thought much more of it than that. Who is who does this guy think he is? Guys, escort him out, please. You're not even w you're a waste of my time. I'd say off of this head, but even that would be too much. Just get him out of here. Who knows what took place? We don't know any of this, but it appears that nothing really happened much after this. But that is who Elijah knew who he was dealing with, a very wicked, evil, godless man that was in direct opposition blatantly and boldly against the God that you serve And he's going to confront him with a message that he does not want to hear. Now the good thing is on Elijah's part that he probably was a nobody, but he had a message that needed to be heard And then all we know after that, so that is Elijah's prophecy. He has this message But what we do know is we take a sneak peek a couple years later. I just want to look at this very quickly. In 1 Kings 18 and verse 17 and 18. You can turn this just to probably the next page over in your Bible. Listen to what happens a couple years later. And it came to pass when Ahab saw Elijah, and Ahab said to him, Aren't thou that troubles Israel? Aren't aren't you the one that's I mean he didn't even hardly remember him. I mean he's wait, remember that one guy came in? Yeah, we've been kind of thirsty since then. It's been harder to grow our crops. Yet aren't you that guy? You did this. It is your fault. Isn't that so Adam-like to blame somebody else? Not taking responsibility for our own sin. And I would second what was said over there about, you know, fathers and taking responsibility and oversight. Boy, if we could do that as fathers and just, you know what, I was wrong. I did wrong. It was my responsibility. I confess that I want to get right with the Lord. I want to do right with my family. It's so easy to point the finger. It's your fault. I didn't do it. Siblings. They never do that. Siblings always take responsibility, right? No, I did that. I'm sorry. Oh, maybe after the sibling gets the spanking, or who knows what, but We are so quick to push our responsibility. If we don't get our own way or it doesn't go that we want, it's your fault. I'm doing everything right. But here's what's interesting. Look at verse 18, the next verse. So 1 Kings 18, 18. And he answered, I have not troubled Israel, but thou and thy father's house. In that thou hast forsaken the commandments of the Lord as thou hast followed Balaam. So Ahab later, years later, no, remember, this was you. This was the I am the guy. This was the message. It's because of your disobedience to God while you're not me. I'm just the messenger. Don't shoot me. Okay? That's kind of what's taking place. But Ahab thinks he remembers him. Wants to hold him accountable for his own sufferings instead of being responsible for it. So that's a sneak peek of Ahab and what he was thinking of the situation. But the fact there we kind of get the hint that he doesn't really remember him, I think actually helped Elijah at the onset. So that is Elijah's prophecy and God's provision. Now let's quickly, I'm sorry, now let's look at God's provision. That was the prophecy. So now we're going to see the bulk of it is God's provision for Elijah in verses 2 through 9. That was a long first point out of one verse. But the rest will go quicker, especially now in the time we have. But God's provision for Elijah in verses 2 through 7. And the word of the Lord came unto him saying, This order is going to matter because We're going to see it repeated later in a couple verses. But he says, Get thee hence, and turn thee eastward, and hide thyself from the chariot that is before Jordan. So in verse 2, the word of the Lord comes to Elijah. Verse 3, he gets directions from God. He says, head eastward, hide thyself by the brook. And it's a great thing to know that if there's going to be a famine or going to be lacking of water, that God will at least send you to a place with water. I'm sure that was comforting. But here's what's interesting as we get to the next verse of how God provides in uncommon ways. God can use people and circumstances that go outside the norm to accomplish what He will. So verse 4 it says, and it shall be that thou shalt drink of the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed thee. The ravens to feed me? I mean, God, this is your plan was great to go run and hide. I mean, I just told this very powerful wicked king That it's not going to rain for three years. So I like the idea of hiding. I agree with you on that. So hiding by water is also good because I also told him that there wouldn't be water for years to come. But now? You want me to be fed by ravens? Those nasty, disgusting, nothing against our local town. Okay But a raven? What are you thinking? Let's just see what the Bible quickly says about ravens. Ravens got off to a great start in Genesis chapter 8 and verse 7. This is Noah. He sent forth a raven, which went forth to and fro until the waters dried up from off of the earth. Do you know what happened after the raven? The raven was so reliable that Noah chose, you know what, maybe the dove will be better. This raven thing didn't work out so great. She's an unreliable bird. He's not even doing what he's supposed to be doing. This is what what was I thinking? Then our next introduction is in Leviticus and Deuteronomy. In Leviticus in Deuteronomy, the raven is listed with the other unclean birds. It's not even a clean animal. They weren't supposed to have much dealings with this. And then in Job 38, it says, Who provideth the raven his food? When his young ones cry unto God, they wander for lack of meat. So you have a bird that was unfaithful, that is in the list of uncommon, unclean birds, foul, and then in Job, it doesn't even like to feed its own children. Do you see what might be going through Elijah's mind? You pick a raven to feed me. This doesn't make a lot of sense. What is going on here? I don't get it In Proverbs 30, I mean this bird is a winner. Well, according to the scripture, we'll see how it goes. Certainly not on this town. And Proverbs 30, verse 17 says, The eye that mocketh at his father despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall puck it out. Talking about the eyes. And then it says the young eagle shall eat it. What kind of pluck it out the eyes and doesn't even eat the thing? This is a vicious, nasty, unreliable, unfaithful, unclean bird. God, wait, wait, wait a minute. You want me to go this powerful man with this message and tell him no rain and no dew I like the hide part. I like parking and hiding beside water. And you're gonna feed me with this bird? I don't know what you're thinking. But look what he does in verse 5. He says, so he went and did according to the word of the Lord, and went and dwelt by the brook Sherith that is before Jordan. Sometimes what happens is we won't agree with God when we think we can understand it. God, that's a great idea. I'm so glad you're leading me in what makes sense. That is wonderful. But when God may be leading and guiding in something that doesn't make sense, we're not as tempted to be like chapter 5. But God, I don't know. I can't in my mind figure out how this is going to work out. This doesn't make a lot of sense. I mean sometimes you might have to go to another state to get back where you originally started. Why that'll take place? Still trying to figure some of that out. But you know what? Sometimes that happens to people Sometimes we can't sit there and figure out why. Do you ever try and have discussions with your children? And they're they're asking questions. I don't understand. I don't get it. And you're just kind of like, I just want to Just obey. Because obedience is the very best thing. That's why we send you to that church so they can sing that song. So do it now. We just want immediate obedience. Sometimes they want understanding. And sometimes our kids get older, you know, you try and give them a little more understanding, you try and give them the scripture. But when it comes to God, sometimes we're just like children. I only want to obey if it makes sense. Elijah didn't, as far as we know, he didn't question it, he didn't challenge it. He just, okay. You want me to be fed by this unfaithful, unreliable, unclean, doesn't even care for its own children, and you want that to feed me? I guess, and I'll just obey and see what the Lord does And so that's what we have at verse 5. It's the uncommon, unlikely way of God providing. You know, God can provide things in amazing ways for us. He really does. It's truly amazing. If you pray and ask God, sometimes it's weight. Sometimes it's great. Sometimes it's that I still don't get it. Sometimes when you have needs, we want the immediate answer. And that is where it gets hard. God, this just doesn't make sense. Why not now? Sometimes he just wants us to deal with the thorn in the flesh, to understand his grace is sufficient. Sometimes he just simply wants us to trust in him and his timing. How much understanding do we really need then obey right now? Trust in him today and watch him work in the tomorrow's. So that's what ends up taking place here. He just obeys in verse 5. He did according to what the Lord said. And then look how God provided in verse 6. This is incredible. And the ravens brought him bread. Unthinkable. Crazy, but it's happening. Because God commanded it back in verse 4. It's going to happen. So in verse 6 is fulfilling the command that he's commanding the ravens to feed them in verse 4. And now we see the fulfillment of it in verse 6. And not only did the Ravens bring him bread, shocker, I can't believe that that's happening, but look at this, bring him bread and flesh in the morning. So this is great. I don't know if it's steak and eggs, but he's definitely getting bread and meat here, okay? Bread and fish in the morning and bread and flesh in the evening. And drank of the brook. This is God showing his way of being faithful and providing in a way that doesn't even seem to make sense to us. And he got bread and flesh twice a day from the unlikely source. But then as you think about this, as I've been pondering this truth, why would God take something so unlikely to help provide food for Elijah? No, no, this is just me thinking, okay. I'm just thinking through this and kind of fleshing it out. Maybe with a little bit of bread too, but what do you think about this? If you saw ravens carrying food and stuff around, usually that that could be kind of odd, but no most people wouldn't make a big deal about that But if a raven, an unlucky source, is bringing food to Elijah, what's one way that he could have been seen and discovered a whole lot sooner? If he has to go and he has to find food and he has to buy from the market or whatever. God is going out of his way with an unlikely source to pride Elijah so that with even the people of Israel in a sense If you look at the bigger picture, can suffer so Ahab can recognize, you know what, that living God thing, that crazy guy that came in here, man. He's crazy and it's his fault. He is suffering through to recognize, you know what, there's a living God who could command the rain. He can make it not rain, he can make no dew, and he can control the ravens. And it helped Elijah to hide all the longer. In two part. One, to greatly provide for Elijah, and two, to help Ahab recognize the consequence. of his dis decisions. He's going against the very God that can provide, going very against the God who can give reign to his kingdom. And he's rejecting it and blames the messenger. Why a raven? It helps it to hide, helps Elijah to. Stay hidden and yet allows the consequence to fulfill itself over that time for Ahab. So he's providing these two meals to an unlikely source. God is using this unknown man in a great way and providing for him in some way that seems unusual. That is the God that we serve. And then look at verse 7. And it came to pass after a while that the brook dried up. Because there had been no rain in the land. Now he's by a little brook, and you could just watch it. You can imagine Elijah. He's sitting by the brook. The food keeps coming. That's amazing. That's incredible. It's like a miracle every morning and every evening. But over time, weeks go by, months go by. You know what's happening, that little brook with no rain? I imagine the end was probably getting a little bit more gritty than this first couple of drinks. Okay. Just imagine think it out. You don't think for a second that during this time of watching this Brooke dry up. Elijah is not coming. I mean he's a man like passions like we are. He's getting hungry, he's getting thirsty, and he's watching his source of water dwindle You don't think it might have gone through his mind, God, when are you going to call me to go somewhere else? What's going on here? And what happens is over time we can begin to doubt. We can , God, what are you doing? Can I keep trusting in you? Because these circumstances are we're watching God do miracles, morning, evening. God is working in our lives. But yet sometimes we can fail to see the things He does every day because we're working in other circumstances. God, I hope you know what you're doing. This this Brooke is drying up. I don't know if I can keep trusting you. You better know what you're doing because it's we're running out of time here. And we can begin to worry and we can begin to doubt. Did that happen? I don't know. I imagine you probably had those thoughts. But look what happens. It dried up because there's no There had been no rain in the land. But then look what God does again. This is incredible. He's watching it dry up. And then verse 8, and the word of the Lord came to him saying, Wonderful. He's going to cause it to rain. This is the message I'm going to bring. I can continue come out from hiding. The water will come back and all is well. Not quite. God is not done. What he does is he goes to provision number two of an uncommon, an unlikely source in his provision. vision. He commands a widow woman to provide for Elijah. So great. We go from ravens to a widow woman This is going like from bad almost to worse or worse to bad or however you want to look at it. Either one of these is not a good option. But God was faithful in the first time, and what can happen is we can look at this as God provided. I have confidence you will provide again. You know, sometimes when God gets us through hard times, it's so we can have the trust and the faithfulness. God is faithful and he can help me again. Or when someone else, a brother or sister is going through a challenge. You know what God is faithful? I have seen him. I've been in a similar situation. Be faithful. Follow God. You can trust in him all the time through all the circumstances, even though it looks bleak and weak and it's not going well and it doesn't seem to make sense. We know that we can continue to trust in a faithful God. And then the story gets even better. So now he's told in verse 8. So the word of the Lord comes to him just like he did with the ravens He says, get thee and go. He gives them a command, go to this place. He wants them to go to Zarephath, which is belongeth into Zidon, and dwell there. Now if we take a timeout before we go any further, I want to go back and read a verse in chapter 16, and I want to see if you're putting some connections here together. So he says, get thee, go to Zarephath, which is belongeth to Zidon. Now skip with me to back a couple verses, 1 Kings 16, verse 31. And it came to pass, it was a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nabat. That he took a wife, Jezebel, the daughter of Ithda, king of the Zidonians, and went and served Baal. Wait a minute. That's a king of the Zidonians. And in verse 9, it's saying, I want you to get up and go to Zion and dwell there. God, wait a minute. You want me to go to an unlikely source? To a horrible place and you're gonna provide for me there? That's exactly what he's saying. So he has to pack his little bag, get his walking stick, travel about 80 miles in the opposite direction. Actually for you it'd be this way, I think. And he's going to travel there to go to where the wife of the king is from, and very likely where the father-in-law still lives. Keep in mind, this is the king you confronted to his face and told him it's not going to have dew nor rain for years. And now you want me to go to their hometown? And you want me to find a widow that's going to feed me? God, I don't want this doesn't make any sense. Now, this is going from bad to worse. Do you have a death penalty on me? I don't even make it this. There's no way this makes sense. You want me to go to the enemy camp? And basically is it fed by the church mice? What in the world? But he gives unto her and he says, Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. But look at the order. He gives, he comes to him with the word of the Lord. He gave him directions. And we know, look at verse 10. This is kind of going a little bit uh not too far ahead. It says, so he arose and he went. We're not going to get into the rest of it. But Elijah had enough faith in God. I have seen him faithful. I know it seems crazy. It seems doubtful. But sometimes what happens is our circumstances become our God. And we don't look at God through the circumstances and we want to say, God, I don't think that this is no way this is going to work. Because the circumstances cause doubt. The circumstances become God, replacing the one that we're trusting in. And we're starting to look at what my little puny sin-cursed mind can comprehend and we're thinking, there is no way I can trust a God to do this. But if there is something that we have in the Word of God that is plain and simple, we can trust it. We can obey it. The teenager does not have to worry about or call your career that are looking for a spouse. If they are unsaved, that's not something you have to pray about. You don't have to wonder about that. That's clear in scripture. Pastors have been going through that on Wednesday nights. That's nothing to pray about. Don't do it. Don't do it. It's simple. We are to be in God's house. We are to be in his word. We're to be seeking, asking the Lord for direction through his word. These are simple, basic things. Let us not overlook the simple things in life. Because when the challenging things come, the things that don't seem to make sense, we can understand that God is trustworthy. I can follow him. I have seen it. If he fed me with ravens by this brook, Twice a day, I'm certain that he can do the same thing from a widow woman going towards the enemy. God can use an unlikely person and uncommon circumstances to accomplish his will to draw us closer to him. Will we trust him to provide? Will we be the one? We might be a nobody. God, you can't use me. He desires to. You take me back when I was a teenager, even when I was first going to college. I never thought I would ever be doing what I'm doing now. I wouldn't ever have thought it. No way. In fact, I was even intimidated by other girls that were even in ministry. I was like Talk about check them off and I 'm if if there was a young lady I thought was nice and sweet, but her daddy was a preacher, missionary, I was like, not for me. It's above my pay grade. Just telling you that was a that's a little honest kind of throw it out there. But uh I I I just I I couldn't imagine anything like that. That was far better. And then to stand up in front of a church Or with teenagers and to preach the word of God. I just wanted to do activities. I just wanted to have fun and maybe wrestle, play soccer, you know, maybe do some teaching. I would have never imagined. God, you want me to go to the far corner of the country to pursue this? That doesn't make any sense. There's so many other places I can go. But what is it in our life? We might think that we're just the nobody. But if you have loved the Lord and you trust him through the trial and watch how great he is and watch him provide for you, it might come from a very unlikely source that doesn't seem to make sense to you at the time. But when you look back You can praise God and see how great He is and how He's provided through means and through people that you would have never put together. It is truly incredible to trust in the Lord even when things don't seem to make sense. sense. Father, we are so thankful and gracious for this chapter. What a great chapter if we can continue to go through this and just watch you work. God, you allowed Elijah to be bold with this prophecy to a very arrogant, proud, God-hating king. And yet after he boldly shared, you led him to circumstances that weren't normal. They were not predictable. They would not make sense to a human mind. All this to show that in the midst of challenges, when even a country can go the wrong way, when a nation is not serving you, when leadership seems to be doing things wrong, you are the God of the individual that can provide And help us when we trust in you through and during the trial the trials and challenges that may come and see you to be faithful in what you provide and work. And we thank you and praise you now and ahead of time for what you can and will do as we trust in you. And we do this in the great and glorious name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.