So we're going to be in 2 Kings chapter 2. 2 Kings chapter 2, we're going to get kind of reintroduced to someone that was just mentioned a couple of chapters ago in 1 Kings 19. And tonight we're going to be looking at Elijah's Whirlwind Tour. Elijah's Whirlwind Tour. As we're basically reintroduced to Eli Shah. And I said this before and I'll say it again. Elijah is the older one, has a J Eli Shah is the younger up-and-coming prophet Elisha. And so if I get a mixed up, you know which one I meant to say. And uh So they're intertwined throughout this whole passage, so just so you know, and uh we'll get our bases covered with that. So Elijah's the older one He's the one that's going to be taken up, and Elisha is going to be one taking over. And really this passage as we look at it, we're going to see it's really a time of transition between these two prophets. And we're going to see that taking place throughout this passage. So hopefully you're in 2 Kings chapter 2. I will start reading in verse 1 and follow along as I read. And it came to pass when the Lord would take up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind, that Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal. And Elijah said to Elisha, Tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord hath sent me to Bethel. And Elisha Elijah said unto him, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they went down to Bethel. And the sons of the prophets that were at Bethel came forth to Elisha and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Lord will take away thy master from thy head today? And he said, Yea, I know it. Hold ye your peace. And Elijah said unto him, Elisha, tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord has sent me. to Jericho. And he said, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they came to Jericho And the sons of the prophets, that were at Jericho, came to Elisha and said unto him, Knowest that thou, the Lord, will take away thy master from thy head today? And he answered, Hey, I know it. Hold ye your peace. And Elijah said unto him, Tarry, I pray thee here, for the Lord has sent me to Jordan And he said, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. And they too went on And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went on and stood to view afar off, and they too stood by Jordan. And Elijah took his mantle And wrapped it together and smote the waters, and they were divided hither and thither, so that they too went over on dry ground. And it came to pass that when they were gone over, Elijah said to Elisha, Ask what I shall do for thee before I be taken away from thee. And Elisha said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me. And he said , Thou hast asked a hard thing. Nevertheless, if thou see me when I am taken from thee, it shall be so unto thee. But if not It shall not be so. And it came to pass as they still went on and talked, that behold There appeared a chariot of fire and horses of fire, and parted them both asunder, and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven. Let us go to the Lord in prayer, Father. We are just so thankful and privileged to be here this evening, to read this text of Scripture, to be encouraged and convicted as the Spirit of God uses the Word of God in the hearts and lives of these believers believers here this evening, and that Father, you would draw us all closer to you, even in challenging times we don't understand, transitional times that may or may not be expected. Lord, would you do your work in your people this evening and bring praise and glory and exalt to the name of your Son and our Savior. Jesus we pray. Amen. So Elijah's Whirlwind Tour. I am going to just give a brief little introduction background of how we were introduced to Elisha and then do a quick comparison between the two men in their ministries. Because we're coming into a transition here between these two men, and sometimes people will compare one to another, and that's a very normal way of doing things. But if we go back to 1 Kings 19, back a couple chapters. It says that's when we're introduced to Elisha. Even how he comes onto the scene is very different than what we see from Elisha. And I'll point that out after we read this text. It says, and Jehu the son of Nimshe shalt thou anoint to be king over Israel. And Elisha, the son of Shaphat, of Abilim , of Abel yes, that one, shalt thou anoint to be prophet in thy room. So he departed thence and found Elisha, the son of Johat, who was ploughing with twelve yoke of oxen before him. And he with the twelfth, and Elijah passed by and cast his mantle upon him. Oh, sorry, I skipped down from 16 to 19. Now reading verse 20. And he left the oxen and ran after Elijah, and said, Let me I pray thee kiss my father and mother, and then I will follow thee. And he said unto him, Go back again, for what have I to do with thee? And he returned back from him, and took the yoke of oxen, and slew them, and boiled their flesh with instruments of the oxen, and gave unto the people, and they did eat. And then he arose and went after Elijah and ministered unto him. So coming onto the scene, when we're first introduced to Elisha, he's plowing oxen. When Elijah came onto the scene, he's going into the throne of King Ahab, and he's telling them, hey, it's not going to rain until I tell you. Two entirely you have one going to throne, another plowing a field. Complete opposites. And yet in that time was when Elijah Elijah, the older one, was kind of discouraged with the prophets of Baal. He's running from his life, from King uh Queen Jezebel. He's a lot going on. And then God sends Elisha. And that's why I read that at the end of verse twenty-one of chapter nineteen. He said And ministered unto him. God wanted to encourage Elijah with Elisha. And he did encourage him, and he was with them from that point forward. And as we look at their ministries just as a whole, just take a snapshot of the men, these men's ministries Elijah, like I said, he came on, it was like fireworks, he's going into the throne of the king, and he's pronouncing these things. He had a very big national presence. of national repentance before the king, and he had the big showdown with the prophets of Baal, very obvious fire and lightworks, and you know the whole fire 4th of July going on with Elijah. Elisha is the exact opposite, plowing a field, and as we see in weeks to come, as we develop his ministry and what he is going to do, He has more of a personal, compassionate side. And God used these two different men, called them both, one following after the other. One kind of blaze the trail and the other is going behind and encouraging the people. So one, like John the Baptist, is calling out, repent, change, and the other follower would come with compassion to reach the individual. We see this many times throughout Scripture with many patterns, as I made a reference to John the Baptist in Christ, here at Elijah and Elisha. You could say that same thing with David and Solomon, one blazing away, the other one having more of a peaceful. So this is a normal pattern we've seen. The reason why I bring all this up is because many times in ministry we want to compare ourselves to someone else It's not just teenagers. Adults can do the same thing. And often what happens when we compare is when we want to feel good about ourselves. We compare ourselves to the short balding guy. Look how tall and handsome I am. You know, you compare yourself to someone that you think is lesser to make yourself feel good. But then you as that same person You can compare yourself to someone, and if you're having a bad day, you compare yourself to man, they are so smart and great and instruments and they they don't ever mess up or do anything, and it makes you feel down and out. And what I want to encourage us with tonight is both are wrong. We're servants of the Lord that need to compare ourselves to Christ, not the people. And I'm just saying this for a way of encouragement, because God is using these two men during this time of transition. They're both serving God. They're both going to be prophets for Israel, doing great and mighty things. But God used them, their backgrounds, their talents, and who they are, and God used them in great and mighty ways in different ways, in different avenues for different purposes. That's how we are. We don't have the same talents and gifts and purposes. We have different contacts. We have different personalities. God uses all of that. to work in us and through us. So we're transitioning from Elijah to Eliasha And so we're going to pick it up here in verse 1 of chapter 2 as we're going to start picking up this whirlwind tour. So we get this in verse 1. Some time had passed, and the Lord's going to take up Elijah soon by whirlwind. And they both go together, and they're in Gilgal. And Elijah in verse 2 said unto Elisha, carry here. And pray thee, for the Lord has sent me to Bethel. And Elisha said to him, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they went down to Bethel. Now you can take this verse and hit repeat and just change location multiple times and even with the responses. So what is interesting is I was studying and looking at this, as we go through this tour of these places, can I give some of the significance to each of these places? Here, Elijah know his time is numbered. His end is drawing nigh. He doesn't have much time left. Exactly when is it? He's not exact sure of the time, but he knows it's coming close. And here he has his Timothy, if you will, with him. He has been training Elisha, working with him, and what is he going to pass on? What is he going to encourage him to do? And he's going to take him to these different places. As God is leading, he's taking them to these different places. different places. So they're in Gilgal is the first place we're going to stop. And in Gilgal was a quite a significant place. This is the place in Joshua chapter 4. where Israel is crossing and they're kind of setting up they they cross the Jordan and they're setting up near Jericho And this is where they encamped. This was like their home base of operations right here in Jil Gilgal, where Joshua has just taken over from Moses. There was a transition there from Moses to Joshua, and now Joshua is then going to start leading the children of Israel. to conquer many other nations that are in the land. And they take twelve stones in Joshua, this is Joshua 4 verse 20, 12 stones which they took out of Jordan did Joshua pitch in Gilgal. And he used these stones, and he spake unto the children of Israel. He said, And when your children shall ask their fathers in time to come, what meaneth these stones? Then shall you let your children know, saying, Israel came over this Jordan on dry land. And a lot of significance here in Gilgal with where they started their transition from slavery as a home base of operations. They're seeing God do lots of miracles. They just crossed the Jordan. And what they're doing is they're passing on. Even Gilgal itself is a great picture of transition to the next generation. Because he asks them what they take these stones and they set them up. So that way the next generation will see this pile of stones. This is no accident. How did these get here? Oh Those are there to remind us that we came over on dry ground to tell the next generation about God and the miracles and what he's done and the power of the God that we serve. And how he delivered us from the Egyptians and their gods, so we can be here in this land and serve him. So even here in Gilgal is the place of transition, passing on to the next generation. I had the privilege, my wife and I, of helping out in junior church. I love junior church. It was fun. It's fun. We have a good time with those kids. But they ask questions. My kids are obviously getting a little bit older, so we don't we have different questions. now I suppose. But they're not quite as frequent as they are when they're little. Why is this? And why is that? And how does that work? And they have all these questions. And sometimes we get to the point of, just God said. God, that's what God said. But the point is we're teaching the next generation what meaneth these stones. Elijah is taking him on the tour of these different places to show the significance of these places. and also kind of some of the work that Elijah had done because several of these places now have basically training grounds for prophets. And so that is Joshua 4 in Gilgal. And it's to remind them of what the Lord has done. Actually, in verse 23 of Joshua 4. Chapter four says, For the Lord your God dried up the waters of Jordan from before you until you pass over, as the Lord your God did to the Red Sea, which he dried up from before us, until we were gone over, that all the people of the earth might know the hand of the Lord. That it is mighty, and that you might fear the Lord your God. Isn't this kind of what Elijah was doing with the prophets of Baal? That they we know who the one true God is. Let's have a contest. Let's see who the real true gods are. That's what Elijah had done with his ministry, and here he is led to Gilgal, and he is there with Elisha, and these are all reminders of this place and this location. There's something special about places. Oh, we could just meet in our homes for church. But there's something about a place. When we gather together and we gather together to worship. There's something significant about it. Maybe there's a special place for you and your spouse, for you asked her to marry you. Some places are just special. Maybe there's a special place for you in your quiet time. Some places are just special. And here, the intended purpose, here, one of them at Gilgal, is that all the earth might know the Lord. And not too long ago, Elisha just did the very same thing. And I know Elisha had heard of this. You just don't kill 400 prophets of Baal and have that word not spread. Because bad news travels very fast. So that's some significance of Gilgal there in verse 2. Now let's look at verse 3. Second Kings two, three. And the sons of the prophets that were at Bethel came forth to Elisha and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Lord will take away thy master from thy head today? And he said, Yea I know it. Hold your peace. Now this first time you wouldn't think it's bad. You say, okay, yeah, I've heard that. I mean if I feel like everyone knows this. And they're telling Elisha. I think as we go through this passage, this would almost be a test of Elisha's patience. Someone that's worked with you and trained you, taught you, and it's like, oh yeah, by the way, he's leaving. Yeah, I know. Don't remind me. And I can see this as we look at this time and time again. I've it doesn't really say. He's very consistent though. His answer is the same every time, regardless of who it is. So at least he's that he's consistent. But I don't see him getting frustrated. I don't see him getting upset. Maybe we're getting into it. But just humanly speaking, I think, yeah, I know, you don't remind me. But I think at the same time, he was kind of excited about it I think he was looking forward to it. So that's just kind of some food for thought there. So they ask him and he tells, Elisha tells these prophets, hey, hold your peace. And then it repeats again in verse 4 as we start transitioning from Gilgal. Now we're going to go to Bethel. And Elisha said to him, Elisha, tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord has sent me to Jericho. And he said, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. For they came to Jericho. So the same thing happens again. They're going to leave Gilgal, they're going to go to Jericho. Elijah tells Elisha, stay here. Just stay here. Elisha's like, no way. I am not. And this word here, when he says, if you look here, it's the same every time he says, I will not leave thee. I think there's more to it than this, because that idea of not leaving thee has idea of I don't want to forsake you. I don't want to leave you at this moment. And that reminded me, as I was studying through this text and thinking about this passage, what was one of the reasons that Elisha was called with Elijah? I read it very slowly at the beginning of the message, because he ministered unto him. I think Elisha is seeing a part of his ministry of, no, I'm with you from the beginning to the end. He says, why would I leave you now? You're about ready to depart. Why would I forsake you? I'm supposed to be with you to the servant and to learn and to sit at your feet all the way to the very end. I'm not leaving. You know what it reminds me of? As I also thought through this text, it reminded me of a mother-in-law talking to her, I guess a mother talking to her daughter-in-law with Ruth and Naomi No, stay here. You don't have to follow me. Stay here with your family. No. And eventually she goes on to say, I'm going to go into your country, your people, my people, and your God is my God. She was not going to bludge. There's a connection there. I'm going to follow you. I'm serving the same God. Why would I leave you now Sometimes we could be tempted when things get tough or difficult or we don't understand during a transition time. That could be tempting. Well, why can't I just leave now? You've got it from here. I've got other things to do But Elisha here is sticking with it to the very end. I am not going to forsake you. He understood what I think he just really had a good grasp on his understanding of what he's there to do. I am to help you, I'm to be with you, I'm the minister and serve you until you're gone. Why would I leave right here at the very end? It doesn't make sense. sense. But Elijah is giving him a way out. You can stay here. You don't have to come. Sometimes that gets difficult. When someone in authority asks you or gives you like a suggestion of some sort. Oh, you don't have to come. Now, depending on who it is, they could be testing you, or they could just really mean it. Either way. Here, I'm not sure exactly why Elijah was telling him, hey, you can stay here. I don't know why. I don't know his reasoning for that. But I do know Elisha did not want to budge. He did not want to move. So he goes with him from Gilgal to Bethel. Now, this also is a great place of significance. Going all the way back to the book of Genesis there with Bethel, this is where we would refer to the passage of Jacob's ladder or his dream and sleeping on a rock as a pillow. I mean, I don't like a big fluffy pillow, but a rock? That's a little too flat and hard for my for my preference, okay? But this is the passage that it goes to. This takes place in Bethel. So I'm just gonna read some passages to remind us of these things. In Genesis 28, going back to verse 12, and he dreamed, and behold, a ladder set up on earth, and the top of it reached to heaven, and behold, the angels of God ascending and descending on it, and behold. The Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac, the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed And to thy seed shalt be the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abod to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south. And in thee And in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. And behold, I am with thee, and I will keep thee in all the places where thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land. For I'll not leave thee. Nor until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of. And Jacob awake out of sleep and said, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I knew it not. If you're following along in your Bible, you can skip the verse 19. And he called the name of that place Bethel. But the name of the city was called Luz at first So here again, he takes him, God is leading these men. Elisha is following Elijah to all these places by choice because he desires to follow him. He doesn't want to leave him. He doesn't want to forsake him. He's sticking with him. And where they go? They go to this very place in Bethel, where this great dream was where Jacob is going, Hey, listen God is in this place. This is something amazing that happens. And within that promise, it's very interesting again. What is happening here? To thy seed. It's yet another place that has a transitional, a generational focus. That is where God is leading these men, and Elijah would miss out on some of these things had he not continued to follow. God is just leading Elijah around, and he's following him. And each of these places is very significant. This whole day, you see different numbers, I'd say between six and ten miles. So not extremely long, especially for guys of You still running for his life? Okay. What's another six or seven miles? Okay, not that far. Very doable. But they're falling around and he takes them to this place. Where we see yet another transitional change, another generational focus. I think that's significant. I think that's something neat, how God is guiding and directing to each one of these places. And then also what's needed to each one of these places is you see the work of Elijah, where he has all these schools of prophets We would call them like Christian colleges of the day, if you will, or seminaries, okay? That is what's taking place. Not only is the place significant, but what they're doing currently at that place. So it has past significance. It has a recent significance of what's taking place. So they're following each other and going from these places to these places. And Alai Shah is very focused on staying with them. He is determined to stay with him to the very end, and I think he understands what he's doing in his ministry, and he is being very consistent and unwavering as these prophets keep coming to him. So there they are at uh at Bethel in verses two through four, and then we repeat the same thing. He said, As the Lord liveth, as thy soul liveth, the end of verse 4, I will not leave thee. So they came to Beth. Jericho. So now our tour continues from Gilgal to Bethel, and now we're going to Jericho. And here it says the sons that were at Jericho came to all the sons of the prophets, sorry, the sons of the prophets that were in Jericho came to Elisha and said to him, Knowest thou that the Lord will take away thy master from thy head today? It's like you think these guys if this is modern, you think they'd be calling or texting each other They're asking the same exact sending a quick email, you know, whatever whatever it is. They're saying the same exact thing to the same exact guy. He's probably gonna I got it. I got it I know, I know, but we don't see him reacting in a negative way. He's just being kind. He's on a mission. It doesn't matter who's asking why. He's just sticking with it. He's gonna take away thy master tay. And he answered, look at his answer in verse 5. Yay, I know it. Yeah, basically, yeah, I've been keep hearing it. I definitely know it. He tells them, hold ye your peace. Be patient. Settle down. Maybe they're excited. Sometimes there's something exciting in transition. Sometimes there could be some scary things in transition. And sometimes our churches, we just don't like change at all. Others want a variety and change all the time. It can be a challenge. All these things are taking place here. We need to keep the Lord as the focus and what he is calling these men to do. And they're just leading them through this tour as God is leading them. And sometimes when we're trying to figure out what to do next, you just take the next step. Sometimes as it's getting darker earlier now, you just take one step in front of the other, and then you can see for the next step. And we know that God's word is like a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path. Sometimes we just have that lamp. You could only see the steps in front of you. When you're going up the stairs, it's one at a time. If you take two, that means you're young. If it's dark, you most certainly want to take one. But that's what we need to do. Just take one step time. You just are leading along. God said to go here. Are you going to stay here? Nope, I'm going with you. Okay, now we're going here. Okay, that's fine. I'll go there too. He's not complaining, even though he's getting the same questions, even though they're interrogating him a little bit every place he goes. So the same thing happens at Jericho. And I feel at Jericho I don't have to say as much because we're more familiar with Jericho, but that's the place that was their first real battle here as God told them to march around the city and the walls came tumbling down, the part where Ahab stayed stayed up. An absolute miraculous, undescribable victory. And then we know what happened with Achan from that too. But another place where God intervened and stepped onto the scene and did something great and powerful. This is where they are now. So they go from Gilgal to Bethel, now to Jericho. And we see the same thing. And Elijah said unto him, there at Jericho, he said, I pray thee, verse 6, for the Lord has sent me to Jordan, yet a fourth place. And he said, as the Lord liveth and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. He says, I'm not going to forsake you. Why would I leave you now? I'm traveling with you. I don't want to miss it. I got front row seats, so whatever's going to happen. And I am your servant. I am here to serve you to the very end. In the time when it can be easy to quit, when you're getting frustrated because people ask you the same questions, no matter where they're at. It can get frustrating. It could be emotionally draining. But he's not. He could just stay here and be like, you know what? Everyone keeps asking me all these questions. Now we're going to another place. I'm just going to throw in a towel. Why do you keep putting myself through all this? This torment of all these people coming to me. But I don't see that anywhere. I don't see that. But they knew it was getting closer. There's almost so much time in a day. Then we get to verse 7. And the fifty men of the sons of the prophets went and stood to view afar off. I mean they're saying, hey, there's a whirlwind. We want to see this. There's something cool going to happen here. We don't want to miss it. And they too stood by Jordan. So you have now 50 prophets of Jericho. They talk to them. They're going on their way. They're going to the next location. Elijah and Elisha are going to the next location. You and the prophets say, hey, we want to see this. They're going to watch. So they're standing in a far watching from Jericho as they these two men approach Jordan. And as we go to the Jordan, we see what happens when they get there. Elijah took his mantle, that's like his his cloak, I think it was a special prophet. I think it was something designated that hey, that is Elijah. We can tell by what he's wearing. Kinda reminds me of Joseph's coat of many colors. It's not an ordinary coat. This is something special. It identified him with who he is This is comparable and we're going to see very much. This is like the rod of God in the hand of Moses. There was something special there. It represented the power, represented that person. And what he's going to do is he's going to take that symbol, that mantle, and he wrapped it together. I kind of think in my mind as I think about the story, You ever take like a towel or a shirt or something just kind of wind up like this? I'm thinking if I'm a guy and I'm gonna hit something with clothes, okay And I'd be guilty as charged before. I've tried this. It's been a long time. But you know y you and there's your younger brother. Ho ho ho You know, you just don't want to take your shirt and throw it at him. That's not your as fun You wind that thing up. Now I'm not teaching the kids what to do here. And you can tell them don't do what Pastor Josh did. You can learn from his mistakes. That's fine But you take that thing and you I can just imagine that he's winding this thing up and then he's just you know you know you can't just take a shirt and toss it in there, it's just not gonna work, it doesn't have the same effect. So he wraps it. Okay, folded it. Whatever he did, I imagine this, but you can imagine way of it. He wrapped it together. So it's tighter. See what I'm thinking here? He gets it in like a whipping use of some kind. And it says he smote the waters. He just didn't toss it in. He didn't try and cover the Jordan with it to walk across it on water. No, no. He wraps it and he smote the waters. So he's using this thing like a little whip. And when he does this action It says they were driven hither and thither. And the first time I read this a long ago, I was like, oh, I think I heard my grandmother say that phrase. There it is, hither and thither. Yeah, so neat. But and so he splits uh the hits the water, it splits, divides its under, and they too went over on dry ground. seeing a miracle of God and they walk together on what God has done. And it's on dry ground. So they're going across the Jordan to the other side. And then once they cross, Elijah finally, just the two of them, asks them this question, now that they're near their final destination from what they know. And it came to pass after all these things and this little tour that we're going through all these different cities and places, when they were gone over, that Elijah said unto Elisha, so he's going to ask him the question we've all been waiting for. Ask what I shall do thee before I have taken away from thee. And Elisha said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me. Why even follow me so much? What is going on? And then if I could grant you any request, what would be your final, what would be your final desire? If I can do it, I'll do it for you. Just showing the closeness of these two men and their desire to serve the Lord. And we finally get our answer. Elisha, he says, you know what? He says, I would love to have a double portion of thy spirit to be upon me. And if we do a comparison, I did a light comparison, I didn't like actually count every single one of them. But when you say the double portion What was Elisha? He was a little bit confrontational, he was showing of repentance, he was used of the Lord in great and mighty ways. And Elisha is saying, I want more of that. To see God work in me and through me. And when you do a comparison of these two men, what you will find is pretty close that Elisha, as far as recorded history, does about twice as many miracles than Elisha. And there is some overlap, as we'll see with widows, and as we're going to see right soon by the end of this text with the Jordan, there's a lot of similarities, but Elisha, as far as recorded scripture, has about twice as many miracles. So he is going to get almost exactly what he is asking for. Once again, he's not asking for wealth, money. He wants to be used of the Lord here. And then Elisha says, this is a hard thing. He says, but if you see me go up, it will happen unto you. And then in verse 11, the only time they got separated, all throughout the day, Elisha has given him out after out, city after city, the questions from the prophets. You know he's going to leave you. I know, I know. It's going to be soon. Yeah, I got it. I got it But what we're going to see here in verse 11 is we go from Elijah's whirlwind tour here to Elisha's translation when he gets taken up Here in verse 11, and it came to pass, so it's continuing after all these things, that they still went on and talked. Elisha desired to be with him. He was trying to soak up every last bit that he could. This is like precious last words. A last moment with a loved one. This would be like Paul being used in the Lord to pen 2 Timothy. These are my last words. This is important. They're talking, they're spending time one with another to the very end. Walking right beside each other. And then there appeared a chariot of fire and horses of fire. And look at this. And parted them both asunder. They're walking so close that when the chariot came down, it's like it separated it, split the two of them. And Elisha got carried up in the whirlwind into heaven. Verse 12. And Elisha saw it, and he cried, and he said, My father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof, and he saw him no more, and he took a hold of his own clothes and rent them into pieces. So he sees him go up in this this whirlwind, his chariot, with the horses of fire, comes down, separates the two for the first time all day. The only thing that could separate the two, really, is an act of God. Separating these two because they were so close and Elijah didn't want to miss it and he wanted to continue to serve God the greatest that he could. And here this is comparable to Genesis 5, when Enoch walked with God and he was not. God just took him up for whatever reason. That's what he's doing here in a great and mighty way. And then here, I just want to skip down as we bring this to an end. I think this is a really special thing for Elisha. Because anytime there's a transition, there could be intimidation, there can be all kinds of feelings of missing the person you've been following. The disciples wanted to hide. You now have more responsibility over a kingdom. You now are stepping up in the job or whatever it may be. And here what I think was an encouragement to Elisha as he was used of the Lord to encourage Elisha. And to minister unto him. Look with me at verse 14. And he took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him and smote the waters, and said Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And when he also had smitten the waters, they parted hither and thither, and Elisha went over. This is a great confirmation to Elisha. physical confirmation of a fleece, if you will, for Gideon or wherever you want to call it. This is evidence. Hey, I asked for this. Elijah said I can have it. He said I could be used of the Lord. And so he takes the mantle. This is like the rod of Moses. And he goes and does the same thing. And when he smites the waters, he probably did the same technique. Okay, he just learned that. He probably did the same thing. I don't know. But that's what I think. He took it, he smites the waters, it splits hither and thither again, and he walks on dry ground. And do you know who's watching? Do you remember who was up at Jericho watching this? Those fifty And when they see this, not only is it occurring to Elisha, hey, God is with me just like he was with him. Don't you think it's great for Joshua to have these great victories after Moses? To Solomon to have great victories after David? For Timothy to be encouraged after Paul? For your children to be encouraged after you? Here it's confirmation of what he has done. And then look at verse 15. Here they come in. And the sons of the prophets, which were to view at Jericho, saw him, and they said , So Elijah smacks the water and says, Hey, where's the God of Elijah? I want to know he's with me. Because I cannot do what I'm going to do without God being with me. There is no way I can live this life and do what I'm supposed to do without God's help. Is that encouraging for us? Sometimes we think, I can do it in my own strength. I can do it my way. Do we want to know that God's with us? It's very comforting to know that God is with us. But not only him, look at the prophets and look at what they said in the middle of verse 15 The spirit of Elijah doth rest on Elisha, and they came to meet him, and bowed themselves to the ground before him So not only for himself personally, but his ministry now as a prophet is sealed more publicly before these other prophets. And these fifty men, do you think they're going to keep this to themselves? Did you see what Elijah did? He just took his mantle and he split the Jordan and he walked across. And then all of a sudden he's gone. These chairs are fire. We saw something come down. And then Elisha doesn't say he took the mantle. We saw something fall. And then he smites the water, it splits too, just exactly what it did with Elijah. And now it happened to Elisha. And they're thinking, you are definitely the one that God is going to use to fill his shoes. The men see this and they're excited and they're thinking, hey, now we have leadership. This is great. This is exciting. We know that the Lord's continue work in and through this man, and we 're We were basically under the school of Elijah, and now this man is stepping in. So there's a clear transition to others as well as to the individual. God can do that with us. God can encourage you. When I was in college, I had some roommates say some things to me. I didn't tell anyone, not even in a prayer group or anything uh not even roommates and I was just praying about something on my own and I was starting to get encouraged myself and actually it was to change my major to youth ministries okay that's kind of the backstory a little bit And I had my just roommates and other people, they they kept coming to me and saying things. Uh and I had told no one anything that I was thinking about changing what my plans were. I was not telling a soul And I had different people, and God was using these people to kind of confirm in my life the direction I thought God was changing me to. So encouraged me to hear it from others. Of what I was seeing and the way that I thought God was leading me. So I can personally, in a sense, it is nice to know that other people can see and recognize the very same thing. And that was encouraging to me, and I'm sure that was encouraging to Elisha and to these men of knowing what was happening. So are we here. I know this is a whirlwind tour. And now Elijah has been just taken up and translated and taken to heaven with the Lord. But during translations of life, we could go through all kinds of emotions and fears and excitement and different things all rolled into one ball. But do we know that the Lord is going to be with us? Are we asking and praying for God to lead us and guide us and inherit the end? Keep in mind, our tour is not just different cities. Where did Elijah end his tour? His tour ended up in heaven. You and I are no different. We can be with God now. Not just when I get to heaven someday, but now we can enjoy his presence. And God can be with us and lead us and guide us, and he can use other people, like a church body, to encourage, to gather, to encourage one another to serve God. Would that be true of each of us? here this evening. Father, we are so thankful for you and what you've done. How you've given us your word that we can Think through, meditate on, and that the Spirit of God can use it in the individual lives in the different families here represented this evening. And we can just thank you that you are a God that desires to be with us. And in different ways, even through different people, and even in confirmation with ourselves. We can be encouraged to walk with you and to take next steps and be encouraged as we live for you and what you've called each one of us. of us to do. So we thank you and ask you to work in us and through us for Christ's honor and glory. Amen