Okay, the passage that we're working through this week is 1 Corinthians chapter 7, and we are reading verses 1 through 3 together. And I'm going to kind of highlight a couple of things we talked about last week and then just keep working our way through the concepts that are in front of us from this opening part to 1 Corinthians 7. Says the following, now, concerning the things whereof you wrote unto me, it is good for a man not to touch a woman. Nevertheless, to avoid fornication, let every man have his own wife, and every woman her own husband. But the husband render unto the wife due benevolence, and likewise also the wife unto the husband. Now, the passage that we are dealing with is one that has lots and lots of very sensitive discussions, and I'm going to do my very best to address these issues in a way that is appropriate. And uh as frank as it needs to be, but not overly, uh overly frank. And uh one of the things that I'm really going to encourage our parents to do here is to talk with your kids about the things that we are going to address. Tonight. We addressed them last week. And there are some things that I think that you absolutely need to talk to your kids about if they're teenagers or they're about to become teenagers. And I will go so far as to say if you're not doing that, you're being irresponsible as a parent. I know that's harsh, but it's true. Your children do not need to learn about these things from our culture. They need mom and dad to teach them what the Word of God says about these things, and they need to understand these issues the way that God wants them to see them. And so what we talked about last week was the fact that we do live in very troubling times. And a lot of kids are grown up in broken homes. They don't see good examples. There are a lot of people who are being aggressive in their indoctrination of our youth. This is something that's going on, obviously Uh we know that this month is a month that uh people are celebrating a sin called pride. And it's not just a sin of pride, but it's also uh a lot of sexual sin that is also very, very serious And so in our culture, we have people that are celebrating things that God says are abominable. And we, as God's people, need to recognize that the scriptures are super clear on this issue. And we need our children to know what is right and what is wrong in these areas. And so last week as we weren't look worked through a couple of the introductory thoughts, we saw first of all that Questions about marriage and sexual temptation are things that have always been a concern to the church. This is not a 21st century problem. Oh, well now that we're living at this time in American culture, all of a sudden this is an issue, it was never an issue, like that's not true at all. Okay? The people that Paul is writing to were living in a very very promiscuous society. Far worse than ours if you really want to be totally honest about it. Not that we're uh trying to compare who's uh at the lowest point you can imagine on these issues, but the truth is that There were things that they were even worse than we are in our own society, yet there are also things in our society that are being tolerated and being celebrated that actually they would have thought were horrible. Interestingly, the concept of gay marriage was not something that the ancient Roman world would have thought was normal. You realize that? Marriage was between men and women because they understood the purpose of marriage was actually to produce children. And this is something that they saw to be normal and an important part of society. Not to say that people weren't involved in a lot of licentious activities. But they understood that marriage was an institution that was for the good of society. Our culture is actually not seeing that today, and that's a huge problem. But in this passage that we're looking at, Paul is addressing questions that have been posed to him. Questions like singleness versus marriage, celibacy within marriage, you say, what? Yes, he actually tresses such a thing. Sexual ethics before marriage. Sexual ethics within marriage, outside of marriage, after the dissolution of marriage. Marriages where sexual relationship is being used as leverage. He addresses this issue. Pressures due to theological differences. He talks about an unbeliever and a believer that are married. And the question is, how are they to relate to one another? Should this difference A person who is now a believer and their spouse is now is not a believer, should they divorce? And the answer is no. If they're content to live with you, then be a faithful spouse. But if they choose to leave you, you can't stop them And so he actually addresses that issue. And he talks about the issue of remarriage after the loss of a spouse. So he goes into lots and lots of different areas, and we're going to work our way through these one piece at a time. Another thing I talked about last week was the fact that the Bible has very few examples of people who had healthy marriages. I hate to say that, but it's true. We think about Abraham and Sarah. We say, well, they had a great marriage. Well, what about Hagar? What about those times that he said, why don't you tell them that you're my sister so that if they take you, they won't kill me in the process? I don't think that's uh indicating a very strong and healthy and vibrant marriage. Or we have Jacob who marries Leah and Rachel who are sisters. And then he has children with not just Leah and Rachel, but also their They're servants, these are concubines. What an awful, awful situation. Even Moses had a horrible marriage, and we see the indication of that in places. And then of course David. Who married many, many women, and out of all of them, Bathsheba is the one that he had the most traditional relationship with, but the way it started was pretty bad. So what's the point? The point is that if we're going to go to the Bible, we've got to look at what God states explicitly And we have to build our doctrine and our teaching and our understanding on these things off of those issues. And when we look at the people in the Bible who clearly fell short, We need to recognize and speak honestly about their failures. We also looked at last week the fact that God gives a lot of warnings about ignoring his design for marriage. Proverbs 5. Talks a lot about this. And then on the other side, we see the positive. He describes marriage as a wonderful gift from God. And so I'd like us to pick up where we left off last week, and that is truth number two. We need to be honest about God's design and how the fall has impacted this good design. Now, when you see the world that we live in, there are two things that you're going to see. One thing you're going to see is order And wisdom and design. The heavens declare the glory of God. The ferment shows his handiwork. And there is no voice and there is no language where the glories of God are not being demonstrated. by the order that we see in creation. But you know what you also see in the same creation? You see the effects of sin. You see the effects of sin on the individual. We are born in sin. That's what the Bible says. I mean, we look at the story of David, and he says, In sin my mother conceived me. And the truth is that when you raise the little child, you don't have to teach them how to lie. You don't have to teach them how to steal. You don't have to teach them how to be selfish. You don't have to teach them How to present themselves in sinful ways. Why? Because it's in them It's a part of their fallen nature. And we don't just see it in humanity. The fact is we see it in all of creation. All of creation is under the curse. And so we look at Genesis chapter 3. He talks about how sin affects Adam. He talks about how it affects Eve. He talks about how it affects the ground. He talks about how it affects their work. He talks about how Now understanding this is very, very important. Because when we look at something like marriage, we have something that is good. It is beautiful. It is holy. It is God's plan. And it's an outstanding plan. And we see the wisdom of God in it. But right beside that, you know what we see? The depravity of man. We see this because you have a man who's a sinner marrying a woman who's a sinner. Here is this wonderful design by God. He gives them children, and they're to raise those children. And what do they do within the context of marriage? They constantly battle with fleshly temptation. And so when we talk about the issues related to marriage, sexual ethics, all of those things, we have to recognize that the sinfulness of man affects and twists and perverts all of these good gifts. And you know what's really interesting? This is going to be talked about in the verse in front of us. And you know where we see it is in this statement, verse number one. It is good for a man not to touch a woman. Now Do you think that Paul is saying it's like a good idea that a man doesn't like poke someone? Is that what he's talking about? The answer is no. He's not talking about poking someone. He's talking about something that's uh a little more than that, okay? And so that word touch there in the context has the idea of building a fire. And we're going to talk about this a little bit tonight. What Paul is going to talk about here is the fact that people will face temptation And they've got to have a right balance as they look at this issue if they're going to face temptation the way that they should. And what's interesting is he's going to talk about the fact that It's totally wholesome. It's totally right for a person to choose to never marry. And you know what? Most people, that is not going to work for them. Why is that? Because the way that God's designed male and female It is natural, it is normal for us to notice people and desire to be married. That's the way it works. And when we follow God's plan, that's a really, really good thing. And so this issue for balance is really important. And interestingly, in 1 Corinthians chapter 7, he's going to kind of fall, he's going to kind of try to strike the balance between these two wrong responses to the content of what he's going to talk about here. The first wrong response would be what we call asceticism. What I mean by asceticism is this. That a person says, I know that fornication is sinful. I know that sexual temptation is dangerous. And so I'm going to conclude as a reaction against this That this topic is taboo, that marriage is somehow not good, and when we talk about the relationship between husband and wife within the context of marriage, It's something that should make me uncomfortable. It's something that I shouldn't think about. I shouldn't talk about. It would be far more spiritual to not engage in such an activity. And let me tell you, that's the wrong response. In 618 he says, Flee fornication, every sin that a man doeth is without the body. He that committh fornication sinneth against his own body. And some people, when they took that, they said, Well, then don't get married. Or if you're married and you didn't know this, then you should be celibate within that marriage. You say, people really came to that conclusion? Yes, they did. They did. 1 Timothy 4, verse 1, listen to what it says. The spirit speaketh expressly that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils. Speaking lies and hypocrisies, having their conscience seared with a hot iron. And this is the next statement, forbidding to marry. You say, where 's that? Well, you ever heard of married Catholic priests? Why not? Because their church doesn't allow them to do that. And by the way, there's a whole lot of problems in the Catholic Church as a result of it, if I'm going to be totally blunt about it And by the way, this is not just a modern-day problem. All throughout church history, you can find sects and groups that actually came to the point where they said marriage is It's bad. Don't don't do this. You know, if you're like not a spiritual person and you couldn't be a nun or a monk or live in a monastery, if you just can't handle the truly spiritual life, then okay. Give in to the fleshly temptations, go ahead and get married and have children. And it's almost like these are second-class citizens. That is not the way that we should look at this issue. And when a church or a group of people teach that, they are completely twisting God's plan that is in fact very good. Or in 1 Corinthians 7. 5, he says, Do not defraud one another, except it be for consent with a time that you may give yourself to fasting and prayer, and then come together again, that Satan tempt you not for your incontinency. The idea that someone would say, well, you know, we we want to deny our passions within marriage because we want to do something that's more spiritual. He says, that's stupid. I know it's blunt, but it's true. That's what he's saying. Shouldn't use that term. Or 1 Corinthians 7. 9 he says, if they can't contain, let them marry. It's better to marry than to burn. People that are trying to stay single and it's pretty obvious they shouldn't do that. He even talks about people who it appears, and it's hard to know exactly what he's saying when we get to this passage. There's a couple different ways people look at it interpretively. But it appears you have people that are basically betrothed, but they don't decide to get married, and he's like, that's really not smart. Don't do that. So what's the point? The point is this. There are some people that seeing what the Bible says about this issue of sexual temptation, they go to the extreme as a reaction against it rather than embracing what God says is good. They instead react against it and they build these rules that are in fact not biblical at all. But then you can go to the other extreme, and that's just what we call antinomianism. What you do doesn't matter at all. You're under grace. Remember Romans chapter 6, verse 1. He says, What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. How shall we who are dead to sin live any longer therein? And so what's his point? Do not conclude that because you are under grace, it doesn't matter how you live. It does matter how you live. And so he addresses these statements in verse 12, chapter 6. He says, all things are lawful unto me. He says, this is what people are saying in your church. But, this is what people say in your culture, but not all things are expedients. I will not be bought brought under the power of any. What's he saying? Push back against antinomianism Well, 1 Corinthians 6. 13, he says, meat's for the belly and bellies for the meat. Somebody says, if you got the desire, God gave you those passions, just follow through with it. By the way, this is exactly what our culture is teaching about these issues. When they say something like, love is love, follow your heart, you be you, that kind of a thing, that whole mentality is because the desire is there, it must be natural, it must be healthy, you just go ahead and follow through with it. Every thief feels really good about stealing. They really do. And they premeditate it quite a bit. The fact is that temptation shouldn't be labeled as normal and natural and okay. What God says is right is right. What God says is wrong is wrong, and that's where it stands. And so we have these two different ways that people could react against the statement that is there. And so let's work into this a little bit tonight. Our fallen nature will inflame our proper passions. God gave us a mind. God gave us a body. God gave us emotions. And the fact is our bodies and the functions that God created for our bodies are good. Our emotions and how God created us to respond in the context that we're in, that's good. The fact that we can reason and think through matters, that's good. But those faculties of thinking and emotion and passion can absolutely be twisted and perverted, and we've got to be very, very careful about these issues. The word touch means light of fire. That's what he's talking about. And we see that because in verse 2 he says, to avoid fornication, let every man have his own wife. So what exactly is the kind of touch that he's talking about? Or in verse 5, defraud ye not one another. What kind of touch do you think he's talking about? Or verse number nine, if you can't contain, let them marry, it's better to marry than to burn. What kind of touch do you think he's talking about? It's pretty obvious, right? And so when he's talking about touch, he's basically saying this. Touch has some kind of effect. That's what he's saying. And that effect within the context of marriage is good and wholesome and right, and that effect outside of the context of marriage is extremely dangerous. That's what he's saying. God created us male and female with all the components to motivate us to pursue marriage and to give us rich fulfillment within the covenant of marriage. When our teenage boys start noticing the teenage girls, that's normal. That's very natural. Or when our teenage girls start noticing our teenage , it probably doesn't happen with the girls as much as the boys. boys. They're like, these junior high boys, don't worry. Junior high is is a short period of life. Like, they'll get through it. And then you'll be like, what happened to that guy? And it goes both ways, alright? It kind of goes both ways But the fact is when people start noticing one another, when they start developing that interest, that's a good and normal thing, but it's got to be guided. It's got to be guided carefully. There are certain things that we should teach our children, like, you know, when it comes to the way that you relate to a young lady, you should never cross this line right here. That is not appropriate. Or if a young man decides he wants to cross this line with you, that is never appropriate. Do not allow it. You say, well, that's so prudish. That's so old school. That's called common sense. That's called common sense. And so the fact is that the way that we respond with our eyes and the way that we respond to the words that we hear and the way that we respond to human touch All of that is a part of how God created us. The physical responses, the emotional responses, the mental responses is a part of how God created us. But it has to be guided by principle and according to what God says is right. Because we're fallen creatures, every one of these components can be twisted and provide potential temptation. And I'm going to give you some examples of what I mean by this. First of all, let's talk about the mind. Our thinking can be shaped by scripture. It can be healthy. It can be a well-suited place to develop, to cultivate a vibrant marriage relationship. It is my opinion that two matured individuals could probably get married without any premarriage counseling and do just fine. That's my opinion. The problem is there are very few that are. That's just the honest truth. But if you if you were a mature young man , Marrying a matured young woman who grew up in a good household, were taught what is right and was purposed to do what is right, I don't see why you shouldn't be able to enter into marriage and have an excellent marriage and do just fine. You should be able to do that. The reason that we have so many people that need this extra attention is because our homes are so deficient. And giving a good pattern and teaching our kids right and establishing healthy boundaries. And so many young people are going into marriage with a lot of preconceived ideas that are very, very unwise, very foolish, very self-centered. Young men that are so full of themselves when they go into marriage and they find out that first couple of weeks or months of marriage is quite a challenge because They are very, very hard-headed people. And there are young ladies that would be in the exact same category. And so while our thinking can be shaped by scripture and can be a healthy, well-suited place to cultivate vibrant relationship. It can also become a place that is twisted. A place that it would be impossible for you to have healthy relationships. There are some people That when they go to get married, it doesn't matter who they marry. They could not have a healthy marriage because of the way they think. It's true. They could marry the most amazing person, selfless, vibrant, kind, hardworking, industrious, physically attractive, attentive, you name it. But because of what's going on in their own head and heart, they will destroy that marriage because they're not a matured and godly individual. And you could have two individuals that, if you want to be frank about it, they don't appear on paper to be well suited for one another, to be like the number one couple in the class, but because of the kind of character they have. And because of the mindset that they go into marriage with, they do just fine. They have great marriages. And so the way that we think is huge. Our minds have to be guided by principle. And so this is why I say to our parents, you've got to be talking to your kids about marriage. I'm talking about when they're young teens. I'm talking about 11, 12, 14, 16. You need to be having conversations about these kinds of things. When you have issues and your your daughter's being selfish, or your your your son is being selfish, or they're they're not working the way that they should, or they're being contentious with their sibling, or they're being disrespectful to their mother. Those are teaching opportunities for you to sit down, dad, or sit down, mom with your child and say, let me tell you something. That attitude right there is going to be very, very dangerous in your marriage someday. It's not right now. It won't be right all the way up to the time that you get married, and it's going to create a lot of problems in your marriage. And so people have to have minds that are guided by principle. Second would be our emotions. Our emotions can be properly oriented towards God's purpose and stimulate rich passion that is oriented towards godly ends. Or our emotions can drive presumptuous, destructive actions and patterns of life. Emotion isn't bad. But a lot of emotion is bad because we do not have ordered, we do not have emotions that are properly ordered the way that they should be. And so the fact is, it's not just about how people think, it's about their emotions. Can they control their emotions? When something doesn't work out the way that a person wants things to work out, are they going to throw a fit? Are they going to be a manipulator? Are they going to back you into a corner with their words? Are they going to whittle you down? Are they going to be physically forceful? Are they going to say and do things that are completely irrational? Emotional maturity is a really big deal. And people who are emotionally immature are terrible spouses. And terrible parents. And the fact is, this is a part of how who we are gets twisted. And then our bodies. Now we we understand this about the mind, and we understand this about the emotion, but what about our bodies? The fact is that our bodies will respond to the things we see , smell, hear, and touch I mean that's kind of what he's talking about here. When he talks about it's good for a man not to touch a woman, he's talking about lighting a fire. He's talking about you when a man touches a woman the way that he's talking about, there's going to be a response. Why is that response there? Well, because God created our bodies to respond to sensation the way that they do. And you know what that tells you? You better be really careful about how you relate to other people. And you better be very careful about how you allow the people to relate to you. Our bodies can respond the right way, or our bodies, through repeated misuse, can develop unnatural and destructive responses. I'll be like kind of blunt about this. A teenage boy that looks at pornography over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, guess what? When he gets married, he's not going to have a healthy relationship with his wife. You know why? Because he has an unnatural mindset About that particular issue. He has objectified women for so long that he will not relate properly to a real woman who is his wife, who he is bound to for life. And you know what that's going to do? It's going to create all kinds of problems in this marriage. It's not just women, or not just men that have these problems, it's women too. Or we could go into the things that we read, and the truth is we could begin to develop a mentality about how marriage is going to work that is extremely unnatural. It is not consistent with the way that white that life really works. And so knowing that this is true, we have to be so very, very cautious that we cultivate healthy thinking, godly emotions, and we learn to discipline our bodies. And we learn to control our bodies the way that God has ordered them to be controlled. We come to this at the end of the message. But I wanted to highlight this. And then I want you to notice how the book of Proverbs actually addresses this issue. Turn with me in the book of Proverbs, and we're going to look at chapter 5, and we're going to look at chapter 6, and I want you to notice How what Solomon is going to do here is he's going to highlight the good and the bad when it comes to how people think. And how they respond emotionally and to the sensations that are all around them. For instance, Proverbs 5. 15, here's what it says. And I'm not going to read the whole section. I'm just going to read the part that I'll read enough so that you get the idea. Parse 515, drink water out of your own cistern. Now, he goes a lot further there, but he talks about the fact that marriage is supposed to be refreshing. That's what he's saying. Or 518, he says, rejoice with the wife of thy youth. Marriage is supposed to be a delightful thing. Proverbs 519, be thou ravished. Always with her love. And by the way, when Solomon is saying this, he was quite the hypocrite if we want to be frank about it, okay? But he's indicating Teaching a younger person who's not yet married how an older person who has been married a long time should relate. So notice this. He's talking about a person who is past You could say the prime and the use of life. We're talking about someone who's older. We're talking about somebody who's been married a longer time. We're not talking about a newlywed. We're talking about somebody who's Maybe raise their kids already for all we know. Drink water out of your own system, rejoice with the wife of your youth, be ravished always with her love. What's he saying? He's saying when marriage is healthy in the way that it's designed to be There is tremendous delight and enjoyment that comes out of God's design for that. But then he goes to the other side. Proverbs 6. 24, listen to what he says. He says, keep thee from the evil woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman. Now, what is flattery? Flattery is when a person tells you things. to set you up to take advantage of you. Okay? It's like that junior high boy that's sitting there and you know he's on the basketball team and one of the cheerleaders comes up and just says, I want to tell you, Johnny. You are the greatest basketball player I've ever seen. Not true She's got an agenda. Okay? And now it could go the other way too. All right. It could be uh one of those boys. He's gonna put he's saying stuff or she's saying stuff. And the intention is to Develop an emotional response. And you know, a lot of times these teenage relationships that people have are generally built entirely on emotion. Very, very self-centered. Why is that? Because it's flatter on one side, it's flatter on the other side, it goes back and forth, it develops these very intense emotional bonds. But it's not built on anything substantive. And then, you know, something happens, it gets a little bit off, and now these people who loved each other despise each other. Can't even sit in the same room. Can't even look at each other. Something's off there. It's because it was all built on flattery, self-centeredness. You know, there's marriages built like that too. The reason people want to get divorced after they've been married for I don't love my wife anymore. You never did love your wife. It's just you finally figured it out. That's really all that there is to it. Because flattery isn't love. Flattery is a form of manipulation. Where he says in Proverbs 6. 25, lust not after her beauty in thine heart. The truth is that when a man decides I'm going to marry this person, in fact, when people come and they do their vows at their wedding, they say, to keep myself only for you as long as we both shall live. And you know what the term used is forsaking all others. Well what's that saying? You think that all of a sudden when a person gets married that every woman in the world is no longer attractive physically? The answer is of course that's not true. No, this person has eyes directed toward one individual. That's the person that they have covenanted in marriage with This is their spouse. This is who they've chosen to marry. This is who they've committed themselves before God. This is who they have been joined to. And all of these other individuals that could be incredibly physically attractive That is irrelevant because of the commitment that they have made. The fact is that it's pretty normal for people to be physically attracted to one another. It's pretty normal for people to be easily distracted. And so when a person decides I'm going to marry, guess what? They set it all to the side. And they focus on this one individual. And by the way, I would even go so far as to say. Probably that focus should go a little bit before they get married. So anyway, we could say a lot more about that. were suggestive cues. Listen to this statement. This is very interesting. He says in Proverbs 16, 25, neither let thou be take neither let her take thee with her eyelids. And so what is that all about? This is a form of communication. Now, I think that women are better than men at this. They really are. Like sometimes, you know, I'll be sitting in a room and my wife will be like, Do you know what's going on over there? I'm like, I don't see Something's going on over there. Look at that girl's eyes. Do you see the body language that these people have? I'm like, no. Let me talk to you about this a little bit more. Let's step over here and we'll talk about it. Now you know you get you get a little better. Well when it's your own kids you start noticing it. But but the point is this. We don't just communicate with words. We communicate with all kinds of social cues. And there are social cues that suggest and entice people to take a little more interest. And he says, you better be careful about that. Proverbs 629 he talks about touch. He says, whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent. Interesting. He talks about smells. Proverbs 7. 17. I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloe, and cinnamon. Why does that matter? Well, apparently it had something to do with setting the tone, you know? That's what he said. That's what's being stated there What's the point? The point is this. We respond to the things we see. We respond to the things we hear. We respond to touch sensation, we respond to the the environment that we're in, we respond to the things that we smell. All of these things actually have an impact. And we would be very naive to say that that's not true. There is a reason if somebody walks into their house one day and the lights are dimmed and the music is soft. And I Boy, what's going on here? Something's going on here. Okay? But the point is this. There are things being communicated. Proverbs 7, 19 through 20. The good man is not at home. He's gone a long journey. He's taken a bag of money with him. He will come home at the day appointed. What is this person saying? We're not going to get caught. Everything's good. I've got it all figured out. Proverbs 17, 21. With her much fair speech, she caused him to yield And with the flattering of her lips she forced him. The persistence. Interestingly, when we talk about the story of Joseph, it doesn't seem like Potiphar's wife came to him one day and says, Hey, I'd like to ask you if you'd like to do something here. It sounds like she was really persistent and one day he's like, I gotta get out of here, I'm in trouble. And that's what he did. That persistence, that wearing gown those barriers. And I'll say it like this. There are certain barriers that should be established in relationships between men and women that wise people who treat one another with respect and dignity are going to leave there. It's very important that we recognize that. And we need to teach our children these things. And this last one I want to mention is quite interesting as well, and that's secrets. Proverbs 9. 17, it says, stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant. This is amazing. Have you ever seen someone cheat on their spouse and you look at who they got involved with and you're like, what were they thinking? I don't mean just like what were they seeing in the fact that they blew up their marriage? They create all kinds of chaos in all their relationships around them. They've devastated their children. This is something that is going to be remembered the rest of their lives because somebody's going to go, you remember when that happened, that kind of a thing. I'm not talking about that. I'm saying that you look at the choice they make and you go Your spouse is a much more attractive, responsible individual than them. What are you thinking? See, how does somebody get like that? Sometimes it's the excitement of doing what is forbidden and secret that actually draws people into those things. And the reason that I bring all these things up is to simply say this. We have to establish healthy barriers in relationship. For our teens, and I would say even as adults who are married, we still need to have responsible boundaries with one another. Truth number three. Ooh, do I have time to get to this? Yeah, I do. God instituted marriage to safeguard his good purpose. The fact that we physically respond the way that we do to the things that we see, to the sensations, emotionally, all those things That is an indication that God created us for relationship in bodies, and he created marriage to be a really, really good thing. And when we do it the way that God designed it, it's a pretty awesome thing. It absolutely is. Is there any perfect marriage in this room? No But let me tell you, marriage is good. And if you have a healthy one, you're like, yeah, I'm I'm thankful I'm married. My life would be a lot different if I wasn't. I'm thankful for the blessings that God has poured into that. God created male and female in the garden, and he instituted marriage right then and there because that is what God's design was from the absolute beginning. And so what does he say in verses two and three? He says, Nevertheless, to avoid fornication, let every man have his own wife, and let every woman have her own husband, let the husband render unto the wife, do benevolence, and likewise the wife unto the husband. This is what he's basically saying. I'll break it down in two simple phrases. Number one, get married, and number two, have a good marriage. That's what he's saying. Get married, have a good marriage. I think it's tragic that we have people that are getting 35, 40 years old, and they're like, I don't know if I really want to get married. That's not normal. Something is seriously wrong. If you just look at it purely biologically, just purely biologically, you know, people say follow the science. Well, if you follow the science, the conclusion you should make is that people should get a lot get married a lot younger than they are today. That's really what you should conclude. You absolutely see if you follow the science. Why? Because the human body was designed by God, and the prime time for people to marry and have children is not when they're 35 and 40. It's when they're much, much younger than that. The problem is that we have too many young people that want to be, we could say, kids in adult bodies. They want to play games for years and years on end, and they take that decade of 20s, and they basically just throw it in the garbage and they live it hedonistically for themselves. And they miss out on tremendous blessings that are available to them. You say, well, how do we keep our kids from doing that? Maybe teach them something. And give them a good example. If a kid sees a happy marriage, they're going to think that's what marriage is. If a kid sees a horrible marriage, they're going to think that's what marriage is Not just that we say it's what we showed them So how do we apply this? Final thoughts. 1 Thessalonians 4. 3. This is the will of God, even your sanctification. That you should abstain from fornication, that every one of you should know how to possess his vessel, and in my view that's saying your body, and sanctification and honor. Not in the lust of concupiscence, even as the Gentiles which know not God, that no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter. But the best way for me to put this is, dads, moms, teach your children to exercise self-control when it comes to sexual temptation. Teach them what is right. Teach them what is wrong. Teach them how to deal with temptation. Teach them how to avoid feeding their flesh. By the things that they view and the things that they read and the things that they surf for and the conversations they have with the people around them, the friends that they choose to run with. Teach them, guide them, and keep the dialogue open. If your children aren't willing to talk with you about this, you're in trouble already. And so you've got to learn to develop, you could say, lay the foundations before you get to that awkward stage so that when you're there, you can have these frank conversations. You don't start it when they're 15 and you're scared about their girlfriend. You're in trouble. If that's where you're at. You're fighting a losing battle for the next three years that they're in your house. That's what's going on. You've got to get ahead of this much earlier And I'm sure all of our parents here would say that's true. Whether they did it well or they didn't, or they some mixed bag, whatever they say, that's true. We need to be honest about sexual temptation. There are certain things that we'll let our kids watch And the truth is we just shouldn't do it. We'll watch it with them. We'll sit down on a couch and watch a movie with them that has content that you know for a fact is is inappropriate and very suggestive. And it is getting your teenager or your 10-year-old or 11-year-old thinking about things that they absolutely shouldn't be thinking about. And you shouldn't do it. Or there are things that you'll let your child read. And you don't have any idea what they're reading. If you send your kid into the uh Andron County libraries , He better read that entire book before you let him read it. I'm telling you, that that those libraries are filled with content that are designed to grab a hold of your kids. They absolutely are You need to work with your kids in these areas. We need to remember the theological implications of sexual sin. He's laid this out in chapter 6. He's going to talk about it in chapter 7. And we need to establish healthy practices from our youth. We need our kids to think right about marriage. We need to develop disciplines in our private lives. Do you realize, I know this might sound crazy to you, but making your children make their bed, brush their teeth, Put their clothes away, do the dishes, do laundry. Believe it or not, those are very basic disciplines That believe it or not are going to help them develop a pattern of saying no to the flesh and doing their duty. You say, well. That's got nothing to do with sexual temptation. Well, when you have an undisciplined person, guess what? They do whatever they feel like doing. If I want to watch it, I'm going to watch it If I want to look for it, I'm going to look for it. If I want to experiment, I'm going to experiment. I don't care what anybody says, I'm going to satisfy me. You know when you teach a person to start developing discipline? Very early in life. And as they mature and as they get a little bit older, you start applying it into these new areas. Conduct yourself with honor towards others. Do not Do not violate healthy boundaries with other people. This is especially true for our teenagers, but the truth is we as adults need to do the same thing. There are certain things that staff, we just we don't do them. Believe it or not, you might not know this, but I park in the back of the building. If I'm by myself and the reason is because I don't want somebody to drive up and be like, oh, Pastor Joel's here, and they're knocking on the door. Guess what? If my car's not parked there, I'm not going to answer the door if I'm the only one in the building. Especially if it's a woman, I won't do it. Or I might walk outside and have a conversation, end the conversation and go inside. You say, well, that's kind of nutty and that's totally unnecessary. Actually, I think it's appropriate. We don't give rights to teenage girls. We don't do that. Why? Because it's just not appropriate. We have to establish healthy boundaries in our relationships. And we we need to do this when kids are young. Be wise in reading the social cues. Develop godly appetites. Position yourself to be a healthy potential spouse. Teach your boys to work hard. Teach your boys to honor their mom. Simple things. Teach your daughter how to respond well to her dad. These are qualities that are very, very important in helping people develop into the kind of men and women they need to be to marry well. Very interesting passage of scripture. I look forward to digging into more content in the days to come. Let's bow for prayer Our fathers, as we think about these verses, I pray that we be honest about human nature, not others, but ourselves. We would establish good, healthy boundaries in the way we conduct ourselves with others. Father, help us to treat other people with respect at all times. Father, help us to develop godly affections. Help us to be mature and wise so that we will be well positioned to take these steps in life when that is the time. Pray especially for our young people. Would you preserve them from a lot of misery and grief? May they listen to the instruction of mom and dad, and may mom and dad give them good advice, teach them well, and give them a good example. We ask all this in Christ's name, Amit.