Good evening. Take your Bibles and let's go to Hebrews chapter eleven. It's been a great crowd of children each night. My wife's been enjoying teaching them the Word of God back there. This is our final line of revival, so let me encourage you. If you haven't already, please pick up a prayer card and pray for us. They're on the back table by the tissues on the left as you walk out. We would greatly appreciate your prayers. This coming Sunday, I'm down at a church in Norfolk, Virginia, Filipino Baptist Church, and I've been there several times before, but they're now without a pastor. So I'm praying that I can minister grace and be a help in preaching down there. So pray with me about that. Then the next following week we are at a church up in um Well, it's north of Williamsport, Pennsylvania, almost to upstate New York. And the pastor there is Pastor Ken Smith. He used to be a missionary in Papua New Guinea, and you guys used to support him. And he's been there now for twelve years since he came from PNG, and so we're gonna be there. It's a it's a church I've had a little bit of interaction with, but never been at the church before. Uh just worked with uh the church and other things. But we'll be there for a Wednesday through Sunday. So pray for us and then we have a few more revival meetings later this spring and then I would love to go back to the Philippines. It's been obviously over two years now since they've been overseas. because of COVID. But I'd love to take basketball teams back to the Philippines. And that's what this good news hoops is for down here. But pray with us that God would open doors back up. Supposedly the Philippines is going to open back up in May, but they've said that a couple of times now and shut things back down. But the need is great, the harvest truly is plenty of us but the labors are few. Thank you to all those who have given to make this week possible. We go, my family goes on the giving of God's people, and I don't know who gives and who doesn't, but we want to say thank you. That's how we God meets our needs. And so we thank you to all who have given, and we would appreciate your prayers going forward. Hebrews chapter 11, familiar passage. One, in fact, I spoke out of some of these verses this morning Well, is it was I guess it was this afternoon at the rescue mission. And I guess we had a text that later that one of the men there trusted Christ as Savior. this afternoon. So we were thankful for that. I didn't get to see that, but obviously the Lord was working and God used his word in that man's heart and somebody else was able to uh Plant and water and sow, and that was great. So I've enjoyed being here. I'm praying for a couple specific needs that Pastor and I have been praying for, and I'll pray for those going forward as well. So looking forward to what God's going to do here, continuing to do here at Anchor Baptist Church. Look what it says in verse number six of Hebrews chapter 11. But without faith, it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Many of you know Hebrews 11 as the hall of faith. And I I gotta be honest, I memorized this passage of scripture when I was in fourth grade. Don't ask me to recite it for you tonight, please. But I memorized this passage of Scripture in fourth grade. And these are all great men and women who live their lives by faith. And we're going to talk about some of them tonight. But before we do, let's back up a second and wonder why is this passage here? Now, Hebrews, the book of Hebrews was written by we don't know whom, and many men have proposed different authors, and I'm not even going to get into that tonight, but the book of Hebrews was written to Hebrews. Ooh, that's deep. Really deep, I know. But it was written to first century Jewish Christians, just like Peter was, first Peter was, who had come to faith in Christ, and when they did, their lives got miserable. Absolutely horrendous. And many of them begin to think to themselves, man, is this worth it? Should I keep going? Do do I need to keep should I keep going? Is this worth it? Because after all, when I was still just a Jew and hadn't trusted Jesus, I didn't have all this persecution. I had a job. I had a family. I had income. I was doing fine. I had culture. Now since that I've lost almost all that And so the author of Hebrews goes through it and he basically the whole argument of Hebrews is Christ is better. Christ is better than the law. He's better than Moses. He's better than the angels. He's better than the entirety of the old system. Because he sat down after he had finished offering his own blood once for all. He finished it. And all those other things, they had to keep on going, and they could never take away sin. The blood of bulls and goats could never take away sin. Christ did once for all. Hallelujah, what a savior. And here he turns the corner in chapter 11 and 12 and 13 and becomes very practical. Chapter 11 he says, hey, hey, hey, I know you guys are thinking it's tough. I know it's been challenging, but wait a minute, wait a minute. Go back and look at your history. There's men and women who didn't get to experience what you've experienced, who looked for it and never received it. And these men and women live by faith. And I want us tonight, as we get started, to think about what it is to live by faith and to live courageously in this day and age. Let's read verse 13 and then we'll pray. These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. Father, I pray that you'd help us tonight to see once again our position. Would we be reminded to look to you? Look at what we have in Christ. Not look at our circumstances, not look at the world, but to look to you once again. Lord, would you help me to preach your word correctly? Would our hearts be turned to what really matters? When we see the examples that you've set before us in Hebrews and set before us throughout the Bible of men and women who lived their life courageously, who did not have their best life. But yet still followed faithfully your leading. Would we be challenged? Would this church take steps of faith? Would individuals tonight take steps of faith? Would young people who right now at a very important time in their life are very concerned and can even perhaps consumed with what others think and feel. Would they be freed from that slavery of what others think and feel? Would they follow you wholeheartedly and know that you're good, you're God, and you've created a plan and purpose for each one of us Help me. Give me the words to say. I can do nothing but fail. And I pray that you bless and encourage my wife. Give her strength back with the children as well. In Jesus' name. Amen. As we get started, I would just want you to think about some of the men and women that are listed here in the passage. The first one that's listed back in verse 4 is Abel. What did Abel do? This is going to be Bible story time. This is review time. So this is where I want you to engage your brain. I want you to think about the purpose of the story and who, why the author was giving it to us. What did Abel do? Yeah, he offered a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. You could say that what he did wasn't popular. We don't know all of Cain's personality, but what we read in Genesis, he wasn't a nice guy. I'm sure he mocked Abel. I'm sure he made fun of it. He made light of it because he knew he was disobeying. But Abel went against what Cain was doing. He went against the grain. Okay, what's the next guy? Enoch. Enoch in verse 5, he lived in a day when everyone loved God and did what was right and no one was doing the wrong thing, right? No. What day did Enoch live in? An absolute wicked day. No one was walking with God. Yet Enoch took a stand. The New Testament refers to him as a Preacher of righteousness, one who took a stand. He spoke truth. He walked with God. In spite of the peer pressure, Enoch went against the culture. What's the next guy? Noah, verse 7. Oh, what did Noah do? He fit right into the culture. He was Mr. Popular, and everyone liked Noah. Right? No. What did he do? He built a boat. I asked this question today, and some of the men knew the answer, but how long did it take him to build a boat? Over a hundred years. Can you let's just think about this practically. Noah had heard God, and Noah is a preacher of righteousness. We learned that in 2 Peter He had heard God's voice build a boat and God had given specific dimensions. But you know who else Noah had to convince? His three sons, their wives. Imagine Noah's kids, Ham goes to high school, puts his books in his locker You can hear the snickers. Hey ham, how's that boat going? And we we laugh because we have always heard about Ham, Jem, and Japheth, and Noah and they built a boat for the saving of this house. But you've got to think about this. These were real people who had the same emotions. They're made of the same stuff in you and I. They literally were going against the grain. No pun intended making Yeah. Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah I that's bad. Some of you are just now getting that. And you're giving me the courtesy smile. Thank you. But Noah lived a life that was against culture. People were mocking, people were making fun, I'm sure. And what did Noah do? He tried to be woke. No. I didn't even know what that word was until last year. And I wish I didn't have to know what that word is. But Noah went against the culture. Okay, the next guy, Abraham, verse 8. What did he do? He left Ur. Now, Ur was the place to be of its day. It was the cultural capital, it was the political capital, it was the center of the universe in essence. And when Abram left, it's because he was really poor and he was a migrant farm worker trying to find a job, right? No, you find out later in Genesis that he had 318 trained men servants who could handle a sword who were born in his household. That's a big house. It's bigger than my house, right? That's a massive house. This is a wealthy man. You add up his sheep and cattle. This is a wealthy man And yet God called Abram when he was still a pagan living in Ur the Chaldees. He's not even a true believer yet. His faith has not been counted for righteousness yet according to Genesis. I think we talked about that in Sunday school on Sunday morning here But here's Abram, and he hears the word of God, and he says, we're leaving. And according to verse 8, look at the end of verse 8. He goes out not knowing whether he went. Picture the conversation that Abram comes home after talking with God that he has with his wife. Now wives said, did your husband ever come home with some hare-brained idea? Some husbands and some men and then some women too are are visionaries. Hey, what if we did this and this and this and this and this? And thankfully, usually there's a voice of reason somewhere to temper that. Hopefully not squelch it, but usually there's a voice of reason to temper that. Can you imagine what it must have been like for Abram to come home and explain to his wife Sarai, hey honey, we're leaving. Uh, where are we going, honey? I don't know. We're just going Can you imagine what must have happened? But obviously, God had worked in Abram's heart so much that he convinced his wife and his dad and his nephew and everybody else to go with him. What what was he doing? I don't know. Imagine what the people must have been talking about in Ur when he did this. Did you hear about that? Abram, he's lost it. He's gone crazy. He's leaving. He doesn't even know where he's going. Woo! But seriously, use your sanctified imagination to think about what it must have been like. Here you have already you have all the men and women we've mentioned that were going Counter-culture against the grain. We'll keep going. Joseph, he fled temptation when he very really could have given into that temptation. Egyptian culture, from what we know in that dynasty, was full of immorality. It was accepted. It was permissible. It was normal. And yet Joseph said, God's given me a dream. I'm not going to go there. God has a plan for me. No. Even though he's considered dead by his family, he's in the pagan culture. He could have enjoyed it. No. I'm going to go against the grain. I'm going to go against the culture. Think about Moses. What his parents do. They disobey. We find that here in the Bible. Verse 23, by faith, by faith Moses when he was born was hid three months of his parents because they saw that he was a proper child and they were not afraid of the king's commandments. Moses' parents went against what government was telling them to do. Why? Because that's what God's word is. Well, keep going. Moses chose poverty and suffering over wealth and power. And we find that in verse 24. When he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Rahab goes on, and that's he she's mentioned here. She hides spies. She risks death as a traitor to hide spies for the one true God of Israel. You keep going. Ruth She left her homeland. Have you ever thought about it? She traveled with her mother-in-law. That was her mother-in-law. That's not even a mom. I have a wonderful relationship with my mother-in-law But I don't want to go across country with her, let alone to another country with her. I'm just being honest. Yeah. But Ruth did. She went against what her culture was telling her to do. I'm going to follow that God, the God of the Bible. You think about Samuel. He's growing up in a wicked pagan society. The temple is an absolute mess when he's a little boy. And he hears the voice of God and he follows God with his life. He goes against the grain. David. He could have very easily, when he was getting chased, given in and thrown in the towel, he's the youngest. He shouldn't be here. But no, God's called me, God's anointed me, He's got a plan for me. I'm gonna do what God's called me to do. You think about the judges who were ministering in a time of apostasy, every single one of them had to have character to believe God's word is true, I'm gonna follow it. You think about the prophets. I I love the prophet Amos. He's become one of my favorites. Here's a southern hillbilly farm boy who goes to this rich, opulent, northern, walled, sealed city full of ivory, and he goes, God's gonna judge you. And I'm sure he had a southern accent while he's doing it. He's this migrant farm worker, the shepherd, the smelly backwoodsman, and he comes to this very opulent society, and God uses him in an amazing way. Because Amos stood against the flow. You go on, you think about Elijah. There'll be no dew nor rain these years, but according to my word, and then walks out of the courtroom. Wow. You think about Isaiah, who argued for courage while Sennacherib was invading. You think about Jeremiah, who no one wanted to listen to. In fact, they threw him down into the miry clay and the pit. And they didn't want to hear him. They didn't want to listen to him. They wanted to kill him. You think about Ezekiel who prophesied God's message at a time when it wasn't wasn't very popular. You think about Daniel and the friends who everyone else ate the meat. But not Daniel and the boys. You think about Esther, who could have gone along with society, but knew I gotta I God's put me here for such a time as this. Nehemiah, who could have just stayed happy in the king's palace, he had a cush job, but he was grieved because My people, they're they're just being destroyed. The walls are torn down. You think about the apostles who could have gone back to fishing in Galilee, but yet turned the world upside down. You think about Paul, the early church The modern church. You think about the martyrs, and you come to this conclusion that those who are mentioned here in Hebrews 11 are there because why? They in many respects went against culture. And you start to get a sense of what this living by faith, this whole chapter is about. Here you have in the first century that the author of Hebrews is writing to these beleaguered Christians They're like, man, this has been hard. This has been difficult. And the author of Hebrews is like, I know. Consider these people. It wasn't easy for them, easy. It wasn't easy for them either. And friends, we have to get it through to our thick heads that if we are going to follow God, if we're going to please God by faith, if we're going to live lives for Him, warning, you're not going to fit in. This world isn't our home. We're just passing through. The world is not going to love you. Aren't you glad you came to Wednesday night church tonight? Isn't that doesn't that just give you the warm and fuzzies inside? Oh man, that just blessed my soul, brother Brad. But what did Jesus say? Don't be surprised if the world hate you. It hated me first. Don't think that the servant is above the master. If it hates me, they'll hate you. So if the world hates you, good news. They hated Jesus too. Who are you following? The world or Jesus? Look what the Bible says here in Hebrews chapter 11, and specifically the verse I want us to key in on is verse 13. It's talking about these all died in faith, and that's probably a reference specifically to the patriarchs, but it could be everybody in this chapter here, because it seems like the author of Hebrews steps back out of the chapter and makes some uh observ observatory statements throughout the chapter. He says, these all died in faith. Notice what it says here in verse 13. Having had their best life now and having had everything they wanted answered. Is that what it says? No, that's what that smooth, suave preacher down in Texas says. You can have your best life now, friends. I haven't found that in the Bible. And I'm pretty convinced now after reading through the Bible several times, I'm not going to find it. What did they find? These all died in faith, not having received the promises. They were serving God. They were going against society, going against the grain, going counterculture. You want to talk about courage. We talk about these people coming out as courageous. They get men or women of the year award. What a farce. That's not courageous. That's going along with what the society's drumbeat is telling them to do. You want to talk about courageous. I'll show you courageous, it's this right here. You want to talk about courageous, it's the martyrs who today in Indonesia and Pakistan are standing up. And Iran are standing up for truth and saying, We confess that Jesus Christ is God's Son and that He is the way, the truth, the light, and they're losing their heads over it, literally. That's courageous. But that's not gonna make the news media. That 's not gonna make this world's media. That's world's uh image. That's not gonna make front page news on the world. But that's what God honors. That's what God exalts. And that's what God that that's what God praises. Look what it says here. These all died in faith, not having received the promises. But notice what they did do, and I want you to see four truths from this verse right here. Having seen them afar off. So They saw them afar off, and look what it says there, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. First of all, they saw the promises afar off. They believed the promises by faith. Not one of these men and women mentioned here got to see the Messiah. Not one of these men and women mentioned here got to have everything perfect in their life. In fact, they all struggled at times. Yes, there was joy in the journey. They got to know God, got to walk with him, and they got to look forward to that day. That Jesus talked about when Abraham would have rejoiced to see this day. But not one of them got everything they wanted, and yet they still saw what God was doing. They, as it says here, they saw them afar off. They believed the promises by faith. Paul said in 2 Corinthians 5. Therefore, we are always confident, knowing that whilst we are home in the body, we are absent from the Lord. For this I say, he says this, and he puts in parentheses, for we walk by faith, not by sight. Friends, if you try to fit into this world, if you try to make this world work, it's not going to work as believers. It won't. If you try to fit in and try to make things work and try to appease everybody, you're walking by sight, not faith. I'm not for one second advocating that we be obnoxious fools. I'm a Christian, I'm going to tell you about No. We should be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. We should have an attitude of love, and we talked about that a few nights ago, that the calling card of the Christian life should be by this shall almond know that you're my disciples, if ye have, love one for another. But don't think for a second that we're going to fit in in any capacity in this world because we won't. We don't fit in. But these men and women, they saw the promise and they believed them by faith. They saw what God could do and they had courage, knowing that God has promises we're going to follow them. A while back ago I read a book, I forget who was the author about D-Day. I've read several things and watched several things on D-Day. One of the the phrases that struck out to me um from the interviewing that was done one of the men later years later when he was asked why did you jump over the side of the boat To scale the beats. Why did you do that? And he was talking about courage. And they said this: courage is not a blind leap, it's a calculated risk. Did you know that men were going to die today? Of course they did. But they knew that what we had to do is important. Our job is critical. They knew that what we've been set up to do, what we've been trained to do, what we've been equipped to do is is is available. that what they're gonna have to do is gonna go against every fiber of their being to stay back in England, but no, we're we gotta go. We gotta we gotta storm the beach. And so they did. They believed the promises by faith, these men and women did. Look again at your passage there in Hebrews 11, verse 13. Having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them. So not only did they believe them by faith, they were motivated by faith. In spite of the world's push, the believers here in this passage and even throughout the entirety of the Old Testament had deeper motivation. We talk about it already, but Abraham had been called by God. Joseph had a dream. David knew that he would one day be king Samuel as a boy had heard God talk. The prophets had heard the voice of God. They had deeper motivation than what this world lives for. What does this world live for? Money, power, stuff. Right? What do we live for? Hopefully God's glory. What do we have that keeps us going? Well, you know, we got uh some encouragement. Come to church and get some encouragement. Truly, that church is current encouragement. What keeps the church going? What keeps the church on track? We have the promises. And we have to be motivated deeper than what this world is. If our motivation is just surface, if it's just pleasing the pastor, if it's just impressing people at church, if it's just a country club mentality, then hey, we're gonna fizzle out, we're gonna peter out pretty quickly. But our motivation goes deeper than that God has called us, as we talked about last night, to glory and to virtue. He's got a plan for our life. He has something he's doing within each and every one of us. He's calling us to change the world through the gospel of the power of Christ and to be salt and light in our little area and advance his kingdom cause. That's an incredible opportunity. And God wants you and I to live that. But so often we don't get attached to that. We start looking at different things to do, and we don't get attached to what God wants us to do. So number one, they believed the promises by faith. Number two, they were motivated by motivated by faith. It's a sad day in our world when we just want to live comfortable lives I mentioned already that I get to speak a lot of times to young people at camp. This summer I'll be at several different camps and I'm excited. Uh oftentimes when I'm personally interacting with teenagers, even juniors, if they're a little bit more mature. I'll ask them, what do you think God has for your life? What do you think God wants you to do with your life? And I I'm I'm saddened. I'm going to keep asking the question, but I'm always saddened because a lot of young people say Mm-hmm. Well number one, we need to work on our young people by actually looking us in the face and talking with us and using words. Number two, perhaps it is that our young people don't know that God does actually have a plan for them. But I travel and go to churches and I talk to not so young people and I think, what does God have for you? Well, you know, I I bought a house. And I'm gonna get a boat, and uh I got the retirement, I got a 401k, and I got a nice car, and now none of those things are wrong. But what if that is eternal? What if that is going to be used to change the world? None of those things are inherently wrong in themselves, but the fact is that God's people oftentimes Settle for a life that is far less than what God has for us. We don't have a deeper motivation. We don't want to see God's name lifted high. We are just kind of going through the motions. Well, you know, I've had a good life. I've had some health and I've I've gotten a good job and I've got a good family and so uh I'm good. What kind of life is that? That might be the American dream, but that's not a biblical life. God's people through the centuries that pleased God, if you trust, if you're following the gist of Hebrews 11, were ones that went against the grain. Now again, I'm not talking about being obstinate for obstinacy's sake. Lord knows enough of us are obstinate the way it is already in our flesh. But what we should be thinking is, God, what what do you have me to do? What if my life can mount and count for you? God, what are you doing in my heart? What are you doing in my life? We should have deeper motivation. They were motivated by faith. Notice what else it says here in verse 13. They saw the promises afar off and were persuaded of them and embraced them. They grabbed those promises by faith. And this goes back very similar to being motivated by faith, but they embraced them. They fully embrace their position. How many of you play, how many, there's a couple teenagers, how many of you teenagers play organized sports or young people play organized sports? You're on a team and you have to wear a jersey Or uniform or something. Just one? Okay. How many of you at one point in time in your life played an organized sport? Yeah. What sport did you play? Tell me. Yeah, that sport. Okay, let's just say your colors are blue and gold or whatever the case is. And you're supposed to wear you're on a soccer. team just for sake of illustration, you're supposed to wear the blue and gold, and yet you decide that day that you're going to show up to the game and you're going to wear purple and orange. Is that gonna fly? Not unless you're the goalie. But but no, that's not gonna fly. That's not gonna help anybody. Let's say it's basketball and your team colors are all white with some garnet jer garnet letters or something And you come out with Navy's Navy's uh get a f on a dark blue Navy. Are you going to help yourself, help your team identify? No, no, this is a silly illustration, but what the author of Hebrews is saying here is that these men and women embraced their position They put the jersey on. They weren't ashamed and to know that that that let other people know, hey, this is whose team I'm on. This is whose side I'm I belong to. I'm going to try to do this without hurting the mic. This is whose side I'm on, in case you're wondering, this is our basketball team I take to the Philippines. But hey, I'm I'm not ashamed. This is whose team I'm on. And let everyone know. That I'm on this team, I'm going to wear the uniform. That in effect is what baptism is: its identification, it's telling people I decided to follow Jesus and I'm not ashamed of who knows it. It's been said before, and it may be even trite. God is not looking for Secret Service Christians right now. He's not. He's calling you and I to embrace our position. And so often as I'll be honest, as a teenager, I did this. Are you a believer? Yeah. Mm-hmm. Do you go to church? Yeah. Do you believe in Jesus Christ? He's the way, the truth, the life? Yeah. And we're not willing to claim the name of Christ. That is completely antithetical to what we're reading here. These people hazarded their lives. They made it known. I'm on God's side. Everybody we work with, everybody we interact with on a close level, not everyone we pass ever should know this, but everyone we interact with on a close level should know for certain where we stand when it comes to matters of the Bible. When it comes to matters of salvation by grace through faith. When it comes to matters of even morality, they're going to see that perhaps even first. We need to embrace our position. Look what it says here again in the verse. Let me read it again. Verse 13. These all died in faith, not having received the promises. But having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. I'll never forget years ago I went to Callaway Gardens, which is down in Georgia, outside of Fort Benning. I don't know if anybody's ever been to Fort Benning. You've been to Fort Benning, yeah. So outside of Fort Benning, if you can go there, it's pretty cool. I don't know if you'll be able to go there when you're down there, but if you can go there it's pretty cool. They have a beautiful nature trails And they have a live bird show, bird of prey show. So I don't know if anybody has been to a bird of prey show, but you sit in this amphitheater and they have the birds, the owls, the hawks, and the falcons and the eagles, all in cages all around you. And one by one they open the cage door and that they come down and they swoop and they literally the the big owls will swoop and their feathers will just brush your hair I think it's so cool. Those birds are fascinating. I I love it. And they're trained and they're not gonna uh you don't they tell you to them ahead of time, don't put your hand up, uh keep your hands down. My sister-in-law was with us and she was she was scared to death and she was underneath the seat the whole time. But I loved it. I was like, this is cool. This is great. Well afterward, I went up to the lady. I think they they showcased maybe eight, ten birds that day. I forget how many, but they're all fasting, very powerful animals. But it was interesting, all the animals that they had w were all either born in captivity or had been in captivity so long they could no longer survive in the wild. They're they were uh they had been damaged or they had uh been hurt, uh the part of their wing was broken, they could only fly so far. The lady who was doing the show told a group of people afterwards it's really interesting to watch these animals. Here you have powerful 30 -40-pound birds that are just massive birds of prey that could tear their flesh apart Tear their uh prey apart with their their towns and claws. I mean just incredible. And he said, what's interesting is they don't know who they are. They'll be up in the cages and they have these big cages up in the trees, and that the they'll they'll they'll be a little songbird, a little cardinal or sparrow will come and sit on a branch outside of their their their cage. And you'll see this massive eagle cower in fear, scared of the sparrow, because these birds no longer know who they are. I thought to myself, All right. I can understand that. There's a lot of God's people who no longer know who we are. We're children of the King. Have you read the back of your Bible? We win. Right? We're going to heaven Amen. Amen? Yeah. You can let your face show it. Hey This world is going to hell. And we don't do that in glee and say, yeah, it's no no no. We win. We're not of this world. We've forgotten who we are. And it's high time that God's people embrace our position. We wear the jersey. We claim who we are. We say, hey, I'm not ashamed of it. God is my God. Jesus is my Savior, and He is the only way, the only truth, the only life. But Brent, that's not politically correct. It never has been, never will be. And the quicker we can get over the fear of men, the quicker we can be useful in God's service. So not only did they embrace him, but look what it says finally. And confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. These men and women in this passage told it openly. Not only did they live it and embrace their position, but they told it. And what did they tell that were strangers and pilgrims? The word stranger and pilgrim is also almost interchangeable. Keep your finger here and look over with me at the book of 1 Peter, chapter 2, just a few pages to your right. Go through James, and then you'll find 1 Peter. And 1 Peter 2. You find a similar phrase that Peter uses. He says, Dearly beloved, in verse 11, 1 Peter 2:11, Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lust which were against the soul. Hey, what's a pilgrim? What's a stranger? It's one who's just passing through. One who doesn't belong One who doesn't have a home there. We're just passing through. And yet God's people so often get tied down to this world. We work so hard on our 401k and our dream home retirement and our this, that, and the other, our hobbies, that we forget, hey, we don't belong here You know the old song, This world is not my home. I'm just a passing through. My treasures are in the garage and in my bank account, too. That's the American version. But you know what we should be doing? We should be proclaiming. This doesn't work anymore. At least I couldn't get to work, Chris. Hey, I'm on God's side. I'm a stranger and pilgrim. I'm a stranger and pilgrim. I don't belong here. This world is not my home. It's empty. It's broken. But I've got good news for you. Jesus is the way. Jesus is the truth. Jesus is life. I'm just a pilgrim and a stranger. I don't belong. That's the message we should be proclaiming. We should be confessing. That's the message we should be sharing. We should be sharing and showing. Hey, I'm on God's team. Look what it says in verse number, back in Hebrews chapter 11, verse number 14. For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country. They're keeping it in their forefront, they're keeping in their mind, they're saying to themselves on a regular basis, I don't belong here, I'm just passing through, this world is not my home. And look at verse 15, and truly, if they had been mindful Of that country from which they came out, they might have an opportunity to return. What is God saying here? If they had been looking back for the country, if they had been longing for where they had come from , They probably would have gone back there. Remember Lot's wife? I gotta go back. Look at look at all the nice stuff I'm It's not where we're headed. Don't look back. Keep your eyes focused. Go back with me a few verses. It's a page back for me, but look back with me at chapter 11, just a few verses back. Look at verse 10, we see Abraham's testimony. For he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God. What city was he looking for? Baltimore? No. What city was he looking for? Heaven. And friends, when you and I understand that, when we start looking for the city, it puts things in great perspective. The things of earth will dim and lose their value. If we recall, they're borrowed for a while. Things of earth, they cause the heart to tremble. Remember there? They'll only bring a smile. This world is not it. Take the world. You can have it I've got Jesus. I've got his promises. I've got eternal truth. I've got a home in heaven. I've got my mansion secured. I've got his power, his promises at my disposal. I've got his promises that he will never leave me nor forsake me. I have his promise that if I sacrifice my life for him, he will take care of me. And afterward he will keep me unto the very adoption of sons. Wow. What kind of promises does the world have that even compare to that? Anything? Oh, we will give you lots of pleasure and treasure. It's cotton candy. It turns to nothing and it rots your teeth. And it gives you bad breath too. What does God have? Pleasures for evermore. Psalm 1611 These people, these men and women, they're made of the same stuff as you and I. They believed in by faith. They were motivated by the promises by faith. They held the promises by faith. They proclaimed the promises by faith. They had an opportunity to go to the new country and they kept their gaze forward. They didn't have they had an opportunity to look back, but they didn't because they knew if they kept looking back, they would want to go back. But they said, God's got a plan. And they went against the grain. They did they lived hard lives. It wasn't easy. They weren't popular. They didn't have the most social media followers. They weren't the influencers of the day. But you know what? Look what it says in verse number 16. But now they desire a better country that is a heavenly. And notice this passage. Notice what it says here. Wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city. Wow. God said, yeah. Those are my people. Remember what happened when Stephen stood firmly on truth? He didn't turn woke. What did Stephen do? He preached, you guys killed Jesus. He preached the book, the blood, and the blessed hope. In the Holy Spirit's power. What'd they do to him? They liked his post. Oh, that's such a Is that what they did? No. They killed him. Oh no, that's such a horrible story. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Remember the last part of his life, what he said? I see Jesus standing. You get a sense of who God honors. You get a sense of what moves God And I realize that God is omniscient, God is sovereign. Nothing really changes God. Our God changes nothing. But you get a sense of what motivates and what is incredibly important to God. What should motivate us is when his people, his believers say Take the world. I'm going to go against the grain. I'm going to raise my family to fight and to walk and to trust God. I'm I'm going to I'm going to Sh shun the world's advice. I'm gonna turn off the TV, I'm gonna turn off the phone, I'm not gonna follow what this world is saying to do. I'm gonna live according to what the Bible says, and it's not gonna be easy, it's not gonna be fun, you're not going to be popular. So get over that now. But I'm going to trust God. I'm going to follow him because his promises are true. This world is fleeting. It's changing every hour. But God is forever settled. And he has promises. I'm going to believe them. That's what pleases God. That's living by faith. And every single one of us, God is calling us to live that way. Now, I realize that there's different personalities, and some of us in this room tonight were kind of, ooh, that's kind of scary. I may lose. Whatever you lose in following Christ was never worth it to begin with. Follow him passionately. Let me close with this. In 1967, many of you may even have watched it, there was something that we now know as the ice ball. Dallas Cowboys were up in Green Bay. And there were two legendary coaches on each side: Vince Lombardi, Tom Landry. The game was close. It was it was a brutal day. One fan actually later died from exposure to the cold. The referees were still using metal whistles and they would put the metal whistle to their lips and pull it away and take skin with them. The band was trying to play and the band influence were going frozen to their lips in pregame. Several of the players, the Green Bay players, their cars wouldn't start the days before car uh fuel injection and stuff. And their their their their cars were frozen, so they had to huff it in this negative twenty-five, negative thirty-degree weather to the stadium It was a brutal day. It was a close game. There was no traction. It was it was the ice fall. One of the guards for Green Bay was named Jerry let me make sure Jerry Kramer. Jerry Kramer later recounted his story. Green Bay was down just by a little, and they were marching down the field toward the end of the game. And Timeout was called. Lombardi said, hey, come on over here guys. Here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna fake it, and then uh uh the quarterback, his name is escaping right, the Green Bay quarterback Star, Bart Starr, you're gonna run it in. He looked at Kramer and said, Kramer, it's up to you. You've got to create a hole in the line. It went back. And the Cowboys later said we knew what was happening. We knew what was going to happen. Ball was hiked. Kramer blocked and he said later you could have driven a semi-truck through there. I don't think that would you could have. I've watched the play, the film, and it doesn't look like a semi-truck would fit quite a bit But sure enough, Bart Starr galloped in the end zone, Cowboys Green Bay went on to win. At the after the touchdown, Kramer's at the bottom of the pile And he says that he began to hear the crowd chant, Bart, Bart, Bart, Bart. And Kramer says, What? All he did was walk in with the ball. I'm the one down here who cleared the hole, who made it possible. I'm the one who won the game. And Kramer said I got up and I was a little bit disjointed. I see what kind of place this is. I I'm the one who won the game. Until he looked at the sideline and there's one man who had his gaze fixed right on him. Kramer said Vince Lombardi was looking right at me, no one else. And all Vincent Barney did was, and Kramer said, it didn't matter at that point I got the praise from the one who gave it to me. You know what? Kramer said I began to chant BART, Bart, Bart, Bart. Now that's a silly illustration. But so often we live for the approval of the world. And yet, according to this passage, God gives it to those who live for Him. What do you want, friend? You want the approval of the world? You want that like button pressed for you? Or do you want to live your life in the service of God Almighty? I am always convicted, always challenged. May God help us live lives of faith. You want to be courageous? Maybe you can find courage in the military. You want to be courageous? Yes, you can probably find courage out in society, but I'll tell you where courage, true courage exists. People who truly sacrifice and say no to the world, yes to God's promises. That's courage. Let's all bow our heads and close our eyes. As we finish here tonight, I have just a question or two. Help me say, Brent, tonight, I gotta be honest. Too often, I care way too much what this world thinks. And I realize once again, this world is not what matters God challenged me. God convicted me. Often my thinking is based on what things appear to be or what things I'll be liked. And I need to get over that. God convicted me. Would you lift your hand? Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Many hands. Amen. How am I saying, Brent? I'm not perfect. I know I'm not going to be perfect until God makes me perfect. But with all that I have, I want to live a life of courage. I want to go against the grain. I want to raise a godly family. I want to have a testimony for Christ. I want people to see Jesus in me, and I want to share people with share with people Jesus. I want to be confessing on a regular basis. that I'm a stranger and pilgrim and that Jesus is the way and the truth and life. I want to live this passage out. I want to be one of these Hebrews 11 Christians. My hand's up. How many say, Brent, I want to be one of these Hebrews 11 Christians. Christians. Amen. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. I'm going to pray, and the piano is going to play. If God has spoken to your heart in a minute when we stand, take some time and respond however God has spoken to you. Father, work in our hearts. Help us to keep these truths in front of us. Help us to realize that we don't fit in. We're just passing through. We are not part of this world We're different. Help us to live our position out as strangers and pilgrims. We're just passing through. Would you help us to have the real kind of courage that really matters?