Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And if you have your Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it to Colossians chapter 2. And I'm going to read that section again, but that's really not where we're going to focus our attention as much today. We're going to kind of follow up with what we talked about yesterday, and we're going to look at the hope that we desperately need when we look at the complications and the challenges that we face in our society. Colossians chapter 2, verse number 6 says the following. As ye have received Christ Jesus the Lord, So walk ye in him, rooted and built up in him, and establish in the faith, as you've been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit, after the tr after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. For in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily, and ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principalities and powers. If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth at the right hand of God Set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth, for ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ and God. When Christ who is our life shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory Now yesterday we were very negative in our conversation. I hate to say that, but it's true. I wanted to take some time to kind of look at the reality of the period of time we're living in in our American society And we recognize that we're in the last days. That's what the scripture talks about. And he says in the last days there'll be perilous times. People will be lovers of themselves, boastful, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy. without natural affection, truths breakers. He goes through this whole list of things that are going to be very common, prevalent in the last days. And when we look at our society, what we see is a society that is filled with so many of those very things that the scripture talks about. What I want us to do today is I'd like us to take that starting point. And I'd like us to examine what's ultimately going on and where we can find hope. And I always believe that when you look at a situation like the conversation we had yesterday There is a positive element that we are to take away. And that's where I want to drive our attention this morning. So for us to do that, I want us to look at 2 Corinthians chapter 4 Because 2 Corinthians chapter 4 will talk about the darkness of society and then the remedy in the gospel. So here's what it says: 2 Corinthians 4, verse 4. It says that the God of this world has blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them. For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake. For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts. to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed. We are perplexed, but not in despair, persecuted but not forsaken, cast down but not destroyed. When I read 2 Corinthians 4, what I see is the reality that's very harsh with the reality that's very positive. And we see the tension that the Apostle Paul as a minister of the gospel experience, where he feels the weight of being persecuted. and being troubled and being cast down, yet on the other side the the victorious mindset of someone who is not in despair, who is not distressed, who is not cast down and not destroyed. That's who the Apostle Paul is. The question is what allowed the Apostle Paul when persecuted not to quit, when being distressed, not to be perplexed, when being forsaken and cast down, not to be destroyed. How did Paul grapple with this? Well, the answer is in these verses. And we needed to do exactly what the Apostle Paul is talking about in these verses. So the first thing I want to mention that we find in these verses is that the world around us is blinded and they are stumbling in the darkness. The way that he expresses it in verse 4 is this. The God of this world has blinded the minds of them that believe not. So he focuses in on a group of people who are distinct positionally from the Christian. who they are in their natural state already spiritually blinded, but there is an additional blindness that has been brought up upon them by the God of this world. Now when he uses that phrase the God of this world He's talking about Satan, who is the ruler of the kingdom of darkness. And this is the domain in which he is operating at this time. The reason that the world does what it does is because the world is blind to what is true. And and it's easy for us to look at the world around us and to either lament to such an extent that we think that there's no hope or to actually have this very condescending attitude towards the world around us that that puffs us up in self-righteousness and pride. Neither of those responses is appropriate. We should be grieved, we should be saddened, and we should be hopeful because we recognize that we have what God uses to remove the blinders and to give light. And that's the gospel. So the second thing I want you to notice is the answer to the question, what is the hope? And the answer is, Christ alone is the answer. In verses 4 and 5, he says this. It is lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, lest it should shine unto them, we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord. Now let me pause for just a moment and make this statement. The answer to the world is not Christian morality. The answer for the world is the gospel. It's the person and the work of Christ. Christian morality without the gospel is nothing more than a gilded facade. Christian morality that flows from a position in Christ and that is motivated by the indwelling work of the Spirit And is the result of the fruit of the Spirit being born out in the life of a believer is a completely different matter. What the gospel or what the what the world around us needs is not you And me, as much as you and I being instruments through which God breathes his gospel to them We are to be tools that bring the truth of the gospel to the people around us. And so he says that the God of this world is blinding them so that the light of the gospel of Christ does not come to them. He says, we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord. Such amazing and important statements. Number three. God literally commands us to get back to the simple clarity of the gospel. I love the way that it's stated in verse 4. First verse number six. He says God commanded the light to shine out of darkness. He has shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. That passage or that statement is absolutely profound and foundational to what the world needs around us. God says, let there be light, and the light comes to you, and the light comes to me through the preaching of the gospel. And you and I, through God's grace, have come to understand who Jesus is, what he did for us, our absolute inability to come to him through our own righteousness and work, and with a heart that is repentant and humble before God, recognizing there's nothing for me to give to him, nothing for me to do for him. but simply to rely upon the work of Christ and Christ alone. When the veil came off and the blinders were removed and we saw clearly the gospel, we embraced it. And then he says that God is going to shine through us giving the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. He's literally talking about how you and I are supposed to have the ministry of reconciliation, bringing the gospel to the world around us. That's the answer. Not morality, not legislation, legislation. What we need is a renewal of the understanding of the gospel that is clear and profound. Number four, we are vulnerable and weak instruments. I am marveled that God uses people like us We get proud when things are going well. We feel like quitting when things are going poorly. Sometimes we communicate very ineffectively. Sometimes our lives are not as consistent as the message that we preach. And therefore, people will use those inconsistencies as leverage to disregard what's being stated. Every single one of us is flawed, is fallible, and God still works through us. And that is an absolutely stunning reality. Notice what he says in verse 7. He says, we have this treasure, the gospel of Jesus Christ, in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed, perplexed, but not in despair, persecuted but not forsaken, cast down, but not destroyed. Let me summarize it in this simple way. As you look around you at the world, and it frustrates you, and it burdens you and it saddens you and it may even anger you. Realize that you've got to keep your focus on what God uses. What God uses is the preaching of the gospel. If you're concerned about the time in which we live, then you need to be burdened to proclaim the gospel. You need to get on your knees and say, God, be merciful to this nation. Bring a refreshment of gospel preaching and teaching to this land, unlike any that we have seen. in many many generations. May the gospel be proclaim proclaimed with clarity in our church pulpits. May it be demonstrated and taught with clarity. uh by people in their personal interactions with others who are not Christians. May we give the gospel with clarity in our homes to our own children. May we live lives that are consistent with the gospel to open the door to be able to proclaim this message because that alone is what God uses. to transform people, to bring them from the darkness into the light. And that's what we desperately need in our day. So I ask you this morning. Are you distracted? Is your eye off of God's instruments that he uses? Or are you focused? and motivated and burdened and letting God work through you. That is the challenge this morning. I pray that God will use this to encourage you today. Have a blessed morning. Bye now