Like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church. And if you're visiting with us today for the first time or for the first time in a long time, we'd like to warmly welcome you. And uh it is Mother's Day, which is a very special day. And uh we're thankful for all of our ladies and at the end of the service uh there'll be a special gift for all of our ladies. So if you're out of high school, beyond high school, uh that gift is for you. And uh we're very, very thankful for each of you and uh the ministry that you have with your own children, many of you with with our children and uh in the men entering of our younger ladies in the church. Very, very thankful for that. Pastor Chris has some announcements and then we'll open our service up. All right, I hope you had a chance to grab a bulletin. We got a lot going on even this upcoming week with our uh senior luncheon being on Thursday at 12 p. m. So seniors if you haven't had the chance to sign up yet, please do. I'd be looking forward to to seeing you there. And on that same day we start having our teen studies uh at Pastor's House. So teens, um be looking forward to having you guys. We have the drop boxes and so of the QA boxes for you to submit questions. And please do before we get started here on Thursday. Then we got Colin's career on Friday at 7 p. m. here at the church A little bit of a change but looking forward to to see you guys here. And then our teen sing is on the 21st. That'll be at the Moore 's house, and we're looking forward to that. Then we got our ladies' books and bites starting on May 25th. And that'll be at 7 p. m. We'll have that here in the fellowship hall to start out with That'll allow you to get your books started and even if you don't have a book to read, just do come for the fellowship and enjoy the food as well. Then our father 's son campout is coming up on the 26th of the 27th, which means that's overnight. Um and there will be a sh sign-up sheet for that available tonight, and we're looking forward to to having that as a good time. And I want to point out there's a table outside for our Truth Trackers. I wanted to explain what that entails. That is for our end-of-year store, for the end of the Truth Tracker 's year. And our true trackers have been earning points all throughout the year for verses, for devotions, for dressing up on theme nights, and they'll be able to spend those points on uh prizes for themselves. In the winter we have a Christmas market where they can get things for their family members and then at the end of the year they do a market for themselves. And I encourage folks to uh donate uh kids items between the between five and ten dollars so that that would help supplement uh their market. I know that they're looking forward to spending all those points that they worked very hard to earn. With that, Pastor? Okay, our opening scripture is in Colossians chapter two. So if you have your Bible, please turn there. And if not, then uh join us looking on the Screen behind me. Colossians chapter 2, verses 6 through 10. Here's what the scripture says. As ye have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him. Rooted and built up in him, and established in the faith, as ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit, after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. For in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily, and ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principalities and powers. This morning we're going to focus our attention on the position that we have in Christ. And the fact is our union with Christ is probably the most fundamentally significant doctrinal truth we can talk about when it comes to how how we're supposed to live the Christian life. Everything is built on that and flows from that. And this morning that will be our focus. So let's bow together for a word of prayer, ask the Lord to speak to our hearts, and that he will bless with a very rich Christ Centered service. Father, we're so grateful that we can come together as saints. We are righteous in Christ, we are forgiven, and we are cleansed. And we recognize that it is through no work that we have done that we have this position, but in fact it is entirely in the death, burial, and resurrection and righteousness of our Savior. We marvel at your rich grace, and I pray that this morning, as we open up the Word of God, as we sing these hymns, as we sit under the ministry of the preaching of your word, that these truths would resonate deeply within our hearts Father, I pray for each of our ladies who are here this morning. I want to thank you for each of them. I thank you for those who labor in so many different ways. in the development and the mentoring and the raising of the next generation of young people. I thank you for our moms who sacrificed tremendously. I thank you for our mothers who have Sacrificed tremendously. Their children are grown and now they have their own and now they appreciate so much more what their mothers have done. Father, I pray especially for those who are grieving at this moment because their mother has passed or grandmother. It's a very difficult season. I pray that you would provide them tremendous comfort. Father, however someone comes to this service, I pray that the Spirit of God would take the Word of God and minister richly to every single heart. May we recognize fervently these wonderful truths. May we express them in song. May we submit to you. May we live in the light of them. May you work in our hearts mightily this morning We ask that your presence would be very evidenced in the way that you work in us and through us. And we pray that we would have wonderful fellowship and worship in Christ's name. Amen. Well, good morning, and thank you so much for joining us here at Anchor Baptist Church for worship. Please stand with me. Open your hymn books to hymn number 20. Praise him, praise him. We're going to sing all three verses. Sing out this morning as we worship the Lord together. Praise him, praise him, Jesus, our blessed redeemer, sing all worth this wonderful. Allah proclaim Hell Him, Hell Him, Highest Archangels and Glory, Strength and Honor gives you his holy name. My gosh help, Jesus will carry shelter and hip Carries them all day long. Praise them, praise them , tell us that celebration. Praise him, praise him ever in joyful song. Praise him Praise them Jesus are blended with him for us since we suffered and blood and die He all rock are hope of eternal salvation. Hell, hell, hell, hell, Jesus accursed by Sand his praises to nothing for our world Wonderful, deep and strong. Praise him, praise him , tell love his solid praise. Praise him, praise him, ever enjoyful song. Praise him, praise him, Jesus our blessed redeemer That live for to love with other than a string. Amen. Let's turn back to hymn number 12. Hymn number 12. I'll hail the power of Jesus' name. We'll sing all four verses. Hymn number twelve. All four verses. To give him our friends, see the Szádamos, hogy égünk megjünk a megyekkel , éjjel , meg élő , boldog el. Create singing. Please be seated as we turn over to hymn number 336. My hope is in the Lord. 336 And we'll sing all four verses. So we 're going to play a blank I never before I greatly come by. And now for me for the Will I be ready to weak? Brave my wall with my brother. Amen. Great singing. Our scripture reading for this morning will be found in the Epistle of the Colossians The epistle to the Colossians, Colossians chapter three, verses one through four. Colossians chapter three verses one through four. The scriptures say, if ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. God. Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth. For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in Christ. God. When Christ, who is our light, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of the Uh study. Hymn number three hundred seventy-four. Hymn number three hundred seventy-four. Be thou my vision. We'll be singing all four verses of hymn. Three seventy four Be thou my vision of my law. When it 's We shall be No no no All right , the right way , maybe I need to go. Amen. Please stand with me. And open your hymn book, your group blue books. It's number one hundred and ninety-two. Complete in thee. The words will also be up on the screen. We're going to sing all four verses and we'll have the answer. Instruments drop out on the last we'll sing verse four a cappella. 192, complete in the all four verses. For me, and I am not thee. Yea, this is God And say if I would have for me , I for embark I said. Completely no more shall be shall my voice shall be. And I don't believe in me. When I come for me, I forgot , and I 'm sorry , don't please you are you praying? And I have no more I'm on my clothes and will I be I 'll be the You fall in all, and make it fall in one. Thy word in my glory on thy shall be great singing, please be So we have to You can search all Love this light and never understand why the storms and all the straw Life, seem unguarded by God 's hand , raise your bear the health, and if you tired on Christ has conquered God, and he resists when you cross. There's no valley, there's no place, there's no danger you might Faith alone, for he walks with you and cries your tears before you He is there, he is here. Don't you feel? He is woodwork Be your light, his voice will be your God, his hands will give you strength. With his spirit by your sides, raise your weary heart and live through a tired eyes. There's no value, there's no place, there's no danger, you might. Face alone for he walks with you and cries your tears before you do he is there, he is here Don't you feel? Why are you cast out my soul? And why have you no For thy source. God is my salvation shrine, and He is now my song. There's no valley, there's no place, there's no danger, you much Faith alone for he walks with you and cries your tears before you do. And there's no value, there's no life, no ever beyond his grace He's wrong, for he walks with you and knows your steps before you do. He is there, he is here. Don't you feel he is that he is here Don't you feel Okay, well our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to Colossians chapter 2. Colossians chapter 2, and the text we'll be looking at this morning is focusing in on Such an important foundational truth. I'm going to tell you that on a day like Mother's Day, as a pastor, it's really hard to know where to go. And one of the things that I love about preaching expositionally verse by verse, chapter by chapter, is you pick a book and you'll probably be there for a couple of years is you don't have to worry about where you're going to be uh on a certain week because it's already planned out. But in events like this, moments like this, I recognize that there is a lot that's going on in people's minds. First of all, I'm sure that there's some ladies that are hoping I And not saying turn to Proverbs 31. And uh on Father's Day there are always guys that are like, oh please don't rip us apart this morning. But what I'd really like to do this morning is show you what is the heart and soul of I know that when we talk about mothers, some mothers are very godly. Some mothers are no longer with us. Some mothers were absent. Some mothers were overwhelmed. Some wish they were mothers. Lots and lots of different scenarios. And the reality is, this is actually Actually, a pretty tough day for many, many people. And so what I want to do is I want us to look at the heart of our faith, and I want us to see how it works out where you are today. Colossians chapter 2, verse number 6 says the following. As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus The Lord, so walk ye in Him, rooted and built it up in Him, and established in the faith as ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving. Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world And not after Christ. For in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily, and you are complete in him, which is the head of all principalities and powers. If you skip down to chapter 3, verse 1, it says, If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth. For ye are dead, your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall Shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Foundational truths, and that we will see how we are to live as his people. Our Father, we are so grateful for this text before We recognize that the circumstances that moved the Apostle Paul to write this, and as the Holy Spirit guided him, we recognize that there was a very specific situation going on in the churches that received this letter. They were being driven by worldly philosophy. There was false teaching within the churches that was affecting the way That people were living their lives. And they needed to be called back to the simplicity of a life that is rooted in the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. Father, I pray that this morning, in the hustle and bustle of everything going on around us, the challenges of the time in which we live, the philosophies that are swirling all around us in our society. The temptation to be allured and the temptation to be discouraged, we would set it all aside and look at the simplicity of our Position in Christ. We would recognize who we are in Him. We would recognize that this is the foundation and this is the source of all vibrant Christian living. Every command goes back to this position. Every motivation is rooted in this position. The power to do what God calls us to do, it is rooted in this position. Use the word to stir up our hearts, to engage our affections, and to press our hearts much closer to you this morning. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. The passage before us reminds us the most fundamentally significant truth about our identity, and that it is not I think the vast majority of people in the world today, if you ask them what is your identity, they say It's what I do. It's what I wish that I was doing. But when the Bible talks about our identity, it doesn't speak in those terms. It's Speaks in terms of who we are. And who we are is to dictate what we do. And what we do may actually be inconsistent or consistent with who we are we are. The motivation that we need that will press us to be faithful and obedient is rooted back in who we are. And who we are is found in Christ. This union with Christ is the foundation and the source of all that we are to do and all that we are to be in life. And so as we examine the text in front of us, we will see that God wants us to be a people whose core identity is rooted in Christ and in Christ alone. Not in what I do, not in what I wish that I had, not in what I used to do and what I used to be, but who I am today in Christ. That is what the text in front of us is going to drive us out. And I want to begin with talking about the difficulty of the time in which we live. Now, when I say the difficulty of the time in which we live, I don't want you to get the impression that we are somehow some unique culture in human history In fact, I would have to say that throughout human history, there have always been people that have had some of the very issues going on in our society today that we see ourselves. There has been a radical rebellion in our society against a biblical worldview. Now what I'm saying is that there was a time when the Bible was very common in our society. It was even read in our schools. Prayer was a part of what was going on in normal society. The vast majority of people attended church, and whether they were Christians or not, the Bible influenced the way they thought and the way that they lived far more than they even realized or maybe even wanted to admit But that's not the case today. We live in a post-Christian society. We live in a culture where a biblical worldview has been set to the side, and there's a tremendous rebellion against what the Bible has to say about foundational Matters, and this has led to a great breakdown of our culture. We can see it on so many levels, and I'm not going to bore you with all the various ways in which we We've seen it break down. But I'd like to examine this concept and I'd like to move from where we are to what our hope is and how we are to live in the light of those things. When I think about the time in which we live in our society, it sounds a lot to me like the radical individualism we read about in Judges chapter 21. This is what it says. In those days there was no king in Israel, every man did what was right in his own eyes What that's basically saying is that people determined what was right and wrong, not upon a standard that was higher than them, but based upon their own impressions in the moment. And by the way, we change over the course of our lifetime, do we not? The way that you thought twenty years ago and the way that you think today, assuming that twenty years ago you were A thinking person, maybe you know, a teenager or something like that, but an adult looking back twenty years, who you were twenty years ago, one who you are today may very very well be very different in the way that you think and look at Things. You have grown, you have matured, your perspective has changed. Hopefully, your perspective has become more conformed to the biblical truth that we see in the scriptures. But it was a society that didn't have a higher standard. I mean, there is a higher standard, but they were living as if there wasn't. Another way to describe it is what we see in Proverbs 1215. The way of the fool is right in his own eyes. Not what does God say, but what do I think? The way of the fool is right in his own eyes. Proverbs 18, 2: A fool has no delight in understanding, but that in his heart discovering itself I just want to express who I am. I want to express this radical individualism. And I tell you where this leads is absolute devastation. Because there is a creator. He made us, he designed us, he has a purpose for our lives. He has certain, we could say, rules in which he has told us we are to live that are Consistent with his nature and the purpose for which he designed everything. And when we buck against those rules, what we end up with is all kinds of trouble. Really, Romans 1 describes this very well. When people do not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gives them over to a reprobate, and that means twisted mind. To do things that are not convenient. And that word convenient has the idea of it's not appropriate because it's not consistent with the design for which it was created, being filled with all unrighteousness. When people reject God, the end result is tremendous evil. I'll summarize it this way: Our society is a people who do not know who they are. Do not know why they are here. Do not have any concept of the long-term consequences of their views and choices. And believe the lie that we can create our own reality without devastation. Consequences. You say, Pastor Mother's Day, please. Do spare us. My wife just laughed. I heard her. Please, we are not going to stop on this point. I want to be very, very transparent about the time we live in. This is my opinion, but there's no group of people that have been more deeply wounded. Than the women of our culture. I absolutely believe that. There's no one that has been wounded more. The glory of motherhood has been ripped from our daughters The family, which is the foundation of a strong society, has been severely undermined. We don't even know what a family is anymore. Women are not honored, protected, and valued as they ought. Our hearts should be grieved by what we see. But it should not grieve without hope. There is an answer And we have to recognize that when God looks at history, he doesn't just look at this one little moment right here. He looks at the big picture. He looks at what he's doing. He looks at where he's going. He looks at what he is going to accomplish in the world. God doesn't look at this little moment in time that we sit in and go, What am I going to do? I want to remind you that there is no society that hasn't found itself in such a place. In fact, the New Testament church was finding itself in societies that I would say are probably worse. than where we find ourselves today. Thoroughly pagan. Not post-Christian but thoroughly pagan societies. And the gospel spread throughout those societies and churches were established all over the Roman and Greek world unlike any other time in human history. It is obvious that the darkness does not have the ability to stop the expanse of the light. If God is going to work, the darkness cannot stop the work in which He will do. And so the question we should ask ourselves this morning is: how does God do this? How does God dispel the darkness? How does the light take root in a society? And the answer is found in 2 Corinthians chapter 4. And from this text we will move into some of the details of what we've read in Colossians chapters 2 and 3. Here's what it says in 2 Corinthians chapter 4. It says that the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not. Lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them. For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your servants, for Jesus' sake. For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness hath shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Christ. We have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed, we are perplexed but not in despair, persecuted but not forsaken, cast down but not destroyed. Now I ask this question. When the Apostle Paul talked about the Church of Corinth living in a very decadent culture Did he say, you know what you really need to do is you need to take over the government. You need to push for better legislation. We need to enforce biblical morality on the world around us. Is that what he said? Well, the answer is no. In fact, it would have been laughable for him to have said such a thing because the church could have never done such a thing. And by the way, that's not how a society is transformed. It's not transformed through the change of a government. It's not transformed through the change of a law. It's transformed with the hearts of people being submitted to the gospel message. Because as we read these verses, what we see is the answer. If you're discouraged, if you're frustrated, if you're weary, if you look around and you say, what's happened to you to the America that I grew up in, instead of saying we just need a better president and we need a better Congress, we need to say, let's be the church of God. Let's be real about what actually changes people fundamentally at the heart, at the root, at the source. Notice what he says in verse 4. The world around us is blind and stumbling in the dark. He says that the God of this world has blinded the minds of them which believe not. You might even say that the world is doubly blinded because by nature the natural man does not understand the things of the Spirit of God. They're foolishness, damn. But it's not just that he doesn't understand. understand it, but literally Satan is working on these individuals to give them a greater level of blindness. It's all around us. Some of the great struggles that are going on in society, they're not new. And the kind of proposals that are being presented have never worked. Yet we see the history of Itself. We see that people try these things over and over and over again. And the question is: why? Spiritual blindness. The implication of how to resolve a matter comes down to a spiritual answer. Not a physical answer, not a legislative answer, a spiritual answer. Verses 4 and 5, Christ alone is the answer He says, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ should shine unto them, we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord. Did you catch that? The Apostle Paul said, I don't preach me. I don't go around and say, you need to have my view on this and this and this and this and this. He says, I preach Christ. And I say there's a holy, righteous God who created you and he owns you, and his son died on the cross for your sins, and he calls you to turn to him with a repentance of heart and to trust alone in his finish Work and then to live in the light of the gospel, that's what he calls them to do. That is the answer. Christ. Not you, not me, Christ God literally commands us to get back to the simple clarity of His gospel. Verse number six: God commanded the light to shine out of darkness and hath shined in our hearts To give light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. That is an absolutely profound statement. There's darkness everywhere. And God says, Let there be light. And it happens in your heart and in my heart. And then he says, I'm going to bring the gospel to people through you. That's what he's saying. Isn't that an incredible thought? That's what the church is supposed to be. We are so vulnerable and weak, yet he works through us. And there's no reason that God should work through us. He does it despite us. Notice what it says in verse 7. We have this treasure, the gospel, and earthen vessels. That's us, clay pots. So that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed, perplexed but not in despair, persecuted but not forsaken, cast down but not destroyed. That is an absolutely amazing statement. Do you get discouraged? Of course you get discouraged, but we don't quit. Do we get beat down? Of course we do. He's talking about the vacillation, the variation of our lives. We experience all of this. Yet, we go back to the gospel, we're reminded of what we have in Christ, we're reminded of how God's working in the world, and what does it do? It stabilizes us, it strengthens us. So the answer to the problems of our society are the gospel. And there is no other place that you can get to the root core problem of humanity except through the gospel message. And so that leads us to this text. We need to embrace our identity in Christ. And if we will embrace our identity in Christ, And we will live as the people that we are in Christ. He can work through us in the hearts of the people around us. At the moment of our conversion, there are many spiritual realities that take place. That very instant. They're all of his grace, all by his power, and in no way a part of our work. Let me just mention them for just a moment. These things are true about you today, Christian, if you have placed your faith in Christ. They're not true because of the way you're living today. They're not true because of the way that you've dressed today. They're not true because of your interactions with other people today. They're true because of the gospel's work in your life. We are regenerated. That means we're no longer spiritually dead, but alive in Christ. So think what Ephesians chapter uh chapter 10 says he says you as he quickened, he made you alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins. We have been justified. We're no longer guilty before the throne room of God. But he literally takes those who are sinners and he declares them not guilty, righteous in Christ. We are justified freely through his grace that is in the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. We have been sanctified. When Paul writes these epistles, he calls them saints. He doesn't say, I hope you'll become saints. He says, You're on your process of becoming saints. He doesn't say that. He says, to the saints of God which are at, and then he names the place. Why does he speak in such a way? Well, because we are no longer viewed as unrighteous, but declared saints in Christ. These are positional realities. These things are true. You say, well, do I don't feel like these things are true? Some days you do feel like they're true, and some days that you don't feel like they're true. God is greater than our hearts. He doesn't decide who you are based on how you feel today. He decides who you are based on his work on your behalf. There's a huge difference between those two things. We've been forgiven, no longer under wrath. There's now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. If you're sitting here today and you place your faith in Christ, they're true about you. All of those things that I just mentioned, they're true about you. And I asked this question: Do you believe that? Do you understand that? Do you live as if they are true? That's probably the greatest question. Do I live as if I am a regenerated person? Because I I am. Do I live as if I'm a justified person? Because I am. Do I live as if I am sanctified, set apart to God? I'm a saint. I am. Do I live as if I'm forgiven? I am. And so we see the logical connection in the text in front of us. Since this is true, here's how you're supposed to. Supposed to live. Let me just mention them briefly. Verse number six: God calls us to a distinct walk. Now, he doesn't say walk distinctly, then you become a Christian. He says, because these things are true of you, then you are to walk like a Christian. Do you see the difference? It's a huge difference. It's the difference between understanding the gospel and not understanding the gospel. Because you are a saint, because you are forgiven, then live like you are. Verse number six, as ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. Do you see what it says? Number two, verse number eight. He says, Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit, after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. He calls us to be wary of the empty philosophies that swirl all around us. Now that little word f spoil is an interesting word. It has the idea of to be captured or to be enslaved. And when I think of spoil, I tend to think of the garden. Oh, there's a tomato that's rotting on the ground. That's not what he means by spoil there. It's more like you have been captivated, you have been captured by an enemy, and he has enslaved you. He has taken away your rights. You belong to Him. You do his bidding. He prospers on your shoulders and through your hands. That's what he's saying. He says, Christian, because you are in Christ. Don't let the world spoil you. That's what he says. Do you know how many Christians live a captivated life? By the way, they don't have to. None of us have to live in such a way. None of us have to do the world's business. None of us has to live in such a way, but we choose to when we are duped, and we don't live as if we are in Christ. So he says, be wary of philosophy. And vain deceit. Verse number 10, he calls us to find our full identity in him. He says in verse 10 of chapter 2, And ye are complete. And the idea is, you are filled up to overflowing, complete in him, which is the head of all principalities and powers. There is nothing to me that is more important than being a Christian. Not being a dad, not being a husband, not being a pastor, being a Christian is number one. And that's what it should be for each of us. Because the greatest part of who we are is rooted in Him. Everything else flows from it. He calls us to set our hearts on him and our full eternal blessings. Verses 1 and 2 of chapter 3. If ye then be risen with Christ , Seek those things which are above. Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth That little word affection is an interesting word. Because in some places it has the idea of our emotions, and in other places It has the idea of our thinking. And the fact is that both of those two things are so tightly connected that you really cannot pull them apart. What you are consumed by, what you continually think of, is what you love. It's what captures your heart. And so he says, let the thing that captures Your mind and your affections and your heart. Let it be the eternal blessings that you have in Christ. And so that leads me to a final point. We need to live in the light of these truths. We need to take these simple truths and live as if they are true because they are. Let me give it to you this way very practically. First of all, before you are anything, you are a Christian. If you've got to qualify, I'm this, oh, and I happen to be a Christian, your thinking is wrong. Your thinking is wrong. Perhaps even fatally flawed. This means that being a Christian should shape how we approach every area of life, all encompassing It should shape why we do what we do. It should form every boundary that governs how we view each area of life. The proper application of a text like this is before anything, I belong to Jesus I am rooted in him. Everything comes out of that position, not is forced into that position. Number two, we must be unashamedly committed to the authority of Scripture in every area of our lives. Don't allow the world's chaotic attempts to redraw the lines to push you into compromise or to rob you of the joy of God's good gifts. I'm convinced of this. Many, many Christians. They are living joyfully in the light of the gospel, and then they come around someone who is not a Christian, who has a very secular perspective, who is very condescending on a Christian viewpoint who is kind of putting pressure on them and all of a sudden the joy that they enjoy and the simplicity of their position in Christ and the outflowing of those things, it's as if those viewpoints and that attitude, it's it's kind of it crushes them internally. Might happen in your workplace, might happen in your schooling context, might happen on a sports team, it might happen in a family reunion. It can happen in so many places. Don't allow the world's viewpoint to rob you of the joy of God's good gifts. Don't allow its mocking to make you defensive. Don't allow its temporary pleasure to lure you into its devastating traps. The fact is that the world has a hook that is in that bait. And that bait is very luring. But once you have grabbed the bait, you also have been grabbed by the hook. And we have to be so cautious that we don't allow the temporary pleasures of the world system to lure us into this trap. Number three, we need to live with conviction, stability, satisfaction, resolve, and a settled heart. We have everything we need to thrive now and forever in Him There's nothing that needs to be added so that you can have the kind of life that God wants you to have. Nothing. There's nothing that needs to be added to give you your Position to strengthen it. There's nothing that needs to be added to give you the joy that you don't have today. It's all bound up in Him. If you're not experiencing it, you've got to get back to the source. Not try to supplement it. You've got to get back to the source. What we have in Christ is sure, it is rich, it is purposeful, and it is eternally secured. Lastly, I want to mention this. We must set our whole being on what matters forever. You might be going, well, Joel, Mother's Day, where's the Mother's Day part? Well, here it is. The Mother's Day part is downstream. Because being a mother shouldn't be your identity. Your identity should be I'm a Christian who God has given children. to. It starts with Christ because that shapes everything. Your labor as a mother, it actually matters. Now we've we've had we have small children still in our home, and having small children is really tough. Tough on everybody. It's physically demanding, it's emotionally demanding It is not easy. And it's very easy for us when we're raising small children to throw our hands up in the air and say, you know, I would rather be making a lot of money Right now, and I'd rather have a position in a company doing something that I have the gifts and the skills and the abilities to do. I would rather do that than this. And I asked this question, how eternal is that business? How eternal is that money? How eternal is that feeling that you get for a few months or years Years. How eternal is the soul of your children? Good question, isn't it? What career have you set aside to shape the eternal soul of your children? Was it worth it? The Bible says yes. Those extra hours that you might have spent as a Sunday school teacher working with the little kids, yeah, they're three and four years old. Well, three and four-year-olds eventually become 14 and 15 year olds. And someday they're running the country. And someday they got their own kids. And someday they look back and say, man, I remember my Sunday school teacher. That teacher made a huge impact on me. I remember my wrestling coach when I was in high school. I have no idea why he asked me to come out for that sport. I quit it several times and just kept coming back. Could not get I'll tell you that guy really made an impact on my life. Huge impact. He wasn't my dad. He wasn't my grandfather. He wasn't my uncle. There was no family relation. But he He was a very godly and inspiring influence. And within this church context, there are many ladies that you are really ministering to the hearts of our young people They may not be your own children, but you're doing a lot that that they will not forget someday. Think about the frustrating hours spent in the nursery watching toddlers. Somebody's in the nursery today on Mother's It's true. God will bless them for their labors. There are lots of moms that are sitting here this morning. And the reason you can sit here and pay attention is because somebody sacrificed their time to sit in that nursery. And that's not easy. That's a huge ministry. There is eternal value behind those things. I've seen many of our dads. They take their kids and they they ru they rock them and bounce them on their knees right out here in the lobby so that their wife can sit in in the service. Several of our dads do that. I remember when we were Ghana seeing guys do that, that was not a part of their culture, I promise you. These men did it. The fact is, when you take time and energy and you see the value of souls, you are investing in something that lasts forever. Investing in souls isn't just going out on door-to-door visitation. It isn't just being a pastor and preaching the word. It's cleaning diapers. Wiping noses, going to the doctor, staying up late at night with children, it's praying for kids. It's putting up with the nonsense of when people think that they're you know all big and bad and they figured out life and then you know one day they're gonna come back to you and say, okay, you're right, Mom. It's about looking out for other people's kids too. What's the point? The point is that you will look at these things from a worldview. A worldview that is purely secular, or a worldview that takes the Bible seriously. Your willingness to invest your life is really proportionate to the lens through which you are looking. Folks, this is the starting point of everything we experience in a Christian life. Our acceptance before God's throne, our willingness to embrace the roles He has given us. The thing that motivates us in our duties, that sustains us when we're weary, it all goes back to what we're looking at this morning, our union with Christ. And so I want to encourage you this morning. Let's get back to the basics. What our country needs is Christians who live by the basics, who live in the light of who they are. May God help us to be a vibrant people. His core identity is rooted in Christ in Christ alone. Let's pray. Our Father, thank you so much for the Word of God. It is powerful. Our lives must be built upon it. We cannot afford to neglect it. Father, I pray that if anyone in this room is wearied and discouraged and ready to quit and feels that their labors are worthless, that this message would uplift them. And strengthen them and encourage them and press their heart to faithfulness. Father, if there's anyone in this room who has neglected their duty As a husband, as a father, as a wife, as a mother, may we be convicted to get back to the basics and recognize that who we are in Christ is to dictate how we live in this world. If there's anyone whose heart has been captured by the lies of this world, I pray that in your kindness And in your mercy, you would open their eyes to the devastating consequences of such thinking. Draw them to yourself. Show them your love. Show them what is available to them because of the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ's redemptive work. Father, may we truly live like the people that we are in Christ. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to ask you to take your hymn books out, please, and turn with me to hymn number 495. Hymn 495. Count your blessings. One of the blessings that I would count first after my salvation is my wife. You men ought to tell your wife thank you for all your labors. All you moms, thank the ladies. And the man. There are men back there. That are working in the nursery so that you can sit here. Somebody that has mentored you, might not be your mom, they've had an impact, thank them. Let them know you appreciate what they've done. Done. Get back to the basics and live like the people that we are in Christ. If there's any questions, if you need to reach out, if you don't know the Lord as your Savior, please do not leave this place without reaching out. saying pastor need to talk to you about these issues. Let's stand together, please. We'll sing 495, then we'll sing all three verses together, please. And I want to present the best of all , we are seeing all the And maybe must be one by one, and the price because the Lord has got to come by one Can I see my God and God? Can I see? Can I all I want? Can I relate to me when God has gone? Oh yeah , the ball. And then we must be taking out the wine, and it will be seen as the wine, and I must be one And remember many messages we would not have. Come on, we have to stop. Do not make this power and sour. I 'm gonna be able to do it. blessings. I'd like to ask if, Brother Suit, if you could pose us in prayer please. And please, if you're visiting today, come by and greet me and my wife. And uh it's good to see each of you in the Lord's house today. And I pray that the word will richly bless your heart. Amen. Dear Henry Father, we thank you for this day, Lord. Thank you for the opportunity to come and hear your word being spoken this morning. I pray that we be if our mother is this morning as we thank them for the grace, great sacrifice they did for us, Lord. Yeah, we remember the great sacrifice that you did for us all by sending your son to die for us, Lord. I pray they might take this time to thank our moms and our uh relatives for uh sacrifice sacrifice that they gave and I pray that we'll be able to take the word it was given to us this morning and apply it that we might make our lives an example to our friends, our neighbors, and our families. I pray it's as you go before us and uh bless the word that was given. Amen