Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And today we are planning to wrap up our study in Colossians chapter two and we're going to look at some some we could say final conclusionary issues. And then also, Lord willing, tomorrow we will look at a sermon preview for the passage we'll be looking at in Luke this next Sunday. And so if you have your Bible, let's turn there one more time to Colossians chapter 2. I'm going to read the passage, and then we're going to look at some concluding thoughts together. Colossians chapter 2, and we're looking at verse number 6. As ye have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him. Rooted and built up in him, established in the faith, as you've been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving. But where lest any man spoil you through philosophy in vain deceit, after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world and not after Christ For in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily. Ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principalities and powers. If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. Where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth. For ye are dead, your life is hid with Christ in God When Christ who is our life shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. What I'd like to do is I'd like to take the pieces that we talked about yesterday, and I'd like to kind of flush them out with some practical implications. How do we take those individual pieces and live them out practically? So I'm going to begin with this first statement. Before we are anything, we are Christians. Before I'm a husband, I'm a Christian. Before I'm a dad, I'm a Christian Before I'm a pastor, I'm a Christian. Before anything that I might identify myself as potentially, I am a Christian first. This means that being a Christian is to shape how I approach every single area of life. So it's not just that I'm a dad, but I am a Christian who is living as a father consistent with my position in Christ. Or I'm living as a husband consistent with my position in Christ as a Christian. It should shape what I do. It should shape what I'm not willing to do. It should shape every single boundary that governs how we view every single area of life. Number two, we must be unashamedly committed to the authority of Scripture in all areas of life Let's not allow the chaos of the world and their attempts to redraw the lines to push us to compromise or to rob us of the joy of living a distinctly Christian life and the many blessings that flow from such a life. Don't allow the mocking of the world to cause you to become defensive. Or don't allow it to cause you to become angry and to say and do things that you regret. Don't allow the temporary pleasures of the world around you to lure you into the devastating trap of living inconsistent with your position as a Christian. Number three, we need to live lives with conviction stability, satisfaction, resolve with a settled spirit. You say, well, how do I do that? Well I do that because All of those things, conviction, stability, satisfaction, resolve, a settled heart, it all links back to the gospel message and my union with Christ. We have in Christ everything that we need to thrive both now in this world and for all of eternity. What we have in Christ is sure, it's solid, it's rich, it gives us purpose, it is eternally secured. That's what we mean by living with conviction, stability, and all those things. Number four. We need to set all of our being on what actually matters forever. It's very easy for us to get distracted and to look down at our feet and only be concerned about this moment. But we need to see this moment and this season in the light of the big picture, in the light of eternity We need to recognize that the little things that we do that are flowing out of those realities of being a Christian and our submission to the authority of Christ and all those things, those little things actually matter. You know, for instance, it was just Mother's Day. You know, a mother gives a lot to bring a child into the world, to work with that child. She sacrifices so much time and so much energy, and the labors of a mother actually matter because of the eternal value of pouring into the life of that soul. The career that a woman is willing to set aside so that she can shape the eternal soul of her children is well worth the sacrifice that the world mocks at and laughs at and says, you wasted your life, you had a career and you could have made all this money. No, actually you shaped a soul forever. And that is a big time investment of your time and energy. And think about all the the hours that are spent on a Saturday preparing for Sunday school class, working with little kids. And you might say, well what a waste of time. You could have been doing so many different things that were were more fun and and would have been a greater investment of time. I say no The investment in the lives of these people actually matters. It's not wasted. It flows from a position. That's what motivates us. Those frustrating hours that you might have to spend working with your children, rocking them to sleep. Think about those who work in the nursery at our church. What a tremendous sacrifice. You know, people want to come to church. They want to fellowship with their brothers and sisters in Christ. They want to hear uh the music, they want to sing the hymns, they want to listen to the preaching of the word and instead there are people that are sitting in a nursery with little kids. But you know what? The investment of that energy so that those Mothers who are tired and weary and discouraged and have a little child crawling all over them all day. They have the opportunity to sit in a service. and and sing praise to God and hear the word preached with a focused attention. And that labor seeming so insignificant and so wasteful to some people is actually quite valuable. We need to look at life through the lens of the Bible. We need to evaluate everything in the light of our position in Christ, in the light of the gospel. And so I want to encourage you, let's be a people who live with a life centered on the gospel. I summarize it with this simple statement. Our union with Christ, our position in Christ is the center of our identity. Everything about who we are What we do, what we love, what we hate, what we're willing to live for, what we're willing to die for, all of those things, they start with Our union with Christ. Our acceptance before Him and that throne is what? It's our union with Christ. Our willingness to embrace The roles that God has given us, either as a man or as a woman, as a husband, as a father, as a husband, as a wife, husband, father, uh wife, mother, all those things. The willingness to embrace the God-given role in a God-given way, it is rooted back to what? Our our Christian identity. I want to challenge you. May we as God's people be a vibrant people whose lives are lived consistent with our identity rooted in our union with Christ. That's the challenge of the week. I hope that that's the way that we'll live our lives. If this week these uh studies have been an encouragement to you, Please share that. If you think it'd be an encouragement to somebody else, please take a moment to share that and tell them, hey, you should check this out. This is something that I think would be an encouragement, a challenge to you. Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to do our sermon preview for the next Sunday, and I hope that you have a great weekend on Friday into Sunday. Bye now.