Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. And uh we are halfway through the week and um the first two messages uh lessons were kind of dealing with some introduction And what we're going to do this morning is we're going to look at the actual content of Colossians chapter two. And we're going to look at an important concept, and that is our union with Christ and how our identity is to be rooted in him and how that is supposed to be the foundation of everything that we do and it should be the foundation of how we think, what motivates us, all those things. And so if you have your Bible, let's all turn together to Colossians chapter 2 again, and I'm going to begin reading in verse number 6. It says, As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him. Great great statement, very important statement. Rooted and built up in him, and established in the faith, as he had been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving Bewareest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. For in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily. Ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principalities and powers. Then skip down to chapter three. If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth at the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ who is our life shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Now this passage is so very, very vital to us understanding how to live the Christian life. The Christian life is supposed to be fruit. The Christian life is something that's supposed to flow from a source. And the question is, well, what exactly is the source? And the source is our identity as ones who are Rooted in Christ. And I emphasize this when I was reading these verses. He says, as you've received the Lord, so walk in him. There's that statement. He says, you are complete. in him, which is the head of all principalities and powers. If then you are risen with Christ, then do these things. The center of that whole peace is being in Christ. And I want to mention that there are several things that the Bible clearly affirms that are true about every single Christian the moment that they are converted or the moment that they place their faith in the finished work of Christ. You say, well, what are those realities? Well, let me give you a couple. Number one, we are regenerated. Now the Bible teaches that when we are born into this world, though we are physically alive, we are spiritually dead. And so in Ephesians 2 it says, you have he quickened or made alive, who were dead in trespasses and in sins. So at the point of conversion, a person who was spiritually dead had absolutely no ability to fellowship with God, to commune with God, to walk in this sweet and vibrant relationship. That was an absolutely impossible scenario. we now have spiritual life because we are alive in him. Another truth that the Bible clearly teaches is that we are justified That word justified means declared righteous. And so when a person places their faith in the finished work of Christ, they are at that very moment justified. Romans chapter 5. Having been justified by faith We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Now, that word justified doesn't mean that we stop being sinners. What it means is that God declares a sinner not guilty. And you say, well, how can a God who is holy and righteous, how can he declare a sinner not guilty? And the answer is there's only one way. If he views us in Christ, as we are united with Christ, he declares us righteous in him. We see that statement. It's our union with Christ. Our identity in Christ. A third thing is that we are positionally sanctified A lot of times when we talk about sanctification, we tend to think of it as something that is progressive, our growth in the Christ-likeness, our maturing in the faith. But the fact is that the word sanctified is something that is primarily a positional fact, a positional reality. For instance, when Paul talks about the Christians in the various churches, he refers to them as saints. The word saints means that they are set apart from the world. to God, they are holy in Christ. And so we are no longer viewed as unrighteous and unholy, we are viewed as saints in Christ. We are forgiven. We're no longer under the wrath of God. We have been forgiven because we've been redeemed by the blood of Jesus Christ. We have passed from death unto life. The blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us from all sin. And so then the last thing I'll say is this. All of these blessings are true because we are united with Christ. Think about Romans chapter 6 where it says, you have been baptized into Christ. He's talking about being placed into the body of Christ, this is a positional reality. And so all of these things are true. I'm regenerate, I'm justified, I'm sanctified, I'm forgiven in Christ. Now keep this in mind because everything that the Apostle Paul will say in these pat in this passage of Scripture It links back or it's rooted back to that positional reality. Because these things are true of you. Therefore, this is how you're supposed to live. This is supposed how you're supposed to think. This is supposed to shape your worldview. The positional reality of your union with Christ, your identity in Him, is supposed to be central to all those things. You say, well, what are some of those things? Well, I'll mention some. The first one we find in verse number six. It says, as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him What is this talking about? Well, we as Christians are called to a distinct walk because we are in Christ. So because I'm united with him, I'm supposed to walk. consistent with who I am in Christ. Positional reality, practical implication. Or in chapter 2, verse 8 he says that we are to beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy. and vain deceit after the traditions of men, after the remin rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. Now, in that particular context, the Apostle Paul is thinking about some very specific matters that are related to the Colossian Church. But the fact is that in principle this applies into all different kinds of areas where people who do not know Christ, people who do not understand the gospel The philosophy that guides their life, the way that they think, the doctrines upon which their lives are built, are completely contrary to what is true. And so he says, be wary lest you embrace empty philosophy that is not found in Christ, but in fact it is found in the thinking and the disposition and in the values of the world around you. Because you're a Christian, be wary of what you build your life upon. Practically speaking. A third example, verse number 10. He says, And ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principalities and powers. The idea is that we have our full identity rooted in Christ. And that word complete means that we are fully matured, there's nothing to add, there's nothing that we can contribute. It's done. It's settled. It's finished. When we talk about our identity in Christ, it's the center And the last thing I'm going to mention is found in verses 1 and 2 of chapter 3. He says, if ye then be risen with Christ, then seek those things which are above. Set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth. So what is Paul saying? Because you are united with Christ, your identity is in him, you are called to set your heart. on him, on his gospel, and on what has eternal value and significance. You say, well, Joel, what is the point of everything that we've talked about? Here is the point. Because you are regenerated, justified, sanctified, forgiven in Christ, there are some very particular ways that you and I are to walk and to think and to live. And we've got to get back to this very simple truth that the way that a person lives a vibrant life And the way that a person is the instrument through which God reaches into the lives of other people is through them realizing their position in Christ and living in the light of that position in Christ. I hope that this morning you will remind yourself once again of these realities They are true about you if you have placed your faith in Christ. They are true of every single Christian on the day that you feel very strong and on the day that you very feel very weak, on the day that you are victorious and on the day that you are defeated. It doesn't matter how you feel, and it doesn't matter how you have performed as a Christian on that particular day, these realities are true about you. And so I want to challenge you this morning. Let us together Walk in the light of these things. I hope this has been an encouragement to you today. Let's live in the light of the position that we have in Jesus. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll meet again. Bye now.