Turn with me to Luke 24, please, and we're gonna look at verses 44 through 53. This morning we're to look at a very simple topic, and that is the need to embrace God's eternal plan for the nations. The fact is, every one of us in this room. Has a part to play in that. If you are a Christian, if you understand the gospel, you've placed your faith in the finished work of Christ, you have a part to play in God's plan in reaching the nations. Now that doesn't mean we're all supposed to go overseas and be missionaries. The fact is God has a role for each of us. And this morning I'd like us to dig into this text of Scripture, which is closing out the book of Luke. And I'd like us to examine this, first of all, thinking of it in light of the first century. And then from that, moving to our current situation and what God has for each of us this morning. So the text says the following, and he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you. That all things must be fulfilled which are written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the Psalms concerning me. Then open heed their understanding, that they might understand the Scriptures. I said unto them, Thus it is written, thus it behoove Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day, that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem Your eyewitnesses of these things, and behold, I send the promise of my father upon you, but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem until ye be endued with power from on high. And he led them as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up his hands and blessed them. It came to pass while he blessed them that he parted from them and carried was carried up into heaven, and they worshipped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy, and were continually in the temple praising. And blessing God. Amen. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, as we we read to this passage of Scripture, and as we take time to understand The significance of what is in front of us, I pray that you would grip our souls in a way that we've not been gripped before by what we call the Great Commission. Father, help us to see the tremendous continuity in your word between Old and New Testament. Father, help us to see the importance of a generation being raised up to take the gospel to the nations in the first century. And the fact that there continues to be a need for a generation of Christians to step into the gap and to embrace the things that you've called them to do and to take the gospel to the nations. Father, help us to recognize the absolute inability that we have in our own strength to do this work, but help us to recognize that it is the empowerment of the Spirit that is so desperately needed in our generation as it was so desperately needed in the first century. I pray that you would take your word and that would use it in a very powerful and very impactful manner this morning. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. First thing I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to kind of put ourselves into the passage. Now, I think it's a little bit dangerous sometimes for us to put ourselves into the passage and to leave ourselves there. But what I really want us to do is I want us to think about the mentality of the people that are receiving this instruction. I want us to think what it would have been like for us to be in their shoes. And have processed, or what would I say, attempted to process the things that they had witnessed. The fact is that when Jesus is having this conversation with these individuals, they still hadn't put it all together in their minds. If we go back to Matthew, it says they worshipped him, but some doubted. Even on this point in the ministry of Christ, where he's about to ascend back into heaven, there's still people That have been eyewitnesses of these things, and they still have not put it all together. And so I want us to consider how these people would have processed what they were experiencing. The first thing that really comes to my mind is there's an apparent disunity here. What I mean by that is there seemed to be an entrance into a new and radically different and might I add contradictory kind of era Now there's no question that when you look at the Old Testament and you look at the New Testament, there's a clear distinction in the way that God is governing his world. The role of the first century Christian and the role of the 21st century Christian is very different from someone who lives, say, a thousand years before Christ. was a part of Old Testament Israel. There are a lot of differences, but those differences are not contradictory, but they appear that way. The second thing that really comes to my mind is that there is clearly disillusionment in the eyes of these apostles They had failed in their most basic duty as eyewitnesses. Think about Peter. Three times he denies the Lord, and Luke records that on that third time when he hears the crowing of that of that uh rooster, he catches the eye of Christ. And I cannot even begin to imagine how he would have felt so, so broken in his heart that he is walking away from a man who's about to be crucified. And he said, I will be willing to die for you. And Jesus said, you'll deny me three times. That's exactly what happened. In fact, John records that John or that that Peter actually goes back to fishing. And I think that that's an indication that he really wondered, does Christ have anything for me? These people had failed in their most basic duties. And their expectations had been completely turned upside down. God needed to address that for them. The third thing is it appears very disorganized. If your plan is to take the gospel to the nations, wouldn't you think as any good general or any group of generals you would have sat down and said, all right, guys. Here's the game plan. You're gonna take this city and then you're gonna take this city and they just lay out all of these things that they're gonna do. This is your mission, go do it. But it doesn't seem to be that kind of a deeply organized thing. Here are these guys who are just waiting for the Holy Spirit to come upon them and they're going to take the gospel of the nations, but they don't even know how they're going to do it. And so we don't see this well-crafted, carefully communicated plan. This is what's going on in the minds of the people. They don't understand a lot of things. And so for us to understand kind of the summary of the passage in front of us, we need to understand a couple of pieces. First is this the passage in front of us is like it's a hinge between several different things that are happening in the Bible. Things that are recorded by Luke in the Gospel of Luke and things that are recorded by Luke in Acts. We see a hinge between the prophetic ministry of the Old Testament. All of these things were said they're going to take place. And then we see the redemptive ministry of Christ. He goes to the cross, he dies, and he rises from the dead. And then we see in the book of Acts the foundational ministry that the apostles are going to have. And then there's even another piece. There's this universal ministry that's going to be taking the gospel from Jerusalem to the othermost parts of the earth. All of those ministries are really right here hinged in Luke chapter 24. All of it is coming together. All of it is being addressed. God 's plan is coherent. It's timeless. It's universal. It's personal. That's what this passage is all about. The cross and the resurrection were fulfillments of all of these prophecies in the Old Testament. These are the foundation for what Christ is going to command them to do. They will take the gospel to the nations. And so as we look at this passage, I think what the Lord will show us clearly from his word is that we need to understand what he's doing, the plan, and we need to embrace the purpose he has for us in that plan. And so with that in mind, let's dig into the text together. First thing I want you to do is I want you to see that this passage looks back at things that have been stated all throughout the Old Testament and all throughout the ministry of Christ. In fact, we see this really with the statement in verse 44, these are the words that I spake unto you. We need to see that there is a big picture continuity in God's plan. I think when I was growing up I used to think, well, the Old Testament, uh uh, that's kind of for people, you know, hundreds and hundreds and thousands and thousands of years ago. I I there's a lot that I don't understand there, so I'm just gonna kind of leave that alone. I know the New Testament is for me, and so I'm gonna focus in on the New Testament, but what I failed to realize is that the Old Testament was pointing to something that was gonna take place. Something that was going to be fulfilled. And if I would go back to the Old Testament and I would read it to the eyes of the fulfillment of prophecy in relation to Christ and the cross and the resurrection, All of a sudden the Old Testament, which is so different, would make a lot more sense because it's pointing forward to Jesus. And then when I look at the New Testament, it's pointing back to Christ and what he did. And so as we think about this, this passage really emphasizes that continuity between old and new This statement corrects the apparent disunity between Old and New Testament. And notice the statements that are made. The first one is in verse 44. All things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses and in the prophets and in the Psalms concerning me. So what's really fascinating about Luke 24 is that there are several times that there's emphasis on the Old Testament prophets. So we have Jesus opening the scriptures to the people on the road to Emmaus. We have the people that are now talking to disciples saying, We've seen the Lord, how our hearts burned within us as he opened unto us the word of God, and then here in verse 44, it says, All things must be fulfilled which are written in the law of Moses, the prophets, the Psalms concerning me. Three times there is a reference to this. Why? Because there's continuity. One is pointing forward and one is pointing back. And the point of reference is the cross and the resurrection of Christ. Second thing we notice here is in verse 45. It says, then opened he their understanding that they might understand the scriptures. There is spiritual significance to what Christ did. It's not just enough to know who he is. We have to know who Jesus is. He is Emmanuel. He is God in flesh. He is a righteous, perfect man. We have to know that. That's very important. A huge part of the gospel. We have to know what he did. He went to the cross. He died on the cross. And he rose from the dead. Those are all historic facts. But we need more than a knowledge of the person and a knowledge of the events. We need to know the why Why did he come? Why did he die? Why did he rise from the dead? And that's why in verse 45 it says, He opened their understanding that they might understand the scriptures. He died for our sins. He became sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. It's the just for the unjust to bring us to God. And so the why is so very important. It's not just the what and it's not just the who, but it's the why. You are not a Christian if you don't understand the why. And you haven't personally embraced that for yourself. There's a third little piece here. His work was absolutely necessary. In verse 46, it says, it behooved Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day. Probably three-quarters of you don't even know what the word behooved means. I remember when I was a kid, I used to hear my dad use this term, and I was like, what does this word behooved mean? But here's what the word behooved actually means. It means it was absolutely necessary , inescapable, you have to do it. That's what it means. In other words, there was no other way. That you and I could stand righteous before God. There was no other way that our sin debt could be removed. There was no other way that we could be redeemed to God except through the death of And the resurrection of Christ. And so all of this is pointing back, and it's very important to help these people here. Second thing I want you to notice is that he wants them to look forward. Now, he says, look back and understand. These are the things that were stated, and here's what has taken place, but there's more to the story than just what has happened. There is more to come. In fact, that's what the book of Acts is all about. The book of Acts is Christ's ministry through the apostles to reach the nation. So he establishes a basis of redemption. Now he's drawing people to himself from every kindred, tribe, and nation. And so in verse 47, he states it this way. He says that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations. Let me say it again. Repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations. If we understand the plan that God has, and we really have been gripped by it in our hearts, There's no way that we can just sit here on the silos and go, ah, whatever. We've got to be engaged in what God is doing. If we believe that the gospel is the one and only way that we can be redeemed to God, and the one and only way that people around us can be redeemed to God, And the one and only way that people whose lives are spiritually broken and dead and separated from God can be brought into his presence and can live with bribancy if we really believe that that's the only way, then how in the world can we sit on our hands? If you're sitting on your hands, you don't believe it. If you're sitting on your hands You do not understand. If you're sitting on your hands, it's not gripped your soul. And if you're sitting on your hands, stop it. This statement corrects the disillusionment. Did they fail? Yeah, they sure did. But that wasn't the end of it. I'll tell you one of the most beautiful pictures in all of Scripture, one of the most beautiful stories, is when Jesus calls Peter, when Peter is out there fishing, and he says, Have you guys caught anything? And you know what? One of the disciples looked and said, that's the Lord. And they come rushing down and they caught this massive number of fishes. We said, cash your nets on the other side. And interestingly, they come there and they have a meal with him, and Jesus sits down next to Peter. Only John records this three times. He says, Peter, do you love me more than you love these? And I'll tell you, the cynical side of me says he was jabbing Peter and pointing at him and saying, you failed me three times. But the sanctified side of me goes, actually you reaffirmed your purpose for him three times when he failed you. What's really amazing is that is that is exactly what happened on the day that Christ called Peter and said, I'm going to make you fishers of men. Exact same miracle. With a few different details. That are irrelevant to our discussion this morning. But the fact is, Christ had something for Peter. He said, Feed my sheep. And in 1 Peter 5, you know what Peter does? He says, Feed the flock of God. Which is among you, taking the oversight, not by constraint but willingly, not for filthy lubric, but of a ready mind, neither as being lords over God's heritage, but examples to the flock. That is one of the most amazing stories in all scripture. So here are these people that are so disillusioned, they have failed, and he says, there's something for you to embrace. There is a cause for you to be engaged in. Notice the details here. The first word is the word repentance. That word repentance means that people have to be confronted And they have to be drawn to the truth. There has to be a radical thinking change in order for someone to become a Christian. You don't become a Christian by just saying, oh yeah, I'm good with that. Your thinking has to be changed. You have to believe Jesus is who he said he is. You have to believe your sin really separates you from a holy, righteous God. You have to really believe there's only one way, and that's not how you're born thinking: repentance toward God. And remission of sins. That word remission is very, very interesting. This is another word that could be used here is forgiveness or the removal of a debt. That's another word that could be used here. But the idea is that it is through repentance toward God that Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, your sin debt that stands between you and Holy God, it's wiped away. It's removed. As far as East is from the West, so far as he removed our transgressions from When I see that word remission, that's the word, that's the verse that comes to my mind. As far as the east is from the west, so far as he removes our transgressions from us. He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And the third statement is amongst all nations. He explains the extent to which this gospel needs to be preached, proclaimed, heralded. It needs to be preached everywhere where the name of Jesus is not known And these should be expounded everywhere that people are unsaved. If there are people living there, there are people that need the gospel. It's that simple. The gospel needs to go to the uttermost extents of the world. And so what does Christ say? You look back, I have been faithful, I have fulfilled my word. You look forward, there's something for you to be engaged in. Two, three. You need to look within. Now, I don't want you to misunderstand what I'm saying here. I'm in no way suggesting that these people had some kind of power in themselves That made them adequate to do the work. You will know that that's clearly not the case by the end of this passage of scripture that we're looking at. But notice what he says in verse 48. He says Ye are witnesses of these things. In fact, it's kind of interesting if you look back. I didn't really draw attention to this. But when he talks about preaching repentance and remission of sins, he says, in my name. That's a really important little statement. You go, what is that all about? And his name means it's by his authority. He has called them. He has appointed them. He has sent them out with a commissioning. with a mission. The apostles, more than any other generation, has had a very unique calling. Jesus hand-selected them. They saw what had taken place. They heard his teaching, and he sends them out with authority and responsibility, and he even empowers them with miraculous sign gifts. to verify that in fact they were prophets of God, witnesses of the resurrection. Might be a lot to process there. But what he's basically saying is this. This is what he did. This is what's going to happen. And you're the people I'm going to use. You're the people I'm going to use. Peter, uh, the one that just said let's go fishing? Yeah, I'm talking to you, Peter. All of us who abandoned the Lord and ran away. Now I'm talking to you. Thomas. The one who said, unless I can take my hands and I can place them in the nail prints and put it in his side, it's another way of saying, I don't believe what you're saying. I'm talking to you, Thomas. Even those who were there, amongst those who worshipped who kind of doubted? Yes. All of them. God raised up people in this generation to do the work. And I have something for you to contemplate here. God raised up people in every generation to stand the gap. So long as Jesus tarries to return, so long as another generation comes up, there's a need for that generation to stand up. And to take on the mantle of taking the gospel to the nations. No exceptions. You know, one of the things that I have in conversation a lot with pastors when I get together with them, I can't tell you how many times this comes up They say, Joel, do you know how many pastors are dying? How many pastors are moving to Florida because they've decided they're not going to do this anymore? You know how many pastors just physically and emotionally and mentally cannot do this work anymore? You know how many pastors probably should hang it up, even though they haven't. He said, but there's a big problem. There are not men coming behind them. There are not men coming behind them. Not in the numbers that there were before. And the simple fact is, every generation's got to stand up and reach their generation. Every single one does. And we could kind of sit down, we could talk about why there aren't people coming behind them. Okay? There's a lot of factors in that. But the bottom line is every generation has to stand up. I'm thinking about our kids here. All these kids here. Ten years from now, these teenagers, a lot of them are going to be married. Their parents hope. Some of you may be a long ways from that. I have no idea. 15, 20 years from now, the kids that are growing up in our church right now, they're gonna be doing stuff that most of you who are doing the main workload in this church, they're gonna be they're gonna be ministering to you as elderly people. If they're here. If they have a heart for it. The bottom line is God in His mercy and grace raises up people in every generation. He did it here. And if we look at church history, it's amazing how when things are really dark and really gloomy and everybody thinks, Oh, the church is washed up and done, God sends a r a revival, a w an awakening. He does things that nobody anticipated, but he does it because he's kind. And he's merciful and gracious. Though they had failed him, God was not done with them. He reminded them that his purpose for them was still intact. These apostles were eyewitnesses. They were commissioned by Christ with authority. Their ministry was unique, by the way, never to be repeated. There are no apostles today. Nobody's 2,000 years old who witnessed the ministry of Christ. They're all dead. But their ministry does continue in the sense. That the word of God was written for us in the first century, and we preach and proclaim that message every single Lord's Day. When their work was completed, they left an infallible standard. I love what Peter says in 2 Peter 1. I guess I'm really hammering on Peter this morning. Say Peter 1. I will not be negligent and put you always in remembrance of these things as long as I'm in this tabernacle to stir you up by putting you in remembrance, knowing that shortly I must put off this my tabernacle. And then from that statement, he goes on to talk about Scripture. He says no scripture is of any private interpretation. The prophecy did not come in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. 2 Timothy 3, Paul talks about the fact that all of Scripture, every word, every written word of Scripture is breathed out by God. It's profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, righteousness. Why did Paul do that at the end of his ministry? Emphasize Scripture. Why did Peter emphasize Scripture? Because they did their job and their time was done. And the next generation needed to take the word and they needed to preach it. They needed to preach sound doctrine. The Scripture is our final authority, and every generation has to have a high view of Scripture and embrace the calling God has for them. He's going to raise up people. Those who take the faith most seriously will engage in this work. It's that simple. Fourth truth I want you to notice is this. He ends with the need to look up. Now notice this is all look back. Look forward, look in, look up. So super simple, right? You should be able to remember that. Even the kids can remember this, right? Look back, look forward, look in, look up. This one right here. is the most important way he could have ever ended this series of statements. Because Jesus did not say You're ready to do it because I've given you all the tools. So good luck, guys. You're going to do a really good job. That's not what he did. He said in verse 49, Behold, I send the promise. Of my Father upon you. What is he talking about? Well, there is no lasting success, no effectiveness outside of the Spirit of God graciously empowering his servants. And taking the word as it is being communicated and causing it to take effect. The truth is, if I get up here and I read the Bible to you and I expound this, passage of scripture to you, unless the Spirit of God takes the word and sticks it into your heart. And I mean begins working it in there. This has no ability to cause anything to take place in your life. He's got to open your eyes He's got to draw you to the truth. He's got to convict you and convince you and press it into you. And you know what I love? He does it. He does it over and over and over again. You can't tell me how many I can't tell you how many times I've had conversations with people about things that they have heard, that they have read, that they have been chewing on, and they just communicate how God is working it in them. Just like last week. When they said, How does it how did our hearts burn within us as he was opening our understanding on these things? God does that. The Spirit of God does that. One of the reasons I love being a pastor is because the power to get the work done isn't in me. It's in God. And every time I walk into this pulpit, I don't know everything going on in your lives. Some of you are really glad about that. I'm really glad about that. But God does. And sometimes there'll be something that is stated, and when I meant to communicate what I did, I had no idea how that was going to hit your heart. Because I didn't know it was in your heart. But God did. There's something very special about the preaching of the Word of God. Churches that don't believe in preaching are worthless. That's brutal, I know. But they are they're worthless. Because preaching is what God uses to get into the hearts of souls. It is the expounding of Scripture. It's the Spirit taking the word and pressing it in our hearts. Just having a talk about the Bible, that's not what God uses. It's the preaching and the teaching of Scripture. You go back into this and what does it say? That the words repentance and remission of sin are to be preached. That's the heralding of the scripture. There's an authority there. God's Holy Spirit takes the word and he presses it into our souls And he makes it stick and it makes it resonate and it makes it take root. This is something that only God can do. I can't do it. You can't do it. What's amazing is sometimes a person gets up and preaches and they kind of fall flat on their face. To just be totally honest with you. There are messages I've preached when I walked out of here, I was like. That was not my best day, alright? Just not my best day. But God can use it. He can use it There are times the person's like, man, I got every illustration just right. I communicated so well. And God says, it's not you. Get over yourself. The Spirit of God has to work. God will work when his word is proclaimed faithfully. Folks, there's never been a spiritual awakening in all of human history that did not come by the gracious work of the Spirit of God. There has never been one. And nobody puts them on a calendar and says, today's the day God's going to do it. Acts 1. 8. You shall receive power after the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses. Acts 16, 14, a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple in the city of Thyratyra, this one worshipped God. She heard us, whose heart the Lord opened. And she attended unto the things which were spoken of Paul. Why did she listen to Paul? Because God opened her heart. How did he do it? The Spirit of God did it I think about even in the Old Testament, something as simple as the building of the tabernacle. I love these statements. Exodus 35, 21. They came everyone whose heart stirred him up. Who stirred those hearts? And everyone whom the Spirit made willing, who made the heart willing? And they brought the Lord's offering to the work of the tabernacle and for the holy garments. God had a purpose, and when he had a purpose, he called people to a task. He empowered them in that in task. He equipped them to do what they did. He sustained them when they got discouraged. He brought in the resources that were needed. He caused the work to be effective. This principle is so very, very important. It's important in your raising of your children. It's important in how you do your work. It's important for a pastor. It's important for a missionary. It's important for a church planner. It's important for a Sunday school teacher. It's important for every person working in a secular vocation. God planted you in that place for a reason And he puts you in that place to reach into the lives of people. And you didn't plan who you're going to work with, you didn't plan the circumstances and the timing and all those things. God did it. You're there for a reason. I love this statement. Zechariah 6, 4 verse 6. It's not thy might, it's not by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts. Who art thou, O great mountain, before Zerubel? Thou shalt become a plane. He shall bring forth the headstone thereof with shouting, crying, Grace, grace unto it The hand of Zerubbabel laid the foundation and of this house and his hand will finish it. And thou shalt know that the Lord of hosts hath sent me. That's an awesome text. Old Testament by by the way. He's building a temple And Zeroba was made of the exact same stuff that you and I are. Some people temperamentally are super, super strong, and they're tenacious, and the fact is they don't back off of anything that they put their mind to. And they actually get in a lot of trouble because sometimes the direction they're going isn't the best. And then there's some people temperamentally you go, are they going to accomplish anything? Because they're always ready to quit. Most of us are kind of in the middle, right? What was the rule made of? The same stuff you and I are. And he had all these adversaries. And he uses the analogy of a great mountain. I mean, you know what a mountain is that something you've got to climb over, and he says it's going to become a plane. It's going to get wiped out. What's the point? The point is the grace of God by the Spirit of God is going to accomplish the work that God called this man to do. He'll do it in your life as well. So that moves me to the question of application. How do we apply what we have read this morning? Because nobody here is an apostle. And if you think you are, come talk to me and I'll hopefully convince you biblically you're not. With just one verse, I think. But anyway, there are no apostles here. We're not in the first century. But you know the principles here, they're timeless. First of all, the application to the unbelieving. There is one application for you if you're not a Christian. You need to trust Christ. He's not here to tell you to join the church. He's not telling you to give money and an offering. He's not telling you to work harder. He's not telling you to be a better person. He's saying repent, believe, trust Christ. That's it. When it comes to living the Christian life, that's not on the table if you're not a Christian. Don't even worry about it. Look at the law of God, look at the finished work of Christ, and recognize that's your only hope. You have to personally embrace the message. That's why he said, preach repentance for the remission of sins. Nobody becomes a Christian for another person. You must embrace it yourself, personally. The second is to the Christian, the believer. There are a couple of things that I think we should walk away with here. The first is this, we need to be overwhelmed. In fact, I hope every time you walk out of a service in this church, you are overwhelmed. Not by what you need to do, but what he did for you If you walk out of this room week after week and all you can think about is what you need to do and not what he did, I'm doing something wrong or you're not listening. We should walk out of here with a heart that is overwhelmed by the greatness of God, his grace, his mercy, his power. He did it. And he continues to do it in every generation. The second is be grateful. Don't worry, I didn't plagiarize these from Warren Wearsby. I don't think. It could have been an accident, I don't know. Be grateful. You should be thankful for the apostles' ministry that took the gospel to the nations in the first century. It amazes me the portions of the world that can trace back maybe they don't have good solid Christianity today, unfortunately. But they can trace the roots of their church movements back to the first and second century. You know why that is? Because the gospel really went to the uttermost parts of the world. It's amazing what was accomplished by a bunch of fishermen who had no formal training as rabbis But they were empowered by God. And they were sent out through persecution. You know why they left Jerusalem? Persecution. It wasn't their plan. Persecution. Thirdly, we need to be humbled. Nobody in this room should have a high view of themselves That's one of the most unchristian attitudes we could ever have. We ought to have a high view of God, though. We ought to have a high view of our need to depend on the Spirit's empowerment. When it comes to being a godly mother, if you're doing it in your own strength, you're failing as a father, as a husband, as a wife. You are not being effective if you are not depending on the Spirit. He is given to every single one of us, and he works in us through his word. So that we will do the things that He's called us to do. And so as we go out and do what we do, for the glory of God, depend on the Spirit. Lastly, we need to be motivated. We should recognize that every generation of Christians has to embrace the need of their generation. I'm not responsible for what my great -great-grandparents did when it came to giving the gospel or failing to. I can learn from them, I hope. But if they did a great job, that doesn't mean I'm doing a great job. If they did a poor job, that doesn't mean I'm doing a poor job. That's what they did The fact is every single one of us has a responsibility. It could be on the support side in giving. It could be in the support side in prayer. It could be in the support side of sending letters, of encouragement, emails. I guess we don't really send letters anymore. U. S. Postal Service is like. Making it worthless to send letters, right? It's gonna take like a month to get there and it's gonna cost me a couple dollars. What in the world? Just send an email, right? We have an opportunity to engage with our missionaries Our missionaries need that encouragement. They're missionaries, their times in the week, I might have a couple of hours of missions conversations with missionaries. Just see how they're doing, pray with them, talk to them about things that are going on in their life and their ministry. They're normal people. Little unusual that they want to go do what they're doing sometimes. They're normal people, right? We have a role to play. Some of us, God might tug on the hearts of our kids. And what we wanted them to do when they got a little older, they come and they're like, you know, I think I'd like to do this. And you're like, ah , I might not see you very much. It's true. You ought to be thankful you'd have children that have a heart to go into missions. There's something about the environment that they've been growing up in that would cause them to have such a passion. We should be willing to engage conversations with people around us at work. I don't mean like be the obnoxious person who's always asking , Are you dead are you good are you you know for sure you're going to heaven or not? You know. I'm not talking about that. I mean Do your work well. Be honest. Be dependable. Be engaged. Be the person that if there was a problem, you'd be the first one they contact because they know there's something different about you And when God opens that door, take it. Don't shy away from it. Be motivated. This text of scripture is a wonderful way to end the book of Luke Because it's an introduction to Acts. May God help us to apply his word today. Let's bow for prayer Father in heaven, you know every struggle in every heart. You know the burdens, the fears, the cares, the guilt. The internal struggles. And Father, I pray that every disquieted heart would turn to the finished work of Christ and find more comfort And more encouragement than they have ever seen in that cross and that resurrection. When they think of themselves before a holy God, may they glory in the grace of God that gives them a righteousness that is not theirs. A forgiveness they did not earn. A position that is pure and holy only because they are in Jesus. And Father, I pray that that would give us a warmth and an affection for you that does not shake away easily, but in fact grows deeper. And stronger every day of our lives. Father, help us to engage in whatever you have for us. Though we may stumble, may you lift us up. Father, help us never to become proud or arrogant in the work that you've called us to do. But help us to embrace it very simply and to thank you for the opportunities you give us. We ask this all in Christ's name, Amen.