Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition and a new week of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And uh if you joined us this past Sunday, you saw the text that we dealt with. And so I'm really looking forward to this study. I think it's a a very practical, it's a very important concept for us to evaluate, examine this week, and then apply. And so if you have your Bible, I want to invite you to take it and turn with me to Colossians chapter 2. And we're going to read a portion of chapter two, then we're going to move over in to chapter three. Here's what it says in Colossians chapter two, verse six As you have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him, rooted and built up in him, established in the faith, as ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world and not after Christ. For in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily. Ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principalities and powers. Then if you could skip down to chapter 3, verse 1, it says this If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above For Christ sitteth at the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth, for ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ and God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Now before we dig into the content of this passage, what I'd like to do is I'd like to kind of set up this study by thinking about some of the complexities and the difficulties of the time in which we're living. When I talk about these things, I don't want to give the impression that somehow we're living in a period of church history that uh has unique challenges that are radically different on on the foundation from other seasons of church history. Every single generation of Christians has faced intense troubles, intense difficulties. But every single every single season Well, there have been some similarities on the root side. Um what's unique about this season is that in American culture or Western society, we have not seen the level of challenges that we are seeing today when it comes to issues of the family and really the core values of our society. And so I'd like to take just a few moments to consider those things And then from there, move into this text of scripture and ask, really, what do we have to get back to and where is the hope? for people living in this society at this time. So first of all, I would summarize what's going on today with what we read about in Judges chapter 21. Listen to what the text says It says, In those days there was no king in Israel. Every man did what was right in his own eyes. That's exactly the way that we see things today. We see this radical individualism. My opinion is the only opinion that matters. That is the prevailing And the scriptures talk a lot about that particular mindset where I am the center of the universe and my opinions are ultimately what's most important. And everybody has to bend. reality to fit into what I want. And another example is Proverbs chapter 12, verse 15. It says that the way of a fool is right in his own eyes. In other words, this is a society that in many ways is embracing folly in this radical individualism. Another example, Proverbs 18, 2. A fool has no delight and understanding, but that his heart may discover itself. Our culture is saturated with the desire to self-express and everyone has to kind of conform to that self-expression and truth can be bent and moral decency can be bent for this radical individualism Very, very common in our culture today. And really it could be summarized with what's stated in Romans chapter 1 by the Apostle Paul, where it talks about what happens when people ultimately reject God's authority in ingratitude. Here's what it says. Romans 1. 28. They did not like to retain God in their knowledge. Therefore, God gave them over to a reprobate mind. And that reprobate means twisted. It's been twisted. It's no longer straight and sound. It's crooked. And he says, doing those things which are not convenient, that is different, or it's not consistent with the design, it's not appropriate. for the way in which it was designed. And then they are filled with all unrighteousness. That is the way that the scripture describes it when people reject God's authority and ultimately decide they're going to chart their own path. I really believe that this is going on in our society today. And so what we ultimately have is a generation, or we could say a culture, a society where people do not know who they are, they don't know why they're here. And the concept of the long-term consequences of our values and the long-term consequences of our choices is not considered. People have believed the lie that you can create your own reality without the devastating consequences that naturally flow as a direct result of the decisions that we make. You say, Joel, why are you taking time to address that? Well, the reason is because we have to recognize that at the heart of this, people are harmed. And there is probably no group of people that are more harmed by what's going on in our society today than womenhood. We think about the glory of motherhood being ripped away from our daughters. People are not are not presenting this as this is really a noble purpose that God has created you for. We don't see young men who are willing to step up and be strong and wise and and be willing to get married and raise a family and actually be responsible. We're seeing this dearth of those things. We're seeing that women are not honored, rather women are put down and they're being replaced by people who are presenting themselves as women and they're actually not. This is the society in which we live. So you say, well what's the hope? Well the hope is the text in front of us. We as Christians do have what God uses to get the attention of the world around us. And what we have is the gospel. And what we're going to talk about this week is our union with Christ. The reason that I take a few moments to talk about the dangerous and the difficult times in which we live is not to cause us to be discouraged and wearied and frustrated, but is to help us to recognize that is reality, but the same old gospel message that transformed the Roman world and the same old gospel message that took people whose lives were devastated by sin and literally transformed them That same gospel is available to you and to me today, and we need to live in the light of it, and that will be the focus of our study this week I don't know about you, but I'm looking forward to getting into the study. If this has challenged you or encouraged you, take a moment to share it with somebody else. Perhaps share some feedback that could be encouraging as well. Looking forward to our study? Have a blessed morning bye now