Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles back to the book of 1 Corinthians, and uh we will be digging into this chapter for probably a little while because there's a lot to really work through. And that is 1 Corinthians chapter 7. So I I really doubt that we will get through the entire section that I've prepared for tonight because I really want to move methodically through this. I want to uh kind of set the tone for what the big picture is of what Paul is addressing. And I think that the things that we're going to talk about over the next several weeks are going to be extremely practical. And so the text reads as follows. 1 Corinthians 7 1. Now, concerning the things whereof ye wrote unto me, it is good for a man not to touch a woman. Nevertheless, To avoid fornication, let every man have his own wife, and let every woman have her own husband. And I didn't include this on the screen behind us, but I think verse 3 is important. It says, Let the husband render unto the wife due benevolence, and likewise also the wife unto the husband. Now the passage in front of us is the introduction to a new section in the book of 1 Corinthians. And what we see at the first part of the book of 1 Corinthians is Paul's addressing issues that he has had reported to him. So he said, I've heard this is going on in the church, and this is going on in the church, and this is going on in the church. It's a massive problem. And I need to directly address this. And can you imagine if you were a member of the Church of Corinth and Paul literally calls you out in an epistle? Everybody in the church knew exactly what he was talking about. They knew exactly who he was talking about. And um that's exactly what he did. I mean he was pretty blunt about it. And um he addressed some very hard-hitting issues, obviously issues that were very public. Issues that were very serious, Paul addresses those. And Paul had a bit of a challenging relationship with the church at Corinth. There were times that they were very thankful for him, and there were times they were very upset at him. And Paul dearly loved the church, and they didn't always understand how much he loved them, but in fact he really did. And part of the reason that he would say what he did and write what he did is because he truly loved the church. Now what we're getting into is a section dealing with questions that they have posed to him. And what it tells us about these questions is these are things that were going on in the church. difficulties that they were encountering. These are things that were pressing on people's minds. And what you're going to see in the things that are addressed is that Nothing's changed in 2,000 years. Human history uh has has gone through a lot of cycles. We've seen a lot of peoples that have become strong and weak and different human empires, but human nature is fundamentally no different And so the same kinds of issues that Paul's going to address here, we see them repeated in our current time period. And so the topic we're going to address this evening and probably for some time is embracing God's plan for marriage. And we want to kind of set the tone by looking at the big picture And then eventually zero in on the very specific issues that Paul is going to address. So I want to start with this introduction. And I don't think anybody should be surprised when I say this. We live in troubling times. In fact, if we look at what Paul writes to Timothy at the end of his life, 2 Timothy, he says, no, in the last days Perilous times will come. And then he lays out all kinds of things that are going to be problems in the last days. Well, if Paul was telling Timothy he's living in the last days, then uh certainly we are too, right? And so what it shows you is that these are tumultuous times. The things that he talks about are very, very serious. But even when we look at our own society or culture, and I I I definitely get this perspective from people that are a little bit older and say, I remember what it was like to grow up in an America in the 1950s or the 1960s. Maybe not 1960s, maybe pre-1960s, but I remember when this is not acceptable in public, this was not acceptable on television, this is not considered okay behavior, those kinds of things. And I've seen this massive cultural shift of what is acceptable. The question is why? Well, there are a lot of things that I think contribute to this. Young people in our generation, I say, living today, growing up, are from far more broken homes than 50 and 75 years ago. In fact, even in this church right here, I know for a fact that many of you did not grow up in a home where you live with mom and dad your entire growing up. Many people in our church knew it was like to watch their parents fight and ultimately get divorced and their marriage splits and they deal with all of the drama that unfolds as a result of those difficulties. And you know what? That affects people. I know even when people are much older, they will look back at that pain from when they were a teenager or when they were a kid, and it'll affect them. And guess what? That affects the drift of society. A lot of young people do not see many godly examples. In fact, I'm going to highlight this. Even when we read the Bible, we find very few people that we could say we know for a fact they had good marriages. Almost none. It's the truth. We see a lot of drama, we see a lot of difficulty, but the truth is even in our time period, a lot of people do not know a couple that they are best friends, they love each other, they're committed to one another, there's no drama. They are a faithful husband and wife and a good example. And guess what? That affects young people. Our culture is aggressively seeking to indoctrinate a group of young people. It's going on in our school systems. It's going on when people Go on online and they they get in groups where there's discussions. Uh it it's in every area of our society. There is an aggressive move to indoctrinate young people. So you have you have people that they grew up in broken homes You have people that do not have good examples, and the culture is going after them. Also add this. I think a lot of Christians are naive about human nature. You would be shocked of the things that most pastors witness over the time that they are pastors in good solid churches. You would be shocked. There are reasons that pastors are not comfortable with certain behaviors or certain things that they see make them a little uncomfortable. It's because they have seen what can happen. And these are in good churches. Places where there's sound doctrine being taught, the gospel is central, people are being challenged to walk with the Lord. If that's going on in churches where the truth is being expounded and people say, We're saved, we believe this, we're walking with God, how much more out in our society? A lot of Christians carry baggage from their past. And I'll put it like this, they will not face it. If someone has lived and gone down a path that they are unwilling to face, I guarantee you they will not draw the line in the right place if they are counseling. somebody down the road. They won't do it. You know why? Because they've not faced the reality of their own sinfulness. And so when a person is not willing to say, I did wrong. And I'll tell you, don't do wrong until they come to that point. Guess what? It's going to cause a bias. And I also will add this. I think a lot of churches approach these issues in a way that's not very helpful. And so my goal is to not do that tonight and for the next several weeks that we're dealing with this passage of Scripture. My goal is to handle this passage in a way that presents God's plan and all of its goodness. And then to say, why in the world wouldn't you want to do that? That's really the sense of what I'm trying to do. It's not about us versus them and and and don't look at all the horrible things going out in the world. I'm going to say, here's the truth. Why wouldn't you want that? Why would you want all the drama that's out there? That's really the approach that I'm going to take. And I think that that's actually pretty helpful. So let's go ahead and let's work our way through this passage of scripture with the time we have tonight. First thing that we're going to see in the text here is this. Questions about marriage and sexual temptation have been a concern since the early church. There has never been a generation of Christians that has not faced the struggles that are common to us as well. If you want to talk about the core issues that people face, they've been the same in every generation. They absolutely have. And sometimes you go, well, you know, in our society things are different than they were 50 years ago. That's true, but if you want to look at church history, most churches were were being birthed in very, very pagan and very dark cultures. And so as people were converted out of those backgrounds, they brought a lot of baggage with them. And they brought a lot of questions because they did not have a biblically shaped worldview. And so we see this statement in verse 1. Now, concerning the things whereof you wrote unto me, what's the point? Paul saying. You want to know what is right in these situations. You know what that tells me? Concern. Okay? And the same way that sometimes I'll have people, they'll say, hey, I want to meet with you. And we set up a time and they say, I got some questions about this particular issue. And we and we work into this. And basically what they're saying is this, I do not know what is right here. Sometimes that's what they're doing. Sometimes they're trying to convince me to believe what is clearly not right. But but many times it is, I don't know. I don't know what is true. This person's telling me this over here. This person's telling me this over here. And I want to know what the truth is. What do you have to say about it? And sometimes pastors kind of dance around these issues. Well, here's what the Bible says. This is what's going on. We get to actually see this for ourselves. It's been preserved for us. We can get God's answers through the apostle. It's pretty awesome to think about that. Paul's letter addresses in this section quite a few posed questions. For instance, here's one of the examples. Singleness versus marriage. Singleness versus marriage. Is it wrong for a person to never want to get married? On the inverse, is it wrong for a person Never to not want to get married. I I mean that's I gotta do this. This is the only thing I can do. These are questions that they had. What about celibacy within marriage? Somebody go, what a dumb idea. Like what's the whole point of getting married, right? Well, believe it or not, he actually addressed this issue in the letter because it was a question that the people had. You go, well, why is that? Well, because when you say This is wrong, they're gonna go, well, what about marriage makes it okay? It's the same act. He's like, well, there's a lot more to it than that. And so he's gonna break this down. Sexual ethics before marriage, within marriage, outside of marriage, after the dissolution of a marriage. What about when a person dies? The spouse dies and now they're free to remarry, or are they free to remarry? What about when there's a divorce situation? You have those kinds of scenarios. He addresses those issues. Marriage where the sexual relationship is being used as leverage. Sad but true, a lot of people do this. Leverage. Pressured marriages due to theological differences. He addresses the situation where you have a person, and obviously the Bible says do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers, but guess what? Sometimes people, they're both unbelievers, and then at a point in time one comes in contact with the gospel, they're converted, the other person comes in contact with the gospel, they say, I want nothing to do with it And the question is, well, what do you do now? This person's a believer. This person's not a believer. You say, don't be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. So do I need to just divorce my spouse because I can't be married to an unbeliever? And he says, no, no, no, no, no. That that is not. How do you deal with such a situation? But then someone says, well, what about if I'm doing everything I can and they still don't want to be married to me? What do I do? He addresses those issues. He talks about issues like remarriage after the loss of a spouse. So as you can see, a lot of ground will have to be covered, and it will not happen quickly. But that's okay. Second thing I want to mention here is this. This is obviously an extremely personal topic and one that needs to be addressed biblically If I'm going to tell somebody, if you do this, this is sin, and it's literally going to change the trajectory of their life this way or that way, that's a really big deal. That's a huge deal. Or if you're going to say the Bible says this and someone's sitting there going, and I have done that, well guess what? That's a really big deal. How are we going to work through that? There's a pastoral side to this. This is a very personal issue. And I think it's important on the front side of this to make some comments about the people that we read about in Scripture because what I think it will do is it'll provide a little bit of a balance. And I hope you don't misunderstand what I'm doing here. Think about somebody like Abraham. Was Abraham an amazing man? Yes, I would say he was What about Jacob? That one I'm a little bit more cautious about. But Jacob was uh he was a mixed bag, but when he was thinking right, he was thinking right. What about Moses? Well you know, this is an incredible person. Can you imagine at 80 years of age being uh called of God to lead people for 40 years of misery in the wilderness? And confronting the Pharaoh and all those kinds of things. And God works through Moses. He writes the Pentateuch. Amazing man, right? What about the story of Samuel? Samuel's a pretty incredible person, isn't he? What about David? Here's what's interesting about all his people I mentioned. None of them had good families. Isn't that crazy to think about? That's tragic. Absolutely tragic. Now I'm not saying that to say, well, none of us can do it right. What I'm trying to say is this. In God's mercy and grace, he works through all kinds of different people. Broken people, messed up people, hurting people, people who have made horrible decisions. God still can and does work through these people. But what it also shows you is this doing it right in marriage and family is not super easy. It's really not. Abraham married Sarah. They had a pretty good marriage. But what about Hagar? That was a little complicated, wasn't it? Still is. Still is a problem. Jacob. Oh, I I just got tricked by my father-in-law. Now I'm married to Leah. I didn't want to marry Leah. I wanted to marry Rachel. He's like, alright, well I'll tell you what, you work another seven years, you could have Rachel too. He's like, hold on a second. Sister. Married to sisters. That's not going to create a problem at all, is it? That was horrible. Look at all the drama that unfolded in their families as a result of that. But what did Jacob do? He went ahead and did it. He went ahead and did it. Think about the story of Aaron and Miriam confronting Moses and complaining about this Ethiopian woman that he married. By the way, that's when Miriam was struck with leprosy for a short period of time. But there was tension even there. Or think about when Moses is back and his his wife is coming with their boys to meet him and he is told that his boys need to be circumcised. And she basically circumcises the boys and says, You're a bloody man to me. I don't think that their marriage was in a good position at that time. I don't get that sense. We look at the story of Samuel, what an amazing guy, but his mom was Hannah, who was constantly, who was constantly being Treated terribly by Penaina, they were both married to Elkanah. What an awful situation. And then David, he marries Michal. And then he gets angry with her and says, you will never have a child. And she didn't. And then he marries Abigail, who just happens to be someone that was married to a guy that he was gonna go and kill every single person in their house. And then the guy dies of a heart attack, basically, a stroke and a heart attack. Not totally sure what it is. And he's like, well I'm gonna marry her Bring her back so she can meet my other wife who I haven't seen for a while. And then we have the story of Bathsheba. Amazingly, out of all of his wives, Bathsheba was probably the most traditional Wedding he marriage he had. Believe it or not, she they had three children, two of them are in the lineage of Christ. Solomon is the king, and we know that at the end of his life, because of the book of Proverbs He and his wife Bathsheba were teaching their children the word of God. So out of all of the drama in David's life, that was like one of the one of the best parts, believe it or not. And you look at what it took to get there, it's not a good picture So why do I say this? Thank God for his grace and realize doing what's right is going to take real commitment. Fourth thing, there are lots of warnings in Scripture against ignoring God's design for marriage. And I want to go through some of these so that you can see them for yourself, especially for our teenagers. Don't miss this. First place I want you to turn is Proverbs chapter 5. Proverbs chapter 5. And by the way, we're going to be in Proverbs 5, 6, and 7 and 9 because It just so happens that in the book of Proverbs, you have 31 chapters of all this information, and from chapter 5 all the way through chapter 7, it is essentially dedicating multiple chapters to one predominant issue. And that is how you conduct yourself on this issue of sexual purity and marriage. So it's a really big deal of wisdom. A person who commits adultery, a person who fornicates, a person who ignores God's plan is doing something that there are multiple chapters in the book of Proverbs dedicated to giving you wisdom that says Don't do this, don't do this, don't do this. Here are the consequences of doing what is wrong. Here are the blessings that are the results of doing what's right. Choose what is right, reject what is wrong. He spends a tremendous amount of time. Ironically, David taught that to Solomon, and Solomon taught that to his children, and they both didn't do a very good job with it. All right, Proverbs chapter 5, verse 8. Here's what it says. Remove thy way far from her. Come not nigh the door of her house. Lest thou give thine honor unto others. And thy years unto the cruel, lest strangers be filled with thy wealth, and thy labors be in the house of a stranger. And thou mourn at the last when thy flesh and thy body are consumed, and say How have I hated instruction? And my heart despised reproof. And I have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined my ear to them that instructed me. What is Solomon communicating here? If you have parents, or you have older Christians who love you enough to teach you what is right about these issues, And they have poured into your life, and they have tried to shape your conscience to the best of their ability, and you turn away from it and say, I don't care, I'm going to do this anyway. There will be a day that you will remember all of those things and you will mourn that you have despised reproof. You say, when does that happen? Well, it happens at some point down the road when consequences start building up. And this is one of the things about life. You you generally do not see how something will play out while you're in it. It's after the fact, okay? And and that that works for the good and for the bad. So so people that make wise decisions When they are teenagers, when they're young adults, they marry well, they raise their children well, they invest in their marriage, they're faithful, they're committed. When they are old, they will look back and go Thank you, God, for all of what was poured into my life. Is your mercy that I've experienced, all these blessings. They come at the end. And when a person does the opposite and their life is just bankrupt and it's falling apart and it's misery and it 's unraveling, they have all these twisted relationships. And all of this drama that they cannot entangle because of the decisions they've made, that's the point where they look back and go, if only I had. And they can't change it. Now, does God forgive? Yes. Is he gracious? Yes. Does he still love them? Yes. Is there a way forward? Of course, but it does not remove the entanglements of the past. And so that's what Proverbs 5. 8 says. Proverbs 5. 20. Listen carefully to what he says. Why? Wilt thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman, and embrace the bosom of a stranger, for the ways of man are before the eyes of the Lord. He Ponders all his goings. God watches everything we do. He knows the path that we're on. He knows where we're moving. He knows our thoughts. He knows our intents. He knows what we do if we can get away with it, what we're concealing. He knows all of it. Nothing is hid from him. His own iniquity Will take the wicked himself. He will be, listen to this statement, hold on with the cords of his sin. He shall die without instruction, and in the greatness of his folly he shall go astray. You know, one of the most tragic things to see is a person who's older in life. And when you look at them, you don't know what they were, you don't know what they could have been, you just know what they are. And what they are is a mess. And the the fact is that they are they're an addict. They got all this stuff going on around them, and they they they their life is literally falling apart. And guess what? That was something that started a long, long time ago. Long, long time ago. And so what is he saying? Don't get yourself in such a situation. That's a pretty stiff warning, I would say. Let me give you a third one. Proverbs 16, 32. By the way, there's going to be a positive on the other side of this, okay? And I want us to see the contrast because it's important for us to see the contrast. Proverbs 6, 32. Whosoever committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding. He that doeth it destroyeth his own soul. A wound and dishonor shall he get. And listen to this. His reproach shall never be worth What do I? You might say that's not fair. He's simply telling you what happens when people do this. That's what he's saying. When you make a choice like that, it's going to stick with you. You say, why is that? Because people don't forget? Your children won't forget. Your spouse won't forget. Your former in-laws won't forget. The people that you went to church with won't forget. The list goes on. They say, I remember when. You say that's not fair. That's life. That's the way it works. And so he's warning us, don't do that. He says, jealousy is the rage of a man, therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance. He will not regard any ransom. Neither will he rest content though thou givest many gifts. A man who is angry in such a situation, you can give him anything you want. He'll say, none of that, none of that will satisfy my anger. None of that. Why is that? Because this is such a personal issue. And so that's the negative side. The question is, why in the world would I play around with things that are going to lead me down such a path? Why would I make provision for such terrible fault. You don't fall in one moment. You lean and you lean and you lean and you lean and then one day you fall. And everybody goes, what in the world happened? No, no, no, no, no. Why could no one see the lean because it's been there a long time? That's how people end up in such a place. And by the way, the lean might start when you're a 12-year-old. You realize that? Might start when you're a 14-year-old. When you're messing around online. That's when the lien can start. So we have to be very, very careful about these issues. But then we see the positive side The positive side is that marriage is described as a wonderful gift from God. It was not man's idea, it was God's. Culture didn't create marriage. God did. It was God's idea that he would create male and female. It was God's idea that it takes male and female to create new life It was God's idea that human life should be created in the context of the permanent covenant of marriage. One man, one woman, for life, so that that child or those children can be raised in the context of of that covenant faithfulness between husband and wife. It was God's idea. It was God's idea to create us as image bearers. We're not a bunch of animals. We're image bearers. And so all of these little pieces come together, and we start realizing this thing called marriage is very sacred, it's very holy, it's very precious. It's very important. It's not something we should play around with. It's not something we should redefine. It's not something we should enter into cheaply. It's not something we should walk away from as if it's no big deal. This is a really, really big deal. Listen to what These scriptures say. Genesis 2. 18, it is not good that the man should be alone. I will make him and help meet for him. I'm amazed that God decided to create Adam by himself, and that was it. To make a point that this man needed someone to compliment him. He needed someone to Go through life together with him. By the way, interestingly, Eve was created out of the man. All of us descend from one individual, Adam. Interestingly, in the garden, it wasn't Eve's sin that brought sin into the world. It was Adam's. The command was given to Eve directly, it was given to Adam. He was the responsible individual. I could say the irresponsible individual. He was the one who was supposed to be responsible in the garden. And so God creates him and then has all these animals go past him, male, female, male, female, male, female. And he's sitting there, he's naming all these animals and he's like Something's missing here. What about me? And God says, I'm coming, I'm coming. I just want to drive that point home to you, sir. That's what he did He creates his wife. Proverbs 5. 18. He says, Let thy fountain be blessed and rejoice with the wife of thy youth. I could keep reading, but uh for sake of the children, I will just stop there. But uh everybody knows what the rest of the verse says, okay? The fact is that marriage is good. Proverbs 1822, whoso findeth a wife, findeth a good thing, and obtaineth favor from the Lord. Hey guys, start thinking about this. Your parents want to be grandparents someday. You gotta start thinking about this while you're a teenager, right? I mean don't think about it too much as a teenager, but you you need to start bearing yourself Ecclesiastes 9:9 Live joyfully with the wife that thou lovest all the days of the life of thy vanity, which thou hast been given under the sun. All the days of thy vanity, that is thy portion in this life. And in thy labor which thou takest under the sun. And then Matthew 19, have ye not read That he which made them at the beginning made them male and female, and said, For this cause shall a man leave father, mother, shall cleave to his wife, they twain, shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no more twain but one flesh. What therefore God A very important statement hath joined together, let not man put asunder. So what is the point? The point to me should be pretty simple. The point is that marriage is God's idea. The concept of male, female, God's idea. The concept of male and female being joined together in covenant called marriage, leaving father and mother, very important, cleaving to your spouse. You're now one flesh. You're a new unit. You're an independent household. Please keep that in mind. Sometimes I have to tell this to young people as they're getting married. And now you are establishing this new unit that is going to, if God blesses, produce more offspring, and you are to guide them and send them out to do the exact same thing. That's marriage. If you disregard God's plan, there is tremendous pain that comes as a result of this. And it's not like God's sitting there in the back going, I just can't wait till you step out of line, so I can snap you good. That's not the idea here. He's like, if I created something and it's uh finely tuned and you mess with it, guess what? You're gonna have problems. That's the way it works So don't mess with it. Don't ignore what I'm saying. Don't try it your own way. Don't try to redefine and create something different. Just do what I said it's good. So he deals with all the negatives. And then he says, here's the positive. Why would you settle for anything less than what God has created and has blessed and has. Joined, and he says, needs to be preserved. Why would you do that? I'm going to stop there because it took me 30 minutes to get that one point out I guess next week we will look at, we need to be honest about God's design and how the fall has impacted that good design. And here's the statement. It's good for a man not to touch a woman. What does he mean by that? Well, we'll find out next week. All right? Let's go ahead. Some of you are like, I think I know. All right. You can read ahead. Go ahead, man. Go ahead and read ahead. We'll get into that concept a good bit, Lord willing, next week. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, we thank you so much for your word. You love us. You have designed marriage for our good. I'm so thankful for the families that you put in our church. And none of us are perfect parents and none of us are perfect spouses, and we're certainly not raising perfect kids. And we're not doing it perfectly. But we are striving to do this your way. And we have seen your blessing and can will continue as we strive to do it your way. And so Father, help us not to be discouraged with the frustrating examples around us, or some of the baggage that we bring from our past. Or some of the struggles that we've encountered along the way. Help us to look at this objectively, help us to do the best we can with what we have, and help us to pour into the next generation that they might do this very well. I pray that our young people would develop a deep conviction to do things your way in this area. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.