Morning, welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflexion and hope that you're having a really good week and it's Thursday, so we're on the other side of uh the week and we're coming down down the hill and we're working our way to the end of this passage of scripture. And I hope that the things that we've shared, I know they're simple. But sometimes it's the the really simple truths that are the most encouraging. The fact that uh the church is built on Christ, not on uh something temporal that can uh that can disappoint us and let us down. That's an encouragement. The fact that uh that Jesus is building his church and he promises that he's building his church church. That should encourage us. It helps us to realize that the things that we're doing, in fact, they do have value. And there is something that is going to happen through those things because God has promised to work through those means. Well, this morning we're going to look at another very simple truth, and that is that the church belongs to Christ. So let's read this passage again. Again, we're in Matthew 16. Verses 13 down to verse 18, 19. And uh then we're going to look at this simple truth that the church, it belongs to Christ. It's his church. It's not my church, it's not your church, it's his church. I want to think about the implications of that. Here's what it says When Jesus came to the coast of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I am? They said, Some say thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjuna, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And I say also unto thee that thou art Peter. Upon this rock I will build my church. The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom. of heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Now I kind of already mentioned where we were going with this this morning, but I want to focus in on that little statement. My church. You know, a lot of times when it comes to issues like the church, it's easy for us to begin carrying burdens that really we do not have the power to to carry, and the truth is we really shouldn't carry them ourselves. Sometimes as a pastor When you're dealing with things that are very heavy, very discouraging, very uh very unnerving. And and every pastor deals with this. And as a parent, you deal with this as well. You look at your children and there's a situation before you and It's something that it's outside of your control. It's bigger than you can handle. There are times that God allows us in these situations so that we will be reminded, this is not my church, it's his church. These are not my kids, they're his kids. Yes, I've been instructed on how I'm supposed to shepherd my church family. how I'm supposed to shepherd my children, how I'm supposed to handle the responsibility that I'm given. But the truth is that this is his church. This is his children. These are his children. And sometimes we just need to look up that God and say, God, these are your kids. I'm trying to be faithful. I plead with you work in their lives. This is your church. I'm trying to be faithful to the very best of my ability. I'm trying to do what's right. These are your people. Father, please work in their lives. It's important for us to come to that place sometimes in the Christian life. I want to remind you that the church belongs to God. But there's more to it than just it belongs to him. He is a loving, loving carer, of caretaker of the church. He is the ultimate shepherd. In fact, I I you know people call me Pastor Joel. Well the fact is that the ultimate pastor of the church is not a human uh that is standing in front of them that preaches the word week in and week out. I'm an under -shepherd. under the authority of Christ, the ultimate nourisher of the church, strengthener of the church, the preserver of the church, the defender of the church. It's not me or some other pastor or the pastor of your church. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we're reminded that when he says that he owns the church and it belongs to him, he is the one who lovingly nourishes and preserves and defends and cares for his church. I want to share with you two scriptures that I hope will be very encouraging reminders to you about this simple principle. The first is Ephesians 5. Verses 25 through 27. We know this passage, and obviously it talks about the relationship of husbands to wives. But this is an important piece that is at the core, the foundation of how a husband is to relate to his wife. This is what it says. Christ loved the church and he gave himself for it. He did it so that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the Word. that he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. So how does Jesus relate to the church? He relates to his church as one who loves the church, died for the church. nourishes the church, sanctifies the church, cleanses the church, and brings the church to a point of maturity and purity. That's what he does in the church. He loves it dearly. I'm reminded of Romans chapter 8, verses 31 to 39. Great text of scripture. It says, what shall we say then to these things? If God be for us, then who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God who died, yea, is risen again. He says, who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or apparel a sword? The simple fact is that Christians throughout all of human history, all of church history, have been a people who who experienced distress and persecution and weakness and and and all those things. And he says, can those things separate us from the love of God? And the answer is no. In fact, in Isaiah it says, For your sake we're killed all the day long. We're turned as sheep for the slaughter. But then he says this, in all these things, we're more than conquerors, how? Through him who loved us He says, I'm persuaded that neither death or life or angels or principalities nor powers nor things present or things to come nor height nor depth nor any other creature can separate us. from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. These two scriptures, Ephesians 5 and Romans 8, remind us that the God who says, that's my church is the God who loves and cares for and nourishes and defends and protects and builds his church. God's love for his people is something that is is just displayed beautifully all throughout Scripture. And we should rest in the fact that we as his people belong to him. The same Lord who shows his love through saying, there was a shepherd, he a hundred had a hundred sheep. Ninety-nine of them were with him, and one wandered off. And he went and he found that one sheep. And when he brought it back, he celebrated that the sheep that was lost was found. And that one woman who who had all these coins, but she lost one. And she swept her whole house looking for that coin. And she says, look, celebrate with me. That lost coin has been found. The same Lord that tells the story of the prodigal son. And we see the love of the father for his son who wandered away. And even the love for his son who was there with him but was not with him in heart. That love that is demonstrated through the lost sheep, the lost coin, the prodigal son, that love is a picture of the love that Jesus has for his people. And so the very simple implication here is that we can rest in the loving care of our Father. for the church. We can rest in the loving care of the Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, the chief shepherd for his church. I don't know about you, but that really encourages me. That gives me something that strengthens me when I'm weary and discouraged. It gives me hope. Because I know that we as his people belong to him and he takes good care of his children. I hope that that has encouraged you this morning. Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to finish out our series. with two final thoughts and then some closing implications. Have a blessed morning. Lord willing, we'll meet you again on Friday by now