Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Today we are back in 1 John chapter 4, and so if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. And let's turn together to 1 John chapter 4. We're looking at verses 4 through 6 together. Let's read the passage. You have God little children, and have overcome them, because greater is he who that is in you than he that is in the world. They are of the world, therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth them. Ye are of God. He that knoweth God heareth us. He that is not of God heareth not us. Hereby know we the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. Now when we come to the passage that we're looking at today, we're going to look at it again in two parts. And I like doing that so I can actually dig into the content a little bit more and get into some of the practical issues. But let me start with a simple summary statement, and then let's dig into the passage. John knew that the Christians that he was writing to were going to, in fact, not just they were going to, but they were already beginning to face intense pressure. And this pressure was coming from false teachers, not false teachers in the community, but actually false teachers who had at one time been a part of their local church. So he writes this passage so that they will be strong in the midst of those difficulties, that they'll hold fast to the truth. In other words, the passage that we're looking at is really about encouragement. But I want us to understand that if you're going to encourage someone, you have to be a realist. You have to actually begin by telling them what's true. Some people think that it that the way that you encourage people is you give them a false sense of hope. In other words, you're just an eternal optimist. That's not the way you encourage people because at some point that optimism that's not rooted in reality is going to get a reality check. And then what do you have? You have absolutely no hope. So this passage is going to begin by talking about what is true, what is objectively true about their situation. And what's objectively true about their situation is not going to be encouraging immediately, but it's going to pave the way for John to be able to encourage them based in reality. And so sometimes we have to talk about the reality of the situation before we give the encouragement. And so God wants to pour grace and strength into our situation in the midst of difficulty But he's got to start with reality. So let's ask a couple of questions about the passage and then let's think about it together. The first question is, why does John even make the statement here? Why does he talk about them versus us? and how the world relates to them and how the world relates to us. Why does he do that? We're going to answer that question. The second question is what does he mean by overcome? That word overcome is very important. It indicates that there are difficulties that they're in the midst of, but those difficulties are not going to ultimately stop them. from doing what God wants them to do. They're not going to ultimately thwart God's providential will. The third question is, how do we respond to the truths that are here? And so we're actually going to deal with the response side mostly next time that we talk about the passage, but we will talk a little bit about response here. So here's the first truth that we find in the passage. False teachers are an intimidating opponent to the biblical church. Notice the way he puts it in verses 5 and 6. They are of the world. Who is the they? Well the they is a group of false teachers. Therefore speak they of the world. And the world heareth them. We are of God. He that knoweth God heareth us. He that is not of God heareth not us. Now when John talks about us, he's referring to the fact that he and the rest of the apostles are establishing doctrinal propositions, truths about Christ, truths about the gospel, truths about the implication of the gospel. truths about God's people. The world does not receive the instruction of the apostles, ultimately the scriptures. But these false teachers are following the world system instead of what John is teaching. So John's been talking a lot about doctrine. But basically what he's saying is, look, there are people in the church or who have come out of the church and are infiltrating the church who are extremely intimidating. The things that they're presenting are not true, but they're aggressive, and they're actually getting into people's heads. They're actually pulling people away from the truth. And so he's emphasizing the fact that that is an intimidating position. I want you to realize that the world we live in today is an intimidating world for God's people. You know, turn on the news and see the kinds of things that are going on in our culture today, in our society. Think about how many people's voices who are speaking about truth, who are speaking reasonably. This is not just a political silencing that's going on in our nation, folks. The silencing that's going on on Facebook and YouTube and all these other places, the silencing that's going on is silencing a Christian worldview in addition to conservative views and all these other things as well. I want you to realize there's a tremendous movement in our nation today against the biblical concept of the nuclear family. against the biblical concept of one man, one woman married for life. There's a tremendous movement against the biblical concept of biblical manhood and biblical womanhood. There's a huge, a huge attack on the church, on the family, biblical values, biblical morality. If you speak for truth, you will be taught down, you will be silenced, you will be attacked It's not just conservative voices that are being attacked in the world today. It's Christian values that are being lumped into those things. And the truth is that that is a very intimidating position for God's people to be in. It's an intimidating position for pastors to be in. It's an intimidating position for missionaries to be in. It's an intimidating position for fathers and mothers, people who are trying to raise their children to just live godly and righteous in this world. And I want you to realize that the intimidation that people are facing right now in this country is not new to the Christian church. Christians face these difficulties. Now they face those difficulties in the past, and they will until the Lord Jesus Christ returns. The truth is that the history of the church has primarily been a history of being oppressed, being silenced, being attacked by the world. John is indicating this in the passage, and I want you to see the way he puts it. He says, they are of the world. The false teachers that he's talking about do not have their identity in Christ. They might be pretending to be Christians. They may call themselves Christians, but the reality is that their worldview is not shaped by the Bible. by Bible doctrine, by Christian principle, their their worldview is being shaped by worldly values. And so even though they are superficially identified with the church at the time that they're beginning to infiltrate the doctrine, church or maybe they've even come out of the church. These individuals are not of God's people. They're of the world. And I want you to realize that a lot of the silencing that's going on in our nation is actually coming not just from the secular world. but those who are a part of Christianity who have capitulated to worldly values. The truth is that some of the most aggressive and antagonistic individuals to godliness, righteousness, a biblical sense of morality, family, gender, all those issues. Some of the the most aggressive voices. are coming from segments of Christianity that are really not representing godly values, but are representing this world system. He then goes on to say this, therefore, their true identity will be manifest in several ways. He says they speak of the world. Their message is not a biblical message. It will be consistent with a system of thought that is in opposition to God. What's interesting about those who are against the church, they're not willing to equally coexist with the church and say, we have our views, you have your views, let's live together, let's Just get over our differences. Maybe we can't unite, but the reality is your val your position is valid and acceptable, and my position is valid and acceptable, and we're okay with each other. The world says that they believe in that kind of a setup. But that's not true at all. The reality is that because of the exclusivity of the gospel how exclusive the authority of Scripture is. The world hates the truth. Okay? I'm not just saying that the world doesn't like they hate the truth. They want to silence the truth. They want to eliminate the truth. And the reality is that God's people need to recognize the world is in opposition to God's truth. They're in opposition to the scriptures and the authority of the truth. And they're going to do everything in their power to silence and to suppress the truth. They speak of the world. Their values are representative of the world system, not the truths of Scripture. And then he goes on and says this. The world heareth them. Non-Christians will embrace their message, and their message will be popular in most locations. I want you to realize those who are coming out of Christianity, if you want to call it that, who are in opposition to biblical morality. biblical values, a biblical view of Jesus, a biblical view of the gospel, a biblical view of the implications of the gospel, those individuals will be celebrated by the world system. And the reason they will be celebrated by the world system is because they have the same values. They may have a different name, but they have the same values. And then the last thing he says is this, they do not hear us. Now when he says they, he's talking about the world system and the false teachers They're unwilling to embrace biblical positions. They're unwilling to embrace biblical authority. I want you to watch this. As we continue to see what goes on in our culture, there is going to be a day that the narrative is going to shift. And it's going to focus on the authority of Scriptures. And I'm going to tell you that there will be a day that the Bible is going to be attacked viciously. It's going to be attacked and it's going to be silenced. As much as possible, people in our nation are going to suppress what the Bible says. Why? Because they don't like the Bible's authority. Christian pastors, those who are trying to preach and teach the truth, are going to be called hate monongers. In fact, it's already happening. But it's going to happen to a greater degree as time goes on. Why am I saying that? Because it's true I'm not saying it because I like it. I'm not saying because I want it to be that way. I'm saying it because it's true. In fact, in the passage, if we go to other scriptures, one of the things that are said For Second Peter chapter two, he says, There were false teachers among you, and shall be among all the people, who shall privily bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring unto themselves swift destruction Through covetousness they shall with feigned words make merchandise of you, whose judgment now in long time lingereth not I think about 2 Timothy 3, verse 1. He says, Know in the last days that perilous times shall come, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and been assured of, knowing that of whom thou hast learned them. Matthew 7. 13 says, Enter in the stray gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and there are many which go in thereat. What's the point of those passages? The point of those passages is that many people in the last days will not have a stomach for truth. They will not want to embrace the gospel. They will not want to embrace God's authority rooted in the Scriptures. And so it's not just that they'll say, we don't accept it, but you have the right to speak it. They will want to silence it They will want to eliminate it. They will want to identify it as something that is hateful, something that's divisive, something that's oppressive, something that's unacceptable in the modern world. They're going to go after these truths with all of their might. And so we need to recognize this. False teachers are going to be popular in the last days. And God's people have the ability to discern what is true and what is not, and they have the ability to embrace the truth. And these are not just areas of evangelism where we're going to find these dynamics. We're going to find these dynamics even within the church. It's going to be a battle even within the church. So I have a second truth I want to mention. That's this. God's work and God's people cannot be set back, or can be set back, but cannot be overcome. Let me say that again. God's work and his people can be set back, but not overcome. He says in verse 4, ye are of God little children, and have overcome them, because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world You know, that first truth that we talked about is very daunting. It's very intimidating. I wish I didn't have to mention those things, but here's the reality. That is the world that we live in. And it's not a new world. It's always been this way. Okay? The reality is that because we have things like social media, the view of the world is more in our faces than it was before. The opposition and the silencing and the antagonism, all those things, they are easier to see today than they were in times past. But recharge history. Read about the kinds of struggles that God's people have faced. The reality is that God's people, the church, can be set back. Persecution is a real thing that the church has has faced over the years. And the persecution that the church has faced over the years has slowed down the work in some ways, but it's not stopped the work. It's not overcome the work. He says, you're of God. You belong to him. You're his children. And there are unbelievable implications of that truth. God loves his people. God protects his people. God's sovereignty is still there. God is still on the throne. He's still in control. And the reality is, even when God's people are struggling and going through difficulties and oppressed and being silenced, Whatever the situation is, whatever the time period is, God continues to care for his people. He continues to strengthen them. He continues to show mercy and kindness to them. He continues to strengthen them by his grace. God does not abandon his people. He calls them little children. He reminds them that he loves them like they're his own little kids when John talks about that. So he's compassionate towards them in this position. And then he makes this promise. He says, you have overcome them. In other words, it's not just that you're going to. The work of Christ on the cross has ultimately sealed the fate of Satan in this world system Is God allowing this world system to continue as it is for a period? Of course he is. But is he going to allow that indefinitely? No. In the end, God is going to rule and reign and demonstrate his justice, and he is going to establish righteousness forever. And so we need to recognize that God's people, while oppressed, will and have overcome. And here's the reason why. Because greater is he that's in you than he is it that is in the world. The truth is that God's people are caught in the midst of a battle of kingdoms. The kingdom of this world and God's eternal kingdom. A righteous and holy kingdom. We are caught in this battle between two kingdoms, and in the midst of that battle it can be very discouraging. It can be very frustrating. We may get hurt and wounded in the midst of that conflict, but we need to realize that God wins in the end I want to remind you of Philippians chapter 1, where Paul writes, being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. God is going to complete the work that He has started in us. That is a promise. That is a guarantee. When we talk about Romans 8, it tells us that we groan earnestly waiting for the redemption of our bodies The Bible talks about how we are saved already, but there's an aspect that we've not yet fully experienced of our salvation. We're caught in a world where we are tempted, where we can be persecuted, where we can be viciously attacked, where we stumble, where we falter, where we fail. And God wants us to grow through that. He wants us to be light in the darkness. He wants us to be salt in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. God wants us to demonstrate his righteous character and the power of the gospel. And so as we go through the struggles of living in the already but not yet experiencing the full weight of our salvation, We need to be faithful. We need to persevere. We need to recognize we are overcomers. And God is going to give us everything that we need. So how can we practically apply this this morning? What are some things that can help us in the midst of reality? Well the first is this, you belong to God. Don't let that slip out of your mind. When you get discouraged and frustrated at the kinds of things that you see in the world today, when you see Christians being silenced, being attacked viciously, When you see people being called out because they're just saying that the gospel calls people to repentance and faith or that God actually created marriage or some of these kinds of things, when you see people being attacked for that, realize something. You belong to the Lord. You are his child. He cares about you. He loves you. He's going to protect you. He's going to defend you. He's going to vindicate you. When you belong to the Lord, that's a very important thing for you to remember. The second thing is this, we have already overcome. The guarantee of our salvation is secured in Christ. We haven't fully tasted every aspect of our salvation, but it is sealed. It is preserved. It is settled. And we need to remember that. And the last thing I want to mention is this. God is greater than Satan and those that are doing his work. I think about what Martin Luther wrote, where he talks about God being a mighty fortress, and he talks about Satan being cruel and filled with hate. And he says on earth is not his equal. And he talks about the fact that this world is a vicious world, an evil world, a hateful world, but it's a world that ultimately is going to be conquered by God Himself And we need to remember that. I hope that these words will be an encouragement to you in the midst of what can be a very unsettling time. If this has been a challenge or an encouragement to you, please share that. And let's bow together and ask the Lord to bless what we've heard. Father, help us to take the things that we've heard to apply them to our hearts. Help us to be a godly people, a righteous people, a people who love you, a people who are salt and light in this world. I pray that you would encourage folks through what has been shared this morning, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see each of you this morning. I hope that you have a great rest of your day, and we will catch floor catch up with you next time. Bye now.