Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another anchored in the word morning reflection. And it's hard to believe that last week we completed 200 episodes. uh for the year twenty twenty three. So this is episode two hundred and one and uh if you've been working through these passages with us through the month of October, we're working through passages dealing with missions and we're We're going to continue in that theme, and I'm very excited about what we're going to introduce this morning for the rest of the week. So if you have a Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Matthew chapter 16, and we're reading verses 13 through 19. And we're going to take a couple of minutes to look at some introductory thoughts. Here's what it says. And when Jesus came into the coast of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? And they said, Some say thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona. For flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And I say unto thee, that thou art Peter, upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Now the passage in front of us is obviously not meant to teach us about missions. What it is is it's a conversation between Jesus and the Apostle Peter, and in this conversation, Jesus is giving some very important details. about the nature of the church and the relationship between Christ and the church. Now, the reason that this discussion is important for the topic of missions is because the things that Jesus are going to say should be foundational to our perception on how we should relate to this issue of missions and how we should view the kind of work that we're doing as a local church. And so each day this week, Lord willing, we're going to take it piece by piece, and we're going to look at different pieces of what Jesus says, and we're going to look at how those pieces. . should shape our worldview when it comes to this issue of missions and how these things are to encourage us to be faithful and to encourage us while we are being faithful. . So let me give you a couple of stats that I came across over the last several months that I think are helpful to set the discussion that we're going to have throughout the week. The first stat is from Gallup, March 29, 2021. This is what it says. From 1940 until 2000. More than 70% of Americans belong to some kind of religious institution. From the years 2000 to 2021, That number fell from above 70% to below 50% to 47 %. To add to that, when they went deeper into that, They saw that amongst millennials, those would be people about my age and younger, that number falls down to 36%. So it used to be above 70%, dropped below 50%, and among those who are in their 30s, maybe up to about 40 years old and below, These individuals are going to church at a rate of about 36%, much, much lower than what had been the typical average for people in the United States just 20 years ago. If you go even further, they found in a poll cited in 2022 that only about 20% of Americans attend church, some kind of religious service on a weekly basis. Now, what this tells you is that religious thinking has declined drastically in the United States. This country is a far more secular nation. than it used to be. And most Christians who look at this, they're very worried about how the church has lost its influence on the culture. We can see this in the way that people vote. We can see this in the kinds of discussions that we're having in our culture. We can see this on so many different levels. And the fact is it's very painful for us as Christians, knowing what our nation has been and where it once was, it's very painful to see our dec our society descend into a very backward, self-defeating, hedonistic kind of a culture. It's painful for us to see that evil is being perpetuated and celebrated on many levels within our society It's frustrating to see people embrace things that are lies that ultimately are breaking apart the foundation of our society. It's hard for us to watch the state of American Christianity. And when we look at the state of American Christianity, we wonder and ask the question, well, what is in the future if we have seen such a drastic decline in just 20 years? What's going to happen another twenty years from now? Are we going to have 10% of our population attending church regularly? Uh are are 30% of the people in the culture going to be involved in some kind of religious uh affiliation, how secular is America going to become? These are the kinds of questions that we ask. But but beyond those questions, we ask this other question. How are we as Christians, how is the church supposed to relate in a culture like this? Do we need to change our methods? Do we need to make adjustments? Do we need to do things that make uh that make the culture view us more positively? And I I see that a lot of times Christians in a lot of churches settle for some kind of gimmick to try to get people to feel as if the church is a more palatable place, as a place that that they should be okay with rather than looking at it as something that's a threat to the order of society. But I want to remind you that the kinds of things we're seeing in American society, they are new to us, but they're not new to church history. And the Apostle Paul, when he was writing to Timothy at the end of his life, told Timothy how the church is supposed to relate to the culture around them and what God's program ultimately is. And listen to what he says. In 2 Timothy 4 verse 1. He says, Timothy, preach the word. Be instant, in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort, with all long-suffering and doctrine He says, the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lust, they shall heed to themselves teachers having itching ears, and they will turn away their ears from hearing the truth. They will be turned unto fables. But watch thou in all things. Endure affliction. Do the work of an evangelist to make full proof of thy ministry. What does the Apostle Paul say? Does he say, well, the church needs to be more accommodating to the culture? Some of the areas where the culture looks at the church and says, you're too strict, you're too rigid, you're too. inflexible, you're not open enough to other people, of other belief systems and . other ethics. Is the church supposed to accommodate that? The answer is of course not. What the church is supposed to do is it's supposed to proclaim the word. It's to preach the word in all seasons. It's to be willing to endure affliction because the church is going to come in in conflict with the culture around them. It's to do the work of an evangelist. It's to recognize that the church needs to reach into the lives of unsaved people, proclaim the gospel, so that people are converted and they become a part of the body of Christ. And in fact those believers' lives are transformed by the gospel. and they grow as disciples of Jesus Christ. In other words, he says, it's true that in the last days people are going to be callous to the truth. It's going to be a tumultuous time and you'll have no ability to actually control or change the culture around you. But what is also true is that God's method is timeless. And it is built upon the things that we're going to talk about this week from Matthew chapter 7. And the things that Paul talks about in this text, 2 Timothy chapter 4. He basically says, Timothy, get back to the basics. Be faithful. Endure. Preach the word. Be a committed Christian who is giving the gospel so that God can work. through that. And so this week what we're going to ask is, how are we to do this? What is the spirit that should drive this kind of faithfulness? Should we be a discouraged people or should we be an encouraged people? That's where we're going throughout this week. So I hope that you'll join us this week as we go on this journey. through Matthew chapter 16. I hope that you'll encourage others to come on this journey with us because I think that there's a lot that we can all learn together, we can be reminded of together, and God can use to encourage our hearts as we do the work of ministry. Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again for part number two, and I hope that you have a great rest of your day by now