Well good morning. Let me welcome you back to another Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and hope that you've been having a great week and uh good to have you on a Wednesday morning. We have been working our way through Matthew chapter 16 and we've been talking about Christ's conversation with Peter, which it talks about the nature of the church and the nature of Christ's relationship to the church. And so if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's turn together and just look briefly at Matthew chapter 16, verses 13 through 18. Here's what it says. When Jesus came into the coast of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? They said, Some say thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, and others Jeremias, or one of the prophets. He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona For flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto you, but my Father, which is in heaven. And I say unto thee that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven. Whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven. Whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Now yesterday when we were looking at this passage, We emphasized a very, very simple detail. And that would be dealing with the foundation of the church. The church is not built on people's personalities, it's not built on people's bank accounts. It's not built on movements. It's built on the finished work of Christ. Jesus Christ being the Messiah. He is the foundation of the church. And there is tremendous comfort in that. And there's also a warning in the sense that we should make sure that in the functioning of our local church, we are recognizing that our church is built on Christ and Christ alone. The second thing we're going to look at this morning is that Christ's promise is a very definite promise when it comes to it regarding the church. And this promise is something that should encourage us. We see it in just three simple words. Jesus says, I will build. Now that's a promise. It's a comforting promise. And we have to remember that this promise is made in the backdrop of lots and lots of tumultuous seasons of church history. The season that we are living in right now and the context that we are living through at this moment, you know, we've seen the painful decline of many churches in our lifetime, especially those of you who are watching these videos who are a good bit older than I am. You have seen churches that once were strong and vibrant and being used of God and they were impacting their local communities. Some of these churches have declined to a point that they're barely even functioning. Some of them have literally uh will cease to exist as local churches Many of you have seen institutions, maybe where you went to Bible college or a place that was very influential in your past. It's not what it used to be. It's not as strong, it's not as vibrant, doesn't even exist anymore. It's barely surviving Right now, and you look at those things and what does it do? It it discourages you, it's frustrating. And we look at the trajectory of our culture and we say, this is very dire. Where where is this going to end? Is there going to be a point where things start turning around? It doesn't appear to be turning around. And that's very discouraging. We also recognize that the times that we're living in are very uncertain. I mean I think about the the uncertainties of things going on in the Middle East right now, the nation of Israel, and and the terrible things that are going on, and we need to pray for the people that are suffering right now, that have suffered, that have lost family in these terrible terrorist attacks. Well the fact is we look at the situation going on in a place like Israel and we go, well Is this going to get bigger? Is this going to lead to a world war? What's going on right now? Because this is obviously a very volatile situation and there are lots and lots of nations that if they were to get involved this could become an absolutely horrific tragic time Well, the things that we see going on in the world should remind us that in all the uncertainty, the only place that we can find encouragement and hope and confidence is in someone who is unchanging and someone who is outside of time and outside of space, someone who is bigger than what's going on in our temporary moments, and the answer is that's God Himself. The Lord Jesus Christ is the one who can be our confidence and he alone can. And so yesterday we were reminded that the church is built on Christ, and that gives us hope, it gives us encouragement, it gives us strength. But there's a second piece. Not just that the church is built on Christ, but that this church that is being built on Christ is also being built by Christ. And I love the way that he states it. He promises, I will build my church. With all of the uncertainties , and all of the things that can cause us to be fearful and discouraged. We have a sure promise from God, the one who cannot lie, the one who is unchangeable, and this promise should strengthen us. And the promise is Jesus saying, I will build. The promise is definite, and Christ's power is unlimited. And he is purposing to do this and his word is at stake. He is going to build his church. And he is building his church. And the fact is, no matter where you go in the world, you can see the evidences of Christ building his church even in these uncertain and tumultuous times. He is building the church through people like you and me. And you know what that should do? That should motivate us. It should motivate us to be faithful. It should recognize that cause us to recognize that we are the instruments through which he works. And so we need to be faithful because he is going to do the work. This gives me uh this reminds me of a of an illustration that I think is helpful in this point. Think about someone who is building a fire. We're getting into that that's that cool season and I've been working on uh getting my my my fire hap my fireplace ready for the winter season and we're gonna burn lots of wood and I've been busily stacking wood and splitting wood and getting everything ready. Well I love this time of the year. I love that dry warmth that comes from the fireplace. I love the smell of the smoke. Not, you know, smoking out my house, but I I I just I love this season. It's a fun season. It's a neat season. But I have absolutely no power and nobody has the power to make a fire burn. Okay? We don't control the laws of nature. We didn't create those laws. They are laws that were that were created by God. He is the one who came up with the idea of combustion. But what you and I do have the power to do. . is we have the power to cut down a tree, we have the power to split up the wood, we have the power to lay it out so that it dries out, and we have the power to get the fire started. . And once the fire started, to put on those pieces of wood. And so while we don't control the laws, we use the laws and we feed the fire. And there is a sense in which the way that God builds his church is very similar. Christ builds the church by his power and through the means that he has ordained. But we are responsible. to feed the fire, figuratively speaking, by sharing the gospel, by making disciples, by preaching the word, by teaching sound doctrine, by loving people and leading them to Christ and pointing them to Him through the Word. And so that is the way he builds the church. The fact that it's going to be built is certain. The one who builds the church is certain. And the means that he's appointed, in fact, he's clearly laid it out. That's you and me. And we need to be faithful in that. So you say, well, what are the implications? What can we learn from this? What can we take away? Well here's what it is. This is a tremendous encouragement to you and me as Christians who feel that what we are doing is just spinning our wheels aimlessly We're reminded that the power is not in our hands, yet the means that he uses to build, in fact, we are that means And so our labors are not futile. Our labors are not a waste of time. Our labors are not empty. He has promised To build through these means. And he has promised to bless the faithfulness of his people. And so I want to encourage you this morning, be faithful in that work. Preach the gospel. Make disciples. Proclaim sound doctrine. Pray for those who labor in the Word and who minister to you and others. And I hope that this will be an encouragement to you this morning. We should not be discouraged in the work because God has promised to build his church. Hope that leaves you with something very encouraging to think about the rest of the day. Have a blessed morning and Lord willing. We'll meet again tomorrow by now