First John four verse four it says this ye are of God little children, and have overcome them, because greater is He that is in you than He that is in the world. They are of the world, therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth them. They're of the world, therefore speak they of the world. Excuse me, I just read that. Verse 6. We are of God. He that knoweth God heareth us. He that is not of God heareth not us. Hereby know we the spirit of truth. And the spirit of error. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer this morning, and we will look at what I think is a really practical and really important concept for us as we think about the contents of 1 John 4. Father, I pray that this morning as we open up our Bibles and as we think about the message that John was writing from you to these people, that we would understand that the same kinds of struggles that they faced are the same kinds of struggles that we face. Father, help us to recognize that there's nothing new under the sun. The same kinds of temptations to compromise, the same kinds of temptations to fear. We have them today. And so what we're about to read and what we're about to think on is so appropriate for the day in which we live. I pray that you'd help me to communicate very clearly and effectively. the purpose, the intent of this passage, and I pray that the Holy Spirit would really use it in the hearts of every person here. We ask it in Jesus' name Amen. Why did John write this section? What was on his mind as he pens these words and as the Holy Spirit is moving him to write the very words that he writes? This is what I think is on his mind. He knew that these Christians were going to face incredible pressure from false teachers. Therefore, he writes to them the following section to encourage them to be strong. and to stand fast in the truth. Now let's remember that the entire book of John is written to encourage Christians so that they can have a joyful and vibrant Christian experience. He wants these people to have fellowship with God. He wants them to have joy. He wants them to have satisfaction. He wants them to know what it's like to have a rich and full and vibrant Christian experience. And he knows there are lots of things. That can compromise or undermine a person's ability to have a vibrant Christian experience. One of the things that was a major problem at the church where he was dealing with was that there were a couple of individuals who had been involved in leadership at one point. And those individuals had gotten a following, and then they began to depart from sound doctrine. They began to teach things that were different from the scriptures And because people knew them, because they were likable, because they had some clout and some respect, they had a following at the Church of Ephesus. The kinds of doctrines that they were teaching were false doctrines. And John understood that those false doctrines were going to undermine the integrity of what was being taught in the church. It would ultimately undermine the spiritual well-being of the people that were in the church. So one of the major themes that we see in 1 John is that he talks to them with how to deal with this issue of false teachers. He understands that they're there, they're present, that what they're teaching is gaining a following. And he knows that these people, if they're going to stand on the side of truth, they're going to go through some difficulties So he's trying to prepare them for that. It's because God wants us to rest in his providence when we are in the position to hold fast To sound doctrine. You may say, well, you know, this church doesn't appear to have any kind of false doctrine that's in the undercurrents of the church. And to my knowledge, there isn't anything like that, okay? So this is not being taught because we have that kind of an issue going on in our church. But what I want you to realize is this that potential is always available. There can always be an individual or individuals who can get into the midst of a group of Christians and can begin to introduce teachings that are not true. You know, one of the most common ways that that happens is through podcasts, blogging, books , journals. A person gets a hold of a certain author and they start reading that author, and that author becomes very popular within contemporary Christianity. But that particular author has some serious doctrinal problems And as that person begins to read that doctrine, they have no concept of the depths of what they are actually reading. And as they begin to embrace it, they start taking on ideas that are unbiblical. And then they pass along a book and they say, hey, check this out. This is really good. And pretty soon a group of people, whether they realize it or not are beginning to embrace a doctrine, a set of values, a set of ideas that are false doctrines, that are false teachings. And those things can come to ahead in people's lives You know, one of the areas that I think is most common is the fact that within our culture, we have a lot of cultural upheaval going on today. You know, there are a lot of different battles within culture that are fought. We go back to the 1920s and the 30s, you know what the discussion was? The discussion was whether or not God made the world in seven days or not. Okay? So there was a huge battle about whether or not God created the world or whether it was evolution that ultimately through billions of years created what we have today. That was a huge battle that was going on. In the years before that Go back to the 1800s. There was a lot of attack on the miraculous in the Bible. Is this book really God's word? Can I trust it? Is it preserved? Is it true? Can I read this book and say God said it, it's true, I believe it. That's it. Can we do that? And so inspiration and preservation were seriously under attack in the late 1800s We have things like the deity of Christ, whether or not Christ rose bodily from the grave, that went under serious attack at certain points in the church. We come to our current generation. The reality is those battles, while they've been fought, there's still lingering effects to that. There are a lot of Christians today that do believe in evolution. There are a lot of Christians today that do doubt the miraculous. There are a lot of Christians today, when I say Christians, I say Christian in a very general sense. Who they really doubt that the Bible is God's word and what it says is true in every single portion of the Bible. They have serious doubts and they teach those doubts and they influence people. We have huge things going on in our culture today. What is marriage? Can we actually say that someone is a man or a woman? It's unbelievable that these are the kinds of things that we're dealing with, but the reality is that's the day that we live in. Look at the debates in abortion. There's some really radical things going on in our culture today. I mean, children who are in a NICU, who are younger than children that are being aborted in New York. Can you imagine? We live in tumultuous days, folks. And whether we like to think about this or not, the truth is that the thinking of society affects the church. We have Christians who have capitulated on a lot of areas. We have given to the press of the culture. We've been silent We won't speak on these matters. We're very timid and fearful. And let me tell you something. You don't have to seek out battles. The fact is, if you just stand quietly on the side of truth, There'll be a day when you're put in a position to have to state what you believe. It happens in all kinds of places. You're sitting in a cafeteria and someone says, Oh, did you hear about what's going on with so-and-so at work? They're marrying so-and-so. What do you think about that? Oh. Oh, did you hear this person's going through some therapy to change their gender? What do you think about that? Hey, how far do you you know like how far do you think it's okay to go on a first date? What do you think about the abortion laws that are going on? in some parts of our country. The fact is, folks, there's going to be a day, if it hasn't already happened, that you're going to be sitting in a cafeteria, in a classroom, on a boat. And somebody's going to ask you a question, and they're going to ask you that question because they want to target you. They want to hear you say something where they can jump all over you. And my question is, what will you do on that day? Are you going to stand graciously and boldly on the side of truth? Or where you cave. It can happen in any area of our lives. You know what's interesting in 1 John chapter 4. That is exactly what John is dealing with with the church. They're not talking about evolution. They're not talking about gay marriage. They're not talking about abortion. But what they're talking about is very, very important. And what they're talking about comes into the realm of biblical doctrine, and people within the church are going to be confronted by false teaching, and when they are, they're going to have a conflict. And he wants them to be ready for that conflict. And the truth is that we need to be ready because the day will very likely come when that can happen to us. So the question is this, why does John write the statements? What does he mean by we've overcome them? How should we respond to these truths? These are some of the questions I want us to deal with this morning as we look at 1 John chapter 4. The first truth we're going to see is this. False teaching. is intimidating, is an intimidating opponent to biblical church life. False teaching or false teachers are intimidating opponents. to biblical church life. Let me tell you something. It's not easy when you know that someone has a passionate agenda against what you believe to be true. It's not easy to say This is what I believe. This is what the scripture teaches. This is what is true. It's not easy to do that. It doesn't matter the context. It can be in a church context. It can be in a family context. It can be in a business context. It can be in a community context. The fact is it's not easy to take that kind of a position. And John understands that. And so he writes this. Verse 5, they are of the world's Therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth them, and we are of God, and he that knoweth God heareth us. And he that is not of God heareth us not. Hereby know we the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. Now there are several things that he says. I'm going to take each little phrase one at a time and kind of explain why he makes that statement The first thing he says is they're of the world. He wants them to understand that those these are people that were a part of that local assembly. There are people that were known to them. They may have been friends. They may have even been teachers at one point in the church. Though they were known to them They were not of them. Okay? They were of the world. There was a mentality, there was a worldview that they continued to embrace that was not truth and it was not biblical. False teachers don't have their identity in Christ, though for a period of time they may think that they do, or they may pretend to do, or you might think that they are. He labels your identity as not. God's people, but as false teachers. He then says this, therefore, the idea is that their true identity is going to manifest itself in some kind of a way. So though these people were a part of the church, they didn't have the same biblical teaching and thinking of the people around them. And he basically says this, there will be a point When what they are will be exposed by what they say. What they are will come out in what they believe. It's going to come to a head at a point in time. So because they're of the world, therefore, here's what's going to happen. That's basically what he's saying. He then makes this statement. He says, they speak of the world. The idea is that their message is not a biblical message. It might be consistent in some ways with the biblical message, but it's going to depart on some very pivotal aspects of what they're saying. So part of the message is true, but there's a technical error in a very serious place. And that error is going to align them not with God and his word, but in opposition to God in his word. The fact is, there are lots of people today in Christianity in a very general and loose sense. Who have accommodated the world's position on a lot of matters. Not only have they accommodated, but they have celebrated. They have put people into a court. You'll listen to a talk show and they're going to bring somebody on and say, what do you think about such and such? And when the person begins to present their views, you know what you'll realize? That's not a Christian position at all. That's not a biblical position at all. There's nothing Christian about it. Yes, he's wearing a collar. Yes, he's wearing a coat and tie. Yes, he claims to be a pastor or whatever the situation. But what they're espousing and what they're teaching is no different than what the world says. It's not true. He says they speak of the world. Your position will eventually flush out in positions that are expounded. He then makes this statement: The world heareth them Non-Christians will embrace their message, and their message will be popular in most locations. I want you to think about that for a minute. If somebody is teaching worldly position, they're going to get worldly accolades. They're going to be people that say, yeah, that's what all Christians should believe. Such narrow-minded people. Folks, the Bible's the standard. We don't hold our position because we like to be difficult and you know be abrasive in society. We hold the positions we do because it's what God says. He's the king. It's his authority. We come under his rule. I'm not trying to be difficult, not trying to be antagonistic. We're just trying to speak truth. And the fact is that when someone espouses a worldly false doctrine, the world will embrace it and love it. And we'll celebrate it. That's who's going to be the New York Times bestseller. Not the guy that preaches the truth. Not the guy that speaks with the greatest kindness. Truth, it's the accommodator. And then it says this, they do not hear us. They're unwilling to listen to or embrace biblical position. You know what's interesting, when a person claims to be a Christian and embraces what is not biblical truth, it's amazing how antagonistic that person can be to a biblical position. It's amazing how aggressive, how angry a person can be. Why is that? Because there is a decisive choice to embrace something that's not true. Why does John give us that information? He gives them that information because he basically says this You're going to be sitting down one day and this person's going to come to you and say, hey, here's what I believe. What do you think? And as soon as you state in the most gracious way possible what you believe. It's like the end of the world. You are an enemy. You're a bigot. Incredible antagonism. He's basically saying, you need to be prepared for that, folks. They're not going to listen to you. Everybody around you that doesn't embrace truth is going to love what they're saying. And you're going to be in a tough position. Second Peter chapter two, one says this There were false prophets among the people, even as there will be false teachers among you, who will privily bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that brought that bought them, and bring unto themselves swift destruction. And many will follow the pernicious ways, by reason of whom the truth shall be evil spoken of, through covetousness with Feigned words, they will make merchandise of you, whose judgment now of long time lingereth not, their damnation slumbereth not. That's really strong language coming from Peter. He says, don't be surprised when people within the church Or within Christianity, bring in doctrines that are not only false, but they're extremely destructive. And they're going to exploit naive people and they're going to use those things to gain a following. They're going to make money. They're going to get power. They're going to be embraced. And you're going to say, how in the world is that possible? He said, it's possible. It's going to happen. In 2 Timothy chapter 3 verse 1, Paul tells Timothy, this know that in the last days perilous times shall come. All that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Evil men and seducer shall wax worse and worse. deceiving and being deceived, but continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. Matthew 7, 13, Jesus says, Enter at the straight gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat. He is basically saying this, the way of truth, generally speaking, is not popular. And you need to be prepared. to face potential opposition. Now, I am in no way encouraging us as a church to go out and pick fights with people, okay? I'm not doing that at all. I'm not suggesting go to your workforce and say, hey, let's all have a discussion about and lay it on the table and just hash it out. I'm not suggesting that at all What I am suggesting is this. If you study your Bible and you embrace truth and you stand on the side of truth, one day that's coming to you. And you're going to have to speak. And when you speak, be prepared. It may not go as well as you want. It actually may go down very, very poorly. It might cost you something. And the truth is, the moment that is talked about, you know it's going to cost you something. And that's why people capitulate. That's why people compromise. That's why people say something that they don't believe, because they don't want the consequence of that pressure. Three observations, false teachers will be popular in the last days. God people will discern truth from error and choose to embrace the truth, and these challenges are not only seen. and evangelism, but even within our church body and in our culture. Truth too, God's work and his people can be set back. But not overcome. I want to read that again. God's work and his people can be set back, but not overcome. Folks, no matter what goes on in the world around you, at the end of the day, God will win. Right? It's that simple. We look at some of the things going on in society and it's really hard to watch. It's really hard to hear. It's very troubling. Think about the world that my little kids are going to grow up in when they're my age and older. And I ask the question, at what point will the church be persecuted in this country? I didn't ask if, I asked when. It's gonna happen. It's happened in every culture in the world. Why would ours be any different? Don't you see where things are going? Don't you see the electorate, the young generation, the values that they embrace? Folks, when people who are in their twenties today are in their forties and fifties , kind of a very different looking country. I'm speaking the truth. We shouldn't stick our heads in the sand. The fact is that God's work may very well be set back, but it cannot be overcome. Notice what he says in verse 4, ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them, because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. Notice the phrases. Ye are of God. Number one, he says this, you belong to God. You're his child, and there are tremendous implications to being in that position. That means that at the end of the day, whatever you lose on this side is not lost forever. Whatever hardship you may deal with on this side is temporary Whatever is taken away is not permanent. You belong to God. You are in a wonderful position. Embrace that. Cherish that. Glory in that. You belong to God. And then he says, little children. I've mentioned this several times in 1 John. But when John knows that he's making a point, that's not easy, he many times says, little children. He affirms that affection that he has for them. He reminds them of the affection that God has for them. And so while he says something that's hard , He softens the blow by saying, God cares about you, he loves you. You belong to him. He then makes another interesting statement. He says, you have overcome them. Now he doesn't say you're going to overcome them. It's kind of interesting, he says, you already have. Now, if you're in a situation where you just you know had a tough conversation and you just spoke the truth and now you're paying the consequence, you don't feel like you've overcome anything. But in God's eyes you have. In God 's eyes you have You are saved. Satan can't take you out of God's kingdom. You belong to the Lord no matter what you go through in this life. There's a redemptive purpose because you'll stand before Christ and he will reward you for your faithfulness. The fact is you are an overcomer if you're saved. And he reminds them of that. He doesn't say that you're going to, he says you have already. That position means that you have overcome some wonderful things. You've been rescued. You sit in a position of grace. And then lastly, he says, this greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. You know, sometimes we forget that we are just one person caught in the midst of a great battle. And that's one person over the course of human history that's been caught in a great battle. From the moment that Satan rebelled against God He has wanted to destroy God's work. First thing he does is he grabs the angels and says, rebel with me, and a huge host of them do As soon as God creates Adam and puts him and his wife in the garden, what does he do? He focuses attention on Adam. He wants to destroy God's work. And we see the hand of Satan fighting God at every single step of the way. And guess what? You and I are caught in the middle of that struggle. We are Sometimes when we sit in a position, we go, why me? Why do I have to be in this position right here? Why did that have to come to me? I didn't seek that out. I didn't want to deal with that. And now I'm here. Why? Because you're caught in the middle of this great battle between the kingdom of light and the kingdom of darkness. But I want to remind you of something. Greater is he that's in you than he that's in the world. Everything that's going on in the world today is moving in a direction. I remember this illustration that R. A. Tori gave I don't remember it because I heard him do it. I read it in a book, okay? I remember reading it in a book. And this was an illustration about God's providence. You know, God's sovereignty is something nobody here fully understands But he gives this illustration. He says this, God's sovereignty is kind of like this. You have all these people on a boat, and they're making decisions. They're going places, they're doing what they want to do. They've got so much freedom on that boat. But you know what? That boat's moving somewhere. They're doing all kinds of stuff on the boat. But that boat is eventually going to end up at a certain destination. And that's how the world is. People rise to power, they do good things, they do bad things. People are abusive. People are merciful. We look at human history, and you know what we see? We see a bunch of people on a boat doing what they want to do, but the ship's going somewhere. And one day, God is going to dock the boat. If you want to put it in those terms. And he's going to hold everybody accountable for what they've done. One day we're all going to stand before God. People who have lived unjust, abusive, wicked lives, who have thrown off restraint and ignored God 's position as the sovereign of the universe. who have mocked him, who have attacked his people, they're going to meet him face to face. And on that day it won't go well. And those who have trusted in the finished work of Christ, they're going to meet the Lord too. And all those times that we have gone through difficulty and challenge and struggle. We've had experienced pain and hardship. The times that we didn't see God walking alongside us and strengthening us, the times that we lost something that we Because we didn't compromise, let's put it that way. He's going to look at those situations and he's going to reward our faithfulness. The fact is, the boat is moving and people are making decisions. But at the end of it all, they're going to meet the sovereign. In Romans 8, it talks about how God is going to take everything in the creation. He's going to restore it. To the way he wanted it to be. He takes everything in our lives and he works them together for good to perfect the image of Christ in us. to accomplish his mighty purposes in us. The fact is, folks, as Paul wrote to the church at Philippi, being confident of this very thing that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ. Folks, God is working in our lives through all of the things that we encounter. I want to make no prediction about what you and I might face. If I was going to make a prediction, I'd want to make a prediction as positively as possible. But I'm not a prophet, so I can't do that. I hope the best. But the fact is this, it's inevitable that you and I, at times, will stand in a position where we will either compromise or speak truth. And in that position, there's a great conflict within the soul. We have to stand on the side of truth We belong to God. We've already overcome them. God is greater than Satan. I move to a third and final point. God wants us to rest in his providence. As we faithfully hold fast to sound doctrine. He emphasized the reality of opposition to these people. You won't be likes. You won't be popular. You won't be listened to. You're going to face hardship. Real nice story, huh? Hey, you know what? Sometimes you just gotta you gotta know the truth. If you don't know the truth, when you are in that position, what's going to happen to you? You aren't prepared for it. That doesn't mean all of us equally face that kind of a pressure. But if and when we need to be ready. He emphasizes the reality of their position and their future. You belong to God. You are saved. God is saving you in the sense that He is perfecting you, He's maturing you, He's growing you into Christ's likeness. You're being sanctified. And one day he's going to rescue you from this fallen world, and you're going to enter into eternity, and you're going to be with him forever. And he is going to set every single matter straight in this world. Isn't that an amazing thought? So he reminds them: this is what you may face, this is reality, and this is position and future. Why does he do that? Because we have to rest in the providence of God. We have to rest in his tender care. We have to rest in who he is. Nothing can stop God's purposes. Matthew 16, Jesus said , On this rock I'll build my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. There's nothing that can stop God's work in this world. I didn't say that can't hinder or can't resist, but stop and overcome, it can't happen. It's that simple. The boat's moving. It's going to end up in the harbor someday. I think of the story of Moses. In Hebrews 11, 24, it says this. By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. And listen to what it says. Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God. Than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. That's an amazing statement. He chose affliction because he knew that the pleasures of this world are temporary. He made a calculated decision. He said, I'm going to stand on the side of truth, not the side of this world, because I know that the benefit is eternal versus temporary. He esteemed the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, for he had respect under the recompense of the Ward. Reward by faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. That is a tremendous example of how you and I need to live in this world. Just like Moses. I think of Daniel. I love the story of Daniel. Here's a young man. He's 14 years old. Give or take a year or two, okay? I don't know exactly how old he was. He was a young teenager. Now, how many of our junior high kids could have done what Daniel did? You know, you're ninth grade, eighth grade, tenth grade. You you're removed from your your home country and you're brought into a pagan Gentile land. Now if Daniel was like a lot of us, we would have gone like, wow, there's a lot of pleasure down here in Persia. A lot of good stuff going on down here. Yeah, give me, I'll I'll eat those foods. Like that's a new thing, I'll try that. Yeah, you know, the way that we do things in back in Jerusalem it was a little bit oppressive. It was, you know, a little little a little too rigid. I kinda like the way that we do things Daniel wasn't like that. They removed Daniel with the intent to indoctrinate him so that he would reject his Jewish, God-centered upbringing and would embrace the gods of the Chaldeans. In fact, it's interesting. In Daniel 1, it says that they took children with whom was no blemish, well favored and skillful in wisdom, cunning in knowledge, understanding in science. And such as had ability in them to stand in the king's palace and listen to what it says, whom they might teach the learning And the tongue of the Chaladeans. Now, if you want to break down that in a practical sense, he's basically saying this. They wanted to break down these Jewish boys, and they wanted to remove their entire Jewish background, and wanted to remove their faith in God. They wanted to break them down and make them Chaladean individuals who would rule their own people. That was the intent. And then it says this, and the king appointed them a daily provision of the king's meat, and at the end of three years, three years, they were going to stand before the king. That is the length of time that we send our kids to college just about. This was a very thorough reorganizing of how these people looked at life. And for Daniel in those circumstances to make an appeal and say I would like to not eat the food that you give me. Can you imagine? Like, isn't that why we took you out of Israel? Like Didn't we bring you here to change what you eat and how you dress and how you think and everything? Like we brought you here to change who you are. That's why you're here. I don't want to defile myself with this food. That's phenomenal. Think about when Daniel was targeted as an older man. They his enemies come to the king and they say, We think you should make a decree that says, Nobody prays to any God but you, O king. Why did they do that? Because they liked the king? No. They knew that was the easiest way to get rid of Daniel. They knew his consistency. They knew his faithfulness. He had a reputation. They set him up. Folks, people might do that to you one day. The question is, will you be like Daniel and just continue in faithfulness? The fact is there are many, many examples in the Bible of people who are put in that position. And they stood firm. They didn't stand arrogantly. They weren't aggressive and antagonistic. When the fight came, they stood. And that's what we need to be. And that's the that's what this text is all about. How do we need to respond? Trust. Rest in God's providence. Obey. Hold fast to sound doctrine, even if it's not popular. And be a person of prayer. First Timothy chapter two says this: I exhort thee therefore, first of all, prayer and supplication, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men, for kings and for all who are in authority. That we may lead, listen carefully, a lot quiet and peaceable life in all godliness. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, who will have all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. Why do we pray for kings and for all who are in authority? So that you and I can live peaceable lives in this world. So we can tell people about Jesus. It's not wrong for us to ask the Lord to keep this nation free. That we as Christians continue to have the freedoms and the liberties that we do to assemble. to speak truth, to evangelize, to train our kids, to actually have a voice in the public square. We should pray fervently that God keeps this land like that. You know, a lot of people came to the United States before it was the United States. Because the lands that they lived in didn't have those freedoms. In the 1600s, my ancestors were Huguenots who left France because they were being slaughtered. And they came to the new world because they wanted to be able to serve God in freedom. The fact is we've got to trust God, we've got to obey the Lord. And we need to be people of prayer who pray that God will preserve the liberties that we enjoy in this country. And that we won't waste those liberties. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, this is a very practical text. We as your people need to hear it. We're going to face opposition at some point. Before you return. And I pray that you'll help us to be people of character and principle. People who will stand firm and speak truth when we are called to do such a thing. People who will not fear the wrath of the king, but will endure as seeing him who's invisible. I pray that we'll be folks who can continue to live in a land Of peace and liberty. I thank you for this country that stands apart from many countries in the world as a place of peace. And a place of liberty. And I pray that as your people, we would be able to continue to enjoy those so that we can proclaim the gospel freely in this country. I pray that you would work in our lives through this text and strengthen us through it. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.