Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our final Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection and hope that this week has been encouragement to you. Lots of simple little truths, but sometimes those simple truths they are the most encouraging. Well this this morning what I'd like us to do is kind of wrap it up with the final two truths that we looked at uh this past Sunday. And rather than reading the whole section of scripture, which we've done each week because of the length of uh what we're going to cover today. I'm just going to go ahead and jump right into the details. The first of those two truths that we're going to look at this morning is that the extent of Christ's command is something that should encourage us. When I say the extent, here's the statement. In verse number 18, he says, the gates of hell will not prevail against it. Now, he's been talking about the fact that he owns the church. The church is built on the Lord Jesus Christ, the rock, and he has promised, I will build my church. Well then he goes on to say the positive, now the negative, the gates of hell cannot prevail against it. You say, well, what does he mean by the gates of hell? That's a that's a statement that It's going to be hard to figure that out. Well the truth is there's actually an interpretive challenge here, and the reason for that is that this word translated hell here, the Greek term, is not just translated hell, it's translated a couple different ways in the New Testament. I want to give you the two examples. of this so that we can kind of understand what he's saying because those two pieces together actually they present a very rich principle. truth that we find here. The first way that it's translated, obviously the most common way, is with the word hell. Revelation 20 verses 14 and 15 it says Death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. Whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. Now the term hell in this ta this context, as you can see, is not talking about the final destination of those who have disregarded the gospel, have ignored the gospel, have placed their faith in something outside of Christ. He says that death and hell are cast into the lake of fire. In other words, this is a real place of torment, but it is not the final place of torment. This is the place where people who are unbelievers await that final judgment where they will receive their final verdict of guilt and everlasting destruction, where they will be cast into the lake of fire forever. So when he talks about it in this term, then this sense, he's talking about the fact that that place of destruction is not going to be able to prevail against the gospel and the building of the church that the Lord Jesus Christ is doing. But the second way this word is used is also very interesting. And the example is in 1 Corinthians 15, 55. It says, O death, where is thy sting? O grave Where is thy victory? Now that word grave there is actually the same Greek term, translated grave, that is used in Revelation 20, translated hell. And the reason that this is significant is because sometimes this word is not just referring to a place of judgment. but it can also be referring to simply the grave. And there is a Hebrew equivalent in the Old Testament, the word Sheol. which can be used in some places to refer to hell and other places to simply the grave. And context is what determines which way we understand that. In fact, if you're reading in the authorized version, you're going to see that the word shuol is not always translated hell. Sometimes it's translated great. It's used based on context. And usually the context makes it pretty clear. So in this particular s uh context where it says, death where is your sting, grave where is your victory, He's emphasizing the fact that the believer who is not only rescued from hell is also rescued from the grave and he's going to triumph over death and this is guaranteed. So he's emphasizing the fact that the believer should be comforted in the fact that physical death is not the end of the story. absent from the body is present with the Lord. You say, well, how do these two pieces actually go together? Well the way that they go together Is that in one sense you could understand the passage to be saying God is going to rescue people from eternal destruction through Christ's redemptive work, and the gates of hell are powerless to hold the believer captive. He is freed forever by the saving power of the gospel. That is one way of understanding the passage of Scripture. A second way of understanding it is that death does not end the story for the church. No matter how significant a believer is, it might have been someone who is a pastor, a leader, someone who's very influential in his generation. When this person dies, that's not the end of the story. He's entering into his eternal inheritance. A new generation is going to replace him. A generation of believers is going to preach the gospel, make disciples, and the gospel is going to go from one generation to the next generation. In other words, there's nothing, not even death, that has the power to overcome the Lord's work in the church. You say, well, those two pieces don't seem to be in conflict with one another. They seem to actually harmonize very well together. And the answer is yes. They actually present together a very rich concept of helping us to recognize that death has no power to stop the work that God is doing. And hell has no power over the power of the gospel. God rescues people from eternal destruction through the power of the gospel. And even the death of the believer does not thwart or hinder the work that God is doing. So you say, well, what's the implication? The implication is very simple. We can take tremendous comfort in the reality that we are a part of a great story that is culminating in the eternal kingdom of God. And the gates of hell will not prevail against what God is doing in the church. There's also a second truth that I want us to see before we close. And that is that the gospel 's power is definite and should encourage us. In verse number 19, he goes on to say this. and I will give thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven. So in the in the first part of verse eight in verse 18, he emphasizes negatively, the gates of hell can't prevail against it. In verse number 19, he emphasizes positively, and I will give you the keys of the kingdom. In other words, the gospel not only rescues us from hell, and not only gives us power over death, But the gospel gives us an eternal inheritance with the saints in heaven. And so while the previous statement emphasizes power over death and eternal condemnation, The second statement emphasizes that the gospel makes us qualified to enter into the kingdom of God. It reminds me of what Jesus says in John chapter 3 to Nicodemus. He says, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of heaven. And how is one born again? It's through the preaching of the gospel. and faith alone in the finished work of Christ. The simple implication is that we know what God uses to open blinded eyes to deliver souls from eternal destruction to provide an everlasting entrance into his eternal kingdom. And he has entrusted this message to you and to me at this time in history. Isn't that an amazing thing to consider? You say, well, Joel, what can we take away? What are your final thoughts for these truths that we've looked at this week? Well, we as God's people are on the winning side of history. And that's something we should never get over. It's true that things can look bleak at periods of time in history, but if we look at the end of the story, we will recognize that we are on the winning side. Now we don't know where we are in church history. It feels as if we're at the end of church history. But every generation has believed this. We recognize that the return of Christ is imminent. It can happen at any time. There's nothing stopping God from bringing this End eschatology, this last period of the last things, bring this to pass. There's nothing stopping him from doing it. His return is eminent But what this should do is ultimately provide us with a healthy, balanced perspective. You say, well, what does that look like? Well, it looks something like this. We anticipate that Jesus can come at any time and we live as if he's coming today. We are faithful and enduring, recognizing that while we are ready for him to come today, He may not come today. We are living with that balanced perspective. We desire to see the investment of our time. and energy in the kingdom of God to go not just from this generation, but to every generation that will come between now and the return of Christ. Maybe in our lifetime, maybe a thousand years from now, the Lord knows the day and the hour we do not. So I ask you these final questions. Knowing all the things we've talked about this week, are you committed to Christ's program? Will you be faithful to obey him and what he has commanded us to do in these areas? I hope the answer to both of those questions is yes. But there's a third question I want to ask. What kind of mindset Are you taking into this enduring as seeing him who is invisible? My encouragement to you is that we would take a mindset of confidence. One where we are convinced we are on the winning side. He is building his church. The gates of hell cannot prevail against the church. He has given to us the keys of the kingdom. He is preserving his church, protecting his church. He is building his church because he loves the church. That's what I want to leave you with this morning. And I hope as we go into this weekend, these truths will in fact encourage and strengthen and press us on to greater degrees of faithfulness in the Lord's work. Have a blessed weekend and Lord willing we'll see many of you on Sunday. Have a good day. Bye now