Surely he hath bore our griefs, and carried our sorrows, yet we did esteem him stricken Smitten of God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray We have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter. And as a sheep before her shears is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. He was taken from prison and from judgment, and who shall declare his generation For he was cut off out of the land of the living, for the transgression of my people was he stricken. And he made his grave with the wicked And with the rich in his death, because he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin. He shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteousness servant justify many. He shall bear their iniquities Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he hath poured out his soul unto death And he was numbered with the transgressors, and bare the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors. The theme of worship for today, let's reflect on Christ's encouragement to his people. All right, I'd like to invite you to bow with us as we open up our service in prayer and ask the Lord to really take these truths and cement them deeply in our hearts, and that as we walk out of this service, This afternoon, our hearts will be just overwhelmed with praise and gratitude, and we will have been uplifted because of the wonderful truths of Scripture that we will examine today. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we think about these words in Isaiah about the Lord Jesus Christ, his willingness to go And to suffer and to bleed and to die as our sin-bearing substitute. The Father looking on the travail of his soul and being satisfied, his wrath against our sin was satisfied because of Christ's propitiation. We're reminded of his triumph over death. And we think about the fact that it is this person and this work described in Isaiah 53 that is the sole foundation for the church of God. And so this morning, as we reflect on the person and the work of Christ, his triumph over death, we would remind ourselves that today we serve a triumphant Savior. He's building his church. He's preserving his people. He is strengthening them and uplifting them. Father, we think about brothers and sisters in Christ all over the world today. who are suffering immensely because of the cause of Christ. We think about believers in war-torn countries. We think about those who are suffering today at the hands of brutal attacks this past week. Our hearts grieve, and we pray for those who are innocent people who have been killed. Father, I pray that your people would be strengthened in these tough times. I pray that your church would be preserved in these regions where there's tremendous animosity against your people. Father, I pray that as we gather and we worship this morning, our hearts will be knit together in praise, that our thinking would be Focus on what is true and that we would be uplifted and that we would pray fervently for those around the world who suffer for the cause of Christ. We ask for your blessing on this time, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good morning Acre Baptist Church. Esteemed guests, both here personally with us and joining us on live stream. Uh before we get started on our song service, the deacons have asked me to preside over a little bit of administrative, so if you'll indulge me for just a few minutes. I'd like to ask Brother Mitchell, Pastor Linder, and Pastor Courchet to please come to the front of the stage. Anchor Baptist Church has a good history of providing training and mentorship. For young men who are seeking God's guidance and direction in perhaps full-time ministry, Brother Braxton Mitchell is a product of that, and we are thrilled to have him with us. But at this time, I'd like to remind everybody that this is Pastor Appreciation Month as well. So the deacons and the congregation have put together some gifts for our pastoral staff. So at this time, Brother Braxton, thank you very much for being here with us with us. Now Pastor Linder is kind of an alumni at Boomerang Forest. He he was here before, as a matter of fact, I knew him when he was just Bishop Linder. And so we also have a gift for Pastor Linder. Thank you. Thank you very much. Pastor Porchet, he is the head of this teaching ministry, mentoring Brother Back Braxton and also helping Pastor Linder get re-acclimated, Maryland, I believe Pastor Porchet has been with us for five years now. And I believe if you've been around for the last year or so, you've seen this teaching ministry explode. We now have teaching in Sunday school, expository preaching during the services. We also have the Tuesday evening Bible Institute courses that he has just recently instituted. If you're not taking advantage of those, I highly recommend you do that. Whoops. Whoops, I'm They they both start with the letter J and since these are just readers going up and down, up and down, I'm easily confused and having a senior moment. Anyway, Pastor Porsche, thank you very much. Alright, very good. That just took a minute or two, so we'll get started with the song service We're going to take our red handles or look on the screen with me. We're going to turn to page 524. Page 524. It's right after five hundred and twenty three. How'd I flip that over already? 177. Okay, I am on a roll today. All right, 177. Our great savior, one, two, four, and five. Please stand with me Sing out, make the joyful noise. Jesus. I believe you are Hey Amen. That's good singing. Now we'll turn to page 336, since I've got the right schedule in front of me. 336. My hope is in the Lord. All four verses. I am ready , I do God for the prayer. Amen. Please have a seat. You sing like that. You you all just don't hear it the way I hear it up here. My goodness, what a heavenly choir going this morning. Page 577. Be strong in the Lord, all three verses. It is over. Please God , can be helped you understand. Please come and be God. We don't need that , please come , please go. Hey, yeah, that's good. For our scripture reading this morning, we're going to find ourselves in the book of Matthew. The book of Matthew, chapter 16. And we'll start at verse 13 and read henceforth. When Jesus came into the coast of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that the Son of Man am? And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist. Some Elias, and others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-Jonah, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven And I say also unto thee that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven. And whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven. And whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Shut up , get up for So if you think that 's right, Okay Next couple songs. The next song will come out of the blue book in front of you, or please follow along on the screen. We're going to sing all three verses of our triune God. Break my heart. Amen. Now we'll take the next song will be up on the screen. It's not in your hymnal in the book In front of you. So please follow along for the sake of his name. We're going to sing four verses. And on the last verse, I'd like the instruments to bow out, please. Please stand with me on this song. While I tried the friend , the true cell Sheen are. . Song for news for we pray well that day Now the replay from the rain. Well might be waving Jesus Christ. Amen. Please be speaking Deathly darkle on your hand in heaven Is a shadow in his light, draw authority long government. Challenge is his brain roll and no down the wings, all that is his hand. Nothing ever can, nothing ever will Oh there comes the Lord. We are well known that we were more than month Then man broke in our shame. Then he saw the dog. Now we there is no name. Everything of crime we have had with done since no man was even for. Nothing ever can, nothing ever will overcome the Lord our We are rescued out of darkest night, free from fate and he wall. And the kingdom of our stage to us for me to all of me try to kill a kill more Nothing ever can not be ever will Oh, they come the Lord. Oh my God, lit glory us, He always went We know we can run. We know we always went our God in the world. We know we can we always can 't run We know we can be a man We are seeking Jesus Christ is for all. We 're glory. And when the stormy ends, we achieve the sweat, for his heart cannot give God. We never can not be ever will overcome the Lord our God , nothing ever can not be ever will overcome. Thankful that we know how the story ends. Our children who are in junior church, if you could be dismissed to the back. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and turn to a passage that was read earlier in the service, and that is Matthew chapter 16. Matthew chapter 16, we're looking at verses 13 through 19 together this morning. And my desire this morning is that as we look at this passage of scripture and we see the conversation that the Lord Jesus has. with Peter, that there would be great encouragement for each of us as we faithfully endure in what God has called us to do. And as we think about those whom we we support as missionaries, that those who are on the field, we would pray that God would uplift them and encourage them. Matthew 16, verse 13 says the following. When Jesus came into the coast of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? And they said, Some say thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And I say unto thee that thou art Peter, upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth Shall be loosed in heaven. Let's bow for just a moment and ask the Lord to help us to understand the weight of these wonderful truths that we will expound this morning. Father, as we read the Word of God together, and as I open up the scriptures and I proclaim your truth, I pray that the Holy Spirit would aid me as I present this text of Scripture to this congregation. Pray the things that are said would be consistent with the intent of the scriptures before us, that we would recognize the tremendous, very simple yet so deeply profound truths. That the Lord Jesus unpackages for Peter in this short little conversation. And as we think about how these truths relate to how we look at the time and history in which we live, What you've called us to be as your people and what we are called to do as a church, I pray that we would be richly encouraged. And that these truths would just resonate in our souls, not just in this moment, but it would truly resonate in our souls the rest of our days. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Now I understand that the text in front of us was not given so that Peter would know how to be a missionary. What the text is doing, it is telling us some foundational truths about the nature of the church itself and the nature of Christ's relationship to the church. And when we understand what the church is and we understand how Christ relates to the church. Those truths should be at the foundation of not just what we do, but why we do it. And what we should see as we look at these scriptures is that God doesn't just want us to be a laboring people. But he wants us to be a laboring people who are confident, who are encouraged, who recognize that we're on the winning side. And the things that we do in faithfulness to God and the time that he gives us on this planet, in fact, it is no waste of time. But in fact, it is something that we can have deep confidence that God is going to work through, not just in our generation, but in every generation until the Lord Jesus I want to give you a couple of stats to consider before we dig into these truths. The first is a Gallup poll that I read from 2021. This is what it states, from 1940 to the year 2000. 70% or more of Americans belong to some kind of religious institution. Twenty years later, in 2021, that number fell to about 47 %. Now, if you dig into this a little bit further, what you will see is that the vast majority of that 47 % who are attending church regularly would not be in the age category that I would find myself in. So people that are, let's say, say 40 years and below, that number drops to about 36 %. To put that in perspective, only thirty per six thirty-six percent of those who are having children, raising children, that are actually influencing and governing and running businesses, only thirty-six percent of those people are actually involved in some kind of religious institution. If you go even further down in 2022 Only 20% of Americans regularly attend the religious service on a weekly basis. 20%. I asked this question. How do you process that? Do you feel that there's no hope? Do you feel like we as Christians need to just kind of cling on and say, I hope Jesus comes today because I don't think I could survive another year or two? Is that how we should respond to these things? Well, I submit to you that that is not how we should respond to these things. Many Christians today are worried about how the church has lost influence in our culture. But I will say this The true health of the church is not determined by the number of people in a society that attend it. But the true health of the church has something to do with what's going on in the hearts of the people who actually assemble. Are these truly people who are converted? Are they alive in Christ? Have they understood the gospel? Have they placed their faith in the finished work of Christ? Are these people who are growing as disciples of Christ? whose lives are being transformed by the message that has saved them from sin and that sustains them every single day of their life The truth is it's a painful thing to see our society descend into a backwardness. And I would use the word self-defeating hedonism. That is true about our society. People are living by their whims, by their impulses, by their bellies, whatever they want and whatever they feel they think is true, and they think it is good. And the truth is, we know that that leads to very destructive ends. It's painful to see the evil that is perpetuated in our society and the evil that is celebrated in our society. It's painful to see people embrace lies that are literally breaking the foundation of our civilization. It's painful to look at the state of the American church and ask the question, what lies ahead? But I want you to know that I didn't bring this up to you to discourage you this morning. I brought it up to say that we need to see the encouragement of Scripture in the light of reality. We understand that the world that we live in is not more wicked than it was a thousand years ago or two thousand years ago. The heart of people is a constant problem. And the heart of people needs to be conquered by the gospel message. And so we see in 2 Timothy chapter 4 that Paul addresses Timothy living in tumultuous times, living in a difficult culture, and he says Preach the word. Be instant in season and out of season. Reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine. The time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lust shall they keep to themselves teachers having itching ears. They will turn away their ears from the truth and turn unto fables. But watch. Thou in all things, endure affliction, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry. You know what Paul is telling Timothy? The world is a messy place. It's an evil place. It's a place where people love living by lives. It's a place where people love living by their impulses and on their belly. And the reality is that the answer to every generation is the same. Preach the word, endure affliction, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of your ministry. Nothing has changed. in the last 2,000 years. And so our attitude about the times in which we live should be no different than the attitude of the Apostle Paul in the time in which he lived. This morning what I want us to notice for Matthew 16 is that there are some foundational truths about Christ's relationship to the church. And it's interaction with the church that should encourage us, as we take seriously the command to every generation, to preach the word, endure affliction, do the work of an evangelist, make foolproof. Of the ministry that God has given us. The first truth is this. The church's foundation is definite. And that should encourage all of us. Now, when I say definite, what I mean is this. God defines what the church is built upon. In other words, there is no ambiguity to what God says is the actual foundation for the church of God. And we find this in verse number 18. He says, upon this rock I will build my church. Now you may ask the question, what exactly is Paul or is Jesus saying when he tells Peter on this rock I will build my church? Well the answer is there was a context in which they were having a conversation. And there was something that Peter had been asked, and something that Peter had stated that was a rock that Jesus is referring to that the church is built upon. But before we get to that, I want to say this. It's really easy for the church to be captured by the lie that it could be built on something outside of Christ. It's very easy. It's easy for us to be lured into resting our confidence in what we can see. The person we can talk to and will talk back to us. The things that we hold in our hands. This has been a a problem in every generation of church history. And the fact is we see examples in the New Testament. For instance, 1 Corinthians. Chapter 3, verse 4. I alluded to this text this morning. Actually, I say I alluded. I dealt with this text in Sunday school. He says, one saith, I'm of Paul, another saith, I'm of Apollos. He says, are ye not carnal? Who then is Paul? Who is Apollos? But ministers by whom you've believed. You know what Paul is saying to the church at Corinth? He's saying, the church isn't built on me. The church isn't built on Apollos. In Revelation 3. 17 to the church in Laodespia. He says, Thou sayest, I'm rich and increase with goods and have need of nothing, but knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. Now hold on a second. Why do these people believe they're rich? Well, because materially they were. But he says that's not where real riches lie. It's not the stuff you hold in your hands. It's not that that bank account that you can check online. It's not the cars that you have in your garages. It's not the estates that you own. It's not the financial prosperity that the church is built upon. It's built on something entirely different. And so the church can be lured into thinking that in fact it is built on something outside of Christ. Church is built on cultural accommodations. Charismatic personalities, popular movements, elaborate facilities, manufactured momentum, or a strong balance sheet have a misplaced sense of security. And they're in grave danger. The truth is that the church can assemble under a tree and be more vibrant than the one that's assembled here this morning. Not saying that we aren't, okay. I don't know about you, but that was some wonderful music, some wonderful rich choos that we sang together as a congregation. This is a wonderful and glorious time. But the reality is that the depth and the strength and maturity of this church has nothing to do with the pews that you sit in or the facilities that we own or what's in the bank account. It's all about the power of the Spirit of God working in people's lives. And He works through one means And this is what Paul says to the church at Corinth in 1 Corinthians 3. 11. He says, Other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. So when Jesus says to Peter, on this rock I will build my church, what do you think he's talking about? He's talking about himself. He's talking about that confession of faith that Peter made where he says, You are the Christ, Messiah And all the Old Testament implications that are associated with that term, you are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. The fact is that pastors and leaders and movements, they're all going to come and go. Some of the greatest men who have ever handled the Word of God in this society. There are tombstones that have their name on them, and they are so worn that if you walked into that that place and you looked for their tombstone, you couldn't even read their names. Yet these men were amazing men and they expounded the Word of God and they faithfully endured. And you know it because of their faithfulness in that generation we're still meeting in churches because there are generations that have continued the work. But the fact is, the church isn't built on those people. It's built on Christ The church is per built on the person and work of Christ. He is the eternal person who died for our sins, rose triumphant from the dead. And this is not just a warning. Don't build the church on something else. It's an encouragement. He is the rock that this church is built on. Second truth I want you to notice from the scriptures is that Christ's promise is definite And that should encourage us as well. Not only does he say, on this rock I will build my church, but the second piece is this. He says, I will catch that. Build my church. We've seen the painful decline of churches and institutions in our lifetime. It's true. When I went to college In the end of the 90s into the 2000s, there were a lot of Bible colleges that today don't exist. There are a lot of churches. That were once vibrant communities where the gospel was being preached and people were growing and people were raising their families, and those congregations do not exist anymore. The places where they once met are no longer places of worship. You go to the United Kingdom and you see that there are many, many places that were once vibrant communities where people were proclaiming the gospel, raising their children, pointing them to Christ, making disciples. Those places are now museums. They're now places that people come in and they talk about what it was like In England in the early 1900s or the late 1800s, they talk about the history. The fact is it's hard to see that. The trajectory of our culture seems very dire. The times we are living in are very uncertain. I think about the news. There's a horrific attack this week. Not just a horrific attack this week. But the fact is there's a war going on that has the potential to spill into many nations. And the fact is all it takes is a couple of dominoes, and you're talking about the entire world being embroiled in this massive conflict that has huge implications. Am I predicting that? No, I'm not. I certainly hope that doesn't happen. We need to pray that God intervenes. But the reality is this: you read the book of Revelation, you understand something. There's going to be a day of Jacob's trouble. There's going to be a time when the church is raptured out of this world. There's going to be a time when there's going to be immense persecution of the Church of God unlike any other time in human history. There are going to be difficult days ahead, and we do not know the day or the hour when Christ says, It's time to rapture my church, and these things begin. But the reality is this: could be today, could be tomorrow. It could be in a thousand years. We really don't know. But those things are things that cause us to be concerned. These things are uncertain. And so what do we see in this text? Jesus says, I'm going to build my church. In other words, the person who cannot lie promises. That's definite. The person who's unlimited in his authority and his power, he says, I will do this. He has purpose to do this. And there's an implication that is connected to this. He promises to do it, and he does it through means. And those means are the people that are called the church of God. He literally grows the church and builds the church to the preaching of the gospel when people in those congregations are faithful. I think of the illustration of a fire. Does anybody in this room have the ability to create, should I say create fire? Do you have the ability to control the laws of nature that create combustion? Some people are looking at oh some people are gonna raise their hands. There's some kids, there's some teenage boys that believe they have that ability. But here's the simple fact: nobody in this room created combustion. We didn't create those laws, they're made by God. But we understand that those laws are there and we can use those laws to well to build a fire and to warm our house and to cook our food and to sit around a campfire and sing songs. We understand that. And so the simple fact is that the laws that create the fire are used by what? Throwing logs on the fire. And when you feed the fire, what happens? It continues to flame. It continues to do this. And the reality is there's a there's a little illustration here of how God builds his church. He is the one who has the power and the authority and the promise and he uses us as we are faithful to do the work. The power is not in our hands. We're the means. Our labors are not a waste. They're not futile. He's promised to bless them. There's a third truth I want you to notice in this text His ownership is definite and should encourage us. I don't own this church. You don't own this church. Thankfully, this country doesn't own this church, and this county doesn't uh own this church, and this state doesn't own this church. Or some association doesn't own Church. The Church belongs to Christ He owns it. And with that ownership comes some very important implications When you talk about someone who owns something, if they are a good person, then that means that that thing that they own gets taken care of. And if they're a wasteful person, well that thing gets neglected. This church belongs to God, and I want to remind you this morning that He lovingly nourishes and preserves and defends his church. Let me give you some examples. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 25. Here's what it says. Christ loved the church. And he gave himself for it, that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word, that he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot. or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish before him in love. Now in that context he talks about how a husband is to love his wife. And how a husband and wife are to relate to one another in the human context, in that interaction. But in the midst of that instruction, he says Let me remind you that the family is supposed to be a picture of something that is far greater, far more beautiful, far more glorious, and that is God's love for his church. The Lord Jesus Christ is the true shepherd of the church. He's the good shepherd. And he gave his life for the sheep. I'm reminded of what it says in Romans chapter 8, verse 31. What shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? That's a great question. Question, isn't it? If God is for us, he can be against us. He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? He's talking about every blessing that has been purchased by Christ in the gospel, through the gospel work. He says, Who can lay any charge against God's elect? Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? This is very important. Don't miss this. Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or apparel or sword? Why did Paul ask that question? Because he knew Christians that were experiencing the very things he mentions. Tribulation, distress, persecution, famine, nakedness, peril, sword. He says, if you're a Christian and you experience those things, has God abandoned you? Does he love you or not? He then goes on to say this. As it is written, for thy sake we are killed all the day long. We are accounted as sheep for the slaughter. Do you know where that was written? Isaiah 53. Nay, and all these things were more than conquerors through him that loved us. In other words, Paul's saying this is not just a first-century Christian church problem. This is something that goes all the way back to the beginning of time. As long as there has been sin in the world and there have been people that believed and anticipate Messiah and those who reject him, there is this contention in the world. And believers suffer persecution and hardship and difficulties. And he says, you know what? Those things do not separate you from the love of God. He says, I'm persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature. Shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord Not only is the church built on Christ, and not only does the church, is the church being built, promised to be built by Christ, but he owns the church. He loves the church. He cherishes the church. There are so many illustrations in scripture of God's love, the lost sheep. He says there's a hundred sheep. 99 of them are safe and one wanders off. Guess what the good shepherd does? He goes and he gets the one that wandered off. The lost coin. This woman has all these coins, she loses one, she can't find it, and what does she do? She searches everywhere to find this, and when she finds it, she celebrates with all of her friends. He says, that's the way God is. The prodigal son, here is this boy who has disgraced his father. He has done everything humanly possible to make the father be a disgraced man. And what happens when he returns? The father runs to him. He embraces him. And when the son says, make me a servant, he says, here my son, what are you talking about? We're going to celebrate your return. That's the God who takes care of this church. We can rest in his loving care. The fourth truth. Don't worry, there aren't ten. The extent of his command is very definite, and that should encourage us. Verse number 18, he says that the gates of hell shall not prevail against it And you might go, what in the world does it mean that the gates of hell shall not prevail against it? Instead of getting into the weeds, which I had intended to do earlier. I'm looking at our time and I want it to draw your attention to two scriptures that will help us to understand what I think he's saying. The first is Revelation 20, verses 14 and 15. It says this Death and hell, same word that's used here, the gates of hell, death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. Whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. When the Bible uses the term hell , It's referring to a place where a person is being judged who has rejected the gospel. But what is interesting about it? Is that that is a place of judgment where one awaits the final judgment of the lake of fire. And so when he talks about this place, it's a place that is terrible. It's a place of suffering. It's a place of exclusion from God's presence. It's a terrible place. And so he says that place does not have power over me in my work in the church. There's another passage of scripture that is very helpful, and that is 1 Corinthians 15, 55. It says, O Death, where is thy stain? Oh grave, where is thy victory? Interestingly, that word grave is the same Greek term that is used in Matthew 16. And so when he talks about the grave in this sense, he's saying that the believer can be encouraged, that physical death does not have the power to become the end for the Christian. You say, well, what is the point of what Jesus is saying here? There's really two different ways that I think we could understand this. And really to appreciate what he's saying, I think the two pieces actually come together. Because they harmonize and they present a very rich concept. I'll put it to you this way. God is going to rescue people from eternal destruction. Through Christ's redemptive work and the gates of hell, catch this, are powerless to hold those people captive. The believer will never face the wrath of God. In fact, in Romans chapter 8, he says, there is therefore now no Condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. And so we see that comfort. But there's a second aspect to this that is also very important. Death does not end the story of the church. No matter how significant a person is in reaching his generation. in shepherding people within his generation, in mentoring, in writing, and preaching all those things, no matter how faithful the individual has been, their death does not end the work that God is doing. No matter how significant, as one generation of believers enters his eternal inheritance, a new generation of believers replaces them to take the gospel to the nations. Do you realize that? In fact, we know that because just in this one congregation right here, this church was started in the 1970s. I'm not the first pastor of this church. I'm not even the fifth pastor of this church. There have been several pastors who God used. They all had their strengths. They all had their weaknesses. There were great things they did. There were terrible things they did. They're handled their situations they handled very well. They're situations that their peers they really questioned. But here's the fact. They preach the word of God They made disciples. And when one generation left, a new generation came. And when that generation left, a new generation came. And when that generation left, a new generation came. And guess what? here today because This truth, the passing of one generation on to the next, means that the church continues The fact is, if we are faithful here today, when I'm dead and you're dead and we're all gone, if Christ hasn't come back, guess what? There'll be a church here continuing to be faithful. Be preaching the gospel. And people from those those generations say, oh yeah, Pastor Joel, he had these strengths, he had these weaknesses, he handled these situations great. Here's ones where he, well, he struggled. He had a blind spot. But God continues his work. He continues his work in this community. He continues this work in communities outside of this one. He continues this work in communities all around the world. And so nothing, not even death itself, has the power to overcome the Lord's work through the church. If we come to a place in America where there is real persecution, I don't mean like I feel uncomfortable because of something somebody wrote about me on social media. I mean real persecution. I mean people are going to prison. I mean people are being killed for their faith. People are in huge difficult circumstances. I tell you, no matter what the government does to shut down the work of God, it will continue. It will absolutely continue. Somebody can be martyred and guess what? God will raise up somebody to replace them. Somebody will die and guess what? God will raise up someone to replace them. Someone will get old and weak and they'll not be able to continue doing the things that they're doing. And God will raise up somebody to replace them. This is the way that God works. And that is the sense, I believe, of what he's saying here. The last point is this. The gospel's power is definite, and that should encourage us. Verse 19, he says, I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven. What an amazing statement. So here's heaven, and here's a gate, and he says, here's the key that opens the door to that place. You say, well, what's the key? It's the gospel. It's the gospel. It's the good news. While the previous statement describes the gospel's power over death and eternal condemnation, the second statement provides the positive result of the gospel's power. People are made fit by the grace of God alone to enter the kingdom. They have been forgiven They have been declared righteous, justified. They've been made new creatures in Christ, and they're going to enter into that kingdom on the basis of the work of Christ alone. John 3, verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Revelation 21, 24, the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light of it. This is the New Jerusalem The kings of the earth do bring their glory and honor into it, and the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day, for there shall be no night there, and they shall bring the glory and honor of the nations into it. And there shall be in no w there shall in no wise enter into it anything that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie, but they which are written in the Lamb's book of life. So we could state it positively or negatively. We could say you reject Christ, you are condemned to eternal destruction in the lake of fire. That's the negative. Or we could say it positively, you accept Christ, and eternal destruction has no hold on you, and you are invited into the eternal presence of God. You have access to the New Jerusalem because your name is written in the book of life. What is it all saying? The keys of the kingdom are in the hands of his people. Folks, we have the gospel and we have a great responsibility to take it to the nations We know that God uses what he uses to open blinded eyes, to deliver souls from eternal destruction, to provide an everlasting entrance into his kingdom. And he's entrusted us with that message. Remember this? We have this treasure in earthen vessels that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. What's he talking about? The keys of the kingdom. That's what he's talking about. You say, well, Joel, what's the takeaway? A lot of stuff that I've had to think about. How do I just put it all together? Let me give you some final thoughts We as God's people are on the winning side of history. But we have no idea where we find ourselves in that story. Don't miss that. And because of that simple statement, we have to think biblically about the return of Christ. His return is imminent and we should be living with this tension of anticipation. He could come at any moment. And I hope he comes and I pray he comes. And I want to be found faithful until he comes. But we also have in our minds this understanding that no man knows the day and no man knows the hour, and we should be living with not just the anticipation of his coming today. But the reminder that he may not come in the lifetime of my children and my grandchildren and my great-grandchildren and their great-grandchildren. And so I need to be diligent today with both thoughts in mind. I need to consider this very, very carefully. Our desire should be that what we give in this life provides a means through which God strengthens people till he comes, whether it's today, tomorrow, or in a thousand years. And so I ask, are you committed to his program? Will you faithfully obey him and walk by faith in these areas? What mindset are you taking as you endure us seeing him who's invisible? Is it negative? Did you walk into this congregation this morning with a negative, defeated attitude? Because you've been watching the news all week, and you say, I'm just ready for him to come, and I'm done with this world, and I'm just gonna. I pray it happens tonight. Or is your attitude going, hey, he wins? And I'm a part of it. And I don't know if he's going to win tonight, tomorrow, in a thousand years, but I'm encouraged. I'm not defeated. I'm not pessimistic. I'm on the winning side. There is a positive, triumphant, and hopeful anticipation of what he's going to do. I tell you that if we take the first approach and he does not return in our lifetime, then we have wasted the opportunity of the generations that follow us. What are they building on? People sticking their heads in the sand. I'm thankful that there are generations before us that didn't do that. May God strengthen us by the truths that we have seen from his word today. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we think about the word, I pray we would leave this place with a deep gratitude That this church is built on Christ, that He has promised to build the church, that He loves the church. The gates of hell will not prevail against the church. But the church has the keys of the kingdom. And Father, we pray, even so come, Lord Jesus. We pray that your son will come soon. But may we take the attitude, we will be found faithful no matter the day or the hour. We will not stick our heads in the sand. We will not act as defeated people. But we will be faithful with a joyful, passionate, and hopeful anticipation. Of you continuing to build your work in our generation. May we be encouraged by the things we've heard today. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like you to take out your hymn books, please, and we're going to turn to a great song for us to close. 587, Victory in Jesus. And in fact, it is true. And so let us sing it as if it is true. Let's stand together, please, and let's sing this wonderful, wonderful song of triumph, victory in Jesus. I heard an old old story how danger came from Goldbee. How he came to my uncle Tuesday on rest by weep, I heard about his growing of his precious bond. When my weakness is all my hill, and one of the weak. Oh, my green in me God, I need all forever. I heard that when we 're going to be a good one. I take away with all the sea and never try and give me some. On the last, let's sing it with Ashpiano. There you go. And I heard that beautiful be on the Oh that we 'll take and glory. And don't be not me , not their love, not their Oh victory, my brother. He got me and body with his being born. He won me to give him He finds me in victory. He starts presenting. Whew, good song. Well if the Lord carries and he doesn't come back between now and tonight, we'll meet again tonight. And uh I pray that if he does not come, you will be here. And I think that we will have a great service. And I think that the Lord Jesus Christ will be magnified and we will be exalted. And we won't be exalted. He'll be we'll be encouraged. He'll be encouraged. We'll be uplifted. There's good words. We'll be uplifted because the word of God will be preached. And so I hope that tonight you'll come back for that. I'd like to ask if Charlie Archibald can close us in prayer and if you guys can go stand in the lobby areas, people come by and see you And that'll be really, really good. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your love. Thank you for bringing us together this morning. Thank you for the the word that was presented and we are so thankful that you have already won the victory and that uh we have a part in that and just uh help us To be encouraged by that. Help us to go forth. Help us to show your love to others and your your grace that you've shown to us, to others, and just help us to honor and glorify you. In Jesus' name. Amen.