Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our second and get in the word morning reflection this week. And we are back in Matthew chapter 16. So if you have your Bible, let's all turn together there. And we're going to look at verses 13 through 18 together. Again, that's Matthew chapter 16, verses 13 through 18. And we're talking about encouragement for those who are faithful in ministry. Here's what it says. When Jesus came into the coast of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? They said, Some say thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, and one of the prophets. He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona. For bl flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto you, but my Father which is in heaven. And I say unto you, that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Now, as we look at these verses, we were reminded yesterday of really the tumultuous times that we live, that we are living through. And it's important for us to keep a historical perspective. It is true that the times we're living in are difficult, but it's also true that the times that we're living in are not necessarily unprecedented in the light of the rest of history. It's easy for us to think that the burdens that we carry and the challenges that we face as a church, well, these are so unique to us that we almost have to change course and do things different than the way that they did in the past. And what we were reminded of yesterday is that God's plan is very simple. His plan is preach the word, be faithful, endure affliction, do the work of an evangelist. God is going to work through the means that He has ordained, the preaching of the Word and sound doctrine. And so this morning what I'd like us to do is now dig into some of the contents, the details. of what Jesus says to Peter when he talks about the nature of the church and Christ's relationship to the church. And so the first thing we're going to see is that the church's foundation is a very definite foundation. And the reason that that we should be encouraged is that this is a definite foundation. You know, it's easy for us as a church to be captured by the lie that we can or that we must build the church on something outside of Christ. And we can easily begin to do this, and we can easily begin to do this in a way that is going to be extremely detrimental to the church. It's easy for the church to be lulled into this thinking that our confidence needs to be in someone we can see or in something we can handle. something that we can actually interact with in a way that we can see with our eyes. And we see examples of this in the New Testament where churches did something like this. One example is the church at Corinth. Listen to what Paul says to the church at Corinth that was beginning to try to build its foundation on something outside of Christ. In 1 Corinthians 3, verse 4, it says, One saith, I'm of Paul, another saith, I'm of Apollos. He says, are ye not carnal who is Paul? Who is Apollos? But ministers by whom ye have believed? The point is that there were people that began to try to build their sense of confidence not on Christ and the gospel, but on the Apostle Paul, who they heard the gospel from. or Apollos, whom they heard the gospel from, someone who had strong leadership skills, someone who was very faithful, someone who was very diligent. Another example would be the church at Laodicea. In Revelation 3. 17 he says, Thou sayest, I am rich and increase with goods, and have need of nothing. But thou knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. The problem at the church of Lacia was not the same problem that they had in Corinth. Corinth was following men The Laodiceans looked at their prosperity and their confidence was in the fact that they were materially rich and living in ease. Well, actually at the heart of the issue, both churches had the same problem. The problem is that rather than them saying that their sense of confidence should be rooted in the foundation, Christ, it was in something outside of Christ. If a church is built on cultural accommodation, charismatic personalities, popular movements, elaborate facilities, manufactured momentum, or a strong balance sheet, any of those things. Those things have replaced Christ as the foundation, and that misplaced sense of security is in fact extremely dangerous and extremely detrimental to the church. We can see how Paul addressed this in 1 Corinthians 3. 11. He says, other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Sounds very similar to what Christ says in these verses. He says, on this rock I will build my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. You say, well, when he says this rock, what's he talking about? Well, he's talking about Peter's confession of faith just a few moments before the statement was made. Peter says, thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. He says, I know who you are, and I believe that you are Messiah. And so that is what Jesus is referring to when he says, on this rock I will build my church. You say, well, what's the takeaway? Well the takeaway is that pastors and church leaders and movements they're gonna come and go. Every single pastor whom God has used effectively, one day they're gonna die. One day they're gonna let you down. Movements that were once very strong and influential in the society. they're going to peter out and they're not going to continue to be able to do what they have that they have done. And the fact is that if our confidence is in men or movements, we're going to find ourselves disillusioned and discouraged and frustrated and fearful at some time. Moments like that, momentum will ebb and flow Balance sheets will be strengthened and reduced, but Christ's person and work, they're never going to change. You say, well, Joel, what is the takeaway from the things that we've heard this morning? Well the simple takeaway is this. The church is built on the person and work of Christ. And because the church is built on the person and work of Christ, It's built on an eternal person who is unchanging, who did something for us that not only was only effective a thousand years ago or two thousand years ago. But it's effective from that point until all of eternity. His death on the cross for our sins has settled our sin debt in full. His triumph over death and the resurrection has given us a secured eternal inheritance that nothing can take away. And this is not just a warning to us that the church cannot be built on something outside of Christ. This is a deep encouragement that because the church is built on Christ, we can have confidence no matter what we experience. in this very uncertain world. I hope this leaves you something to be very thankful for and something that encourages you deeply as you labor to be a faithful minister of Christ in whatever capacity. in whatever context the Lord Jesus has planted you in. If this has been an encouragement to you, I hope that you'll share that. If it's something that you think will be helpful to somebody else, please take a moment to share that with them. And Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue our series on this very important topic of encouragement for the faithful. Have a blessed morning. Bye now.