Let's all turn together to the book of John. And we are in John 21 this morning. And uh this is kind of an interesting Sunday because we have uh kind of gone through the Christmas season. We're not quite to the new year. And so the question is, as a preacher, what do I do with this particular Sunday? And so what we've done is we've kind of mixed Christmas and New Year's. And the passage we're going to look at this morning, I hope, will be A great encouragement to you, and it will really, really comfort and challenge you. So let's go ahead and pick up in verse number one, John 21. Says after these things Jesus showed himself again to his disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. And of this wise showed he himself. They were together Simon Peter and Thomas called Didymus, Nathaniel of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee. Two others of his disciples, Simon Peter said unto them, I go a fishing. They said unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth and entered into a ship immediately. That night they caught nothing. But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore, but his disciples knew not that it was Jesus And Jesus said unto them, Children, have ye any meat? They answered him, No. He said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship. And ye shall find. They cast their four now, and there came they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes. Let's skip to verse 9. As soon then as they were come to land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid thereon in bread. Jesus saith unto them, Bring me, bring of the fish which you have caught. Simon Peter went up and drew the net to land full of great fishes, and 150 and three. And for all that there were so many, yet was not yet the net broken. Jesus saith unto them, Come and dine None of the disciples did ask him, Who art thou, knowing that it was the Lord. Jesus then cometh and taketh bread and giveth them, and fish likewise. This is now the third time that Jesus showed himself to his disciples after he was risen from the dead. So when they had died, Jesus saith unto Peter, Simon, son of Jonas. Lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto them, unto him, Feed my lambs. He saith unto him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep. He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas , Lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he had said unto him the third time , Lovest thou me? He said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep. Please let's be all together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to really speak to our hearts this morning. Our Father, as we open this text, I pray the Holy Spirit, who indwells every Christian here, would move in our hearts. Help us to see the life of Peter and his failure and his stumbling, get your grace, as we see how kind and compassionate Christ was in this moment of his weakness. I pray that we would be encouraged to see the character of our Savior in its fullness. As we think about the failures and troubles of our past. As we think about the future that lies before us, I don't know what burdens might be carried in this room, but you do. And so I pray that you will take the word of God and minister richly to every heart. I pray that you would get the glory and that we would be encouraged as your parents. people. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a fascinating passage. In fact, if we're looking at the story of the ministry of Christ that is recorded for us in John, this is kind of the capstone of all of the different things that have been said. And we know that the reason that the book of John was written to convince us that Jesus is the Messiah. And that if we'll believe that he is the Messiah through faith in Christ, we will have life in his name. But one of the things that I love about the book of John is that even though that is the purpose of the book of John , All of the while, along the way, as we work our way through this book, what you're going to see is many little portraits that give us insight into the character of our Savior. Not just who he is, he is God in flesh, he is the Messiah, but also his nature. His character, the kind of God that he is. This passage is one of those passages because it very vividly teaches us the character In fact, if we were to kind of summarize what's right in front of us, what we'd see is even when we have failed our Lord and everyone in this room has and will at times look down and say we have failed him. When we have failed our Lord, he is gracious. And he is ready to help us get back on track. And that's what we're going to see in the passage in front of us. So let's go ahead and work our way through this passage so that we understand what is happening. and then we can move to how to apply it. First thing I want you to notice from this passage is the background, and this is a very interesting series of details that I don't want you to miss. Because I think it is through understanding the background that we are able to have a deeper appreciation for this interaction between Christ and Peter. There are two large catch miracles that are recorded for us in the Gospels. And those two large caps , we could say miracles, are different events in the life of Christ. Now there's a reason that I say that. The first is recorded in Luke chapter 5. Listen to what it says. Now when he had left speaking He said unto Simon, launch out into the deep, let down your nets for a draught. And Simon answering said, Master, we have toiled all the night, we have taken nothing. Nevertheless, at thy word I will let down the net. When they had done this, he enclosed a great multitude of fish, and their nets broke. When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me. I am a sinful man, Lord. John 21, verse 4 says, When the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. Then Jesus said to them, Children, have you any meat? They answered and said, No. And he said unto them, Cast your net on the right side of the ship, and you will find. They cast her for the net now, and they were not able to draw in for the multitude of the faith. Now what's very interesting is as you look at the Luke passage and you look at the John passage, you're going to see a lot of similarity, but also a lot of difference. For instance, the timing is very different. Luke 2 talks about the beginning of Christ's ministry. John 21 is after the resurrection. There's almost a four-year gap, three and a half-year gap between these two events. Christ's command in Luke 5 was different than in John 21. Launch out into the deep, let down your net for a drought. John 21, cast your net on the right side of the ship, and you will find. The result between the two passages is different. Luke 5. When they had done this, they enclosed a great multitude of fish, and their nets broke. John 21, Simon Peter went up and drew the net to land with great fish, and 153 were there. For all this there were so many, yet the net did not break. And then what Jesus says at the end of Luke 5 and in John 21 is different. Luke 5, Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not, from henceforth thou shalt catch men. John 21, feed my lambs, feed my sheep, feed my sheep. You say, why do you take the time to show the difference between those two events? Well, I hope it's important that you understand they are not the same events. But even though these are two different events, we shouldn't pull them apart entirely because there's a reason that at the end of Christ's ministry before his ascension, He repeats the exact same miracle with a lot of similarities, yet some very important differences that are going to drive home the point of what we find in these verses. The similarities make the second even more impactful. In both events, Christ shows his power over creation. In both passages, Peter feels great inadequacy. And in both passages, Christ affirms or reaffirms that he has a purpose for Peter. So that's the background of these two events. Keep that in your mind as we start looking at the details of John 21. Second thing I want you to notice here this morning is that Peter was a very complicated man. But he had huge potential. It's sort of like when a kid goes out for a sports team. And when that kid steps out, I'm going to use the analogy of wrestling because that's a world that I've lived in for a while. But here's this kid, he steps out on the mat and he knows nothing about the sport, but he's strong. And you could just see like his neck And his biceps, he's bulging. He's a strong kid. But when he gets out on the mat, he's very unconventional. In fact, as a coach, you're afraid he's gonna hurt somebody. Because he doesn't know when to stop. He doesn't know how to control his body motions. And when you're a coach and you're seeing a kid like that, you're like, lots of potential if we can get past a couple of things. Peter was like that. Peter was an intense guy. Peter was impulsive. If somebody was needed to volunteer, he's the first guy, but you don't know what he's going to do when he volunteers. That's the kind of guy that Peter was. And you know, maybe some of us here were a little bit like Peter. We get in trouble because we're willing to try. Peter was like that. When he first meets Christ, he meets him because his brother brought him to Jesus. John 1, 35 says the following. The next day after John stood Two of his disciples with him, they looked upon Jesus as he walked, and he saith, Behold, the Lamb of God Which taketh, behold the Lamb of God. And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus. One of the two which heard Jesus, John speak, followed him was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. He first findeth his own brother Simon, and he saith unto him, We have found the Messiah, which is being interpreted the Christ. He brought him to Jesus. And by the way, it seems that these brothers were not just, not just Peter was an intense guy. His brother was an intense guy as well. And if you grew up in a house with a bunch of brothers and some of them were a little rough and tumble, then they probably were almost all rough and tumble. That's the way these guys were. Jesus personally calls Peter to follow him. In fact, that first catch of fish, Luke chapter 5, is when Jesus calls this man. Listen to what he says. Came to pass as the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God, he stood by the lake of Gennesrat. That's the Sea of Galilee. And he saw two ships standing by the lake, but the fishermen were gone out of them and were washing their nets. He entered into one of the ships, which was Simon 's. and prayed him that he would thrust out a little from the land. Now, Simon Peter gets to sit in this fishing boat and he gets to listen to Jesus preach for however long it was. He hears all of that the things that Jesus has to say. Could you imagine that? Sitting in your boat, listening to Jesus preach, listening to him teach, seeing all these multitudes on the hillside just fixed on what Jesus is saying. That was Peter's experience When Peter is sitting there, Jesus says, all right, I'm done now. I want you to take your boat and launch out into the deep. And I want you to let down your nets, and you're going to catch fish. And Peter's like, nah, it's not the time to do it. But I'll listen to what you have to say. I just let you know I just listened to you preach all this time. Let's see what happens. So he lets down his nets, and then we have this miraculous catch of fish. And listen to what the scripture says about Peter's response. When Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, I am a sinful man. Why do you think he said that? Peter was a rough fisherman. Okay? Do I need to say any more? He was a rough fisherman He lived on the sea. He worked with his hands. He was a tough, intense man, and so were his family members. And he says, I am not worthy to be in your presence. And what does Jesus say? It says that Jesus said unto Simon, fear not. From henceforth thou shalt catch men. When they had brought their ships to land, they forsook all and followed him. What an amazing story. Could you imagine if you had been personally called by Jesus to follow him? That was Peter. We know that as we look at the story of Jesus' preaching and teaching and the various miracles, Peter is one who rises to prominence amongst the disciples. And it's because he's the one who seems to talk first. John chapter 6 is a great example of this. Peter is passionately convinced of who Jesus is. And in John chapter 6, verse 67, it says, From that time, many disciples went back and walked no more with Jesus. Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will you go away also? Simon Peter answered, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of life. We believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the Lord. Living God. What an amazing statement. There is nowhere for us to go. You're the Messiah. I believe it. I'm not going to leave you like others will. He's passionate. And then we see in John 13 that Peter is willing to die for Christ. And I believe that he was absolutely convinced if he was called on to do this, he would do it. It says, Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, I will lay down my life for the for thy sake. Jesus answering him said, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake? Verily, verily I say unto thee, the cock shall not crow till thou hast denied me fruit. Three times. So up until this point in our story about the life of Peter, what do we see? We see a man who is intense. He's impulsive. He's willing to put himself out there, but he's a strong believer. And he's all in for Christ. And he says, I'm willing to die for you. But the third thing I want you to notice here, and this is a part of all the background to this interaction, is that Peter failed the Lord when it came to that moment where he was tested. In fact, this is a very humbling failure, and we have to go back to John chapter 18 in order to see what is going on here. Don't forget, in John 13, when when Peter says, I'm willing to deny or I'm willing to die for you, and Jesus says, before the cock crows, you'll deny me three times. There's only a couple of hours of time between that statement and what we read in John 18. I know there's several chapters between there, but you need to realize it's all the same night. This is what it says, John 18, 25. And Simon Peter stood and warmed himself by the fire, and they said unto him, Art thou also one of his disciples. Three times someone says to Peter on that night that Jesus has been betrayed and he's going before all these mock trials, hey, aren't you one of his disciples? Three times. This is what he says. I don't know him. What went through that guy's head every time he said that? I don't know Well in Luke 22 it gets a little bit more personal because it gives us a little bit more information about that third denial. Listen to what it says. And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And immediately while he yet spoke, the cock crow. And the Lord turned and looked upon Peter, and Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had said unto him before the cock crows, thou shalt deny me thrice. And Peter went out and he wept bitterly. Did you catch that Here is Peter, who three times has denied that he knows the Lord. But that third time, as soon as he says, I don't know him, he hears this crowing and he looks to the side, and Christ Catches his eye. And the only thing Peter could do is weep and weep and weep. Now Peter does not sound at this moment like a guy who's a great candidate to lead a revival. He doesn't sound like he's a great candidate to be a pastor. He doesn't sound like he's a great candidate to do anything for God because he's a broken man. And you can see this in the text in front of us in John 21, verse 1. It says, after these things Jesus showed himself again to his disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. They were together with Simon Peter and Thomas called Didymus and Nathanael of Cain of Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, the two others with his disciples. And Simon Peter said unto them, I go fishing. They said unto him, We also go with thee. And they went forth and entered into a ship immediately, and that night they caught nothing. Now what's going on here? I'm going to put it to you the way that I see it in the text. You have Peter who has said, Lord, no matter what happens, I'm willing to lay my life down for you. And he believes it and he means it and he's all in. And this guy is passionate about everything. And Jesus says it's not true. You will deny me three times. And it happens. And the last time he denies him, he catches the eye of his Lord as they're about to take him. And he's going to be crucified the next morning. And Peter weeps. And he's broken. And you know what's going through his head? Whatever Jesus had planned for me, it's over. All of those things that I've given up my life for so that I can follow him, it's all been wasted. And the only thing I can do is go back to what I know I can do. And that's fish That's what he did for a living. And guess what? He didn't do very well at that either, apparently that night. He and his friends, the other disciples, his brethren, people that had given up everything to follow Christ, they're all broken and humbled. That night don't catch anything. And I don't know about you, but they probably weren't very happy when they came home. Yesterday I was watching a football game. Clemson Penn State. It was an embarrassment. It was very difficult to watch. And after that game, I had to get myself out of the flesh and back into the spirit because it was hard to watch such a game I noticed like to go out and catch nothing when I go fishing. Some people say, well, I just like to fish because it's fun and relaxing. I like the fish to catch things. And I like to come home and bring all the fish and clean them up and put them in the freezer. That's why I fish. That's what's relaxing. Winning, right? Peter goes and catches nothing. And the guy felt like a total failure. You would have felt that way. I would have felt that way. It's a very low moment in his life. But this is when Christ goes to him. This is when Christ pursues him. The fourth thing I'd like you to see is God's grace that is demonstrated in this text. Because this really is the heart of what this passage is all about. It's about God's grace. It's really not about the brokenness and the failure of Peter. That's a huge part of the story. But that's not the heart of the story. The heart of the story is Christ and how he deals with Peter in this moment of weakness and brokenness. The first thing we see is that it is the grace of God that pursued Peter. John 21, verse 2. But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. Then Jesus saith unto them, Children, have you any meat? They answered him, No. Just what the fisherman wants to hear. D'ye catch anything? Nothing Are you sure? Yes. But you know what that story shows you? Jesus went to them They weren't looking for him. They weren't pursuing him. They weren't saying, let's catch some fish and invite Jesus to eat with us. That's not what's going on. They're going back to the life they had before they knew the Lord. But God is going after Peter. Second thing we see is that grace led him to face his initial calling. This is very interesting to me. And this goes back to the beginning of what we talked about. In verse number six it says, And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. They cast their four, and now they were not able to draw in for the multitude of the fishes. When is the last time Peter had a man tell him, cast your net out and you will catch fish? Well, it was in Luke five. It's on the day that Jesus called him to follow him. It's the day that Jesus said, Leave your nets, leave your father's household, leave the business, follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Do you wonder what was going on in Peter's head when this is going on? Last time this happened, it was the Lord. And it was the Lord again. In other words, Christ is bringing Peter all the way back to a moment three and a half years earlier. Where Peter left everything that he had, he followed Christ with all of his heart, and God told him, You will be a fisher of men. Third thing I want you to notice, and this is very important. Before Jesus sends him out, he invites him to come. He invites him to sit down and have fellowship with him. In verse 9 it says, As soon as they were come to the land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid thereon and bread, and Jesus saith unto them, Come and die. I love this little detail about the text because you know what it tells us? Jesus was more about spending time with these guys. He wanted to invite them into communion and to fellowship before he sends them out, before he strengthens them again, before he reaffirms his commitment to work through their lives. He wants them to commune with him. And you know what you do when you've wronged somebody? You don't want to sit near them. You don't want to be in their presence. Why is that? Because you feel embarrassed. If Peter would have felt embarrassed in front of anyone, it would have been Christ. I denied the Lord three times. He caught my eye. He mentioned it was going to happen. I've gone back to fishing. And here I am being invited to sit down and have a meal with him. And apparently he had this all prepared before it even happened. That's amazing thing to think about. But you know, Christ is the same thing with us. When we have drifted away and we've gone down a path that we shouldn't, you know what he's doing? He's saying, come, come. Come, sit down. I want a fellowship with you. And that's what he did with this man. But then we see a fourth thing, and this is what I think really takes the heart of the text. His grace reaffirmed God's purpose for him as a man. In verses 15 through 17, we see the following words. When they had dined, Jesus saith unto Simon Peter, Simon. Son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? Lovest thou me more than these? You know what's interesting? He goes to the word love. Now, if you go back to Peter's commitment, he says, I'm willing to die for you. And Jesus says, you'll deny me three times. You know what God wants? Before He gets your commitment, He wants your love. It's true. He wants your heart. He wants your affection. Affection is what motivates commitment. You know, there's a lot of people. They're committed, but they're not committed because they love God. They're committed because they're afraid of Him. But that's not what we see in these verses. We see a savior who pursues and a savior who invites, a savior who sits down and says, Peter, do you love me? And the truth is we don't know what the these are. We don't know if it's the other disciples. We don't know if it's the net, if it's the fish. We don't know what it is. But there's something there that Peter is looking at and he says, Do you love me more than you love these things? And Peter says, You know that I love thee. He says, Well then feed my lambs. He asked him a second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He said unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. Saith unto him, Feed my sheep. He saith unto him a third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me. Peter was grieved, because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou And he said, Lord, thou knowest all things, thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus said unto him, Feed my sheep. I know where most of our minds tend to run when we read these verses. The reason that Jesus goes there three times is because three times he says, I don't know this man. Isn't that where our mind goes? But you know where it really should go? Three times Jesus said, feed my sheep. Do you see the difference between those two things? One focuses on the failure, the other focuses on God's grace. The truth is they're both there. Each time that Jesus asked Peter, and you know what's interesting? Jesus never said, Well, if you really loved me, you wouldn't have said you didn't know me. He didn't say that. All he did was say, feed my sheep. What's the point? The point is that this entire interaction is God's simple way of saying to Peter, even though you have failed, Even though you have stumbled, even though you are broken, and even though you are in misery, I still love you. I've still pursued you and I still have a purpose for you, so get back on track. That's what he's saying. And you know what? Sometimes he has to say that to us too. You know, at this time of the year when we're kind of thinking about last year going into New Year's everybody makes New Year's resolutions. I don't know. I actually am not a New Year's resolution person. I just every day is a new day, right? You just do your thing, right? And then occasionally along the way you're like, all right, it's time for some adjustments. It could be July, it could be May, whatever. We're going to make some adjustments because we need to make adjustments. But a lot of people at this time they look at their finances, they look at how they've spent, they look at decisions they've made, they look at their calendars, all kinds of different things, and they go, you know what? I think some things need to change. And they purpose to change. In a real practical, impactful way. It's also true that sometimes people look at their past year and they say, I've got a lot of miserable stuff to look at. What do I do? Get back up, get on track. What I love about this interaction is that God's grace assures him he's going to finish well. John 21, verse 18 says, When thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee and carry thee whither thou wouldest not. This fake he signifying by what death he should glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he said unto him, Follow me. So this entire interaction is about Christ reaffirming to this man Peter, I have a purpose for you. Get up and move in that direction. The fifth thing I want to show you is that God powerfully worked to this weak man. In fact, a short time later, after the ascension, we come into the Pentecost season. And obviously we know in Acts chapter 2 that Peter preaches at Pentecost and many are converted. But then we come to Acts chapter 4, another moment when many people are converted. And I want you to listen carefully to what Luke records about Peter's. preaching and his interaction with the very people that had put their hands to crucify Christ. Here's what it says in Acts chapter 4 verse 1. And as they spake unto the people, the priests and the captains of the temple and the Sadducees came unto them, being grieved that they taught the people and preached through Jesus the resurrection from the dead. And they laid hands on them and put them in the hold unto the next day. Howbeit many of them which heard the word believed, and the number of them was about five thousand. It came to pass on the morrow that the rulers and the elders and the scribes, and Ennis the high priest, and Caiaphas and John and Alexander, and many as were of the kindred of the high priest, were gathered together at Jerusalem. And when they had set them in the midst, they asked them, by what power, what name have you done this? You see the intensity of this moment? These are the same people that put their hands together and plotted with the Romans to crucify Christ. And then Peter, who was filled with the Holy Ghost, said unto them, Ye rulers of the people and elders of Israel, if we this day be examined of the good deed done to this impotent man, By what means he is made whole, be it known unto you and all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth Listen to what he says. Whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand before you whole. This is the stone which was set at naught of you builders, which became the head of the corner. Neither is there salvation in any other There is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. Now, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marveled and took knowledge of them that they'd been with Jesus. Isn't that a remarkable reversal? Here's this man who as he's warming his hand by the fire, this little girl says, Hey, you're one of his disciples. I don't know what you're talking about. Hey, no, no, I saw you. You're one of those guys. You followed him. I don't know him. Third time. Same And here's Peter who says, You killed him. He's risen. In fact, you fulfilled prophecy. You rejected the chief cornerstone. And when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, they said, we can't stop these men. What does it show you? It shows you what God can do when he gets a hold of somebody's heart. I mean, you got Peter who's going back to fishing and he's weeping as he thinks about how he's failed the Lord. And now he's standing before the same people that hated and mocked Jesus, and he has no fear. And they realize they can't resist the wisdom and the boldness of that message because they know it's true. We also see that Peter's legacy goes beyond his preaching in those early days. But Peter became a shepherd to the church. Think back of what Jesus said. Feed my sheep, feed my sheep, feed my sheep. Listen to what Peter writes in 1 Peter 5, as an older man, he is an elder. The elder which is among you I exhort who am also an elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ. And a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed. Feed the flock of God which is among you. Who does that sound like? That sounds exactly like what Jesus said to Peter. You know what Peter's doing? He has run his leg of the race and he's handed the baton on to the next group of men and he's saying, Do what I did. By the grace of God. Feed the flock of God. Not by constraint, but willingly. Not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind. Neither as being lords over God's heritage, but examples to the flock. And when the chief shepherd shall appear, you shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. What did Peter do? He ran his race well. And then at the end of his life he's about to die. Listen to what it says in Second Peter 1 I will not have you be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, as long as I am in this tabernacle to stir you up by putting you in remembrance. Knowing that shortly I must put off this tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ has showed me. You know what he's talking about? He's going to die as a martyr. He says, I will endeavor that you may be able after my decease to have these things always in remembrance. Why? Because we've not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus, but we're eyewitnesses of his majesty. What do you see here? You see the faithfulness that comes when a man gets back up. A just man falls seven times, but you know what he does? He gets back up. And Peter got back up. And the only reason he got back up is because Jesus pursued him and he called him and he lifted him up. How do you apply a passage like this, especially as we think about the last Sunday of this year and entering into a new year? Well the first thing I'll say is this, God always uses flawed instruments. You say is it because he likes using flawed instruments? It's because that's all there is. You don't have other options, okay folks? Everybody's got problems. We're all flawed instruments. We're not all flawed in the same ways At least not on the surface. In the art, we all got the same problem. It's in nature. But we're all flawed instruments. The work that God does through people is always done through flawed people. The ground that we serve him on is always his grace. God didn't call Peter to do what he did because Peter was somehow better than everybody else. Because somehow he had it all together. He called him because he's a gracious God. And he told him to get back up and move forward. He could have easily replaced Peter if he desired to. He could have said, Peter, you blew it. Now your brother's going to do what you didn't do. He didn't do that though. We all stumble like Peter. And in those vulnerable moments, God's faithfulness and God's grace is going to shine the brightest. His grace calls us back to stand up. His grace sustains us when we begin to move forward. His grace pursues us in our lowest moments. His grace calls us to fellowship. His grace reminds us that he has unchanging purposes for our lives. His grace tells us, get up, move forward, you can do it. So I leave you with these final encouragements. Don't allow your failure to define you. Don't allow your failure to define you. The truth is those scars can actually be instruments that God works through in your future. I'm not saying it was good when you sinned. I'm not saying it didn't leave you with some pain and misery. But when you come through those things, God can use them to minister to others. Some of the most compassionate people you ever meet in life are people that have been broken down very hard in life. It's also true of some of those better people you ever meet. or people that have been broken down very hard in life. It's about how you respond to those difficulties. Don't wallow in your failures. The same lie that says, go ahead and do it, it won't matter, reverses and says, it matters so much you can't get back up. Get up and purpose to walk with the Lord. Delight in his presence. If there's anything that I would encourage you to purpose in the new year, it's to spend more time with Jesus. Spend more time in his word. Spend more time on your knees. Spend more time reflecting on who he is and what he's done for you. Write it down. It's not about what you do for God. It's about how he gets a hold of your heart. Because when he gets a hold of your heart, you know what? You do things. Because that's what flows out of that. So let's delight in his presence. Let's purpose to be faithful wherever he has planted us. Sometimes we look at our circumstances and we get Kind of frustrated because we see what other people have or what we don't have, and that bothers us. He's God, not us. Where he plants us is where he wants us. Let's be faithful there. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Our Father in heaven, we think about this text of Scripture. It's really a rich passage. Your love is demonstrated in Peter's life, your diligence, your persistence, your grace, your compassion. And Father, you know every heart, you know every struggle, you know what's going on in people's lives. And for those who may feel a little bit like Peter in this text. I pray that they would see the goodness of their Lord and Savior. Father, help us to get back up when we stumble. Help us to walk in your ways. Help us to delight in your presence. Help us to draw nearer to you in this coming year than we ever have before. And may you demonstrate your goodness to us in ways we have never seen before in this New year. Year. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.