Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our service this morning, especially I'd like to say Happy Father's Day to our dads here. And thankful for the men in this uh church who uh work very hard to uh take care of their families, point their families to Christ, and uh we are a very blessed church And thankful for that. We've got a couple of announcements, and then we will open up our service this morning with our scripture reading. All right. Good morning. Happy Father's Day, as Pastor said. Beautiful day. Hopefully dads get outside, do some grilling, get some meat All the all the best parts about Father's Day, but spending time with family. Um this Friday we have College and Career. That'll be at Pastor's House, um, an opportunity just to get together. If you're in college or older, you're generally pretty welcome. So I encourage you guys to come on out. If you're interested, talk with Pastor, talk with me. We'll uh try and figure things out, get the information to you. Next Sunday following the morning service, there is a VBS meeting. And with that, if you notice also on our bulletin, VBS is the second week of July. If you're interested in that, please talk with Pastor, talk with Miss Deanna. And they will, if there's opportunities, there's a sign up and just talk with them and find out more information. With that, there's also some more just items that are needed for BBS. There's a sign-up, there's a list with the QR codes and everything on the Bulletin board, just a little ways down the hall. So if you're interested in having to help out with just maybe not physically participating, but bringing some items, that would be a great way to kind of get involved with VBS. Following next Sunday night, there's also the senior graduation fellowship following the evening service. So we encourage you guys all to come out and sign up for that. With that said, this upcoming week, there is going to be the teens are heading to the wilds of New England. So as with kids going to camp, so be thinking about them this week, praying for them as they're making decisions. They're going to have great opportunities They're also just safety of travel there and back. It's eight-ish hours or so. So long time in the cards with kids, so maybe pray for Josh and a specky as they're going as well. So just be praying for them as they're going to camp. Pastor Josh. We're leaving at five thirty in the morning so they sleep and we can get about halfway before they even wake up and ha and realize what's going on. That would be wonderful. But pray for travel, pray for safety, and camp is a excellent week. I've been a big fan of camps for a lot of years, so be praying for them. It is wonderful. And um I hope all teenagers get to come and experience a week of camp. So we appreciate your prayers. We're going to open our service by reading Psalm 103, starting with verse 7. He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of Israel. And the Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy. He will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger forever. He hath not dwelt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy towards them that fear him As far as the East is from the West, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us, like as a father pitieth his children So the Lord pitieth them that fear him. For he knoweth our frame. He remembereth that we are dust. As for man, his days are as grass, as the flower of the field, so he flourisheth. For the wind passeth over it, and is gone, and the place thereof shall know it no more. But The mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's children. Our theme of worship today is for us to rejoice in God's fatherly care over his people. Please let's all bow together for prayer. And if you are visiting with us today, we hope that you received a welcome packet. And inside of that welcome packet, there's a card and if you'd like us to reach out to you, please take a moment to fill that out and put that in a little box in the back and we'll make sure that we reach out to you sometime in the coming week. Let's bow together for prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our service. Father, we're so very grateful for this Lord's Day. As we open up the Word of God, I pray that you would speak to our hearts in a very special way. Help us to understand the intent of the text in front of us. Help us to be comforted by the rich blessings that are talked about in these verses. Help our perspective to be shaped by the truths of Scripture. Father, help us to remember on this day that there is no father as good as you are. You care for us. You love us You have strengthened us as we go through the challenges of life. We are so thankful that when we are in difficult times, you look down at us tenderly and you uplift us. And as the text says, you pity us like a father pities his children. And so I pray that these truths would warm our souls this morning. As we sing praise to you, help us to think about these wonderful truths. And as we take time to invest in one another and fellowship, I pray that that fellowship would be very encouraging and Christ-centered. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning. Thank you so much for joining us for worship. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number six. We'll start with hymn number six. I sing the mighty power of God. We'll sing all three verses of hymn number six. I think I need a lot. In the Bible , I try to work, therefore , and my I want to be my Great singing. Please be seated as we turn over to hymn number 20. Praise him, praise him. Jesus, our blessed Redeemer. We'll sing all three verses. We must go , pray , bell , break the night , bell, and pray , bell , pray , break the name , and praise the hall. You know what I mean? Price we did all the brother. Great singing, we'll turn over to hymn number four hundred and fifteen. The Child of the King. 450 will sing all four verses. Bueno, ahí se lo muevo, yo no me pruebo, no me crees, a toda la historia , ya me paga el coro, no lo defora de con la madre , no tiene todo de que no. Але мають надолог на дні. I must have to you, I must have seen, I saw. Great singing. Our scripture reading for this morning will be found in the songs. We'll be reading Psalm number 12, and we'll be reading the first eight verses. Psalm number 12, verses 1 through 8. The scriptures say, Help, Lord, for the godly man ceaseth, for the faithful fail from among the children of men. They speak vanity, every one with his neighbor, with flattering lips, and with a double heart do they speak. The Lord shall cut off all flattering lips And the tongue that speaketh proud things, who have said, With our tongue we will prevail, our lips are our own. Who is Lord over us? For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now will I arise, saith the Lord. I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. The words of the Lord are pure words, as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord. Thou shalt preserve them from this generation forever. The wicked walk on every side when the vilest men are exalted. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Amen. Let's continue our singing this morning. Please stand with me. Open your hymns, books, to number hymn number four hundred and fifty-nine. We're going to sing our first two verses. Sing verses 1 and 2, then we'll pause, greet one another, and we'll come back together and sing the last verse. Leaning on the everlasting arms. 459 What a fellowship, what a joy divine, leaning on the air. Everlasting arms, what a blessedness, what a peace is mine, leaning on the everlasting arms, leaning Safe and secure from all the arms Leaning, leaning, leaning on the everlasting arms. Oh, how sweet too. in this pilgrimway leaning on the everlasting horns Oh how bright the path grows from day to day leaning on the everlasting Ling, safe and secure from all ours Willing, leaving , leaving one happening on your neighbors. Look at the full up. What about you drive? Why do you do me on the air must be on my? We are the ever as we are. Great singing our last song because For the preaching will be in the blue book, number 41, worthy of worship. We'll sing all three verses of number 41. We'll sing the last verse, Akapala. Worthy of Worthy, worthy of the We had you up. Worthy of worship and breath, worthy of breath, worthy of him. I will leave you in what I 'm saying, but I'm being able to walk on me. What's it up? All my people met the boy, king. Wonderful counseling, counsel , stay your hands for like wild. Stray on the strain , wonderful. Amen. Please be seated. How in the universe be made from apart. Gracious and merciful God praise your voice sing out with noise, how crazy are God. Every day the praise, how great is our God, how great is our God. God of eternity, the author of time. Fighting his glory within every life , raging all his way, worthy of our praise. We tell them praise, how great is our God, how great is our God. I need a powerful. Without your voice thing with your Okay, well our children who are junior church age can Be dismissed to the back with some help from a parent. The rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn to Psalm 12 this morning. We're looking at the 12th Psalm. And I have to be honest, as a pastor on days like Father's Day and Mother's Day, and when we have national holidays, it's always a challenge, you know, how do you handle those situations? And so on Father's Day and Mother's Day, I like to take some time to encourage, not to leave our moms or our dads feeling uh broken and downcast, but I'd like to encourage you and strengthen you. I won't strengthen you, but the word of God will strengthen you. And I think the text in front of us is one of those passages that really does leave us with tremendous encouragement. And so the title of the message this morning is Encouragement for a Dark Time. Let's begin reading in the 12th Psalm, verse number 1, and then we'll have a word of prayer and then dig into this passage of scripture this morning. Help, Lord, for the godly man ceaseth, for the faithful fail from among the children of men. They speak vanity, everyone with his neighbor. With flattering lips and with a double heart do they speak The Lord shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that speaketh proud things, who have said with our tongue, will we prevail? Our lips are our own. Who is Lord over us? For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now will I arise, saith the Lord. I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. The words of the Lord are pure words, as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord. Thou shalt preserve them from this generation forever. The wicked walk on every side when the vilest men are exalted. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning from this passage of Scripture. Father, As we think about your word this morning, I pray that you would help us to have a clarified perspective of how people have struggled from one generation to the next. And how you have strengthened your people in each of these generations. Father, if anyone has come into our congregation this morning and they are discouraged, And they are downcast and they are weary and they feel as if we've lived we're living through the worst time in history and there is no hope. I pray they would recognize that is not true. I pray that as the Word of God is laid before them, they will recognize that you are working today as you have in every generation. And that we can be encouraged as your people, that you are active, that you are saving people, that you are protecting people. that you are preserving a generation from one to the next that loves you and is walking with you and is actually doing what is right. And so I pray that this morning the Spirit of God would take the word and uplift us. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a fascinating passage. It is David lamenting the wickedness of his generation. And the constant suffering that godly people endure. It's kind of funny to think about this. But out of all the seasons in Israel's history that we could examine I think that the crowning jewel of all of the generations was the one he's talking about right here. David is in is on the throne. David was a good king. David was a faithful king. David loved the Lord. He was a sinful man, don't get me wrong. He needed redemption just like all of us. He failed miserably at times. But David always turned back to God when he fell. And when he struggled. And David was the kind of man that pointed people to God. And so out of all the times in Israel's history, you would think if there was a crowning moment in their history where you wouldn't say things like this, it would be the time we're talking about right here. But as David looks out over this generation, he sees suffering, he sees godly people struggling, and he reminds himself in these moments of unshakable promises that we read of in this text. That God will preserve his people. And God's promises are tested. And God's people are purified. And from one generation to the next generation to the next generation. God saves people. God protects people. God works in the lives of families so that The gospel goes from one generation to the next generation, and there are people who are living from God in that time. There are places where the gospel is going forward. God works in a world that's very messy. But he works to keep the truth alive. And so God wants us to purpose to be faithful as we trust him to preserve us in a wicked world. I want to begin with a couple of thoughts, and I know it's Father's Day, so they're going to be kind of stated in terms of Father's Day, but the truth is these are true for all of us. Whether you're not a dad, whether you are a dad, whether you're a grandfather, a great-grandfather, a mom, whether you're a teenage boy, it doesn't matter. These truths are true for all of us But this is going to be stated in terms of fathers because of the day. Being a godly father is a heavy responsibility. It's a humbling calling. The fact is when I sat in my chair this morning and I read the little cards that my kids wrote and some of them can't they can't write. So they had a little bit of help from mom or from one of the other siblings. I read those. I just thought, what a blessing it is to be a dad. I don't deserve it. I don't deserve the privilege. And I certainly stumble. And every guy in this room who's a dad, they would say the same thing. The fact that we have children is is a is a gift from God. We didn't deserve it. We didn't do anything to earn it. It's his kindness and it's his mercy. And anything good that we give to our kids, it comes from God. And it comes through us, not because of us. It's despite us in many ways. But it is a great blessing, but it's a heavy duty. And we all have three great enemies that confront us every single day. The first enemy is our flesh. Romans 7. 18. He says, I know that in me, that is in my flesh dwelleth no good thing. Every person in this room understands what that's like. You get up on a Monday morning and you're tired and you need to go to work. You go, I don't want to go to work. I'd like to call in sick today. A lot of people do. You say, no, I'm going to push through this. You have a situation where you're in a situation and all of a sudden these temptations flood into your mind. You say, where did those come from? In our flesh dwells no good thing. And we have this great internal struggle to do what is right. And that is a hindrance to people being faithful in every generation. Second great enemy is this world system. In 1 John 3, he says, this is the message that you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain. Who was of the wicked one and slew his brother, wherefore slew he, because his own works were evil and his brothers righteous? Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hates you. Well the fact is this isn't just something that was true 2,000 years ago. It's not something that's just true today. It has been true of every single generation in human history. We're made of the same stuff. We are we are people of flesh. And we're living in a world that has a system that is in opposition against God and hates him. And then there's a third enemy, and that is Satan and the kingdom of darkness. And Ephesians 6. 12 it says we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, powers, the rulers of the darkness of this world, spiritual wickedness in high places. So when you stack up those three enemies, one is one that's inside of me, my flesh, and there is one that I live amongst, and that is this world system, and there is Satan and the realm of darkness who works in this world system to attack God's people, the question we all ask is how in the world can we survive this world? How in the world can we be faithful and endure and pass on the faith to the next generation? The fact is every single generation of people has faced these kinds of situations. There's nothing new under the sun. And so Satan works through this world system to provoke us to be discouraged. And you might have come in here this morning discouraged. Now you don't want to say you're discouraged, but the fact is you kind of do feel a little discouraged. And singing some of these songs this morning, you might have had a hard time singing them, but you know you bumped along to it. And then that last song, hopefully that kind of lifted you up a little bit because That was really it's great to hear men's voices, right? Great to hear ladies' voices too. But on Father's Day, I like to hear men's voices. It talks about the greatness of our God. But the fact is, Satan works to discourage God's people. Sometimes as dads, we look at the landscape for our children. We say, are my kids going to get married someday? Are my kids going to want to raise children in this kind of world? What kind of a country are they going to have? What in the world is it going to be like 20 years from now? What does Satan do? He discourages us. A lot of people compromise. You know, it's easy to kind of cut a corner here and cut a corner there and cut a corner here because we're thinking about we would like to do things pragmatically. There are others who give in to temptation, and the temptations are all around us. I'm really glad that I I wasn't born and lived in a world as a teenager where they had social media and all those things. I'm really glad I wasn't. But that's the world we live in. And our kids have to live in such a world. And we can't pull them out of it. We're gonna have to deal with these kinds of things. And the fact is there are a lot of people that are discouraged, that compromise, that give into temptation. And the question is, where does that come from? Well, Satan is feeding their head with lies. He wants to isolate us and cause us to embrace the lie that it is hopeless to serve God. And it's sad, but it's true. A lot of people, when they need God the most, they run away from him. And when they need the church the most, they isolate themselves from it. And when they need godly Christian friends, they pull away from those people and they pull themselves into this little corner and they they embrace all these lies that Satan is putting in their mind and they say it's hopeless and I can't serve God and I have no hope. That's not true. He wants us to He wants to disrupt the generation that is being raised right now. As fathers are trying to point their children to Christ, he's trying to destroy that. He wants to stunt the development of the next generation of fathers in their most formative years. The fact is every single year of a child's development is really important. It really matters. It matters for them mentally and intellectually. It matters for them emotionally. It matters for them spiritually. And the fact is you and I have a very limited period of time. to point our children to the gospel and a limited amount of time to disciple them as children in our homes and a limited amount of time to show them how to live for God and a limited amount of time to prepare them for life. And the fact is, as we are striving to raise our kids right, the world is trying to destroy and stunt the process. And we see people all around us who say it's not possible to raise godly children today. I tell you it's not true. It's a lie, don't believe it. But we're stunting a generation because we kind of fall into this category of thinking it's true. He wants to convince young men. Who are coming of age where they should be getting married and they should be establishing themselves and they should be handling a household that it doesn't matter if they get married Doesn't matter if they have children. They should just enjoy the here and the now. And these young men who have so much opportunity in front of them are embracing a lie. Marriage, family, children, they don't matter. Guess what? You embrace that life for 20 years. You'll miss your chance. You'll miss your chance. chance. But some of them are embracing this lie because of the way we're training them. The way we're teaching them. Satan doesn't want us to see the potential blessing of raising up a generation of godly, vibrant, strong, wise men and women who've been raised in godly homes. We need Psalm 12 this morning. There's nothing new under the sun. And what David writes in these verses, we need to hear it. And he wrote it thousands of years ago. Without social media, without the internet, without some of the things that we have today. He wrote these things. We need to see these timeless truths So let's dig into the text this morning. Truth number one, every generation has lamented the wickedness of their time. Every generation has lamented the wickedness of their time. In verses 1 and 2, David writes, help Lord, the godly man ceaseth, the faithful fail from amongst the children of men. They speak vanity, every one with his neighbor, with flattering lips, and with a double heart do they speak And this lament is rooted in two things that David observes as he looks at the time that he's living in. There is a desperate lack of godly men. Now, we know that godly women are important too. There's no question about that. It takes a dad and it takes a mom to raise up our kids the right way. And it's the grace of God that we're able to do it together and in situations where something happens where mom or dad is trying to raise those children by themselves. It's the grace of God. But the fact is the strength and the backbone of a society is principled, godly, strong, wise men who will do what is right. And when David looked at his time, this is what he said. There aren't any. There are any. He says in verse 1, help, Lord, the godly man ceaseth. The faithful fail from amongst the children of men. He said, I don't see people who are going to rise up and be examples and have backbone and do what's right and be principled. You say, well, was the best time in Israel's history? Yeah, it was. Wow. So it was like that thousands of years ago? Yes. And every generation from there to where we are today has said the exact same thing. The greatest generations in American history, I promise you, there were people living at those times saying the exact same thing that David says in these verses and that you and I are saying today about the culture we live in. It's funny if you read the first hand accounts of what people said in the late 1700s, the mid-1800s, right around the World War I, World War II time period. Some of the times we look at it, some of the golden eras of American history, they said the same things that we're saying today. Say, why is that? Nothing new under the sun, folks. The second thing we see is that the wicked prosper and they were ruling. You say, well, I thought David was ruling. He was ruling, but he wasn't the only one ruling. He was the king, but there were people that were under him, people that worked in his administration, that were dubious individuals There were unprincipled individuals that were using the power and the opportunities they had, and they were destroying people's lives through that. You say, in David's time, yes. He wrote, they speak vanity, everyone with his neighbor. He says, people just, their talk is foolish and it's empty and it has no value. He says with flattering lips and with a double heart they speak. He says, when people speak nice to each other, it's a total lie. They're just trying to set someone up to take advantage of them. A double heart. They have one side that looks really good, but the other side is there. And he says, this is what I see all around me. David says, this is so destructive in our society. Where are the godly men? Where are the principled people? Where are the people who are talking? Not nonsense, but they're speaking the truth and where are the people that they say what they mean and they believe it and they actually work for the good of other people. He says I don't see these people Simple fact is that we lack historic perspective. We really do. We live in a time where a lot of people don't have any sense of what's gone on before them. They've not read the histories of others. They have read the spin and the interpretation of others. They've not read first-hand accounts, and they do not appreciate the struggles of generations that went before them who endured the exact same things that we endure. And the fact is we could learn a lot from these people. One of the things we could learn is there's nothing new under the sun. That's really probably one of the greatest things we could learn from people of past generations. We can learn about their endurance and their faithfulness. But what you see is that God in His mercy raises up people at key moments in history to take on the needs of the day for the preservation of people's lives. We think that our struggles are the worst ever. This is a unique time. Not true. Psalm 73. Listen to what Asaf says. He says, truly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean heart. But as for me, my feet were almost gone. My steps were well-nigh slipped. I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. Have you ever been in that place? You look at other people, you see how they advance, and you're like, that person lies and they get ahead. That person takes advantage of other people and they get ahead. That person's abusing their authority and they get away with it. And you say, that's not right. And it's not right. And Asaf said, you know, when I saw this, I almost quit. Almost. He didn't say he did. Because the rest of the psalm tells us how he processed this whole situation in a godly way. But it tells you that his time was a difficult time. Think about Elijah in 1 Kings 19, he says, I have been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts. The children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thrown down thine altars, and I even I only am left that seek and they seek my life to take it away. He says, the only hope for these people is me and they're trying to kill me. And God says, actually, there's quite a few people that haven't bowed the knee to Baal. But that's how Elijah felt. And then Ezekiel 22, I shared this with the guys at our father-son camping trip. This is a fascinating text. Listen to what it says. He says, Son of man, say unto her, that's the nation of Israel, there is a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst thereof. Like a roaring lion ravening the prey, they devoured souls. You say, the prophets did that? Yeah, the prophets. Like the people who are supposed to say, thus saith the Lord, and they're teaching the word of God. He says, those people, the people are supposed to be like the conscience of the nation, the teachers of the word of God, the people that are the examples. They were devouring people, destroying their lives. Her priests have violated my laws, profamed my holy things. and put no difference between the holy and the profane. The priests were the people who were supposed to take the sacrifices and remind them of this sacrificial system that says Through the death and the shedding of blood, you can be brought into the presence of God. And this points to a greater sacrifice, Christ They were supposed to teach people, this is clean, this is unclean, this is holy, this is unholy, this is right, this is wrong, and they didn't do it. The conscience of a nation. If you don't have people teaching the word of God straight, and the people are supposed to be the conscience of the nation, don't have one, what do you have under them? Total chaos. He says her princes are like wolves, ravening the prey to shed blood, to destroy souls, to get dishonest gain. Who are the princes? The princes. These are the people who are in power or the people who are about to step into power. And they're abusing their authority, and they're destroying people's lives. And he says, and the people of the land have used oppression and exercised robbery and have vexed the poor and the needy, and they have oppressed the stranger wrongfully. Hey, if the people in charge are going to be like that, well, why would the people under them be any different? You say that's that's terrible. Why was it like that? Here's the reason. He says, I sought for a man among them. To make up the hedge and stand in the gap before me for the land that I should not destroy, and I found none. Zero. You say, I thought we lived in the worst time ever. Nope. We don't. Fact is, there are a lot of pastors today that are getting up in the pulpit, they're preaching the word of God straight. You don't know them, or you might know them, but they're all over this country. There are lots and lots of households that they gather on a daily basis or a couple times a week, and dads and moms sit down with their kids. And they open up the Word of God and they teach them the Word of God and they say, son, this is how you're supposed to work, and this is how you're supposed to relate to your sister and your brother and your mom. And your dad, and this is how you're supposed to do the work that God's called you to do. And they're teaching them the word of God. And they're reinforcing these truths. And they're singing praise to God. They are teaching them Christian doctrine. There are people all over this country doing that. There are people over this church that do that. Yet at the time that Ezekiel is writing, he says there wasn't one man who would stand in that gap. And so God said I have to punish the people. Why do I bring this up? We are not living in the worst time ever. And the truths that we read in Psalm 12, they're just as true today as they were at that time. There has always been a clash of kingdoms where God's people have faced hardships at the hands of the world. And the question is, what does God do? Well he obviously preserves the truth, because we wouldn't be here today if it wasn't for that. Second truth I want you to notice is that the only hope is God's merciful intervention. The fact is our hope is really not in men. It's not in our government. It's not in some political leader. It's in the Lord. Now God works in the lives of people and he lifts people up and he works through them, but they would never enter into those roles if it wasn't for the gracious work of God in that time. In verses 3 to 7, here's what it says. The Lord shall cut off all flattering lips and the tongue that speaketh proud things. He says, For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now will I arise, saith the Lord. I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. In Psalm 124, we see very similar statements. It says, if it had not been for the Lord who was on our side when men rose up against us, Then they would have swallowed us up quickly when their wrath was kindled. Then the waters overwhelmed us and the streams had gone over our soul. Then the proud waters had gone over our soul. Blessed be the Lord. who has not left us alone. For them also which shall believe on me through your word. What's the point? Well God steps in. God works. God accomplishes his purposes. He doesn't abandon people. He doesn't leave them to themselves. He pursues them. He lifts people up. He works in the world. It says, our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. Notice again back in Psalm 12, the way that it's written, the first thing that he says is that he punishes evil. He says, The Lord shall cut off all flattering lips and the tongue that speaketh proud things. What I love about studying the Bible is that you can see that God allows people to do what they want to do, but there's limits. There are times where he says, you can do what you want, you can resist and you can push and you can fight, but I'm going to take care of my people. I love them. I hear their cries. And so you have a Pharaoh who's saying, I'm not going to let these people go. Who is the Lord? And God says, All right, I'm going to show them who the Lord is. I'm just going to find out who the Lord is. And you're going to drive the people out because you realize the power and the might of the Lord Or you have a time when there's so much wickedness in the world, and what does God do? He preserves one man, Noah, and his family. Even when God destroyed Sodom and Gabor, he still rescued Lot and his family. What's the point? The point is that God punishes evil. Evil goes on, and you and I see it, and it frustrates us, it makes us sad, it makes us fearful. But God steps in and he deals with it. He answers prayer. He says, For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now will I arrive, saith the Lord. This is such an interesting picture that I get in my mind. It's almost as if God is sitting down, and this is anthropomorphic type language, okay? But the idea is he's sitting down and he sees what's going on and he hears the cries and he finally says, All right, enough is enough. I'm going to stand up and I'm going to address this issue because it's gone on long enough. You say, well, why doesn't he do it in my time? He's God. He has the right to do it on his own timetable. He has reasons. But God gets up and he deals with evil. He protects his people. He says, I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. I want to remind you that God does allow people to experience heartache and trouble. He permits it, but he manages these things for a good purpose. This morning we were in Romans 8 and it says all things work together for good to them or called according to his purpose. And that word working together as the idea of God takes all the pieces of our life and individually they're bad and their trouble and we wish that he didn't allow us to to deal with those kinds of things But he takes those pieces and he weaves them together and he does it to accomplish something good in the end. That's what God does. And he permits these things, but for a reason, and he limits those things to protect us in the midst of them. 1 Corinthians 10. 13, God is faithful. Who will not suffer or allow you to be tempted above you are able, but will with the temptation make a way of escape that ye may be able to bear it. Luke chapter 22, Satan desired that he might have you and sift you as weak, but I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not. John 17, I pray that thou shouldest not take them out of the world, but thou shouldest keep them from the evil, sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. So what is the point? The point is that God intervenes for good in people's lives. Sometimes God allows us to go down these roads and to face these things because if he didn't, we would think we were the ones doing it. And he kind of pushes us through circumstance to finally realize you're in charge, not me. And I need you to deliver because I don't have the power to do it. We need that. Truth number three. God will preserve his people no matter what they face. Now that's a promise. Listen to what he says in verse number five. He says, for the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy Now will I arise, saith the Lord. I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. The words of the Lord, don't miss this, are pure words. as silver tried in a furnace of earth purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord. Thou shalt preserve them from this generation forever. Now this is a fascinating statement in Psalm 12. He makes three promises. The first is this, he's going to actively defend. Now will I arise. Folks, God is for you. You know that? He's for you. He's for me. You say, well, sometimes he probably shouldn't be for me because I am not walking with him Call grace, folks. He loves you. He's for you. He's not against you. And God actively defends his children. You know, we we don't realize how much God protects us from. Those little moments where we face heartache and difficulty and struggle, we get really fixed on those things that what we don't realize is We'd experience a lot more than we do if it wasn't for the intervention of God's hand. And so he actively defends his children. He actively shelters them. He says, I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. These people feel so vulnerable. You ever felt vulnerable? You ever been in a situation where you're like, if God doesn't step in and protect me, I'm like really in trouble. I can't do anything to defend myself here. I could try as hard as I want, but I'm gonna fail. And God says, hold on. I'm gonna set you in a safe place It's like a mother hen gathers her chicks under her wings and she covers those chicks under her wings. We're going to look at a very interesting passage in Luke next week. It's such a fascinating statement. Because Jesus calls Herod that fox. He says, that fox, Herod. And the next statement he says is interesting. He says, he says, Jerusalem, you who killed the prophets, how often I would have gathered you as a hen over her chicks. You say, what's he saying? He's saying, he's saying, I call to you. And I said, come and rest under my care. And you ran away. You didn't want to do it. And you kept going, you kept going, you kept going, and I kept calling you back to myself. What's the point? God protects us. He insulates us. He preserves us. He shelters us even when we're being stubborn. And sometimes we've even created these problems ourselves. And he still is kind to us. The third promise is that he actively preserves in every generation. He says, Thou shalt keep them, O Lord, and preserve them from this generation forever. The statement right before that promise is a really interesting illustration. Here's what he says. He says, the words of the Lord are pure words. As silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times. Jesus said something kind of similar to this when he was preaching the Sermon on the Mount. He says, not one jot or one tittle will pass from the law till all of it is fulfilled. You say, what is he saying? He's saying, when I state something, I mean it. When I promise something, I will fulfill it. And my word is so comforting and so sure and so unshakable that no matter what, it appears is going to keep my word from happening. It's going to be fulfilled. Not one jot, not one tittle will pass until all is fulfilled. He says your words are pure like silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times The illustration is fascinating. He's basically saying this. What I've said is clear. It's very clear. I'm going to keep my people. I'm going to preserve. I'm going to defend. I'm going to care for. I'm going to shelter. I'm going to do it. He says that it is tested by fire. Now what does fire do? Well, usually fire destroys things. But what does fire do to gold? Fire reveals the purity of the gold and it removes all of the impurity. The hotter it gets, the stuff separates out, and you can you can wipe off the dross and then you have this pure gold in liquid form. And basically what he's saying is, my word's like that. My word is pure, and when it's tested, it demonstrates its veracity and it demonstrates its purity as it is tested. And so when God makes his promises and we experience the heartaches and the challenges of life and we live in a messy world, which of course we do, guess what happens? The purity of God's word is demonstrated through the testing of the fire. Not only that, the fire purifies us as well. And so the fact is that God's word is clear and the fire tested, and the same fire that purifies God's people demonstrates the veracity of his word. His word is reliable. Objectively true, demonstrated to be true. And this great principle is demonstrated all throughout the scripture. Let me share with you a couple of simple statements. Matthew 16, 18. He says, I will build my church. The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. What does he say? I made a promise, it's going to be tested with fire, and you're going to see it's true. How do we know that? Well here we here we are 2,000 years from the time of Christ. And we're gathered together, reading the same scriptures. Preaching the same gospel, trying to train our children to walk with God in the same way that Christians did thousands of years ago. What are we seeing here? Even though the the world has done everything in its power to destroy the work of God. To undermine and attack the gospel, to destroy the church. There are very powerful men who have come up in human history and they've tried to ruin the church, tried to destroy the church in lots of different ways. And what does God do? He keeps it. He preserves it. The truth continues to go on from one generation to the next generation. God's word is tested and demonstrated to be true. John 16, 33 says, In the world ye shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I've overcome the worlds. 1 John 4, 4, ye are of God little children, and have overcome them, because greater is he that is in you. And he that is in the world. This one's fascinating. 2 Peter 6, he says this. He says, God turned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes. and condemned them with an overthrow, making them an example unto those that after should live ungodly and deliver just lot. Amazing statement nonetheless. Vexed with his filthy with the filthy conversation of the wicked, that righteous man dwelling amongst them and seeing and hearing vexed his righteous soul from day to day. with their unlawful deeds. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation and reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished. What's he saying? Here is this guy Lot. I mean, from our perspective, and we didn't have this text here, we say he wasn't a believer, but he called him righteous. When Lot lived in Sodom and he saw the things going on around him, his conscience was pricked. He was bothered by it. Now he didn't have the courage to raise his own family the right way and to get out of the city. But he was a just man. And he saw was around him and it troubled him. And even when J when when Lot was so hesitant to leave that city, His own wife turned back and never made it out with them. And we see the story of his own daughters and how corrupt they were. And all the rest of his family died in Sodom. In spite of all that, you know what God did? rescued him out. I'd say kind of against his will almost. It's like when you're you know you you we we kind of deal with this sometimes in the morning we're trying to get our kids together for church. Oh and he's like he doesn't want to go in there. We're like Would you like to climb up into the beanstalk and sit in your chair and no, I don't want to do well, you're gonna do it, so you know, and you take them and you move them along, you put them in there and you Scrap, scrap, strap, okay? He's in there. We have to do that. We have to almost like make him do that. And then he kind of calms down. Alright, it's good. It's good. It's almost like God had to do with Lot like that He says, Lot, I'm gonna destroy the city. You need to come out. Okay, Lot, come here. You need to come with me. You know what he's saying? I punish the wicked, I preserve my people. And that's what God does in every single generation. God's word is testing. How does God do this? No, it's not how it works. He gives us promises in the scriptures, and those things encourage us. He gives us his spirit to strengthen us. He gives us the word to shape how we think about issues. He calls us to obedience. and puts his promises to the test. He works in the ordinary situations of life, but sometimes he has to step in. And he has to intervene for our good beyond what we could do in those situations. This is how God works. So the question I think we should close with is like, how do we respond to this? I need to go right back to where we where we started at the beginning of this message. Being a godly father, godly mother, shaping the lives of young people in this generation, it is hard. Living the Christian life faithfully is a daily battle. I'm not going to sugarcoat it in any way. It's tough to get up, open up your Bible, read it, spend time with God, and teach your kids the Word of God. And go and do your work faithfully and bring them to this place consistently and live a consistent life in front of them. It is no easy thing. And we're going to witness a lot of frustration along the way, a lot of injustices, a lot of things where we may even become the victims of those things. And Satan is working in this world system to provoke us to discouragement and to compromise and to temptation. And if we do not listen carefully to the promises of God, we're going to give in to those things. He wants to pull us away from the tools that God uses to strengthen us, to isolate us, so we're all alone and we think there's no hope. It's hopeless to serve God. And what does God do? He says, Don't forsake the assembling of yourselves. And so much the more as you see the day approaching. Why? We need the church. We need to be with God's people. We need that encouragement. We need the instruction. We need the examples. He wants to disrupt this generation. Of fathers as they labor to point their children to Christ. You realize, dads, when you try to do the right thing in your home, Satan's working against you. Every guy in this room who says, you know what, I am going to raise my kids right. I'm going to discipline them. I'm going to teach them the word of God. I'm going to be a faithful dad. I'm going to be a faithful husband. I'm going to surround them by the kinds of people that are good examples. I'm going to do the right thing as a dad. Guess what? There's a spiritual battle. And you're going to face Satan's onslaughts. And you're going to be tempted to back down because he wants to disrupt what you're doing in the lives of your kids. He wants to stunt the development of the next generation of fathers in their most formative years. I'm concerned about our six, seven, and eight-year-old boys. I'm not just concerned about our 22-year-olds and 24-year-olds and our 32-year-olds. I'm concerned about our little boys who are not being taught how to put off instant gratification. I'm concerned about that. We're being taught the values of this world because we are not being cautious about the things they're being exposed to. I'm concerned about little boys and little girls who we as parents are so distracted by stuff going on around us that we're not spending enough time with them. We're valuing our work and making money a little too much. We're not bringing them to this place faithfully like we should. And the fact is, while their lives are being formed, we do not get this time back. And if we don't do it well, we're going to be frustrated with them when they're adults. We're going to be frustrated with them because they're frustrated with us. And the bottom line is that Satan's trying to disrupt what we're doing right now in the lives of our kids. He wants to stunt their development. He wants them to become slaves to their passions. He wants their lives to be scarred by sin. He wants to convince the generation of young men, and this is a tough time. I'm not , it is true. But he's trying to discourage the young men of this generation. Hey, you know what? There's there's there's nobody I can marry out there If I get married, I don't want to have kids because I don't want to raise kids in a country that I don't know where it's going, in a world that's so unstable. Hey, there has never been a generation of young people who are raising their families who lived in a stable world. Never. Never. Don't think you have to have that in order to bring children into this world. The fact is, your children may be the greatest blessing this generation has ever experienced because of the way you point them to Jesus. He doesn't want us to miss out on the potential blessing of raising a generation for him. People with vibrant, strong values. Men and women who are wise, principled. Folks, it's easy to become bitter and disillusioned, be afraid, but this passage tells us that is not how we're to be. We can rest in God's character and ways. We can rest in his word because he has promised. We can be faithful. And I want to challenge you to do that. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, as we think about the things that we read this morning, I pray that you would uplift men in this room. Uplift men who are not able to be here but are going to watch this on the live stream or have watched on the live stream are going to watch this sometime during the week. I pray that as we think about your faithfulness from one generation to the next, we will believe the promise. That when it's put to the test, we will recognize the veracity of this promise. That we will not be weak and we will not be apathetic and we will not be fearful, and we will not miss the opportunities in front of us, but that we will rise up this time, and that we will be faithful, godly parents. I pray for our ladies who are also working to raise their children. Father, help moms and dads all over this room. To work together to point their children to Christ. And I pray for our older parents, people who are grandparents, great-grandparents, people who were not able to have children, but they love the kids of this church. They're investing in their lives. I pray that these people who are faithful godly examples will be the people that our little boys and our little girls will look up to and say, I want to I want to be faithful like that person right there And that we'll really give them good examples. And Father, when we are pressed to the limit and we think that we should just give up, I pray that you would bring graciously things into our lives to point us back to truth. And uplift us and strengthen us and encourage us. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Please just pull out our hymn books Oh, I pulled out the wrong one. We're going to sing out of the blue book. And the song we're going to sing is number 70, Be Strong in the Lord. I think that's a good one for us to close out with as we think about what's in front of us. Number 7D, be strong in the Lord. Let's sing all three verses. And before we do, if there's anyone here that'd like to reach out to me, please don't hesitate to do that. If you're visiting today, I hope you'll come by and greet my wife and I at the door. We want to be an encouragement to you in any way that we can. And if someone doesn't know the Lord, I know this wasn't a gospel message. This was for believers. But if you don't know the Lord as your Savior, don't hesitate to come and talk to me. I'd be glad to show you what the Bible says about salvation. Let's stand together. Sing number 70. Be strong in the Lord. And be strong in the Lord, and we are gonna arrest your mighty defense. Is always the same and all between and evil extreme sure when you call us. His name, please come , be strong, be strong in the war, and we are the rest of the time. Me come, we come in the Lord, and we go for the big wheel, so put on the hard the board. Cast off my head and place your deep penny God 's given will be with you in hell I could have you all be careful. Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and be up to Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and rejoice for God in Jesus. Wherever you go. We gone, be gone, be gone. Happy joy for the strong in the Lord, in the power of his mind. I just want to encourage all of our men, when you're leaving, we have a small gift for you. It's not just for the dad, it's for all of our men. So uh go back and uh enjoy that, I guess unless you're diabetic, because it's Sugar candy, right? So I'm sorry if we discriminated against you. Um but uh anyway, it is candy, I'll just tell you. But we are thankful for our fathers and uh a lot of sacrifices. uh that are being made in the homes of of our church members and I'm thankful for the guys. Uh we we had this uh Father Son camp trip and it was really a good time. It was a good bonding time. The But the fellowship was great. You could tell that these dads, they love their boys and they really want to see God working in their lives. And that so much encourages me as a pastor. So just want to encourage you with that. Chris, can you close us in prayer this morning? And good to see everybody out. Hope that you can make it back tonight. if possible. Pray for those who are traveling this week. I know there's a good number of folks that uh traveled out of town. I know our teams are traveling tomorrow up to New England, so pray for safety as uh we have two vans going up and And pray for those who are driving them. And that God will really work in their hearts this week. And we had some teams that went to camp this week as well. They had a really good time, so thankful for that as well. So Chris, close this prayer, please. Father, thank you for the love that you show us. That uh even for those who don't have their fathers anymore or Had bad experiences with their fathers that they can have you, the eternal father, who is always good and loves us so much. Thank you for those who are working so hard to be good fathers. Ask that you would strengthen them. Ask that you would be their example, and that you would help them to honor you and all that they do. Thank you for the way that you love all of us. Ask that you would help us to remember that as we go through this week in a time where many people are doing the wrong thing. In Jesus' name. Amen.