Let's all turn together to the book of Luke. We're in Luke chapter 21. And if you're with us last week, we were in Luke chapter 21. And we kind of looked at this large section that's talking about The second coming of Christ and also Christ talking about the uh impending judgment that was going to come upon Jerusalem and ultimately the temple. And in the midst of that passage of scripture, we look at it in a general sense. And now what we're going to do is kind of go back and look at some of the individual pieces in a way that I hope will be very helpful. Very, very practical. And so this morning we're going to focus our attention on verses 12 through 19, and that is focusing on the importance of enduring when we go through persecution. Let's begin reading in verse number 12. It says the following. But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you. And persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and into prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake. It shall turn to you for a testimony Settle it therefore in your hearts, not to meditate before what ye shall answer. For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist. And ye shall be betrayed both by parents And brethren, and kinsfolk, and friends, and some of you they shall cause to be put to death. You shall be hated of all men for my name's sake, but there shall not an hair on your head perish, and your patience Possess ye your souls. So let's be out together for prayer. Really commit this time to the Lord and ask him to really speak to our hearts so we can understand these very practical, very important truths in the passage. Lord, I pray that you would help us to have calm hearts this morning. As we look at this passage of Scripture and we think about The fact that there's a generation of people who have lived through the tremendous turmoil of what took place in Jerusalem in AD 70. And we realize that there will be a generation of people that will live through the tumultuous days of the tribulation. And some who will be under so much pressure looking for Christ when he returns. I pray that we would take great comfort and that we would be well instructed by the truths that we find in this passage. Father, I pray that you would take the things that are presented this morning and use them in our hearts. Speak warmth into our souls. Help us to recognize your purposes are sure. And that you are a God of all comfort no matter what we may encounter in life. And so help me this morning to communicate your truth in a way that is helpful to your people. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. This week my family got to go and spend some time in the mountains of Virginia and it was a wonderful time Uh the weather up in the mountains was a lot cooler than it was when we came back here. In fact, uh when we would get up in the morning and we would uh sit around the table, it was almost a little bit chilly. And then when we would go down the mountain into the places where they had a pool and they had racquetball courts and pickleball and all those things, the temperature was actually fifteen degrees warmer in the valley than it was up on the mountain. And one of the things that I heard several times when we were away was one of my children would say something like this, Daddy, I need to tell you something. Daddy, I need to tell you something. Then they would ask a question. That's not telling, that's asking. But they're not quite at the point where they get that. And then something else that I would hear often from my youngest child Is daddy, I have good news. That was one he likes. Or daddy, I have bad news. And then he would proceed to give me the good news or the bad news. Well, I have both good news and bad news this morning for you. And what I appreciate so much about the Word of God is that what God does As he gives us the good news and the bad news right side by side in such a way that it strengthens us and it equips us to face the bad news in the light of the good news. And that is what we're looking at this morning. We're looking at a passage of Scripture that, you know, you don't want to tell people, you may very well face persecution and you may very well be disowned by your own mom and dad and you may have tensions between you and other people that are so severe that it wounds you deeply and you may have people that just Despise you and hate you, you may even suffer at the hands of your own government because of your allegiance with Christ. That's bad news. But he says, in the midst of the bad news, there's good news. And so we have to take those pieces and put them side by side and see the whole picture. That is what we are going to do this morning as we think about the text in front of us. I would summarize this passage in the following way, despite the intense struggles. Of the last days, God's people have several layers of hope. And when I use the word hope, I don't mean like, boy, I really hope things work out. What I mean is God has made promises and his promises are absolutely certain. And in the midst of all of the challenges that we encounter in life We can stand firm on what God said because it is true. That is what we mean by hope. So despite the intense struggles of the last days, God's people have several layers of hope. The reason that we look at this passage is to encourage us that God wants us to endure persecution by resting in his tender care. And in some of our minds we go, hold on a second. If God is a tender and caring God, then why doesn't He just insulate us from trouble in life? I mean, isn't that the question we all might want to ask ourselves? Well the answer is sometimes God has purposes that are bigger than we understand. And so in his providence, he permits things that in fact sometimes are very painful. But when God permits those things, he always uses them in our lives to accomplish good. And we're going to see that laid out in the text in front of us this morning. So in order to do that, let's work our way piece by piece through these verses and see exactly what Jesus said to his disciples there leading up to the cross and the resurrection. First thing I want you to notice in the text in front of us is trouble. Trouble. We have to realize that the last days will be tumultuous days. Look down at verse number 12 and notice what it says. But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you. and persecutes you, delivering you up to the synagogues and into prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake. Now, it's important for us to understand something. The way that Jesus presents this is in a way that leaves it kind of open-ended. We do not know what generation of people he's talking about. And the reason for that is because the return of Christ is imminent. What we mean by that is that anything at any time the Lord Jesus Christ can come and can return. And so every generation of Christians is supposed to live without anticipation of the return of Christ. And there's going to be a generation of Christians that are going to live exactly through the things he's talking about. But every generation of Christians is going to live through difficulties and turmoils, and the things that Jesus will say in these verses are needful for all of us. No matter whether we're living through the period that he's talking about specifically or not, it's important for us to notice, first of all, the trouble that comes as a result of timing. He says it's before these days. Something very specific is in the mind of Christ when he's talking about this. And I think there's a couple of layers that we need to consider. First of all, there's a sense in which life is hard. There are ordinary struggles that are a part of living in a fallen world. In fact, all of us as we raise our children, we need to teach our children how to navigate the challenges of a fallen world. Navigating the challenges of interacting with difficult people in a fallen world. needing to bring resolutions between you and others, sometimes being mistreated, sometimes dealing with heavy issues in life. We have to prepare our young people to endure challenges because that's the world we live in. But it's not just our children, it's us too. And so there are ordinary struggles that are a part of life. Job 14. Man that is born of woman is a full few days and full of trouble. Ecclesiastes 1. 14. I have seen all the works that are done under the sun, and behold, all is vanity. That would be emptiness. And vexation of spirit. That's a different word. The idea is not only is there emptiness in what we experience in life, but there's sorrow. There's trouble. There's heartache. That happens inside of us when we when we deal with our own interpersonal, inner internal struggles That would be true of us when it comes to physical struggles. We get sick, our bodies decline, one day we will all face death. We'll face the death of our of people that we love very much. They're going to be people that we watch them grow and mature and become strong and vibrant. And then at a period in life when they are so strong and vibrant, they begin to decline because of some kind of physical infirmity, that's going to happen to us as well. Interpersonal struggles. And there's nothing more sweet than having good friends and a wonderful family. There's nothing more painful than having friends who abandon us or turn against us. Or family members who become very difficult with one another. And the fact is there are even natural struggles that we face in the world. When Jesus talks about the timing of these days, he's going deeper than that. Everybody experiences those things. He's talking about something that's a little bit more extraordinary. And so we see the next phrase, in the last days. You say, what is that? Well, that is that period of history when Christ will come and his return is imminent. The last days are the times we're living in now. In fact, when the Bible talks about the last days, it refers to it as the time from when Christ ascended up to the Father and then this We don't know how long this period of time is going to be, but from the ascension of Christ until the rapture of the church and ultimately the second coming of Christ, that period of time is referred to as the last days. We do not know when Christ will come. We should be living with an absolute anticipation of Him coming. And the Bible talks about what it will be like in those days. 2 Timothy 3. In the last days, perilous times will come. Say what does that mean? It's gonna be a mess In fact, he talks about the perils of the last days in the verses after that. Or in 2 Peter chapter 3, he says, know this first, there shall come in the last days scoffers. walking after their own lusts. So these are people who mock the truth and they're not guided by principle and truth, but rather their own bellies. and their own whims and their own impulses. He says the last days are going to be difficult days. Then he talks about the last days before the second coming of Christ. Matthew 24, 21, he says, Then shall be great tribulation. Such as is not since the beginning of the world to this time. No nor even shall be, and except those days should have been shortened, there should no flesh be saved, but for the elect's sake those days shall be shortened. And what does that tell you? That tells you that this period of time that we are living in is tumultuous. But those days that are right before the Lord Jesus returns will be exceptionally difficult, exceptionally harsh. And if people are going to walk according to what is true and right , It is going to set them in opposition sometimes against people they love, they respect. They desire to maintain a close relationship with those whom they are under the authority of, and they could be in a position where they will suffer immensely for their higher allegiance to God. than to those who are in their immediate sphere of influence. That is what Christ is talking about in these verses. And he talks about the fact that this trouble is because of their identification with Christ. It's not trouble because people are difficult people. You know, some people they get in trouble everywhere they go. You know, they get a job and then they have interpersonal conflicts with all the people in their workplace. They they go into one context, they have problems over here, and they go into another context and They have problems over here. And I don't understand why there's so many difficult people in the world. And everybody's like, well, they just seem to be around you all the time. I don't know what to deal with. We're not talking about that. We're not talking about people who have trouble because they're difficult people. We're talking about people who are godly, who are wise, who walk according to God's principles. And it is actually their identification with Christ and their allegiance to what is true that puts them at variance with those who are closest to them. He says it's for my namesake. The real distinction between that individual and the world around them actually creates the problem. For instance, in Matthew 5 it says, Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you falsely. That's an important word there. Falsely. For my sake. That's the key. It's not true. And it's because of Christ He says, Rejoice and be exceeding glad. Great is your reward in heaven. So persecuted they the prophets which were before you Ye are the salt of the earth. And so what he's really saying is you should be thankful that there's enough of a distinction between you and the world that the world actually is uncomfortable because of your allegiance to Christ. That's a very interesting concept. Or we see that a godly pattern of life is going to sometimes create trouble. 2 Timothy 3. 12, all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Submitting to Christ supremely can create trouble for people, 1 Peter 3. 14. If ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye. Be not afraid of their terrors, neither be troubled, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. And so I think it's important for us sometimes to just step back and go, what would have been the causes of these kinds of issues? Well, let's say that you have a person that is saved out of a Gentile idol worshipping family. So they all live in the same house, the same community. Everybody in that community that uh this is where they work, these are their closest associates, this is their family, and all of a sudden this person becomes a Christian. And they place their faith in Christ. And now they say, you know, on the Lord's Day, I'm going to go and I'm going to worship with that body of Christians. And they go, what? Why are you doing that? Those people are odd. Those people are weird. They're different than our society. They don't believe the same things. They don't worship the emperor. You know, you could create a lot of problems in our house if you follow that way. Do not go to that place. And they say, well, I have to. Because I have a commitment to Christ. And they say, well, it's us or them. And he says, well, it's Christ. Sorry. Puts people in a difficult position. Or you have a person that was a part of the synagogue and they they they've sat there for years and years and years and as the scriptures were read they never understood those scriptures. But then all of a sudden one day they realize that all those scriptures point to the Lord Jesus Christ and to his finished work. And all of a sudden this place that they were a part of It's not what it used to be. And now they understand I have the truth of Scripture. And they're even saying, look, all these scriptures talk of Jesus. And they say, no, no, no, we don't want to hear that. And so it puts them at variance. And so the reality is that these are people that were sometimes hated by their coworkers. The people that employed them, their parents, their siblings, the people that they had associated with for a long time. But what is the cause of that deceit of that trouble? It is allegiance to Christ. Christ and truth. Second thing I want you to see is the word opportunity. Opportunity. We need to realize that God will bring good out of the evil of those days. And this is a principle that I think we need to understand as a general principle, but then specifically how it is laid out in these verses. In verse 13 it says, and it shall turn to you for a testimony. It's a really interesting statement. The sense of it is that God is going to use that turmoil and that difficulty to give you an opportunity to communicate truth in a way that actually will be good for the people that are very opposed to you. Now this is an important biblical principle. God uses everything, even evil things, to accomplish good. Now please don't miss what I'm saying and think I'm saying something that I'm not. I'm not suggesting that evil becomes good. That's not true. I'm not suggesting that somehow if God uses evil to accomplish good, then that evil in the past doesn't matter. That is not at all what I'm suggesting. What I am suggesting is this. God uses everything at his disposal to accomplish good. So as people go through hurt and struggles and divisions and persecutions and all kinds of different things, some of them they have no control over. God can take those things and he can use those things to bring good out of it despite the intentions of those who are trying to do evil to others. In fact, James 1 talks about this. He says, count it all joy when ye fall into diverse temptations. Why? Because you know that the trying of your faith worketh patience. So what causes the person to rejoice is not the struggle, but what the struggle is going to accomplish through the work of God. Or Romans 8. 28, all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. What is the purpose? It is to take this young Christian and it is to shape them and mature them so that they live consistent with the position that they have. And people can see how the gospel has transformed this individual and they think and they act and they live like Christ. Or 2 Corinthians 4. 17, our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us. a for more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. So he's like, if you look at the struggle, but you look at what God accomplishes through it, you recognize this is far more significant, far more valuable, and so God used this, or God accomplished this through this. And so I'm able to look at the big picture and go, bad, but look what God did through it. Look what God did despite it. And so really who gets the glory? It's God, because he uses those very difficult pieces. Or maybe the most personal of these is Genesis 50, where Joseph says, as for you, ye thought evil against me. But God meant it unto good. To bring to pass, as it is the state, to save much people alive. He says your intention was wrong. God permitted it to accomplish good. We've got to live our lives with this principle in the forefront because we're all going to experience heartaches. We're all going to have people that mistreat us. We're going to be in situations we can't make full sense of. And we've got to be willing to step back and see what God is accomplishing through those things. But there is a very specific application to that principle in this text. It, meaning what he's talking about, shall turn to you for a testimony. Now what exactly does Christ mean by this? Well there's some other passages in the New Testament that I think kind of flush out the concept of what he's saying. The first I want to mention is 1 Peter 1, verse 7. It says, The trial of your faith, being more precious than gold that perisheth, though it is tried with fire, might be found unto praise. and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. What is he saying? Well your trial of faith gives opportunity to demonstrate the genuineness of that faith. This is the real thing. This is not phony. This is not fake. This is not put on. It's real. It's like when Jesus says to Peter, do you see all these people? They're leaving me. Are you going to go with them? And he says, Well, where am I going to go? You have the words of life. Well, what is that showing you? It's showing you that while others walked away, Peter said, I don't have another place to go. Why is that? Because his faith was real. It was genuine. But there's a second aspect to this, and that's what we see in 1 Peter 3. He says, be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. What is that talking about? Well, that's an opportunity to proclaim the gospel to the skeptic. What can happen when a person who is a believer is pressed and they are stretched and they go through difficulty is that the world around them, and I'm not saying those who cause the problems. But it might be somebody sitting on the side. Maybe a coworker watches how you interact with your boss and they step back and they pull you aside and they say, how can you respond that way? How are you able to relate to that person like that? I don't understand that. You're different. What is guiding you? You say, Well, I'm a Christian. Well, what does that mean? Well, here's what it means. And all of a sudden, you have this opportunity to not just explain the gospel, but they initiated the conversation because they observed how you related to someone in a difficult situation. This is one of the things that God does. God can do it in a family. God can do it in a work environment. God can do it in a community. There's lots and lots of different contexts. God is big enough to do whatever he wants with your situation. Third passage is 2 Corinthians 1. He says, as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation also aboundeth. I love this next statement, by Christ. Did you catch that? I'll read it again. As the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation also aboundeth by Christ. Now, this is what he's saying. You have an opportunity as you endure and God strengthens you to provide an opportunity to declare the power of genuine faith in Christ. Now, I don't wish hardship on anybody in this room, including myself, okay? But the reality is if God permits a very difficult struggle in your life, And you walk with him and you get in the Word of God and you navigate it, not perfectly, but you navigate it the way that He would have you to do it. Then what God will do is He will use that to provide opportunity for you to demonstrate to others the power of God's presence in your life and the change that takes place through the gospel message itself. And so that is the sense of what he's saying when he talks about there being an opportunity. The third thing, and this one is very important, it's the word wisdom. Realize that he will give you wisdom when it is desperately needed. Now, when do people need wisdom? Answer all the time. When do people realize they need answer uh they need wisdom? Answer? When they're in big trouble. It's just the truth, okay? So when things are going great, we don't think we need wisdom. We do need wisdom. But we don't see the need for it. But when we are pressed internally or pressed externally and we're going through heartaches, that's when we recognize, God, I need answers. I need to know what to do. I need to know how to do it. I need to know when to take this course of action. When not to take this course of action, how my attitude is in the situation. I need your guidance on all these levels. And the truth is some of us can drive ourselves crazy trying to figure out how to do things. Anybody in here like that? I could be like that. Notice what he says in verses 14 and 15. This is so amazing. Settle it therefore in your hearts not to meditate before what ye shall answer. That's a really interesting statement. Settle it in your heart now. Do not meditate before what you shall answer. Now, is Jesus suggesting that we should be haphazard and we should just throw caution to the wind and not prepare ourselves for difficult conversations? The answer is no. That's not what he's saying. He's saying, don't obsess. Don't obsess over times when you will have to deal with a difficult situation. In fact, it's very similar to what Jesus says in Matthew in the Sermon on the Mount, when he says, Take no thought for your life, what you shall eat, or what you shall drink, what you shall put on. Those are all the things that the Gentiles are absorbed with. Your father knows what you need. Seek his kingdom. He'll add all these things to you. What is Jesus basically saying? He's not saying throw caution to the wind, don't walk in wisdom. That's not it. He's saying don't obsess Just trust me to give you what you need when the time is right. The truth is sometimes we don't know when we're going to have these situations unfold. We don't know when that conversation's gonna happen. We don't know what a person's gonna say to us. We don't know what they're going to ask. We don't know how that situation, what fork it's gonna take here, what fork it's gonna take there, and then what it's gonna do. We don't know that. We can't predict that. So what does God do? God gives us grace in the moment to navigate the conversation exactly how he wants it. But you have to trust him to do that. Settle it in your heart, not to meditate before what you shall answer. I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist. Here's something that I have learned in life. The truth makes things a lot simpler. Do you know that? When you try to cover things and you try to hide and you try to manipulate and get a little information here and a little bit, when you do that, you make it worse. You make it go longer. You make things more complicated. The truth might give you an initial pain, but it simplifies and clarifies everything down the road. It's true. And so what is Jesus saying? He's saying, in the moment, I will guide you, you will speak what you need to speak, and it'll be taken care of. That's the way that God works. Now, think about what's going on. This is a pretty heavy burden that He's putting on these people But Christ is not giving them the information because he wants them to be burdened. He doesn't want them to carry this weight for the rest of their lives going. You know, there could be a day that I get persecuted, and when that day comes, I got to know what to say, and they're they're they're obsessing over this, and they're not even gonna live through the situation he's talking about. Or it's not going to play out for them, it might play out for somebody else. But they cannot predict any of those things. He says, don't worry about it. When the time comes, I'll give you what you need. That's what he does. His desire was to provide perspective and encouragement. I'll put it like this. Do not obsess over the information you've been given. Given. Settle it in your heart now, not to meditate before what you shall answer. Second, rest in his promise to provide wisdom. I will give you a mouth and wisdom. Thirdly, rest in the power of that wisdom. All your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor to resist. Now, he's not suggesting that these people are going to convince those who persecute them to stop. He's not saying that. What he is saying is this: when you speak the truth, Their mouths will be stopped. Let me give you an example of this. Stephen and the Apostle Paul. So here is the Apostle Paul consenting unto Stephen's death. He's not yet a Christian, but he heard everything Stephen said. He saw exactly how Stephen responded. He watched Stephen be stoned to death, and the way that the text is written, it appears that he was actually the one who was involved in controlling the situation. And what does the scripture say when Christ meets him on the road to Damascus? It is difficult for you to kick against the pricks. What does he mean by that? Something about that interaction with Stephen. While Stephen died, Stephen didn't convince them to stop what they were doing, but that encounter did not leave Paul But didn't. And that encounter was a tool that God used to bring Paul to himself. And so the point is not that you're going to convince someone to see something different or to stop a course of action that they will take. But rather in the moment you will speak what is true, and God will use it as He desires it to be used. God is committed to giving us, as his children, wisdom in crisis. In fact, John just preached this last Sunday night. James 1. 5. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God who giveth to all men liberally. He's generous. Abraideth not, he doesn't chide us. It shall be given him. That's exactly what Christ is talking about in this passage. And listen, it's true for you too. That principle is true for all of us. Don't obsess over what you can't control. Don't obsess about how you think a conversation's going to go that you may never even have. Just trust God to give you what you need if that situation ever occurs. Truth number four. This is the word abandonment Realize that this trouble may leave you abandoned, betrayed, and hated. This is a very interesting and a very personal part of what Jesus has to say. Listen carefully to the next two verses. He says, and ye shall be betrayed. That is a powerful word, is it not? Ye shall be betrayed both by parents. And brethren, and kinsfolk, and friends. Some of you shall they cause to be put to death, and ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake As if the burden that you will face persecution is not enough. Christ adds another layer to this. Now God created the family for our goods. In fact, one of the most wonderful things that a child could ever do is grow up in a healthy home. Mom and dad love each other. Mom and dad teach them what is right and what is wrong. They guide them in the way of wisdom. They prepare them for life. They send them out and they are very successful because of what was put into them when they were very young. That is what should happen in every single home. But that is not the way it unfolds in a lot of homes in life. In fact, not just out in the world, sometimes in the church. Sometimes in homes that you would think are very strong and very vibrant. In fact, they're not. And the reality is that every single one of us could potentially find ourselves in a very uncomfortable situation. situation when allegiance to Christ presses us in opposition to someone who is very close to us. And that's what he is describing here He's adding to this interaction the potential for division on the most personal level. This is not the only place in Scripture that this kind of a situation is described. In fact, Christ talks a lot about it. Let me read to you some of the things he says. Luke 12, 51, suppose ye that I am come to give peace on earth, I tell you, nay, throughout a division. For from henceforward there shall Be five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three, the father divided against the son, the son against the father, the mother against the daughter, the daughter against the mother, the mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law And the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law Now is Jesus saying it's going to happen every situation? No, of course not. Hopefully that will never be your experience. But the Bible is clear that is the experience for a lot of Christians And because that is the experience for a lot of Christians, in those situations, the temptation will be go along to get along. Let me tell you, you do that, it will cause Cost you. It absolutely costs you. Sometimes the right thing to do is to do the thing that nobody wants to hear. Now I can't be privy to that situation. I can't do that. I'm taking a different path because my allegiance is to Christ. In fact, in Luke 14, he states it this way. If any man come to me and hate not his father and his mother and wife and children and brother and sisters, yet his own life also he cannot be my disciple. Again, Jesus is not suggesting that we're supposed to have animosity towards family. I mean, the scripture does say husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. What is he talking about? He's talking about the fact that our highest allegiance has to be to what is true and what is right and to God Himself. And there are times in life that that will put us at odds with people that are the closest to us in all of the world. And let me tell you something. If you make a decision to walk in the ways of wisdom and truth, and a person close to you does not want you to do that. They will take that very personally. And you will feel that in a very heavy way. That's why Jesus uses the word hate. Because he's drawing a proportionate contrast. Of love versus someone who does not perceive that a love for truth is higher than a love for ease. And the question is, what do we have in such situations? The answer is we have comfort in the Lord alone. Listen to some of the things that the scriptures say about this issue. God gives us the body of Christ, Matthew 12, 48. Some people said, Your mother is calling you. And he says, Who is my mother? Who are my brethren? He stretched forth his hand toward his disciples and said, Behold, my mother, my brethren. And whoso shall do the will of my father which is in heaven the same as my brother and sister and mother. The truth is that the church needs to look out for those who could find themselves in such a place. When we were missionaries working overseas, there were people that got caught in some really tough situations. And as a church, our responsibility and our privilege was to bring people like that alongside of us and to minister to them in a very personal way because they had been abandoned by those who were the closest to them. Psalm 27, 10, he says this: When my father and my mother forsake me, the Lord will take me up. The church is not perfect. The church will fail on some level, but God will never leave us or forsake us. Psalm 68, verses 5 and 6 says that the Lord is a father of the fatherless, a judge of the widows. is God in his holy habitation. God setteth the solitary in families, and he bringeth out those which are bound with chains. And so when we read this text of scripture, we need to realize that there will be people, many people, who will literally live through what Jesus is talking about. And you know what they're going to need? They're going to need the church. They're going to need a comfort in God's presence, and they're going to need to remember that their ultimate father is the one who purchased them. The Lord Jesus Christ has drawn them to the Father, and that is where their greatest sense of comfort and assurance and security is. The one who will never leave them or forsake them. There's a fifth and final truth I want to mention, and that's this peace. We must choose to rest in his promise to preserve his people against all threats. Notice what he says in verses 18 and 19. He says, but There shall not an hair of your head perish, and your patience possess your souls. Now Jesus has said some really hard things. And the truth is that maybe somebody here felt uncomfortable with what he said. I mean certainly when I was studying this time ago, you know, I read through this and I ask myself, you know, if I'm in the situation that he's talking about, do I have the strength to do the right thing? Am I willing to have people look at me and give me grief? Am I willing to stand up for what is right even if it's going to cost me my life? It's really easy for people to say, oh, I would stand on the side of truth in all situations, but then something very small happens and we we cave. But here's the comfort. You have present protection and ultimate deliverance. Notice the statement: There shall not an hair of your head perish. That is present protection. No matter what we encounter in life, God will protect us. But there's a second side to this, and that is ultimate deliverance. In your patience, possessing your souls. He's talking about the fact that down the road, the ultimate deliverance isn't God keeping you from pain. It's you entering into your eternal inheritance. And sometimes that's the thing that gives people the greatest comfort. When the Bible talks about putting on the whole armor of God, one of those pieces he says, put on the helmet. Of salvation. You know what that's talking about? It's talking about what's coming down the road. And everything that we experience in life that can be very tumultuous and difficult, he says, get your eyes off of those things and look up and say. That future inheritance is coming and that is when faith meets sight. I'll put it like this. God protects. He actively and providentially protects his people from untold dangers. In the midst of struggle, his presence is always there. He never abandons us as his children, even when we suffer. He gives us all the tools that we need to persevere when he permits suffering. He always equips his children to rise above what they encountered. The deficiency is never in what God gives us. It's in whether or not we trust Him. Grows. He uses everything to develop maturity in us. And eternal preservation, every Christian will one day be delivered from this present evil world and be saved into everlasting glory. That's what this text is all about. So, how do we apply it? Let me give you some final thoughts. Realize that we are living in the last days. You say, well, tell me about it. I see it in our culture. Well, the last days has been for the last 2,000 years. Because we're living with an anticipation of Christ. We do not know when he will return, but his return is eminent and we must be ready for it. Despite all the deep uncertainties, there's real comfort. He will always bring good out of evil. He will use all suffering to reveal the genuine quality of our faith. He will use it to show the world the power of life in Christ. He will open doors to proclaim the gospel through those sufferings. He will give us the wisdom we need when we face it. He will lift us up when we're abandoned. All those things are true. Because the word of God says they're true. The second part is we need to rest in his tender care. If you're in a position where you feel this very personally, then rest in God's care to protect you from what is evil. Rest in his presence that will never abandon you. Rest in the tools that he'll give you to endure suffering. Rest in his fatherly care that develops spiritual maturity. Rest in your future glory. We opened our service in James 5, and I want us to close our service in James 5. Listen to what it says. Be patient, therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it until he receives the early and latter rain. Be also patient. Stablish your hearts. For the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Grudge not one against another, brethren, lest ye be condemned. Behold, the judge standeth before the door. Take my brethren, the prophets, who have spoken in the name of the Lord for an example of suffering affliction of patience. Behold, we count them happy which endure. Ye have heard of the patience of Job, have seen the end of the Lord. The Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercy. It's true for Folks, let's rest in it. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, as we think about this passage of scripture I pray that you would help the word of God , the truth of Scripture, to be very personally and practically applied in every heart. Whether someone is in a season of peace and tranquility, but they do not know what lays ahead of them, I pray that these truths would inform them well. If someone finds themselves in a position of great turmoil and heartache, and their heart breaks as they read these verses and think about what they are personally living through. Through. I pray that they would take the Word of God and apply it, that you would strengthen and uplift them. Father, help us to be a people who walk according to truth. who are bold, courageous, but above all else who rest in your tender care. Give us strength for all that we may encounter in our lives. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen