Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our second Anchor in the Word Morning Reflection. And the text that we're looking at this week is Luke chapter 14, verses 25 through 35. And we're looking at a disciple's enduring commandment. We're looking at the need for people to be absolutely surrendered to following Christ in every area of life. And so this morning we're going to focus in on the concept Of priorities, and we're going to see that in the text. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles out and turn to Luke chapter 14, and we'll read the text together. Here's what it says: And there went great multitudes. And he turned and said unto them, If any man will come to me, and hate not his father and mother and wife and children, and brethren and sisters, yea, and his own Life also he cannot be my disciple. And whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. For which of you, intending to build Build a tower, sitteth not down first, and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it. Lest happily, after he hath laid the foundation and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him, saying, This Man began to build and was not able to finish. Now, this morning what we're focusing in on is the word priority. And the concept is that Christ must be And we see that in these statements in verses 26 and 33. If any man come not after me and hate eight, very strong word, not his father, mother, wife, children, brethren, yea, and his own life he cannot be my disciple. Verse 33, likewise Whoever he be, of you that forsaketh not all that he hath cannot be my disciple. Now this is a fascinating statement, and it leads us to a question Is Christ teaching us that it is justifiable to harbor animosity towards another person? We hear that word hate, we immediately think But that is not the point of what Jesus is saying. He's not emphasizing a personal animosity, but rather a difference in priority. So he is saying there's a person who wants you to give them a higher allegiance than Christ. You have to make a choice, and the one whom you decide to embrace And the one you decide to walk away from in this situation is the one who's going to view themselves as being hated versus being loved. And that is the sense of what he means. When he uses the term hate. It's not about animosity, it's about priority. And we can see that because this passage has to be looked at in the light of other things that are said in the scriptures. For instance, In Matthew 19, Jesus says that we are to honor our father and our mother, and this is consistently taught in the scriptures. Or again in Matthew. Matthew 19, he says that we are to love our neighbor as we love ourselves. And so if we're to love our neighbor, well, who is a closer neighbor than your parents when you are children? And your spouse when you are married, and your children when you have children in the home. They are the closest neighbor that you have. Or think about Luke chapter 6. Even those who are our enemies. We are commanded to love our enemies and to do good to those who hate us. And so the question is, how do you take these passages of scripture, these statements, and how do you blend them in with what Jesus is saying without there being a contradiction? Well if the word hate is about animosity, there's a contradiction But if the word hate is about priority, there is no contradiction. And the reason for that is because we see that there is an order In the commands that are given by Christ. We see this in Matt in Mark chapter twelve, on the summation of the law. He says, We are to love the Lord our God with all our heart, all our soul, all our mind, all our Our strength. This is the first commandment. And it stops there. So the idea is that there is no one who is to stand between us and God. He is to be our highest priority above all. And then the passage continues on and says this, and the second is like unto it. Like unto, but subservient to would be the way that understand this namely thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself there is none other commandment greater than these now when we talk about priority we even see the priority in the statement on the summation of the law. In other words, my love for other people is something that is to flow out of my love for God and is not to be in conflict with my love for God. One of the ways that we love another person is to love them by prioritizing God first and truth first, and from that our priority of God first. Is going to shape how we love other people. So if a person demands allegiance in the place of God, we are not loving them by giving them such allegiance. We're actually loving God first and in Their opinion, it's going to be, you have put God ahead of me. You must hate me, despise me, not prioritize me. That is the sense of what we're looking at here. And we see in Christ's life This example of priority, specifically when talking about his father's will and the will of his earthly parent, Mary. In Luke chapter 2, verses 49 and 50. He says, How is it that you sought me? Wist ye not that I must be about my father's business? They understood not his saying. Do you see this conflict? Mary's mind, Jesus is doing the wrong thing, and Jesus says, No, my priority is my heavenly father first. See another example of this in Matthew chapter 12. While he was talking to the people, behold, his mother and brethren stood without, desiring to speak with him. And one of them said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without desiring to speak to thee. Who is my mother? And who are my brother? And he stretched forth his hand towards Toward his disciples and said, Behold, my mother and my brethren. Now what's he saying? I prioritize the will of the Father in the ministry to these people. even above my own earthly family. Probably the greatest example of all of these is in John chapter 18, though. Because in John 18 we're going to see that Jesus honored his mother, loved his mother, but prioritized his heavenly father and the father's will over the personal And we see this blending of these things in John chapter 18. As Jesus is hanging on the cross, it says this. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus, his mother, and his His mother's sister, Mary, the wife of Cleophys, and Mary Magdalene. Son, then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother. And from that hour that disciple took her unto his own home. What you're saying is that obviously Jesus' mother Mary would not Have wanted to see him hang on a cross. But Jesus does this. Why? Because this is the reason for which he went into the world to secure redemption for his people. And so When he goes to the cross, he's obviously prioritizing his father's will, even above his his own physical desires and the desire of Mary. Yet he's still Showing compassion and love and kindness toward his mother. And so we see this perfect balance in the example of Christ. A correct understanding of Christ's statement is bound by the flow of the context, and we see continuity in the scriptures. And we see this issue of priority actually emphasized in the verses leading up to and the teaching after. For instance in Luke chapter 12, verses 22-30. He says, Take no thought for your life what you shall eat, or for the body what you shall put on. Rather seek ye the kingdom of God. Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. statements talking about priorities. Or we see the same thing in Luke chapter 12, verses 52 to 53, the verses we just read. He says henceforth are verses leading up to what we're Reading here, henceforth there shall be five and one house divided, three against two, and two against three, the father divided against the son, the son against the father, the mother against the The daughter, the daughter against the mother, the mother-in-law against the daughter-in-law, the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. Now, what's J There are times that there can be this conflict even within the home Of priority. Who is your ultimate allegiance to? And so we are to prioritize the gospel and the kingdom of God and the will of God. God above everything. And that was the whole point of Christ's parable in Luke 14. They all with consent began to make excuse. And he's saying this so that people would understand the folly of not putting God in the kingdom first. Christ must be our absolute highest priority in the same way that the The will of the Father was his highest priority. Well, what can we take away from this? Well, what we can take away from this is something very simple. We've got to put Jesus first. We've got to put the kingdom of God first. And I pray that in our homes, in our personal lives, we don't have these conflicts as much as possible. But I know that there will be times if Our lives, where the will of another person, one who is dear to us, one who is close to us, one who may be our blood relation, that their will has to fall under And so let us always be a people who put God first. If that's gonna be a challenge to you, take a moment to share that. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we continue breaking down this passage. Bye now.