Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And this week I'm actually going back two Sundays. because as I was looking over my notes I realized that I actually skipped the sermon. So sorry about that. And the passage that we're going to deal with this week is a is a really important passage of scripture. So I did not want to pass over this passage but I wanted to go back. I wanted to address that. So if if you're looking at the order and you go, wait a minute, it seems like we skipped ahead and now we're going back what's going on. I just made a mistake when I was working through my notes. And hope that these topics that we'll be addressing this week will be extremely important. Or they are extremely important, but I hope they'll be very helpful to you. as we work our way through them. Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to Luke chapter 18. We're looking at verses 31 through 34 together, and then we will jump into this passage together. Here's what God's Word says. Then he took unto him the twelve, said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished For he shall be delivered up unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated, and spit on, and they shall scourge him and put him to death, and the third day he shall rise again. They understood none of these things But this saying was hid from them. Neither knew they the things which were spoken. All right, let's listen to a little section of this sermon, and then we'll jump into that topic together. Christ affirms that God's faithfulness to his redemptive promise reveals his grace. If God said he's going to do a thing, God's going to do the thing. And so he's emphasizing that in this statement here, that all things written of the prophets concerning the Son of Man will be accomplished. Now the emphasis of this sermon was on the grace of God, and in various ways that God's grace is demonstrated in our redemption. The first part of the sermon focused in on how God's grace is demonstrated in his faithfulness to his word. And in that passage of Scripture, He says that these things are going to happen as they were spoken or written of by the prophets in the past. The passage that comes to my mind when I think about this um is um when when Jesus is walking down the road to Emmaus after the resurrection and the people are very disturbed about what's going on and uh Jesus says, What are you talking about? And they say, Well, haven't you heard? Are you a stranger in Jerusalem? Jesus of Nazareth has been crucified, and some of the people are saying that he is alive now, he's resurrected, and uh we don't know how to make sense of all these things. And then what Jesus does is he begins to take the Old Testament and it says that he opened their understanding to understand those things. And he he goes through Moses and the prophets. And he lays out all these passages of Scripture that foretold the nature of Christ's redemption and how he was going to die on the cross, how he's going to rise from the dead, how he's performing all these miracles to affirm who he is. And so what Jesus is doing is he is demonstrating the fact that there were predictions or promises or prophecies that were made all throughout the Old Testament. And they were all driving forward so that people would know what was going to take place, and that would actually become the object of their faith as Old Testament saints. So we talk about someone like Zechariah or someone like Simeon. These were people who were waiting for the consolation of Israel. The Bible says that they were just or they were righteous. He's referring to the fact that these are people who were looking for Christ. When we talk about Abraham and we talk about David and Moses, these are Old Testament saints. They're looking for Christ. And so the question is, what were they looking for? Well, if they understood these promises promises, these prophecies They would understand that he is going to be God in flesh, he's going to die on the cross for their sins, he's going to rise from the dead. And when I say die on the cross, they may not have understood all of those details, but they understood this concept of substitutionary death on their behalf and the resurrection that's going to be a triumph over death, and that they're going to be saved or redeemed through his sacrifice. All of this was foretold in the Old Testament. Now, this passage of Scripture is meant to affirm that in fact God's grace will be demonstrated and the fact that he's faithful to his word. There is no greater example in all scripture of God's faithfulness and God's grace and his power to accomplish what he promises he will accomplish. Ministry of Redemption. If we can trust God to have fulfilled His word on that particular matter, then why don't we trust Him in these other matters? Matters of our care, matters of wisdom, matters of his goodness as he coordinates and works through the circumstances of our lives. Why do we doubt that he will keep us? Why do we doubt that he will grow us into Christ's likeness? Why do we doubt that he, in fact, accepts us in the beloved, where all things work together for good to those who love God, who are the called according to his purpose? The answer is it makes no sense. He has demonstrated his faithfulness. And so while our emotions might drag us, and while intrusive thoughts may pop into our minds, and while we may hear things around us that will cause us to be disrupted in our thinking, We should always go back to the fact that we serve a God who when he promises, he fulfills. End of story. We should rest in his grace and his faithfulness to his word. Well that's what I want to leave you with this morning. I hope that as you think about the text that we just read, the little excerpt from the sermon, and then the discussion points, that these things will be an encouragement to you this morning. If this has been an encouragement, maybe take a moment to share that. Share that with someone else who could be encouraged by it. And Lord willing, tomorrow we will meet again as we dig into another concept in this very important passage of Scripture. Have a blessed morning. Talk to you later. Bye now.