Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection for this week. And a reminder that this will be the last week that we do Anchored in the Word studies until we go into the new year. And uh this passage is a great one for us to just kind of close out our year thinking about the nature of redemption and the basis of our redemption. And so Today that's what we're going to look at, how Christ and his sacrifice is the basis of our salvation. So let's go ahead and turn to Ephesians chapter 1. We're going to pick up in verse number 3 and read through this passage. It says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him And love having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace. Wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace, wherein he hath made us uh whereof he hath abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence The word that we're going to focus on today is basis of our salvation. What is the basis of our salvation? If we ask the question, Why does God justify a sinner? Why does God forgive our sin? The answer is it is on the basis of the work of Christ. And we see this in verse number seven. It is in Christ that we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. The basis of our redemption is the shed blood of Christ and his work on our behalf. And so it's important for us to kind of step back and ask, where did this all start? All of this started in the mind of God. This is God purposing within himself before the foundation of the world. that he would redeem us. And that redemption would be a complete and full redemption. Verses 8 and 9. He hath abounded toward us in all wisdom, important word. and prudence, having made known unto us the mystery of his will, according to the good pleasure of his will which he purposed in himself. Very interesting words So when we talk about the Father purposing to redeem us, we have to recognize that it was according to his wisdom and prudence. There is a wisdom in this redemption. When the Bible talks about the cross, it says that the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but it is the wisdom and power of God unto those who believe And so when we look at the cross, if we're not a Christian, we're gonna go, this doesn't make any sense. This is just a a ridiculous thing that a man's death on a cross and the shedding of his blood could give people a reconciliation to God. That's how the world looks at the cross. But for the believer we recognize God in his justice will not forgive sin without a basis for that forgiveness. And so it is the wisdom of God and it is the prudence of God. And it's also him revealing the mystery of his will that he purposed in himself. So there is a logic in the mind of God for how we are redeemed to him. And so it's important for us to recognize that Second thing I want to mention is that this is a redemption that involves the payment of a price. And Christ is the one who pays for our redemption. When we talk about this word redemption, it has the idea of being released from an insurmountable debt through the payment of an unrepeatable price. So when God redeems us to himself He is removing our debt because it is paid in full, and Christ is the only one who could pay it We were estranged from God. That's why the Bible talks about us being at enmity with God, by nature children of wrath. When we were his enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son. And so instead of us being estranged from God and being indebted to him and under the curse of the law, Christ removes the estrangement, he removes the indebtedness, he removes the curse of the law, and it's all through what he did for us. And he is the only one who can justly set the terms to resolve this indebtedness. God doesn't ask us for permission to say, well, here's how you do it. Or God doesn't say, what do you think I should do? God in his own nature does what is perfectly appropriate because he is a just God. And so when we talk about Christ paying our debt in full. to forever resolve that debt. There's a lot of scripture that addresses that issue. For instance, Revelation 5. 9. It says, Thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood. So that redemption came at a price, and that price was Christ's death and the shedding of his blood. Galatians 3. 13 Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. So when we talk about how the curse of the law is removed. It is through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus becoming a curse for us. Or Romans 5. 10, we used to be the enemies of God. We have been reconciled to God. through the death of his son. And so we see that it is his death, it is the shedding of his blood, it is him becoming a curse for us. That is how we are reconciled to God. 2 Corinthians 5. 18, all things are of God who has reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. And so when we talk about the debt, that is paid to the Father for our benefit on our behalf, that debt was what Christ did for us. And so when we think about the basis of redemption, the basis of redemption isn't just God being kind. or God loving people or God being merciful or gracious. The basis of that redemption is that Christ paid the price so that God will extend grace. and mercy and love through the sacrifice of Christ. And in no way is God's justice being in some way compromised. When Christ went to the cross, God was not just forgiving sin. He was just in the forgiveness of sins. So you and I can be reconciled to God simply because Christ has done it for us. Well, that's a lot to process. Hope that gives you some things to think about. Have a wonderful rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through this text. Bye now.