Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And as we've been working our way through this passage of Scripture and some of the video clips from the sermon where we address the text, we've been looking at several concepts. We've looked at the importance of the eternality of Christ, the deity of Christ, the humanity of Christ. We've been talking about the purpose for which he came into the world. It was to redeem us from our sins to God. Now this morning what we're going to do is focus in on a fourth thing, and that is the power or the right, the authority to be called God's children. And so we're going to read through this text again, John chapter 1. Verses 1 through 14, we're going to listen to a short clip from the sermon and then dig into this topic together. Here's what it says. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by Him, and without Him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came into his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. Let's take a moment and listen to this short video clip. So when he uses that word power, he's not using the word power here. Obviously, it's a Greek term, not an English term here. He's not using in the sense of the strength to get something you want. He's using in the sense of the right to be called something you're not. There's a big difference between those two things. In other words, God can call you his child by legal right Now that's a very powerful concept for us to think about. When we read that verse, it says that as many as receive him To those people, he gives the right to be called the children of God, even to them that believe on his name. And that's what that word power means. That the the word power, when we're looking at Greek terms that are translated to English power, sometimes we see the word dunomas. The idea is that someone has an enabling, but that is not the sense of this word. This is more of a sense of legal right, a status. And when we talk about the gospel and what the gospel accomplishes for us, There are times that the gospel is spoken of in terms of relationship. There are times that the gospel is spoken in terms of legal status. And so we even see words like inheritance and adoption. And so the idea is that when God makes us his children, He does it not only through the fact that we are born again, we are born anew, and that is one of the major emphases in this passage of scripture. But the fact is we're also declared his children by legal status. And that's what the word adoption has the sense of. We wait for the adoption. The adoption is when we're going to receive the full blessings and benefits that are available to us with that legal status of being called God's children. And so when we talk about our salvation and we use terms like justification, that's a legal status. I'm standing in a courtroom. If you were to look at my behavior, you were look at my actions, you were look at my my sin, you'd say, that person is clearly guilty. Look at all the things that they have done to violate God's law. If you look at my standing in Adam, I am guilty. Not innocent, guilty. But then when we look at my status in light of the righteousness of Christ imputed to me, the legal status has changed I was once condemned, I was once under his wrath, but now I've been redeemed to God, I've been declared righteous. justified through the imputed righteousness of Christ. And so we go back to this passage of Scripture and he says, to them he gave the power, he means the legal right to be called God's children, even though we do not have anything inside of us or anything that we give to God or anything we've done that makes us qualified for such such a status, it's because of his grace. It's because of what he has done for us. And so aren't you thankful that despite your sin despite your brokenness, despite the fact that we are fallen in Adam, that we have been declared righteous in Christ. And we have been declared having the legal status of the children of God who are anticipating glorification, the adoption of our bodies, receiving the full blessings, the full benefits. of our eternal inheritance. I am so thankful that all of that is true. And it is true because of the grace of God and the work of Christ. Have a blessed rest of your day as you think about those things, Lord willing, tomorrow we will meet again and break down one final thought from this passage of scripture by now.