Good morning and welcome to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope your week's going great. And if you are digging into this passage with us. The things that we're going to talk about today I think are extremely practical, and I hope that they'll be an encouragement to you. So if you have a Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Acts chapter 18. We're going to begin reading in verse number one. and then uh keep working our way through this passage. Here's what the scripture says. After these things Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth and found a certain Jew named Aquilla, born in Pontius, lately come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to depart from Rome. And came unto them, and because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, and wrought, for by their occupation they were tent makers. And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the Spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. Now as we work our way through the passage, yesterday we talked about what was going on that really led to this interaction taking place at Corinth, and the story was a tough story. It's Paul um not being able to go to the place that he desired to go and God disrupting his plans. It's Paul getting um driven out of city after city after city. A lot of dis discouragement, a lot of frustration. It's also the story of Aquila and Priscilla getting kicked out of Rome, and they were kicked out of Rome simply because they were Jewish. And it was really a form of discrimination. It was an anti-Jewish sentiment in Rome because of the religion and the ethnicity and the customs, the ethics of that people, and how that disrupted the Roman order there in Rome. And so here are two individuals, or a couple and an individual, who really are not trying to get to Corinth, but that's where they end up, and it's because God wanted them to meet there. But the second piece of this story is how God uses this very ordinary circumstance of working their daily labor. to not just bring them together, but ultimately to lead to what was likely the conversion of Aquila and Priscilla, the discipleship of Aquila and Priscilla, and then a relationship that would be very strong for the rest of their lives. And so what we see here is that God's providence transforms this very ordinary work that the Apostle Paul and Aquila and Priscilla had. Now when we think about that, we simply see in verse 3 that the reason they met is because they were of the same craft. And that's why they abode together. Such a simple thing. Their friendship was an ordinary friendship, and it was built on several things. One would be culture. Paul was a Jew, McCool and Priscilla were Jews. Paul understood Jewish culture and the Old Testament scriptures. The same would have been true of them. And so that makes sense that they would meet together in that way. But they had the same work. And the reason they're in Corinth doing this work is because, for lack of a better way to put it, they were opportunists. That was where the opportunity was lying at the time. There were games at Corinth, it was a time when lots of people had fled to the city, and so there were a lot of items to make and to sell and to support themselves. And that's really what leads to them meeting together under these circumstances. And what we see about the Apostle Paul is that he was willing to engage people in every single context he possibly could. Just think about some of the different places that he met people. He met them in the synagogue. And he goes into the synagogue because that's where they have the Old Testament scriptures. That's where people are studying the Word of God. And so it would be the most likely place for people to engage in conversation about the Old Testament and scriptures and the gospel. He preached the gospel in the public square. Where people were meeting, where people were discussing different kinds of philosophies and religion, that's where Paul would go He would go into people's homes and he'd have one-on-one conversations. He'd sit across from them and explain to them the Word of God, answer their questions, illustrate, and ultimately point them to Christ. He would go and stand before public officials. And in these situations he's there because he is captive. He is thrown into prison. He's standing before a judge. Yet Paul uses that as an opportunity to preach the gospel. He even goes into public halls and he teaches like he did at the school of Tyrnes. He preaches in the prison while he's chained guards. The reason I bring up all these contexts is to simply say that Paul was constantly giving the gospel. It was his life. It was his passion. It's what he cared about more than anything else. But out of all those places, the most unique place that you would think of as a gospel context was actually his daily work. And out of all those places. . He spent more time in his daily work than any of those other places. And so that provided a great environment for him to pour his life into the lives of those who needed the gospel. And so he likely spent more time working than any of the other places. And as Paul is working, this context that was very, very ordinary. Paul is giving the gospel and making disciples, and it's making it one of the most productive environments that he's working in. And so I want to pause at the end of this observation to ask you a simple question. Do you see the place that you've been planted in your daily work as a context to reach people? Now I do want to pause and reflect on this a little bit more. I'm not encouraging you to go to your workplace and pass out tracks all day and try to engage people in gospel conversation. Not suggesting that at all. Or to be the person in the break room that's always telling people where they're wrong and how they're falling short. That's not what I'm suggesting. What I am suggesting is in your place where God has planted you, where you are rubbing shoulders with people that God has brought uh close to you because of the work that you do, are you living a faithful, consistent Christian? uh example before those people. Can they tell by the way that you talk, what you do say, what you don't say, the way that you relate to other people, your worldview, how it shapes how you work, and your ethics. When they talk about the way that you think about your family and your your relationship to your spouse, to your children, how you relate to the boss, how you relate to other coworkers. how you relate to suffering and discouragement, people talking bad about you, and getting uh taking advantage of weaknesses and loopholes and opportunities to to do power plays in the workplace. When they watch your life, do they see something very different in you than what is around them? You are salt, you are light. And if you will live a distinctly Christian life, God will open the door to gospel engagements with the people around you. You'll be the one that they go to when they have questions. You'll be the one that they go to when they're hurting. You'll be the one that they go to when they're trying to get perspective. And the reason for that is that you will have earned by your distinctiveness. the right to have those conversations. They'll come to you. God will open them. And so I really want to encourage you, be faithful in your daily work. Pray that God will open doors of opportunity in your daily work and when they come, by the grace of God, with his wisdom, navigate those toward gospel engagement. May the Lord help us to see the places that He's planted us in our daily work as a place to do that. Well, that's what I have for you today. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Hope you'll join us for that as we dig into this text a little bit more. kind of lean more into the details that are here and where it ends up going later on in Paul's life and ministry. And so if you have any questions, please don't hesitate. To uh reach out if this has been an encouragement, share that, let us know, and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now