Good morning and welcome to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. As we start breaking down this passage of scripture, I think that you'll find it to be extremely encouraging and helpful And there's a lot of insight that we can glean from this passage of Scripture. I'm thankful that God in his wisdom gave us a very transparent view of Elijah in one of his darkest moments. And so if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's turn together to 1 Kings chapter 19. We're going to open up the text, read it, and then break down what it says about what's going on in the text. So here's what the text says. And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and withal how he had slain all the prophets with the sword. Then Jezebel sent a messenger unto Elijah, saying, So let the gods do to me and more also If I make not thy life as the life of one of them by tomorrow, about this time. And when he saw it, he arose and went for his life. and came to Beersheva, which belongs to Judah, and left his servant there. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a juniper tree. And he requested for himself that he might die, and said, It is enough. Now, O Lord, take my life. I am not better than my father's. Now as we dig into the passage, the first thing I want to do is talk about really what's going on in the text. What is the storyline that leads us to this very low point in Elijah's life? Well, it begins by first of all recognizing the man that we're talking about. Elijah was a great man. He was a strong and vibrant individual. In fact, when the Bible describes him, he is known as a rugged person He is an excellent example of faithfulness. In fact, in James, when he talks about the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availing much, he's talking about the story of Elijah. And so when we think of the great prophets of the Old Testament, Moses and Elijah are two of the most prominent ones that we talk about. We also see that he's coming off of a triumphant season. When we say he's coming off a triumph, I mean that at Mount Carmel, 400 prophets of Baal who were pushing against the truth were cut off. And Elijah was able to pray to God, and God demonstrated his power over the God Baal. We also see that this is a time where there was a lot of pressure building up. And to just kind of give you a sense of the pressure and the excitement and the lowness of it, think about what we read in 1 Kings 18 at that Mount Carmel situation. It says Mount It says, Elijah came unto all the people and said, Why or how long halt ye between two opinions? If the Lord be God, follow him, and if Baal, follow him. And the people answered not a word. Now Elijah is frustrated. He knows that the people are serving idols, and he wants them to turn to the one true God. And so he puts God to the test. And that would have been something that who knows what was going through his mind when he decided to do that. It never tells us in the passage that God told him to do this. This is something he's choosing to do And so there's a lot of emotions building up into this moment. We also see that when Elijah prays, you see this come out in his prayer. He says, Hear me, O Lord, hear me, that this people may know that thou art the Lord God, and thou hast turned the heart back again. Then the fire of the Lord fell and consumed the burnt offering, and the wood, and the stones, and the dust, and licked up the water that was there in the trench. When all the people saw it, they fell on their faces and said, The Lord, He is the God. The Lord, He is the God. So this is a highly emotional moment in Elijah's ministry. But there's also another side to it. There has been this bent this pent up emotional pressure that he's been experiencing for years. For three years he's been hiding in the wilderness and then after hiding in the wilderness and experiencing the isolation of that, being fed by the ravens Um he's sustained by a widow, and this widow is from Zarephath, which is the hometown of Jezebel 's family. And so you can only imagine how significant the pressures would have been that he felt. Um he's had a very a very tense confrontation with Ahab. And this has happened a series of times. But when he confronts Ahab, Ahab says, you're the person who is basically holding Israel hostage. You're the reason. that we're in such a terrible strait. And what does Elijah do? He turns around and says, no, it's not me. It's you. You're the one who has led the people into idolatry. And so you can see that there's a lot of pressure building up in the situation. Then after the Mount Carmel incident, he runs ahead of Ahab's chariots when the rains come, and he runs anywhere from twenty to thirty miles. This is the equivalent of running a marathon. So we're talking about a man who is emotionally spent. He's physically tired. He's had a lot go on. And then when Jezebel says, I'm going to kill you, He he travels an additional one hundred to one hundred and twenty miles. So in the course of just a short period of time, he runs a marathon And then he travels on foot close to 120 miles. This would be the equivalent of a four-day's journey. And so what we see is a man who is physically exhausted. And there at Bathsheba in the wilderness, what does he do? He says, God, take my life. I'm no better than my father's. He's emotionally spent. He's physically exhausted. He's ready to die. The question is why is this so significant? It's significant because it tells us what happens when people get to the place where physically they are so exhausted that it begins to affect how they think and how they feel toward God. This is a man who is emotionally and physically burned out. We're going to talk about how he got there and how God dealt with him and what it teaches us about God's very merciful and kind ways. And so you may be in a position right now where you are physically and emotionally spent. Well, if that's the case, I have good news for you. Even in that condition, God looks at you with great compassion and great love. He will pursue you even through what is being presented this week, and he'll give you what you need to get back on track and to be where he wants you to be. So I hope that you'll join us this week. As we work our way through this passage. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow by now