Good morning, and I hope you're having a great Wednesday morning. The text that we've been dealing with is Ephesians chapter 1, verses 18 through 23, and we've been talking about the greatness of Christ. Yesterday we talked about the fact that he took on flesh. So we talked about the incarnation, his humiliation. Today we're going to look at his exaltation, what took place after he went to the cross, after he dies, after he rises from the dead. The answer to that question is in what we're going to deal with today. So take your Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter 1, and we're reading verses 18 through 23 together, and then we're going to look into this topic a little bit this morning. It says, The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, you may know what is the hope of his calling, and what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints What is the exceeding greatness of his power to usward who believe, according to the working of his mighty power, which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead? and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places, far above all principalities and powers and might and dominion in every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come. And have put all things under his feet, and gave him to be the head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all. What an amazing text of Scripture. It's highlighting the reason we should celebrate Christ because of his greatness. And so let's go ahead and move into the next section. which talks about his exaltation. Notice the way that he puts it in verse 20. And, this is after he demonstrates his power in the resurrection, he set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places. Now if we were to step back and think about this for a little bit, we would realize, hold on a second, Jesus is eternal. He is creator, he is sustainer. So why does he need to be set at the right hand of the Father? We have to recognize that Christ took on flesh and he humbled himself to go to the cross, and so now he is being exalted after he has humbled himself. And so he's not exalting himself. It's the Father who is highly exalting him because of the work that he has done. And because this is truly his rightful position. So let's look into it a little bit. What's the significance of him being at the right hand of the Father? A couple things come to mind. First It's an emphasis on the fact that his work is a completed work. , It's not a work that is being done right now. It's a work that has been done already and it's finished. When Jesus was nailed to the cross and he said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit, and he says, It is finished, he meant it. It was done. Everything that needed to be done on the cross to accomplish our redemption, it was completed. And so we notice that there are other passages that emphasize this as well. Hebrews 1. 3. When he had by himself purged our sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. He's emphasizing the completion of the fact that our sins have been purged through his sacrifice. Where Hebrews 12, 12. 2, he says We look unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Again, he is the finisher of our faith. He's the completer. And so he emphasizes that completion. The second thing that we see here is that his presence at the right hand of the Father reminds us that this work is done and he is the one who is bringing us to the Father. And the word that we'd use here is the word interceding or intercessor. In Romans chapter 8, verse 33, it says, Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather is risen again, and is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. It's not as if Christ is saying, please, please forgive them. I'm begging you. That's not the case. It's his presence reminding us that in fact his sacrifice is done, his blood has been shed, his our sin has been washed away and removed, and we are now able to access the Father through the intercession of Christ. And so it's that continual reminder of that intercession. Third thing, he's establishing the right to a redeemed inheritance. And this is a a a part to this concept that maybe we don't think much about. The passage that comes to mind is in the book of Revelation, chapter 5. And this is what it says. It says, I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book and to loose the seals thereof? And no man in heaven or in earth was under the earth was able to open the book, neither to look thereon. And I wept much because no man was found worthy to open and to read the book, neither to look thereon. Now, what is the book? Well, the book is the title deed to all of the creation. What John is saying is nobody has the right to claim that role save one person. And it says, one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof. This is an amazing statement. He says there's nobody that can do it but one, and it's Christ. And it's because he has prevailed. He has conquered death He has paid for sin, and this is his world, not just because he made it, and not just because he sustains it, but because he redeemed it. And all of those things are true. Creator, sustainer, sovereign, Lord, Redeemer. And so when we see the Lord Jesus seated at the right hand of the Father, it's a reminder. He is the right to this redeemed inheritance. One more thing I'm going to mention here is Philippians 2, which kind of fully explains this more. It says that God hath highly exalted him, and he has given him a name above every name, that at the name of Jesus. Every knee should bow, things in heaven, things in earth, and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess Jesus Christ as Lord to the glory of God the Father. I want to remind you that we have a Savior who is the one who has the right to rule over everything He is seated at the right hand of the Father, demonstrating his work is done. It's completed. He's seated at the right hand of the Father as a reminder that we have access into the presence of God through his sacrifice. And he is seated at the right hand of the Father, reminding us, this is his world. He created it, he sustains it, he governs it, and he redeemed it. May God help us to live in the light of that wonderfully encouraging truth. Any questions that you have, please don't hesitate to reach out. And uh share it if you think it'd be a help to somebody. Have a blessed day, Lord willing, tomorrow. We'll meet again to dig into this passage again. Bye now.