Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a great Friday morning and I'm looking forward to kind of summarizing everything that we've talked about in this introduction to the book of Ephesians. So if you have a Bible, please take it. Let's turn again to Ephesians chapter 1. We're going to read these verses together and then just kind of reflect on some of the things that we've talked about over the last several days this week. Ephesians 1, verse number 1. Paul, an apostle Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the saints which are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus Grace be to you, and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings and heavenly places in Christ. according as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself. according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. Now, what have we learned this week as we've been working our way through this introduction to the book of Ephesians? The first thing that we've talked about is perspective. We need to make sure that we don't doubt what God is able to do through the gospel. There are many times that we look at people We see the trouble that they're in, we see communities, and we say there's just no way that God can do a work in that church, in that community, in that person's life. And what we see in the story of Ephesus is that this is a very unlikely city that became a a a hub for a very, very influential church. And so as we think about perspective, we need to realize all of Scripture was written in a story. And that story is one that demonstrates God's power and God's grace. He raised up a godly church in a spiritually broken community. That's the legacy of the church at Ephesus. And this church became an example, an example of what God can do, an example of what we should desire for Him to do in our lives. The second word is the word practice. We need to find a healthy balance between doctrine and practice. Now here's what I mean by that. God calls us to learn before he calls us to work. So I need to know who I am. I need to know what God expects. And then out of that, that appeal leads to obedience. But this is not something that ends with idle hands. Just because I know doesn't mean I should sit on my hands. I need to do. And so doctrine presses us into practice. This is something that should flow out of our position. It is by the Spirit's enabling that we do these things. The third word is the word prayer. We should live the Christian life with a humble dependence on God. And this is a major emphasis in the book of Ephesians. Prayer is something that should be a central feature to every aspect of our Christian experience. We should be on our knees constantly and doing the work that God has called us to do, both in learning and growing and doing. beginning with prayer. Our growth in knowledge should come with an open Bible and be on our knees. Our work should start with an open Bible and on our knees. The third word, or fourth, I can't even remember now, is the word praise. We need to live each day as an expression of gratitude to God for his grace in our lives. We are redeemed sinners. And we should praise the Father that he had a plan of redemption. He didn't just throw us to the side and ignore us. He didn't say, what am I going to do? Instead, God accomplished his plan of redemption by sending the Son. Secondly, we need to rejoice in the Son and praise Him because He was willing to humble Himself and become obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. His work secured a redemption. And then thirdly, we should praise the Spirit, who has graciously worked in our heart and is keeping us until we realize and experience all that we have received in Christ. And so we should live praised-filled lives. And then lastly, I mentioned the word position. Live like you believe you are the person that the Bible says that you are. Remember that you are united to Christ, and this is the center of everything in the Christian life. Remember that you have a new identity in Him. You are not the person that you were before you became a Christian Remember that every blessing that you enjoy is something that is found in Him. Remember that you are called to live like the person that you are in Christ. And remember that He has empowered you. to be able to live according to his expectations. And so let's live as God has called us to live because we understand who we are and we recognize what is available to us in Christ by the Spirit's word. Have a blessed weekend. I hope that we'll see many of you on Sunday. I want to remind you again that our church is doing our annual cantata this week. And so it's going to be a busy time, it's going to be an exciting time. There's going to be a Christ-centered message focused on the heart of the Christmas story. There's going to be a lot of music and there's going to be a production that presents a very important part of the Christmas story. So I hope that you join us. And I'm looking forward to seeing many of you on this coming Lord's Day. Have a blessed rest of your day, a blessed weekend. Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday. Bye now.