Good morning and welcome to our Wednesday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. This week we have looked at the Passover, the Cross, and the New Covenant. And on the first day, we talked about the storyline of what exactly was taking place. Yesterday, we looked at the focal point of the story. Today what I'd like us to do is look at the background. And I know this is something we kind of dealt with on some level last week, and so a little bit of it will will kind of be a connecting point. I'm going to expand a little bit on the background issue, but I want to talk about the Passover and what is actually pictured of the Passover. And then I want to focus in at the end of this lesson on the scriptures that would have been read at the beginning of the Passover Paschal meal and then those that were read at the end of the Paschal meal because what it does is it shows you how there is a dual nature to the Passover, one that looks back and one that looks forward. So if you have your Bibles, let's take them, turn together to Luke chapter 22. And we're going to pick up in the middle of the section and then read all the way down to verse 20. Here's what the scripture says. And when the hour was come, he sat down and the twelve apostles with him. And he said unto them, With desire, I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. For I say unto you, I will not any more eat thereof until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. And he took the cup and gave thanks and said, Take this, divide it amongst yourselves. For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God shall come. And he took bread and gave thanks, and broke it, and gave it unto them, saying, This is my body, which is given for you. This do in remembrance of me. Likewise also the cup after supper saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood, which is shed for you. As we dig into this passage, we're going to see some details about the background because I think it will help us to really appreciate what we're looking at. So if we go back to the initiate or the establishment of the Passover and then how it would have been practiced all the way from the Exodus up into the first century. One of the things that that 's central is that each family had a responsibility to clean their house, cleanse it, remove all leaven from it, so that it was ready to celebrate Passover. Now, as they did this cleansing of the house, there were several things that they were to remember. One would be that they were to be reminded that they did this with great haste. The original Passover would have been something that happened very quickly God is going to deliver his people, and so they have to get out as quickly as possible. There was to be no leaven in their bread, and so it would have reminded them of that. It also reminded them of the need for there to be a removal of defilement from the home. And so as they do this, they're reminded that we constantly need to be cleansed. This is something that is a part of the Passover celebration. And then it reminded them of the yearly need to be renewed. And as a people, at the beginning of their of their annual calendar is this month of Nissan. And this is when they celebrate the Passover. So those would have been some things that would have happened when they were preparing the home. The second thing that's central wouldn't just be the cleansing of the home and the removal of leaven. but also the selection of the Paschal Lamb. On the 10th of Nissan, they would select the lamb, and then on the 14th, they would kill it. Now, as they were selecting this lamb, it had to be a lamb in the first year, and it had to be spotless. Not only did it need to be spotless, but it's a lamb that was going to die. The lamb's blood was going to be shed, and it was going to remind them of the first Passover lamb, which died in the place of the firstborn. And so as that blood was in the basin and it was applied to the doorpost, there was a visualization of something that had taken place. This blood was going to be a reminder that an animal died, its blood was shed, and so the the angel would pass over the house rather than kill the firstborn. And in the same way that they looked back at that event, they were looking forward to something as well. The blood would be sprinkled on the altar. which visualized that a sacrifice had been given to God and that sacrifice had lost its life so that they could celebrate this festival. And then as the blood was well Was sprinkled on it, and that animal was roasted, it would point forward to someone who was coming, the Lamb of God who would take away the sins of the world. And so you see this picture, the selection of a spotless lamb. It's going to be killed, its blood is going to be shed, its blood was going to be sprinkled on the altar, it was going to be roasted, it was going to be taken home, they were going to eat it. And it was going to remind them of the first Passover and also the fulfillment of the Passover, the coming Messiah. Then we want to talk up for just a minute about the Passover meal because to me this is extremely interesting. When they had the meal, there would be two portions of scripture that they would read, one at the beginning of the meal and the other at the end of the meal Psalm 13 and 14 would have been called the Hillel Psalms. These would have been the ones that they read at the beginning of the meal before they explained to the children what exactly the Passover is all about. During this time they would explain that this is this is A time when Israel was enslaved in Egypt. God was going to deliver them out by a mighty hand. The Pharaoh hardened his heart. He would not allow the people to go. And God is demonstrating his power over the gods of Egypt. But on that final night, the last plague that he sent was the death of the firstborn. Every family that took that Paschal Lamb, killed it, and spread it on the blood on the doorpost. Those families were safe because the substitute had died. And so they're memorializing that event. But there's more to it. They eat the roasted lamb, they eat unleavened bread, they eat it with bitter herbs, they pass around the vine uh the wine or the grape juice. And as they do that, there's something symbolic that's going on there. And Christ is going to take those images and he's going to use them as pictures. At the end of the meal, what I think is perhaps one of the most interesting parts, is that they read Psalm fifteen to eighteen And so just so that you can get a sense of this, I want to read the psalm that began the meal and then the psalm that ended the meal, and you'll see how there is a difference of focal point in these two psalms. In Psalm 113 it says, Blessed be the Lord from this time forth and forever. From the rising of the sun unto the going of the same, the name of the Lord is to be praised. The Lord is high above all nations, his glory above the heavens, who is like unto the Lord our God who dwelleth on high, who humbleth himself to behold things that are in heaven and then are earth. He raiseth up the poor out of the dust. He lifteth up the needy out of the dung hill. Now if we were to read the rest of the Psalm and then Psalm 14, it becomes very clear that these psalms point back in time to the Passover. But then we come to Psalm 118, and this one is different in its orientation. Here's what it says. I will praise thee for thou hast heard me and art become my salvation. The question is, how? It says the stone which the builders refused has become the head of the corner. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day which the Lord has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Save now, I beseech thee, O Lord. O Lord, I beseech thee. To send now prosperity. Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the Lord. O give thanks to the Lord. He is good. His mercy endureth forever. Now, Psalm 13, 113 points back at the original Passover. Psalm 118 points forward to the fulfillment of the Passover. And that is in the death of Christ, the one who has become our salvation. And so what you can see is that in the Passover celebration , The people should have understood that there was a dual nature to the picture that they were observing. One that looked back to a physical deliverance and one that looked forward to a spiritual deliverance. As we think about these things, I hope we'll be challenged by them. In fact, we're going to talk about the Lord's table, the ordinance associated with the Passover, and the pictures that are there, Lord willing, tomorrow. But before we get there, I hope that you have a great rest of your day. I hope that you reflect deeply on God's work on your behalf, Christ's death. His resurrection that gives us eternal life. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. If um want to leave any words of encouragement, that would be great. want to share it with someone who you think can be benefited by it, please do that. Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through the text. Bye now