Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I'm excited about the passage of scripture we're going to deal with this week because this is the text that we dealt with on Mother's Day. And I believe that this passage can be be a tremendous encouragement to us this week. So hope that you'll grab your Bible, join us for these studies, and that the Lord will really richly use the passage of scripture that we will deal deal with this week. And I know that we're reading verses one through five each morning, but we're going to actually look at the entire book and just kind of get a snapshot of what's going on in that book. So if you have your Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Ruth chapter 1 and we're going to read verses 1 through 5 together. Here's what God's Word says. Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled, that there was a famine in the land, and a certain man of Bethlehem Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. The name of the man was Elimelech the name of his wife Naomi, the name of the two sons, Melon and Kileon, Ephraithes of Bethlehem, Judah. And they came into the country of Moab and continued there, and Elimelech, Naomi 's husband, died, and she was left and her two sons. And they took their wives they took wives of the women of Moab. The name of the one was Orphan, the name of the other Ruth. And they dwelled there about ten years. And Melon and Chileon died, both of them, and the women and the woman was left of her two sons and her husband. Now this passage of scripture is such an important start to the book. And what I would like to do this morning is I'd like us to kind of look at the flow of the book, look at a summary statement, just kind of get a snapshot of what we're doing this week, and that will set the stage for each of the principles or truths that we we'll examine this this this week throughout uh each day. So first of all, a summary statement, Ruth teaches that God tenderly cares for his children. despite painful hardships by demonstrating his rich grace through little details that work together to accomplish his grand purpose. As we read these verses, we're going to see that God wants us to have a renewed sense of His goodness and His wisdom. And this passage of Scripture might be something we're studying together and you're in a good season of life. And you are not in a position where you are doubting God's goodness and his wisdom. You're experiencing it and you understand that. But that may not be the case for everyone. You may be in a very difficult season. And if you are, I pray that this passage will be an encouragement. Or maybe someone that you know is going through a time of great and great discouragement and frustration. And this passage can be a great encouragement to them. So I hope that you will join us this week as we look at this and pass it along to people who can be challenged by it. So first of all, let's work our way through the details of the book so that we can understand what we see here. The first thing that we'll see as the book opens is that it starts with a faithless decision to leave the house of bread. In verse one it says, It came to pass in the days of the judges, when they ruled that there was a famine in the land, and a certain man of Bethlehem, Judah went to sojourn in the the country of Moab. Now, the name Bethlehem means house of bread. And they're going to the land of Moab, which is a land that had a people who were living there who had a very dubious history. We know the story of Lot and his two daughters and the country of Moab, those are the descendants of Lot and one of his daughters. And this is a a a terrible story. It's a blight. Lot is a person who uh lived in Sodom and Gomorrah and his his life ended tragically, uh or we could say the end of his life was tragic. His wife's life ended tragically. His daughters' lives were tragic. And this man is going to the land of Moab in search for bread in a time. It shows that he is distrusting God. And the reason that the nation is going through these hardships is because they were not obeying God. And during the time of the judges, Israel was a chaotic place. And everyone did what was right in their own eyes. Well, this decision that ultimately was a faithless decision culminated in many unforeseen compromises. And these led to even greater heartaches for this family. In chapter 1, verses 2 to 5, it says they came into the country of Moab and they continued there. So they stayed longer than they were anticipated. And Elimelech, Naomi's husband, died. There's part of the tragedy. And she was left, and her two sons. And then they took wives of Moab and they dwelled there about ten years. And Melan and Kileon died, also both of them, and the woman was left of her two sons and her husband. Now, when they went to Moab, it wasn't their intention, it doesn't appear, to stay there long term. But that's what they did. And most certainly they didn't think that they were going to die in Moab, but that's exactly what happened. And so here is this woman who has two daughter-in-laws who are Moabites. The Moabites were idol worshipping people. And she's a very broken person. And so the next thing we see is that that heartache led to a root of bitterness that defiled many people. In verses 12 to 15, we see this, and we also see it again in verses 20 and 21. When Naomi 's getting ready to leave, she tells her daughter, she says, go your way. It grieveth me for your sakes that the hand of the Lord has gone out against me. And then when she comes back, she says, do not call me Naomi, but call me Mara, for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me. I went out full, and the Lord has brought me home again empty. Now, Naomi 's name means pleasant. She was a person who was very sweet. And that was seen in the name, the people that that what people called her. And we see that her her daughter-in-law loved her very much. So she was a sweet person, but when she comes back to Bethlehem Judah, she's bitter, she's broken, she's weary she's been beaten down by life and she says don't call me Naomi call me Mara I'm a bitter person Well then we see that despite the uncertainties of this situation and despite these compromises that did not need to take place and the painful circumstances That Naomi found herself in and the bitterness that she had in her heart against God. God remained faithful to her. He didn't abandon her, he loved her. And so in verse 16, we see that as Naomi is sending her daughter-in-law back to Moab, and Orpa goes back to Moab, this is what Ruth does It says, Ruth said to her, entreat me not to leave you, or to return from following after you. Whither thou goest, I will go. Where thou lodgest, I will lodge Your people shall be my people. And the next one is important. And thy God, my God. Now when she tells Orprah or Ruth to go back after Orpah, she says, Go back to your father's house. and go back to your father's idols. And Ruth says, no, I will not leave you. Well what do we see here? We see that despite all these difficult circumstances, God remains faithful, and we see his grace in the response of Ruth, her daughter-in-law. God's grace is going to move in this story. And we see it over and over and over again, even beginning with Ruth's willingness to stay with her mother-in-law, but also the timing of their return back to Bath Judah. It says that they returned to the house of bread from the land of affliction during the barley harvest. And in verses 22 and then into the next chapter, it's says so Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitus, her daughter-in-law, with her, and they came to Bethlehem in the beginning of the barley harvest. And Naomi had a kinsman of her husband, a mighty man of wealth, of the family of Olimelech, and his name was Boaz So you see the start of the story very dark, very challenging, and you start seeing these examples of God's grace. Then that moves us to the end of the story. Because by the end of the story, God's provided a loving husband for Ruth, a nourisher of Naomi in her old age. He's preserved his redemptive purposes to the birth of King David's grandfather. And in Ruth 14, 4, 14 to 22, it says this. It says that the women came to Naomi and they said, Blessed be the Lord who had not left thee this day without a kinsman, that his name may be famous in Israel He shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life, a nourisher of thine old age. And they called his name Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David. Now, what can we take away from these verses? First thing is this. When we study a book of the Bible, we need to look at the parts in relation to the whole. Each piece that we examine in this way contributes to a powerful testimony of God's grace and love despite human weakness. If we just stopped and we read only a portion of the book, we wouldn't either we wouldn't appreciate the greatness of that blessing, or we wouldn't, we would just see the darkness of those moments. We have to look at the whole thing And so let's remember that this is the same God. The God that we serve is the same God that Naomi served and Ridd served. And so let's let this encourage us this week. He does not change. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever, and we can rest in his care. I hope that this week you will join us as we dig into this passage of scripture and I believe find a tremendous amount of encouragement. From the Word of God. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow by now