Good morning. Welcome back to our Friday Inchored in the Word of Morning Reflection. And this week we've been studying Psalm 51. Very interesting passage, very important psalm, and it really gets to the heart of how we as Christians should relate to God after we've sinned. And we face that sin, and now we desire to be restored to communion with God. And so Psalm 51 is a very instructive Psalm, and there's a parallel between Psalm 51 and what we see in 1 John chapter 1. And so let's go ahead and dig in our Bibles one more time into this text. We'll read through it, and then we'll look at some final thoughts together. So Psalm 51 says the following. Have mercy upon me, O God, according unto thy loving kindness. According unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquities and cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against thee thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight, that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. Behold, I was shapen in iniquity and in sin did my mother conceive me. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom. Purge me with hyssop and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice Now as we dig into this passage and we think about the application side, we're going to break this into two parts as we typically do on Fridays. How should the unbeliever respond to this text? How should the believer respond to this text? First of all, the unbeliever. If we have never placed our faith in Christ, we are in a position of guilty before God, separated from Him, under His wrath, needing to be reconciled to God. Your sin and my sin stands between us and God. Our sin separates him from us. And there's nothing that we can give to God, and there's nothing that we can do for God that can remedy this desperate situation. It's a problem that cannot be resolved through anything that we do. And so our one and only hope is to turn to God, to rest alone in what He has done for us. We need to turn to Christ. place our faith in his finished work, and accept his forgiveness that comes through Christ and Christ alone. So if you're not a believer today, turn to him. Place your faith in Christ. He's done everything that needs to be done for you to be reconciled to God. Your response is that you should repent and believe. Secondly, we look at the believer. There are a couple of words that I want us to remember. The first one is the word remember, and the second word is the word reckon. And then the third word is the word rejoice. So we need to remember what we have in Christ and what we had before we were in Christ. We need to remember that our sin is something that caused us to become the object of God's just wrath against sin. We were by nature the children of wrath. Our sin defiled us and stained us. We needed our sins to be washed away. We needed to be cleansed because we were made unclean by our sin. Our sin has robbed us of the intimate communion and joy that God created us to have with him. In the garden, Adam knew God personally, unhindered by sin. and that was broken because of sin. We need that to be taking place between us and God. Our thinking has been disordered. Our passions have been twisted. And only God can restore and transform what has been broken in us. Our passions and our thinking need to be shaped by the Bible And so our sin that has separated us from God in a position that is powerless to live as we ought to live, that is powerless to make ourselves right with God, that leaves us with one and one and only hope. And that is we need to turn to God and rest in the promise that David was looking for. The promise that God would send a redeemer. But we look at it on the other side. God has sent a Redeemer. He has fulfilled His word. And we can trust in the cross and the resurrection of Christ. And so if you are a believer, remember what you were and remember what you have. The second word is the word reckon. And that word reckon is an accounting term. Account these things to be true. Consider the promises that you have in Christ. They are true, and you should rest in them as if they are. Remember that the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. Consider it true. When you come into his presence and confess your sin, remember and reckon that in fact he has cleansed you from sin. He has forgiven you. Remember and reckon that in fact he is faithful and he is just to forgive our sins. He didn't compromise his justice. He has cleansed us from all unrighteousness. Reckon these things to be true. He has restored fellowship and communion with him. This is not something we just want. It's something that we have because of what he has done for us. He has provided a way that we can have fullness of joy. Reckon these things to be true. And the third thing I'll mention is the word rejoice. We need to rejoice in what we have in Christ. Rejoice in the fact that you are forgiven. Rejoice in the fact that you've been cleansed. Rejoice in the fact that he has received you and you belong to him. Rejoice in the gospel. His love never fails. Romans chapter 8. There is nothing that can separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. You can and you will enjoy his presence forever. Are you enjoying him today as he designed? Well that's my encouragement to you this weekend. As we go into the weekend, I hope that these truths will refresh your soul. They'll encourage you if you need them desperately in this moment. And more than anything, may our lives be built and grounded upon the Word of God and the gospel. Have a blessed weekend. We hope to see many of you on this Lord's Day. Bye now.