Good morning and welcome to our Thursday edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you've enjoyed these studies that we've been doing this week and I hope that as we've gone back and kind of reviewed each little piece of the sermon from Easter Sunday that it's given you a little bit more of a focused attention on those details and you've been able to kind of grasp that and ultimately it's been an encouragement to you. Well this morning what we're going to do is focus on God's grace in this story. And if you remember back earlier in the week we talked about how their eyes were holden, they did not have the ability to see who Christ was But it was more than not an ability to see who Christ was. It was an inability to see that this in fact was God's plan from the beginning. And so this is where the passage really draws to a head and focuses our attention on the whole purpose for Christ's coming. And so you could almost say this is like the climax of the story, and that is God's grace. And so turn with me again in your Bibles to Luke 24. And we're going to look at verses 13 through 17 together, 13 through 27, focus in on a portion of this. I'll begin in verse thirteen. Behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about three square furlongs. They talked together of all these things which had happened, and it came to pass that while they communed together and reasoned. Jesus himself drew near, went with them. But their eyes were holding that they should not know him. And he said unto them, What manner of communication are these things that ye have one with another? As ye walk and are sad. One of them said, whose name was Cleopas, answering, Art thou only a stranger at Jerusalem, and hast thou not known the things which are come to pass in these days? Now from this portion in the narration of the conversation, Christ begins to go into the Old Testament passage, passages referring to himself. What we're going to focus in on is what it says in verses 28 through verse 35, because this is where we see God's grace and the opening of their eyes to the truth. It says, they constrained him, saying, Abide with us. As he sat at meat with them, he took bread and blessed it, and brake and gave it. And their eyes were opened, and they knew him, and he vanished out of their sight, and they said one to another, did not our heart burn within us while we talked? while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the Scriptures, and they rose at the same hour and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon And they told what things were done in the way and how he was known to them in the breaking of bread. Really fascinating series of statements in these verses. So let's look at them one at a time. The first is this. God opened their understanding. It says their eyes were opened, and they knew him. You say, what is this? How how I mean they weren't closing their eyes before they're talking to Jesus Was it because they were walking in the dark and now they're sitting in a lighted room and now they can see him? That's not the reason that they could understand and see who he was. It's because literally God gave them the ability to see clearly what they had not been able to see before. In fact it's a stunning reversal if you really want to look at that. The second thing is this This understanding, a new understanding, a perception, was built on scripture. So the reason that they were unable to see before is not just because of Christ's physical appearance. It's because they didn't understand that this was God's plan and they had no reason to believe based on their understanding, or I could say their misunderstanding of God's plan, that in fact Christ would be alive and would be right in front of them. But notice the way that it's worded. He says, Did not our hearts burn within us? While he talked with us, by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures. Fascinating statement. So as Christ is explaining these scriptures, there's something going on in their hearts, and at the point when it was happening, they couldn't quite figure out what it was. Well what it was is the conviction of the Spirit. It was the Spirit of God opening their eyes to the significance of the truth. And a lot of times when we talk about studying the Bible, listening to preaching We use the term illumination. That is when God opens our understanding to the significance of the truths in front of us. We might be able to articulate the concept. But until we have processed it and internalized it and personalized it, we've not understood it in the sense that we're talking about here. And so they're describing the fact that As the scriptures are being opened to them, their heart was experiencing the work of the Spirit in opening their understanding to the weight of these things. It's a fascinating thing. They were being awakened to truth. And this is all a result of the grace of God working in them. It's similar to the passage in John 16 where Jesus says, when the Spirit of God comes, he will convict the world of sin and righteousness and of judgment. The idea is that he's going to work to confront and convince people that one, I'm a sinner, two , I cannot meet the righteous standard of Christ. And three, I'm going to be judged. Now, what's the point of all this? It's to drive us to Christ to recognize I'm a sinner, but he took my sin. I'm unrighteous, but his righteousness is available to me when I turn to him in faith. There's coming a judgment. But I will not face wrath because I'm safe in Christ. He bore the wrath of my sin already And so that's the point of the Spirit's work. He is to draw us to the Father by pointing us to trust in the Son. And so we see this immediate change of attitude the moment that the light comes on. It says they rose at that same hour and returned to Jerusalem. So They had literally traveled seven miles from Jerusalem to Emmaus. They eat this meal, and now they're gonna go back up to Jerusalem seven miles again. So the question is what time in the night Did they end up getting to Jerusalem? I mean, it could have easily been 10, 11 o'clock, 12 o'clock. I have no idea what time it was. But the fact is that they were motivated. They wanted to tell the disciples, in fact, he is alive This story about an empty tomb is not just about an empty tomb, but it's about the risen Savior. And so we see that in this passage. They said, the Lord indeed is risen. And so when we look at this passage of scripture, the question is, how did they come to that conviction? The answer is very simple. The grace of God. And it reminds me of that hymn, Amazing Grace. Twas grace that taught my heart to fear. Grace my fears relieved. How precious did that grace appear the hour I first believed? If you're a Christian, you were a Christian. Yes, you trusted Christ. You chose to depend on the work of Christ. There's no question about that. But the question is what drew you to that point? The answer is the merciful, gracious, loving hand of the Spirit of God using the Scriptures to point you to your sin. Your unrighteousness, the judgment to come, and the sufficient work of Christ on the cross and in his resurrection. And so our faith rests in the gospel because God has drawn us to it. And we delight in the gospel because God has caused us to delight in the gospel. And we grow in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ because God is working in us both to will and to do. of his good pleasure. And so aren't you thankful for the tremendous grace of God that has brought us salvation? Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow, one more time, going into the weekend, to look at some final thoughts. Bye now.