Good morning, welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And we've been working our way through 1 Samuel chapter 8, and we're talking about a passage of scripture that was really at the center of explaining everything that's going to happen in the rest of the book of 1 Samuel with the life of Saul and then getting into the life of David. And so the details are important for us to consider. We've been seeing how the nation of Israel was frustrated with Samuel. And they were frustrated with the way that God had organized things in the nation. They wanted to be like the other nations. And we see how God deals with them. And so what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to kind of step back from what we've looked at in those little details and kind of see how this fits into the big picture. as we move our way towards some applications later in the week. So if you have your Bible, please let's all take it together and let's turn to 1 Samuel chapter 8. And we're looking at verses 1 down to verse We'll not read that whole section, but let's read it together. Here we go. 1 Samuel 8, verse number 1. And it came to pass when Samuel was old that he made his sons judge over Israel Now the name of the firstborn was Joel, and the name of his second Abiah. They were judges in Beersheva. And his sons walked not in the way in his ways, but turned aside after Lucre, and took bribes, and perverted judgment. Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together and came to Samuel at Ramah, and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways. Now make us a king to judge us like the other nations. But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king and judge us. And Samuel prayed unto the Lord, and the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken! unto the voice of the people, and all that they say unto thee, for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them. According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them out of Egypt, even unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me and served other gods, so do they also unto thee. Now, therefore, hearken unto their voices, howbeit yet protest solemnly unto them, and show them the manner of the king that shall reign over them. Now what I'd like us to do this morning is look at the big picture. And there are several different characters in the passage in front of us. The first character is the people, the nation. And these people recognized correctly that Samuel had become an older man. Again, I'm going to tell you later on in our study how old Samuel probably is. But it's true that he had been a judge in Israel. for at least forty-five, fifty years, depending on how you look at the time that he began to be a judge. And let's remember that he was speaking prophetically even as a child. And it's also true that his sons were not faithful judges and they could not replace him and and be the kind of leader that he was. And the people recognized that But there's a second piece to this that is is really prominent, and God brings this out when he's talking to Samuel. The ultimate dissatisfaction was not with Samuel and not with his boys. But it was God's structure, his design, his purpose for the nation. He wanted the nation to be distinct and different from the other nations. It was not God's desire that the people be like the nations around them. It was his desire that he be their not just God, but their king, and that he would mediate that rule through human instruments. And so these people pressured Samuel to demand that God give them a king. The second person that we see in this passage of Scripture is the prophet Samuel. And Samuel has failed to leave a legacy of faithfulness. He himself has been faithful as a prophet. But his sons were not faithful in following him. And so there was a breakdown in his home. In the same way that Eli had a breakdown in his home. Samuel had a breakdown in his home. And this is a contributing factor to Israel's desire for a king. It was not the final uh reason that they that they were uh doing this, but you could say that it was one of the one of the catlists, and it was definitely the scapegoat that the nation was running to. And you can see that he's understandably frustrated. He's not happy with the people. Their attitude toward him is something that would have caused him pain. They're reminding him that he has been doing this a long time and that he's not going to do it forever. They're reminding him that he's had a breakdown in his family and that his boys that he's established as judges are not going to be faithful judges. And this has also reminded them that reminded him that the people were rejecting God. And so on some level, you can only imagine how disappointed and how potentially disillusioned and frustrated, Samuel would have been. It would be like someone who's been a pastor for uh his entire adult life. And his family is not in a good place, his church is not happy with his leadership, and ultimately they're desiring to see the church go in a direction that's not healthy, it's not godly, it's not what God wants And so this person is feeling as if they've been a complete failure. That is probably how Samuel was feeling at the time. And then we see the third character, and that's God Himself. God is giving the people what they want, not because it delights his soul, But because God has given them the liberty to pursue what they desire. God sometimes allows people to push in a direction that's ultimately not for their good. And so he's allowing them to do this. It's his permission, not his desire. And so he is giving them what they want. But he's warning them in the process that there will be great consequences for them pursuing this. In this, he's comforting Samuel, reminding him that the primary problem is not with Samuel, but it's with God. And he's emphasizing that the king that they're going to get is going to be a domineering person. He's going to dominate their lives. He's going to be self-centered. He's going to be a king like the kings of the nations around them. But the point that really comes to my attention is that this king was going to replace the rightful place of God in relationship to the nation. God wanted to be their ultimate king. God wanted to mediate his rule through a godly king who is not just going to serve as a ruler, humanly speaking. But he would be someone who directs the people's attention to their ultimate king God and ultimately to God's authority. And so as we step back and look at this story, what we're seeing is a nation, a prophet, and their God. And so the question is, what can we learn from this? What can we take away from this in a practical way? Well first I'll say this. We've got to learn from what we see in the scriptures It says in Romans that the things that were written aforetime were written for our learning. In the book of Proverbs, many times Solomon tells his sons, and tells his children, you need to observe the ways of the wise, and observe the ways of the foolish, and observe the ways of the simple. And as you observe their ways, you learn about life, you learn about wisdom. We need to be willing to step back and recognize that, you know what, the same kinds of problems that we see in these people are the same kinds of problems we have on the fundamental, foundational level. Sometimes it's easy to see what others are doing. It's hard to see it in our own lives. And so we've got to be willing to step back, humble ourselves, and see how we may be in the same place that these people are in. And when we find ourselves in a similar place, we've got to learn that that is the time to humble ourselves, to see God's face for restoration, forgiveness, and a refocus. In fact, uh, we just recently had a week of revival meetings, uh, spring meetings, and during that time the focus was to help us get refocused on the Lord if we've drifted, if we've gotten distracted, if we've gotten discouraged, is to refocus our attention on the Lord. And so let's ask God to help us to have eyes that can see where we have faltered, the strength to humble ourselves. and to walk with God with a renewed perspective. That's the challenge for us this morning. I hope that you'll take a moment and ask God to help you with these things. Have a blessed morning and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue this series. As we work our way through 1 Samuel chapter 8, by now