Good morning. Hope you're having a great Thursday morning or whenever you're listening to this video. And I hope that you've learned a lot this week as we've been working our way through 2 Timothy chapter 1. Chapter two. My burden is that the things that we are looking at from God's Word are things that will resonate with us, that they will inspire us, they'll challenge us, they'll encourage us, they'll help us to step up if that's what we need to do. And so I pray that as you think about these things, God will be working in your heart in a very specific way so that you'll put into practice the things that you're hearing. Again, let's take our Bibles. Let's turn to 2 Timothy chapter 2. We're going to read verses 1 through 7 together and then we're going to dig into the other two illustrations that that Paul uses to help shape the way that we look at Christian ministry and what needs to be instilled in the next generation. Second Timothy chapter 2 verse 1 says this Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. Thou therefore endure hardness, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that wordeth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier And if a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned except he strive lawfully. The husbandman that laboreth must be first partaker of the fruits. Consider what I say, and the Lord give thee understanding, and all things things. Yesterday we talked about the soldier and the importance of that picture that he uses when describing Christian ministry. This morning we're going to look at the athlete and the farmer. And I I love all of these analogies because they're so simple, they're so practical, and they're so uh they're so common sense. They're so right where we are in life. can understand these. And so notice what he says in verse 5. If a man strive for masteries, he is not crowned except he strive lawfully. Now, Paul is using an analogy that everyone in the ancient world understood. Athletics was a really big deal to people. In the same way that Americans love football and baseball and basketball. The same way that most people in the world seem to like soccer or they call it football, all right? Um we understand athletic competition. We we enjoy the Olympics and the world games and the Commonwealth games and all those different times. Why do we enjoy those things? Well, because athletic competition is exciting. It's one of those things where people are able to compete and demonstrate their hard work. It's a great illustration. For helping us to prepare to think correctly about the Christian life. And here are the details that I think are important for us to consider in this illustration of The Athlete. The first is this. Athletes must discipline their bodies and their minds as they train to excel in competition. Now when I think about when I was an athlete, uh competing as a high school or as college student and the the sport that really comes to mind is wrestling because wrestling is a very combative sport. Wasn't this way as much with basketball and running cross-country and baseball. It was really more this way with wrestling. But I remember a major emphasis that our coach would give is developing mental toughness. And we talk about the importance of training hard and you don't start getting better and getting stronger and increasing endurance until your body begins to feel a little bit of that pain and that exhaustion. That is when you begin to really train Athletes learn to develop discipline of the mind, mental toughness, and of the body, endurance and strength. Why? Because they want to excel in the competition And we think of the fact that they strive to win a prize. The reason that you train day in and day out and you develop the body and you develop the mind is because you know that when you step into the arena And you compete, your opponent has been training as well. And how well you have trained, how well you have prepared yourself is going to come out in that event. And so he talks about striving to win a prize. And then he talks about the rules. They have to know the rules and follow the rules or they're going to be disqualified. Now this is a great illustration of the Christian life. life. The fact is that as God's people, when we do the work of ministry, we have to learn to develop mental and spiritual discipline. We have to recognize we're going to stand before Jesus at the judgment seat. of Christ. We have to recognize that if we disobey God and the instructions that He's given, it's going to translate into unfaithfulness and potentially disqualification depending on what we are doing and what we have done And so this illustration is a very important illustration for us to contemplate. And Paul uses this illustration in other places. For instance. 1 Corinthians 9. He says, Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth a prize. So run, that you may obtain. Every man striveth for masteries, and is in is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible I therefore so run, not as uncertainly, so fight I not as one that beateth the air, but I keep my body and I bring it into subjection, lest by any means, when I have preached to others, I myself should be a cast. Now, why does Paul give this analogy? Because Paul recognizes that he must run the Christian life with endurance and diligence, and he must be faithful, and he must follow the instructions of God. Christ and He's going to stand before the Lord. We've got to pattern that as those who are in ministry and those who are fathers and mothers and mentors. And we also need to teach this and to help the next generation to develop these personal spiritual disciplines. The second, or excuse me, is the third illustration, but the second we'll talk about this. morning is that of the farmer. He says in verse 6 that the husbandman or the farmer is must be the lab must that laboreth must be the first partaker of the first And so when he gives us the analogy of the farmer, we are reminded that farmers cultivate life. Farmers work with living things. They labor in lots of different stages. of development before they enjoy the harvest. Failure on any level of cultivation is going to result in some loss of harvest. I think of something as simple as a person who has fruit trees. Early in the season, when those buds are beginning to come out, if it gets too cold, guess what happens? those buds can all die and an entire harvest could be lost because of a hard frost late in the spring. Or a person who's cultivating tomatoes or cultivating cucumbers or something like that. If a person's cultivating cucumbers and they forget to pick off one of those cucumbers and it starts swelling and turning yellow, guess what? They aren't going to get any more cucumbers. Or if they don't feed it properly and fertilize it early in the season, or if there's a hot, dry spell and they don't water it properly, everything is lost. So every level of cultivation matters. These are important principles for us to to consider do that. when it comes to the Christian life. We are working with people, not things, people, real lives. And as we labor, every stage of development matters. In fact, you could even argue that some of the most important stages when you are working as a farmer are the early stages if the growth is stunted early. early you won't get a good harvest. And so the same thing is true when we're dealing with people. We've got to invest in people early and often and Consistently. And if we do those things, there will be great blessings and benefits to those individuals and to ultimately the church of God and the work that He's doing. because of that early investment. The farming analogy is a powerful analogy. Cultivation takes time and labor and setbacks and frustration, but the harvest is sweet. if we stay engaged in the process. There is tremendous satisfaction to those who stay engaged. Paul also uses the farming illustration in a lot of places. First Corinthians 3, who is Paul? Who is Apollos? But ministers by whom ye have believed. I have planted, Apollos watered, God gave the increase. Neither is he that planteth anything, neither he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. He that planteth, he that watereth are one, and every one shall receive his own reward according to his own lady. We are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry. So I want to leave you with this very encouraging thought. If we will learn from the soldier, And we will learn from the athlete. And we will learn from the farmer. And we will take the lessons we have learned and personally apply them. and live them out and teach them. And we will be engaged in cultivating the next generation that's coming behind us. We will have the privilege, when we are old, of seeing God having done a great work through those faithful laborers. On the other side, if we fail to take these analogies to heart and we fail to personally apply them and we fail to personally demonstrate them and we fail to personally teach them and help cultivate the generation that is before, that is coming behind us. We will reap what we have sown, either for good or for bad and so I want to encourage those especially those who have not yet gotten to this stage or those who are in the midst of the stage get involved stay engaged be diligent and faithful as you work with young people. May God help us to do this well in our church and may God help every church that is represented by people who listen to these lessons, may they do it well also. God can do amazing things through his people when we are faithful to his word. Well, that gives us some things to think about this morning. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll look at some final thoughts of application that I hope will challenge you and encourage you. Have a wonderful rest of your day. Bye now.