Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And as we do on Fridays, we always spend some time in application. And this week I think we've been a little bit more technical than we typically are with our anchored in the words and some of the episodes have been a little longer. And sometimes it's important for us to just kind of step back and go, what have we looked at this week? How can we soak this in and how can we apply it? And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles out, read one more time this passage of Scripture, kind of summarize what we've talked about, and then give you some applications. So Luke 22, verse number one says the following. Now the feast of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called the Passover, and the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him, for they feared the people. Then entered Satan into Judas, sir named Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve, and he went his way and communed with the chief priests and captains, how he might betray him unto them. They were glad and covenanted to give him money, and he promised and sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence of the multitude Then came the day of unleavened bread when the Passover must be killed. As we think about everything we've talked about this week, we've talked about the storyline, we've talked about the players, we've talked about the prophetic element of this. how the timing was meticulously planned by God. And so we've seen how Daniel prophesied this. We see how Judas set his hand against Christ, how the Sanhedrin didn't want to kill him at that time, but Satan's influence on Judas ultimately led to the timing all unfolding the way that it did. Lots and lots of very interesting things for us to consider. Now the question is how do you respond to all this? Well, we're all in one of two categories. Either someone is a Christian, a believer, someone who's placed their faith in Christ, or they're not, a non-believer. So I want to begin with the unbeliever, the person who's never understood the gospel. Or maybe you have understood the gospel, but you've never responded in repentance and faith toward Christ and what He's done for you. The first thing I want to say is this, consider God's meticulous care that provided redemption. I mean you think about the fact that it was promised from the fall in Genesis and then laid out all throughout the Old Testament All of these signposts pointing to Christ, events like the Passover that every year reminded people of what had been ha what had already taken place and what was going to come in the future. the timing of Daniel's prophecy and how it unfolded, how John talks about those three Passovers, how the time had not yet come, and then his language changes at the end of John where he says The hour is. What's the point? God worked meticulously to provide redemption. Why would you not turn to him Consider the extent of his patience as he waited for that day. Think about all the evil that God chose not to crush. You say, well, why did he wait? He waited because there was a plan that was unfolding and the timing needed to be just right. And God extends patience and opportunity to people from up from from generation to generation. And the truth is if you're not a believer right now, he's extending patience to you. Even as you may shake your fist at God and say, I don't believe this. This is nonsense. I don't I I'm I I can't accept these things. God is extending you grace. Consider the wasted opportunities for those who reject him. Judas had an opportunity. The Sanhedrin had an opportunity. The religious leaders, the people that said and crucify him, his blood be on us and our children. Terrible things that were said. by the people as they celebrated the Passover. Yet that Passover was a picture of him. Consider the incredible waste of opportunity for people who rejected Christ. Consider the weight of that tragedy. He came and was rejected. Don't be one who rejects him. Consider the miracle of the conversion of Saul. And all those people at Pentecost who placed their faith in Christ, thousands of people did that. You know what you should remember? All of this is something that God has done for you. You can be drawn to God, you've got to repent and believe, trust in the gospel. But then I look to the believer, which is perhaps everybody that's listening or maybe the vast majority. How should we respond? Well I think there's a lot we can do too We have trusted Christ. Let's rest in God's care. The same God who worked in history to accomplish this purpose is the same God who works in our personal lives on a daily basis. So rest in his care. Rest in his patience and his love. It was the love of God that motivated him to do what he did. God so loved the world that he gave His only begotten Son. When we were without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. God commendeth his love toward us. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Rest in his patience, rest in his love Thank him for the countless opportunities that he's given you. If you're a Christian, you're a Christian because God has been persistent and giving you opportunity to respond to the gospel. Thank him for his grace that has lifted you up when you are fallen. When you think about somebody like Peter who denied the Lord three times, remember His grace picked him back up. When you think about the disciples who were squabbling on the very night that Christ was going to be betrayed, remember his grace that lifted them up. Thank him for the cross. Thank him for everything it proclaims about God, his righteousness, his faithfulness, his holiness, his love. And what it accomplished. Forgiveness, cleansing, a just position, eternal life. He did it all. Thank him for your salvation. I hope that gives you some things to think about as we go into the weekend. If you have any questions, concerns, need to work through an issue, please don't hesitate to reach out Have a blessed weekend and Word willing will see many of you this coming Lord's Day by now