Good morning and welcome to our fourth Anchored in the Word of Morning Reflection. And as we're working our way through this passage of Scripture, we've kind of looked at the negative side to begin the week. And today we're going to start looking at the positive side. And we understand that we are weak and we are frail and that life takes a toll on us, especially on the ministry side. But today we're going to talk about how God deals with his children in these situations. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles out and turn to 1 Kings chapter 19 And as we dig into this passage, we're going to read it and then start working our way through how God dealt with Elijah in the situation. Here's what the scripture says. And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and withal how he had slain all the prophets with the sword. Then Jezebel sent a messenger unto Elijah, saying, So let the gods do to me and more also. if I make not thy life as the life of one of them by to morrow, about this time. And when he saw that he arose and went for his life, and came to Beersheva and beho and bel that belongs to Judah. And he left his servant there, but he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, and came and sat down under a juniper tree, and he requested for himself that he might die. And he said, It is enough now, O Lord, take my life. I am not better than my father's. So as we look at this passage, we we've seen that Elijah was in a very dark place. He was so low that he just wanted to die. But the next thing we want us to notice is what it teaches us about God. And in fact, what it shows us about God is very, very practical, very, very encouraging. First thing I want you to notice is that God deals with his physical need even before the spiritual. Now that's not to say that the physical is more important than the spiritual. But what it does tell you is that there is a need to address the physical first in this situation. If Elijah is so exhausted that he can't think straight, then he needs to sleep. If if he's not thinking clearly, then reasoning with him is not going to do any good. And so we see this concept come out in this text. We see that God goes to him. It says he lay and slept under a juniper tree, and behold, an angel touched him and said, Arise, eat. And he looked, and behold there was a cake baked and coals, and a cruise of water at his head, and he did eat and drink, and laid him down. We then see he falls back asleep, and in verses seven and eight it says, The angel of the Lord came to him What I think is fascinating is when it talks about the angel of the Lord, that's generally a reference to the Lord Jesus Christ, pre-incarnate. And so it's as if God is personally coming to Elijah in this moment. He's letting him rest. He's giving him food. And then he's going to address his spiritual situation. The second thing we see is how he ministers to the soul. And two times in the text, both in chapter verse 9 and in verse 13, he asks him a question. He says, Elijah, what doest thou here? Why are you here? Now this is important. He doesn't argue with Elijah. He doesn't get into a long drawn-out conversation. He just asks him the question, why are you here? He asks him again, why are you here? And the question is, why did he ask a question instead of go straight into the problem? The reason is he wanted Elijah to come to this conclusion on his own with God's help He wanted him to process the situation, think through the situation, and ask the question, am I here for a good reason? What's going on? We also see that after he asks this question, he shows him his power. In verses eleven and twelve it says, Go and stand at the mountain before the Lord, and the Lord pass by in a great and strong wind, and rent the mountains, and break in pieces the rocks. But the Lord was not in the wind. And then an earthquake, but the Lord was not in an earthquake. And after that a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire. And so we see that he ministers to the physical need, and then he asks him questions, and then he shows him his power. But that is not the ultimate thing that was going to help Elijah. What God did is he spoke to him. Elijah needed his word. In verses 11 through 13, we see that after the fire, a still small voice And behold there came a voice unto him that said, What doest thou here, Elijah? Well God didn't just ask him questions. He gave him something to do. Rather than arguing with him and reasoning through the issue with him, no, he simply said, Why are you here? Here's what you need to do. He gives him a commission He tells him to get up and he goes and tells them to go and anoint three people. We see this in verses 15 and 16. He says, Go to Damascus and anoint Hazel to be king over Syria. These are the enemies of Israel. And then go and anoint Jehu, the son of Nimshai. He's going to be the king over Israel after he kills Ahab, or after Ahab dies, and then Jezebel is removed. And then go and anoint Elisha, the son of Shaphat. He's going to be the prophet after you. Now what is God doing? God is simply telling him, get back up and go back to work. But he's giving him a work that in fact is manageable. It's something that he can do. He also is giving him a companion in this work. When he's anointing Elisha, he's not just anointing someone who's going to go do it without him. This is someone who's going to come alongside Elisha and be his assistant. He's going to invest in Elisha. Elisha's going to be a companion, a friend, an encourager And then when Elijah goes to be with the Lord, Elisha will be left in his stead, and he will minister in his place. And he gives him comfort. He gives him encouragement. He reminds him he's not alone. Verse 18, I have left 7,000 in Israel. all the knees which have not bowed unto Baal, every mouth which hath not kissed him. What is the conclusion of this? The conclusion is this God is a gracious God. He goes to Elijah. Elijah didn't go to him. He fed him and let him rest because his physical body was weary and he would not be able to think clearly if he was in such a physically depleted state. He asked him questions, but he didn't argue. He asked him questions to get Elijah to think. He displayed his power, but that's not what ultimately he needed. He needed the word. He needed God to speak to him. And then he gave him a commission. Get back to work. Anoint these people. But part of that commission was giving him someone to invest in, someone who would encourage him, and someone who would ultimately be the one who replaced him And you know what God does? The same kind of stuff in our lives. I think of the story of Peter. What an amazing story. Peter denies the Lord three times, but they're on the seaside of Galilee. Christ goes to him and he says three times, Do you love me more than you love these? Why did Jesus do this? It was to reaffirm his desire for Peter to get back into the work that he had called him and commissioned him to do. And so once Peter was in a repentant state Peter was in a position to go and serve the Lord faithfully. Guess what? God is the same thing in our lives. Maybe you are weary and you feel broken. You feel like God's done with you. God's got something for you. It could be different than what it used to be. That's true. But God has a purpose for you. Get back up and get plugged in in what He's called you to do. Have a blessed rest of your morning And if you need to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that. Lord willing, we'll see you tomorrow for some final thoughts on this passage of scripture going into the weekend. Bye now.