Good morning. Like to welcome you back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And just want to let you know that this will be the last week that we will be recording Anchored in the Words for 2024. So Lord willing, by the end of the week we will do episode 250. And so we will pause and take a little break and then pick this up. And so I hope that you've enjoyed the season and I hope that a lot of the things that have been shared throughout the year have been encouragement and help to you. I'm going to run this week kind of like I did last week. We're going to listen to a small portion of the sermon. from this past Sunday, uh not this week, but the week before, uh, when we had our Christmas cantata, and then I'm gonna comment and just kind of talk about the topic that is being emphasized in that video clip. So with that in mind, let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to Daniel chapter 9. And the text that we are reading is verses 24, 25, and 26. Here's what the Word of God says. Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city to finish the transgression and to make an end of sins and to make reconciliation for iniquity. and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint the Most Holy. Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and build Jerusalem Unto the Messiah the prince shall be seven weeks, three score and two weeks. The street shall be built again, and the wall, even in troubless times. And after three score and two weeks, Shall Messiah be cut off, but not for himself. Let's go ahead and listen to this video clip, and then I'll kind of guys who were wrestling through how to interpret this prophecy. And probably a major factor in them realizing that this was the right time was the sign in the sky. But notice the details of what the Messiah would do. In verse 24, it says that this would be for the finishing of transgression and the making of an end of sin. Why did the Messiah come? He came to address the greatest problem that humanity has. That greatest problem is sin. Sin separates us not just from one another, but sin separates us from a holy and righteous God, our creator. So a couple of thoughts about this video. This is kind of how we opened up the service, not open up the service, but opened up the sermon portion of our cantata. And there are several things that are being emphasized in the Daniel's prophecy. The most prominent piece to Daniel's prophecy is the timing of the Messiah's death. There is a bit of controversy as far as how to handle the timing of that prophecy. And I think it's important for us to recognize that when someone was looking at prophecy and anticipating how God was going to actually fulfill that prophecy, there would have been some question marks in the way that people looked at those passages of scripture. A similar situation would be how we look at eschatology today. So when we look at prophecy in the Bible, most of it is already fulfilled, but there's a portion that is not fulfilled, that is the eschatology side. So when we have discussions about the millennial reign of Christ, there are some people who fall in the line of an a millennial approach to uh the millennial prophecies, there are others, which is where I am, um, where we we see it as literally fulfilled in the thousand-year reign of Christ. We talk about an issue like how we interpret the book of Revelation, how we interpret issues related to the rapture. Is there a rapture? What is the timing of the rapture? A lot of those things are things that if you're going to understand them, you're going to have to dig deeply into the passage. You're going to have to analyze it very cautiously. And we do hold gently sometimes how we understand that prophecy. We know that what God's saying is going to be fulfilled 100%. But when it comes to how we go to interpret it, we recognize our interpretation may fall short on some level. And so that is the sense of what these men were doing. They were analyzing these messianic prophecies. And if we look at the prophecy, it appears that what is being stated is that the Messiah's ministry, when he's going to come and then ultimately die , that timetable is being laid out in relationship to the rebuilding of Jerusalem. And so from the time that The walls were going to be rebuilt, the city was going to be rebuilt to the time where Messiah would be cut off would be 483 years. And so when when these men are studying that prophecy, what you see is that they understood that the person who is being talked about in this passage of scripture, who is going to be cut off, uh not for himself but for others, he is probably being born around this time. And so when they see this sign in the sky, in their minds they say that must be the indication. That our timetable and our understanding of it is correct. We need to go to the land of Judah and look for this person, the Messiah. He has been born. Now the the second question people will ask is well how did they come in contact with these writings? These are men from probably Persia Where were the Jewish people in Persia? This seems like a really long distance from the land of Judah. But the reason that they would have had access to these writings is because of the Babylonian captivity hundreds and hundreds of years before this. Then another question people might ask is, well what about what about the prophecies regarding him being born in Bethlehem? Well, obviously either they didn't have access to that prophecy or they didn't understand that that prophecy was talking about where the Messiah would be born. And so they weren't uh they weren't fully understanding everything that was there, but they did have this conviction. that in fact the Messiah was coming. And they believed that that was the time. They believed it so strongly that they were willing to actually go and look for him there in the land of Judah. Take a long journey. But the third piece to this that's really important is to recognize what the Messiah was coming to do. It was to make an end of sin. It was to establish eternal redemption and an everlasting kingdom. And so these men went with that conviction in their heart that the Messiah was coming. that in fact he was going to come to be a savior and they believed that the timing was was right. They were living in that time. In the same way that someone like Simeon who was was was there in Jerusalem waiting for the consolation of Israel, believed that he was going to literally see the Messiah. And he did. He saw him. He held him in his hands and said, Lord, you can now let your servant depart in peace. I've seen your salvation, which you've promised. And so when we think about these prophecies and we think about the magi as they were digging into the words, of God. May we have the same kind of passion as we study the Word of God. May we have the same kind of conviction. And may we recognize that indeed God is faithful and we can absolutely trust His Word. Well, I hope it gives you some things to think about. Hope you have a great rest of your day. And Lord willing, tomorrow we'll meet again as we look at a second video clip and we talk about the content of that video. Have a blessed day. Bye now.