Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And I hope you've had a really good week. Um despite how many of these lessons you've listened to. I hope that you've had a really good week. And if not, I hope that you'll be with us on Sunday so you can gather together with the local church and be spiritually encouraged and fed and challenged and that the fellowship that we enjoy would be very sweet. This week we've been talking about the importance of understanding the Christian walk and what a faithful walk looks like. And so we've been in Ephesians chapter 4. And today we're going to pull it all together with some final thoughts of application. So let's turn our Bibles again to Ephesians chapter 4, and we're going to begin reading in verse number 1 and then look at some final thoughts. It says, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you, that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you're called, with all lowliness and meekness. with long-suffering forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, even as ye are called in one hope of your calling Now as we've looked at this passage, we've covered a lot of ground. We've talked about the ministry, we've talked about the message, we've talked about the methodology, and we've talked about several different components. that are a part in balance of a healthy Christian walk. Now what is the starting point or what is the focal point of everything? What is the hub of the wheel? The answer is it's the gospel, and it's our union with Christ. The gospel is the center of everything. You and I cannot live the Christian life effectively if number one, we're not Christians, and number two, we're not living in the light of our position in Christ. And so we see that this is the center of everything. We can't do the right thing in the right way without a right relationship to God. And that comes only through the gospel. We need to recognize that the more that we understand who we are, and the more that we reflect on what he's done, and the more that we think about the gospel, the better equipped we're going to be to live out the Christian life the way that we should. And so the gospel is everything. Secondly, we need balance. And this is taking us all the way back to the beginning, the very first lesson. And I mentioned that we have tendencies to imbalance. And all of us have those tendencies, no exceptions. I think uh every single one of us is going to have to give attention to certain areas. And so I talked about the issue of the mind. It's possible that we have may have an imbalance toward wanting to think deep theologically, but stop at that. Again, it's important to think theologically. It's important for us to dig deeply into the Word of God. It's okay for us to wrestle with issues, but we need to go from just intellectually engaging, and we need it to hit our heart. We need it to engage our emotions. We need it to press our wills We need to be a people that are thinking and reasoning and also being moved in the heart to action. It could be that we have an imbalance on the emotional side, that we short circuit the mind, and we don't engage deeply on the truth. And there are Christians that, for whatever reason, whether it's the background that they come from, the kind of church they attend, maybe even their personality, they kind of short circuit the process. And they're passionate. But the passion is without depth. And so we want to make sure that we have that proper balance. Or it could be that we're hard workers, we're servers. We are willing to give of ourselves, and that's a good thing, but it's not being built on a healthy foundation. We give and give and give, but we're not thinking deeply. We're not stopping to reflect. We're not being moved from the heart And we've got to find that balance. We may be tempted toward isolation and neglect the church. We need the community. So all of these different areas are things that we may need to give attention to May God help us to have the right balance. We need to recognize where we deviate, depart, where we become imbalanced, and we need to address it by God's enabling. And so I want to give you that encouragement of balance. Lastly, we've got to walk consistent with our position. And that's really the whole summation of what Paul has been saying in this text of scripture. We need to think deeply about who we are in Christ. We need to cooperate with what he's doing in our lives. He is cultivating godly virtue in us. We need to respond right to him in the midst of that We need to engage practically in the lives of the people around us, not disconnecting from the body, but embracing the role and the part that he has to play, us to play in the lives of people. And so I want to leave you with that. Don't neglect the church this weekend. Wherever God has placed you, be there. Be involved. Be engaged. Pay attention to the preaching and the teaching. Try to be an encouragement to people there. Allow them to minister to you. Serve and be warmed in your soul and be instructed in your mind. May God help us. this weekend to think and to act in such a way. Well, that's what I have for you. Let's walk worthy of the calling words we're called by God's enabling for his glory. Have a great rest of your day and weekend, and Lord willing we'll see many of you on Sunday. Bye now