Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you had a great start to your week. And I hope that yesterday's episode was an encouragement to you and that the introduction kind of help set the stage for the things that we're going to work our way through this week. This morning what we're going to do is we're going to kind of analyze the passage and we're going to look at certain details that I think are going to point us to the to the tremendous comfort that is available in this passage. And so what we're going to focus our attention on today is how gracious God is and the way that he deals with Zacchaeus. I think it's really going to come out in the text. So let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to Luke chapter 19. We're going to read verses 1 through 10 together. Then we'll dig into this passage and kind of work our way through the content. It says, and Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. Behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans. He was rich. And he sought to see Jesus who he was, and could not for the press, because he was little of stature. And he ran before and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was to pass that way. When Jesus came to the place he looked up and saw him and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, come down, for today I must abide at thy house. And he made haste and came down and received him joyfully Then he saw him. And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying that he has gone to begest with a man that is a sinner. And Zacchaeus stood and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, half of my goods I give to the poor. If I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house, for as much as he also is a son of Abraham, for the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which is lost. Now let's work our way through the comfort that we find in this text. We can take great comfort in the way that God deals with a man who was truly despised. So let's work our way one piece at a time. First of all We see the statement in verse number one, Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. I don't want us to just pass by this statement without considering a few implications. It is interesting that he says he passed through Jericho when the text before says that he was leaving Jericho when this man uh he heals the blind man. In fact, when we look at the cross references in one passage it seems that Jesus is leaving, it seems that he interacts with this man on the way in. and on the way out. And so it's hard to know exactly what's going on, but it appears when Christ comes to Jericho that he goes into Jericho, interacts with the blind man, comes out of Jericho, and then that's when he heals the blind man So there's really two possibilities here. The first possibility is that Christ actually, after the blind man is healed, goes back into Jericho a second time. And if that's the case, then what he's doing is he's going into Jericho specifically with the intent to interact with this man Zacchaeus. That would be significant. Because it shows you this is no accident. It's not an incidental interaction. It is a purposeful interaction, just like when Christ goes into Sikar and he speaks to the Samaritan woman at the woman at the well. Second possibility, and this is also significant, would be that Luke is disrupting the chronological order of these events And as he's recording them, Zacchaeus actually happens before the blind man is healed, but he chooses to record it after Because he wants to highlight how Zacchaeus's conversion is kind of like the story that brings everything together that he's just been saying. And so this would also kind of impact the fact that this this is helping us to recognize how significant and how miraculous Um, the conversion of Zacchaeus is. And so that's another possibility. Second detail I want us to dig into here is in verse 2 It says, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was, notice the statement, chief among the publicans. Statement 2, he was rich. When it says he was chief among the publicans, that means that this despised group of people, the people who were tax collectors, who worked for the Romans, out of all of them, he was the one who was at the top. That means he was not a young man, he was probably an older man, he'd been doing this a long time, he was well respected in the community of publicans, which would have made him very not respected in the community of Jews. Secondly, it says he was rich, not just rich a little bit, but he was very rich. And so this is emphasizing the fact that this is a man who is the most unlikely of people to enter the kingdom of God. Jesus has just said that it is impossible for a for just like it's impossible for a camel to go through the Isle of an Eedle, it's impossible for a rich man to enter eternal uh into the kingdom. But then the disciples say, Well, if this is impossible, then what's the point? And he says, Well, what's impossible with man is possible with God. And so here's a man who's a publican, he's despised, he's wealthy. You would never think that he would become a follower of Christ. would be a citizen of the kingdom. Yet that's exactly what's going to happen by the end of the story. Third detail in verses 3 to 4. It says he sought to see Jesus, who he was, And could not for the press because he was little of stature. He was a short guy. And he ran before and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was to pass that way. Now this is pretty amazing. Just like the blind man went to great lengths to get Christ's attention so that he could be healed And just like the lepers went to great lengths crying out to Christ, Jesus and of David, have mercy on us, this man went to extraordinary lengths to have access to Christ. Can you imagine this short, wealthy, older man, middle-aged, running and climbing in a tree so that he can see Christ? But that's exactly what he did. And that's quite remarkable He sought to see Jesus. He ran before him to climb the sycamore tree to be able to see him. And so we see that aspect of it. There was something that was drawing this man to Christ where he was intrigued and wanted to know who he was, wanted to know what he was doing, he wanted to meet or at least see and have access to the teachings of Christ. And then the fourth detail is in verse 5. It says, When Jesus came to the place, he looked up and saw him and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, come down. Today I must abide at thy house. Now this is a detail we should not miss, and this is a detail that really emphasizes the graciousness of God's interaction with this man who is very despised. While Zacchaeus made great effort to have access to Christ, It was only Christ's initiation that made their interaction possible. We may want to ask the question, why is it that Zacchaeus wants to see Christ? What was it that caused him To be intrigued by Christ. Why is he interested? And I will get into that not today, but on another day this week But there was something that caused Acchaeus to be interested in seeing Christ. It motivated him to take this initiative, this action. But it is Christ who goes under the tree. looks up and calls him down, that is the reason that Zacchaeus is going to actually spend time with Christ. If Christ didn't initiate this interaction, it would not have happened. And so it says Jesus came to the place. It says that Jesus looked up into the tree. It says that Jesus spoke to the man. It says that he said, I must today abide in your house. What does that show you? It shows you the gracious, merciful, persistent ways that God deals with people that are highly unlikely. And I want to remind you that this is the same God that you and I serve, in the same way that Christ sought and saved lost people in the first century. that he went to men like Zacchaeus, and that he interacts with a person like a blind man, the same way that he touched the lepers and restored sight to the blind. He is the same God that loves sinners today and seeks and saves those who are lost. And if you are a Christian today, you were a Christian, Not just because you accepted the gospel, but because God pressed the truth toward you. God sent ministers of the gospel He convicted you through the working of the Spirit of God of sin and of righteousness and judgment. He drew you to himself in his mercy and his love. And your salvation is not just a result of you being saved by grace through faith. But it is the grace of God that not just purchased your salvation, but draw drew you to Himself. And so I want to encourage you, never get over The mercies of God, He has been so kind and so good to each of us, and we are saved because of that mercy and kindness And you may be sitting here today listening to this message going, well, I am not a Christian, so how does this apply to me? And the answer is, it applies to you because this is God drawing you to himself through a message like this one. This episode is meant to be God's hand drawing you to himself. He's bringing the truth to you. It wasn't an accident that you came in contact with this video. It wasn't an accident that somebody shared it with you or just popped up on your Facebook feed or YouTube and you just happened to listen all the way through. It's the merciful, gracious hand of God that is drawing you to himself. So don't resist that. Don't harden your heart to that. Turn to him in childlike faith. Repent, believe. Trust Christ as your Savior. That's what I have for you this morning. I hope that it'll be a challenge to you as you go throughout the day. Have a blessed rest of your morning or whatever you listen to this, and Lord willing tomorrow we'll dig into this text a little bit more. Take care. Bye now.