Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word of Morning Reflections. The passage we're going to deal with this week is the text that we dealt with on Father's Day, and it's going to focus in on how we can find comfort. and our relationship to God as our Heavenly Father. And so I hope that this week you'll join us as we dig into this passage of Scripture. I think the things that I share are going to be extremely encouraging, very helpful. And especially if you are struggling through a time of difficulty, a challenging season, it will be really important that you spend time thinking about your relationship to God. and how much he loves you as your your heavenly father. So let's dig into this passage together. And I want to begin by first of all reading the text and then from that we'll we'll look at a couple of introductory thoughts that are a part of the introduction. Here's what it says, Romans chapter 8, verse 14. For as many as are led of the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God For, if ye have received the spirit of bondage, ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our Spirit that we are children of God, and if children, then heirs, and heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ, if so be that we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified together. For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God Now as we dig into this passage of Scripture, it's important for us to think about the context. And if we look at Romans 5 all the way through Romans 8, the entire section is meant to emphasize the security of the believer. And so when we look at this passage of Scripture, it is a part of really the capstone of that discussion that Paul is having about the security of the believer. And so that leads me to an important question that I want us to start with this week. When life becomes hard, painful, confusing, where does our mind tend to run? Well, as a pastor, and I think about various people I've talked to, as a parent, thinking about my own children, and just thinking about my own experience, or maybe the experience of some of my closest friends, or we can even look at scripture. One of the things that we'll see is that we tend to run to places that are very emotionally driven. For instance, we start wondering, is God really good? And the reason for that is because our circumstances are negative and painful And we start wondering, does God really care? Is he good? Does he care? Does he actually wonder, uh does he actually look down at me and actually have compassion toward me or not? Is he merciful? Is he really in control? If he's good and he cares about me and these things are happening, then how could he permit them? And that's a question that we often ask ourselves. Maybe he's abandoned us. Maybe he's turned away from us. These are the places that we tend to go. And the reason is because circumstance drive, emotion, and emotion begins to influence thinking But when we come to the book of Romans, especially chapter 8, there are many powerful truths that we need to focus our attention on, especially when we're in those difficult seasons. And I want to just highlight a couple of them this week as we begin introduction for this discussion. The first passage is verse one. Statement is verse one. He says, There is now, therefore, now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. No condemnation means I'm not under his judgment. I'm not under his wrath. The fact that he says now means that there was a time that I was, but something has changed. And so my position in Christ gives me this security. Or again in verse 15. He says, You have not received the spirit of bondage, again to fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. And so my relationship to God has changed, and how he relates to me has also changed. The Spirit is not driving me to see my brokenness. It's driving me to see the sufficiency of Christ and the fact that I am in Him and there are many blessings I enjoy because I'm in Him. Verse 18, the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. And so he's emphasizing the fact that because of what we know about Christ, what we know about our position, what we know about our security, the suffering that we will absolutely experience. When compared to future glory and the surety of that future glory and the purpose for which God works through those things in our lives, it gives us this sense that in fact it's not worthy to be compared. And then, verse 28, all things work together for good, to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. And the last one, verse 31, if God is for us, who can be against us? The point of these verses is to remind us, nothing can separate us from God's love. We are no longer condemned. We belong to Him. It's all about security. And so this week, as we dig into this passage, I want to remind you. That all of these verses give us security, give us comfort, give us encouragement. They remind us that God is good, that he is strong, and he loves us tenderly as his children And the fact that we are as children is something we're going to focus on, not just today, but throughout the whole week. So Romans 8 is all about comforting and strengthening the believer in hardship. reminding them that God is their everlasting Father, so that they will be convinced to rest in his fatherly care. I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage. Perhaps share with other people Do you think could be encouraged and benefited by it, and Lord willing will meet again tomorrow. Have a blessed day by now