Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection and hope that you're having a great Tuesday morning or afternoon whenever you're coming in contact with this this teacher. And uh the text we've been working our way through, where we just kind of introduced yesterday, is 2 Timothy 3 verses 1 through 7. We're talking about perilous days. and the church's mission. And so today we're going to look at the difficulties of the perilous times that Paul predicted and that we are living in. in today and it's going to help kind of set the stage for the the mission of the church and why the tools that God has provided and he has blessed are so important for us to embrace. So let's read the text together. Second Timothy chapter three verse one says this. This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves. Covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy. Without natural affection, truce breakers False accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of Now, as we mentioned yesterday, this passage of Scripture is going to be To begin with the warning of the last days, and then it's going to move to the encouragement, the exhortation of how we are to function in these last days. And so the first truth that I'd like us to dig into this week is the fact that the church has always been pressured by perilous times. Now here's what it says in verse 1. This know also that in the last days perilous times Now, when he makes this statement in the last days, you need to understand that from Paul's perspective, the church was already living in the last days. And if we were to go back through church history, we will see that the concept of the last day simply means that Christ could return at any moment. moment. And so during this chunk of time from the ascension after the resurrection , and then the coming of the Lord, there are going to be ebbs and flows, difficulties that people are going to encounter. And so Paul is very concerned that Timothy will not get discouraged and distracted during this time. The first thing I want you to observe about this is that he uses very simple language to describe what it's going to be like. For instance, people will love themselves versus 1 through 4, he says they will be lovers of their own selves. And he describes it actually 20 different ways in the passage. Let me just kind of run through them very quickly so that we'll kind of get the sense of what he's saying. They're going to be discontent, covetous. They will be constantly trying to elevate themselves, boasters. They're going to despise other people, proud. They'll be vicious in their destroying of other people, blasphemers. I mean, we're in an election season and think about the incredible charges that people are making Making about their political opponents. And the fact is that this is a perfect example of what Paul is talking about. They will not love and honor their parents. They will be disobedient to their parents. He says that they will be entitled, unthankful. They will have no regard for the sacred, unholy. They won't embrace, but rather abuse God's design for marriage. Family and children without natural affection. They will be impossible to trust. Truth breakers. They will lie to destroy other people. False accusers. They will have no ability to restrain themselves. Incontinent. They'll have a terrible terrifying unbridled temper, fierce. They will hate and persecute the righteous, despisers of those who are They'll have no regard for their commitments, traitors. They'll be reckless, heady. They'll be blinded and crippled by their pride, high-minded. That's the description of of the people of the last days. And I asked the question, do you not see this in our culture today? And the answer is yes, we absolutely do. And so this is part of what he's concerned about. Second fact, people are going to be slaves to their fleshly passions. He says they will be lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God. Fact number three, religious practices are going to be void of true spiritual life. They will have a form of godliness, but denying the power of God So whether this is people who are full of themselves, people who are enslaved to their passions, or people who are religious, there's going to be a tumultuous time. People will not be embracing the truth in large numbers, and it's going to pressure the Church of God. And then the last thing he mentions is that those who are influencers in that generation are going to have A twisted worldview. They resist the truth. Men of corrupt minds reprobate concerning the truth. So, why is this such an important thing for us to recognize? Not just because from Paul's perspective it was going to happen, but the fact that this is a continual problem for people. This is not a new phenomenon. In the present, verse 16, he says, At my first answer, no one stood with me. All forsook me. Paul's about to die as a martyr. So it's a tough time to live in. In the future, verse 3 of chapter 4, the times will come when they'll not endure hard sound doctrine. After their own lusts, they'll heap to themselves teachers. So you see the present reality, difficult, the future reality, difficult, and the past. He mentions Jennison Jambries, who withstood Moses. And he said, as these did, so do these also resist the truth. So the second thing we notice is that this isn't something that's just a first century problem. This is not just a 21st century problem. This is a throughout history problem. Human nature. There's always been this conflict between the world and the church. So, I know that's a kind of negative thing to end on, but there is a positive. And the positive is that there is a solution. And the solution is going to be found in this passage. And so the comfort that will come has to be understood properly in the light of the challenge in front of us. If you think about the things that you see around you, things you hear about in the news, things you read online, things that you uh the conversations that are going on in your workplace and it frustrates you and discourages you, just realize it's all been talked about in the scriptures. And the solution that Paul presents in the first century is the same solution he would present today to you and to me in our current situation. So I hope that you'll join us the rest of the week and that you'll be encouraged because there is a solution, there is an answer to the most perilous of times and that is the word of God and the gospel of Jesus Christ. Have a great rest of your day and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow. Bye now.