Good morning and welcome back to a new week in another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And hope that you are having a good start to your day. And my encouragement, my prayer is that this passage of scripture that we deal with is going to be a challenge to you and ultimately it will lead to great encouragement as we see the focus of the text in front of us. And the passage we're going to deal with this week is Luke chapter 16 verse Verses 14 down to verse 18. And so if you have your Bible, I'd like to encourage you to take it. Let's all turn together as we read this passage together. And then we begin to reflect. on it. And today's going to be an introduction, so we're not going to get deep into the text, but we're going to give kind of an overview of where we'll be going this week. Luke chapter 16 verses 14 through 18. Here's what it's It says. And the Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard all these things, and they derided him. And he said unto them, Year they would justify yourselves before men. But God knoweth your hearts, for that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God. The lawn the prophets were until John. Since that time the kingdom of God is Is preached, and every man presseth into it. It is easier for heaven and earth to pass than one tittle of the law to fall. Whosoever putteth away his wife, and marrieth another, committeth adultery Adultery. And whosoever marrieth her that putteth away her husband committeth adultery. Now the text in front of us is a passage that has a lot of things that are going to bring questions. since the last thing that stated the issue of marriage and divorce and remarriage. And I do want to just say at the front side of this discussion this week, the point of Christ making that statement was not to get deeply into that conversation. It was simply to address a very specific problem that was going on in his time. Not an not an old problem and It's something that still goes on today, but that is that people are taking a concept in Scripture and rather than just teaching it straight, what they're doing is they're twisting it and they're presenting Presenting it in a way that makes it more appealing to people. And so Jesus takes a very specific illustration of that from the religious teaching of his day. And we will get into that later in the week. But what we'd like to do this morning is I'd like us to look at the passage of Scripture and recognize that there is a chiassic structure here that helps us to understand the focal point of what Jesus is saying. What I mean by Is that there are parallel ideas that are presented in this little section? So as Luke is writing this passage of scripture, and he's obviously being guided by the So we're talking about uh obviously not just Luke Luke's words, but these are the words of the Holy Spirit working, moving through him. Luke arranges the details details from the life of Christ in a very specific way. He orders it in the same way if you were to sit down and to write a book, um you would you would begin with outlining the book and you would think about the the flow of the thoughts and ideas that you were going to present. And that's what Luke would have done here. Obviously the Holy Spirit is moving and working through him in that, but you can see the structure of the book by the things that he chooses to talk about and then the way that he organizes them when he addresses them. And so that's this little section, verses 14 through 18, forms a key Structure. And I'm going to show you the pieces so that you can see how it points to the overall flow purpose of this section. The first part is he And in verse 14 it says, The Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard these things and derided him. So the first thing that he introduces in this little psalm. Is that the people that Jesus has controversy with are leaders and they're very entitled. They are covetous. They are demanding things that are ultimately do not belong to them. The second thing is that he emphasizes the hypocrisy of these people. In verse 15 he says, ye are they which justify So not only were they entitled and covetous, but they had presented ways that they could appease the people around them, appease their conscience and ultimately prop themselves up and it was hypocrisy. The third piece to the structure, and this would actually be the focal point of this little subsection in Luke 16. is a gracious invitation. In verse 16 he says, The law and the prophets were until John, and since that time the kingdom of God is preached. So what it's Telling you is that what Jesus is most concerned about in what he's saying, and what Luke is most concerned about in presenting what Jesus has said, is not the hypocrisy of the religious leaders. And the fact that they were justifying themselves. But while they were hip hypocrites and while they were justifying themselves before men, God's gospel was being proclaimed. And this is what he wants their attention to be focused on. And so we see that the kingdom of God is preached, the proclaiming of the gospel. And then as we back away from that, we see this piece, a warning of future judgment kind of flowing out of in parallel to what Jesus stated before this uh issue of the invitation, and that is the warning in verse 17. It is easier for heaven and earth to pass. than one tittle of the law to fail. Those who are hypocrites and those who are presenting a false message, who are rejecting the gospel, need to be warned. There is judgment. And then the last thing that Jesus mentions is verse 18. This would be the demonstration that in fact the religious leaders were hypocrites. And they were covetous people. It was how they were handling the issue of marriage and divorce and remarriage. And so in verse 18 it says, Whosoever putteth away his wife and marrieth another. Again, Jesus doesn't answer any questions here. He doesn't present any nuance here. He simply states this particular statement because Jesus is addressing a very particular kind of problem that was the way that it was being addressed by the religious leaders. This is why he addresses that issue. So you can see the structure of the text. He is pointing towards the need for the gospel and he's emphasizing secondarily that people are being distracted from the preaching. So, what is the summary of this? Well, I would summarize it this way: though people are masters of concealing their true motives. God knows people's hearts and one day he's going to hold them accountable for their actions if they do not repent and believe in the gospel. So it's about God knowing the heart and the gospel being preached and the fact that if you reject the gospel, you will stand before God. So what does God want us to do? He wants to To be honest with ourselves and turn to him if in fact we've never placed our faith in Christ. Well that's where we're going to be going this week. I hope that you'll join us for this passage of scripture as we work our way through it. I hope that the things that are presented will challenge you and ultimately will lead to comfort as we think about what Jesus is trying to emphasize in these verses. Have a great rest of your morning, and Lord willing. We will present our next one tomorrow morning. Have a blessed day. Talk to y'all later by now