Good morning and welcome to a new week of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And I apologize for getting this out kind of late in the day. This week is going to be a very busy week for me Our family is going to be taking some college students later in the week to Marinatha Baptist out in Wisconsin. And so I I do plan to actually uh pre-record um studies for the whole week so that we can get those out however I don't know what my internet situation is going to be And so I might not be able to get them out, but my goal is to do that. If not, then I'll I'll upload them over the weekend. But if you joined us this past Sunday for our focus on the resurrection, it was really a wonderful service. It was a blessing to see everyone out. I know the weather was a little shaky there. We had some really heavy rain during our service, but thankfully on the way coming and then after we left, most of the rain was done. And it was just a wonderful time to celebrate the fact that Christ came, he died, and he rose from the dead, and through what Christ has done for us, we have salvation. What we're going to do this week is we're going to look at the importance of recognizing that you can't be neutral about Christ. And we're going to look at the Palm Sunday reflection. And that's in John chapter 12. So I hope you'll join us for each of those this week as we look at that. And I think as we work our way through that text and the storyline. There's a lot for us to glean. So if you have a Bible, turn with me to John chapter 12, and we're going to read through verses 12 through 19 and then talk about a couple of things about the setting of this text Um, so that it'll sort of set the tone for the rest of our study this week. Here's what it says. On the next day, much people that were come to the feast when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took branches of palm trees, and they went forth to meet him and cried, Hosanna, blessed is the King of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereupon, as it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, thy king cometh sitting on an ass's coal. These things understood not his disciples at the first, but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they the things that were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him. Now, as we think about this passage of Scripture, we're going to look at it as a story that is developing. And it's important to recognize that when John is writing about these events, He is the last of the four evangelists to write gospel accounts. So John's not writing this to kind of correct the record or something like that. John is actually looking at some particular storylines that are there in that that narrative. And he he's drawing out some very personal interactions. So He talks about Thomas, he talks about Peter, he talks about John, he talks about Mary Magdalene. Well, today what we're going to focus on is the role that some people who lived in Bethany played in this story as it unfolds. So when we talk about the setting, we need to recognize that John 12 is an essentially a very, very important part of the story. It's kind of like a hinge between the two sections. of the book of John. So the first half of the book of John is laying out several signs, seven of them, that are going to convince us that Jesus in fact is the Christ. And then when we come to chapter 12, that's going to be the hinge that focuses on the final week, the Passover week, the preparation for the Passover, and then the celebration of the Passover. the the crucifixion, the resurrection, and some of the events that took place after that. So that's what we're looking at when we're dealing with this passage of scripture. This is the hinge. This is that the point where we swing from sign to fulfillment. That's what's going on. And it's important to recognize that there is a tension that is building in this story as John lays it out. He is doing this in a very pastoral way. He's concerned about the personal details. And the very first sign that he mentions is one that in fact is a private sign or a private miracle. Jesus is at a wedding. In Canaan of Galilee, nobody knows that Jesus performs this miracle except for a very small group of people. Even the people at the wedding themselves didn't know that Jesus had done this. And this is kind of the inauguration of this announcement that your king has come and he's coming to establish redemption and he's coming to establish a means through which you can enter into God's eternal kingdom. That's what we see in this first miracle, but it's private. By the end, when we move to chapter 11, the seventh sign This is in fact a very public miracle. It is an inescapable miracle that takes place in Bethany. And Bethany is a little village outside of Jerusalem, at the at the base of the Mount of Olives, and so as people are coming from from Galilee and down through the Transjordan Valley, and then they're moving up from Jericho towards Jerusalem. As they make their way, Bethany is the final place that they would stay or stop through. as they were going to ascend up into the Mount of Olives and then come down into the Kidron Valley and then back up into Jerusalem. And so this little village is an important piece of the story. Bethany plays a significant role for several reasons. The first reason is that Jesus had some very close friends there. We know their names, Mary and Martha and Lazarus. These are siblings. And Jesus would have passed through Bethany so many times over the course of his life and then his public ministry. He became close friends with these people. He uses this as a base of operation when he's traveling back and forth into Jerusalem and then out of Jerusalem during the week in preparation for the Passover. And it's important to recognize that at this time Jerusalem was a small ancient city. But during the Passover, there could have easily been one or two million people who would have gone into Jerusalem and would have had their sacrifices offered there in the temple as they're preparing to eat the Passover meal. And so this was an important part of that because as Jesus goes into the city and then he comes back out of the city, he's going to go back to Bethany. It's going to be his base of operation. And a third thing that makes it important is that this city or this town is where Jesus raises a man to life. Lazarus dies for four days he's in the grave and then Jesus resurrects this man. He gives him life And this story was spreading like wildfire out all throughout the region. So as people are coming up to celebrate the Passover and this final Passover that is the culmination, the fulfillment of everything. There are tens of thousands, perhaps even hundreds of thousands of people who would have traveled through Bethany And as they're traveling through Bethany getting ready to go into Jerusalem, this story was being talked about. And so there's a great buzz in the city. A lot of people are talking about this man, Jesus of Nazareth, who has raised the man to life from the dead, and they want to see him. They want to hear what he has to say. They want to know if he's in the city. There's a lot going on. And so this is an integral part of the story. So I hope that you'll join us the rest of the week as we start breaking down these various scenes and showing you How John gives us a lot of important detail that's pointing to Christ being the resurrection, the life, the fulfillment of all of his Old Testament prophecies. And how it shows you people have to make a choice about Christ. Is he the Messiah or is he not? Will we believe on him or will we reject him? This is all a part of the story. So join us this week as we deal with this text. And pass it along if you think that it would be an encouragement to others. Have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing tomorrow we'll have the video up at the normal time that we have it up. Take care. Bye now.