Good morning and welcome to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Today we're looking at the first part of this passage, and that is focusing in on what it says about the kingdom. that we are now part of as a result of this reconciliation that we have received from God. And so let's turn our Bibles to Ephesians chapter 2. We're going to read verses 19 through 22 and then take a little bit of time to reflect on this concept. Here's what the Bible says. Now, therefore, you are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God. and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ, himself being the chief cornerstone, in whom all the building fitly framed together groweth up unto a holy temple in the Lord. and whom ye also are built together in habitation of God through the Spirit. Now I want to focus on this statement that talks about the kingdom that we are a part of. And that's in verse 19. It says that you are now, therefore, no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints. What Paul is saying is that we are now, when we were not before, those who have full right to an eternal kingdom. And I think to help us understand this, we should look at what Paul is saying when he uses the term citizen, because he's writing in the first century. And so understanding Roman citizenship will be helpful in this point. A couple of details that I want to give you. First of all, in Roman society Being a citizen was a really big deal. In fact, most of the people that lived in the Roman Empire were not considered citizens. And because they were not considered citizens There were certain freedoms and certain opportunities that were not available to them. Being a citizen meant that you enjoyed benefits that were not enjoyed by non-citizens. For instance, There were certain legal protections that people were able to have as citizens. They could go and stand before uh the the emperor in certain cases. They were exempt from certain taxes. Some of the taxes that were put on people in the Roman Empire were not put on citizens, but rather people that were under the thumb of Rome but did not have full rights. People could vote People could hold public office. They could have uh per they could purchase land that they wanted. And so being a Roman citizen was a big deal. And if someone was not a Roman citizen, they were willing to go to take extraordinary measures to get that. Sometimes people served in the military, sometimes people paid money for their citizenship. It was something that was a huge deal. And so when a person was granted uh citizenship, they were they're given the ability to have the status of participating in Roman society fully. And so it's a big deal. Being a citizen is something that even the Apostle Paul talks about. There were times that he was beaten, and when he was beaten, he was beaten beyond what was legally permissible, or times that he was thrown into prison without without due process. And so what does Peter do? He he says, you've beaten, uncondemned, a Roman citizen. You don't have the right to do what you do. I appeal to Caesar. because of this case. Those are the kinds of things that Paul says. So when we talk about the concept of citizenship in the way that Paul's using it, he's saying you have right. to be considered a citizen of a kingdom not of this world, but an eternal kingdom in the heavenlies, the kingdom of God. And it is through the cross that we have this heavenly citizenship. We see a passage like Colossians chapter 1, verse 13. It says that Christ delivered us from the power of darkness, that is one kingdom or one realm, and he has translated us into the kingdom of his dear son. We see a transfer of citizenship. Now, I want to pause and say something here. Though we are citizens of that realm, we still have responsibilities in this realm. We are called to be faithful citizens in this realm. We're to do good to our neighbors. We're supposed to live in this world, not as those who are of this world, but to be faithful to God. in this world for the good of others. And so we could kind of summarize it like this. We're called to be faithful citizens in this realm, but our ultimate allegiance is to that realm. Lots of scripture I could mention here, but let me just give you a couple. First Peter 2. 11 he says this, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which were against the soul. What's he saying? This world is not our ultimate home and destination. We are going to an eternal kingdom. So live faith win this kingdom. Or Hebrews 11, verses 13 through 16. These confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. They desired a better country, that is a heavenly country. Where God is not to be ashamed to be called their God, he has prepared for them a city. And so we are to be faithful citizens here. But focused ultimately there. And so I want to encourage you, live consistently today with the position you have in Christ. Remember, if you place your faith in Christ, you are a citizen of that eternal kingdom. This world is not our ultimate home. We're going somewhere for eternity. And so we're to live today in the light of eternity as one who belongs to the realm of God's kingdom, not this kingdom, the kingdoms of this world. It gives you some things to think about this morning. And we hope to see many of you during Bible study tonight. And I did want to mention we're going to be in 1 Corinthians 13. And such an important passage of scripture for us to break down. So I hope to join us for that. And of course the kids have their classes. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.