Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today's Good Friday, a day where we reflect on the significance of the cross. and what Jesus ultimately did for us. And so typically on Friday what we do is we look at the application side of what we have discussed throughout the week. Today what we're going to do is we're going to look at the most reflective part of this discussion, and that is what is the true weight of the cross. And I don't mean that in the sense of physical weight. But what is the significance? What exactly was taking place that we should be reflecting on today as we consider what it cost Christ for us to be reconciled? to the Father. And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to John chapter 18. We're looking at verses 1 through 8, and we're going to read that and then work our way through some reflections on the way to the cross. Here's what the text says. When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Kidron, where there was a garden into which he entered and his disciples. Judas also which betrayed him knew the place, for Jesus oftentimes resorted thither with his disciples. Judas then having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, Jesus therefore knowing all things that should come upon him went forth and said unto them, Whom seek ye? They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus saith unto them, I am He. Now as we've worked our way through this passage and we've talked about really the terrible injustice. that took place, uh, the the manub the maneuvering and the manipulation, all of that that went on, that's not really the greatest weight of the cross. The greatest weight of the cross is the spiritual significance of what the cross cost Christ and what ultimately gives us eternal life. And so let's talk for a little bit about this issue of the weight of the cross. First thing I want to notice is that it is heavy and weighty because of the weight of our sin. One of the great problems with humanity is it doesn't understand the significance of sin, which is a cosmic disobedience. It's a disobedience to the God of the universe. It's rejecting and transgressing his laws. And so when the Bible talks about our sin and how severe and serious it is to a holy God, we have passages like Ephesians 2. It says that we all had our conversation or the way that we lived our lives in the past, fulfilling the lust of the flesh and of the mind, and we were by nature the children of wrath. Now, why would God have wrath against our sin? Well, it's because he's holy, and it's because he's just, and it's because we've violated his laws, which ultimately are contrary to his purposes for us. and go against his nature. Or think about Romans 6. 23, the wages of sin is death. When the Bible talks about death, it's not just talking about physical death. Obviously many of the context it's talking about that. But When we talk about a passage like Ephesians 2, he says, you have ye quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins, he's talking about an estrangement from God, a separation from him. The fact that there is a real literal separation between God and man, and the ultimate consequence for our sin is eternal destruction in the lake of fire. And so our sin is serious. And it must be punished and it will be punished. And so that leaves us with a huge problem. Another thing that I want to mention here is that we don't have any remedy to be able to actually resolve our sin issue. We don't have the capacity, we don't have the ability. If we were to give God our very best obedience and we were to accumulate our own righteousness, those things wouldn't wouldn't actually help us at all. Isaiah 64, 6 says that all of our righteousness, the very best we can give to God It's like filthy rags. It never never never reaches that that level of perfection. Christ is the perfect standard and we have to meet that standard and we don't Or we think about Romans 7, 23 to 24, where he says, I see a law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, bringing me into captivity. And of to the law of sin which is in my members. He says, O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? What is Paul expressing here? He's expressing the fact that he knows in his conscience He has a problem in his very nature. And that problem is that he's a sinner and he is a slave to his sin. And his sin is an offense to God, and he has no hope unless God is merciful to him I think about the story of the publican and the Pharisee. And the Pharisee is there talking about all of his credentials in the temple, but the publican falls on his face and he simply says, God be merciful to me, a sinner. The reason that the cross is so heavy is because, well, we have no hope outside of the mercy and the grace of God and what Christ did for us. I also want to move on to some more things to talk about in the relationship to the weight of the cross. It's heavy because, well, it's the only hope that we have. Romans 8. 3 says what the law could not do. And that it was weak in the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin condemned sin in the flesh. Christ literally came and he removed that debt and he dealt with it in the flesh Isaiah 53 verses 5 through 11 talk about, predict how Christ would do that. We see statements like He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities, not his own. He's not a sinner. The question is, why was he punished? Well, he was punished because he took upon himself our sin. The Bible says that he bore in his own body our sins while he hung on the tree. It says the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. He will bear their iniquities. And so our sin was placed on Christ. And God dealt with his son as if he were the guilty party because our sins were given to him. And that's what these verses are telling us. The cross, the the weight of the cross wasn't the physical suffering or the emotional agony, but it was the fact that Christ became sin for us. though he knew no sin, so that we could be made the righteousness of God in him. He took the curse of our sin on himself And this is why the cross is so significant. It's because he did for us what we could never have done for ourselves. It's also heavy because it satisfies his justice. Romans 5. 6. When we were without strength, in due time Christ died for being godly. God commendeth his love toward us. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. When we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. And so you can see this progression. We see that the cross is heavy because our sin is heavy. Because there's no way we can earn our way to God, that we can build up credentials to make it acceptable. We have no hope outside of Christ and his sacrifice. And Christ goes to the cross and he takes our sin upon himself. He's punished in our place. He makes it possible for us to be reconciled to the Father, and He did it all as a result of His grace. And then we come to Romans 8, where he says that now, because of what Christ has done, there's now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. It's not just that we're not condemned, but he literally transforms us. It says, these are people who do not walk after the flesh, but rather after the spirit. He says, the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made us free from the law of sin and death. And so this verse expresses that we are no longer condemned. It expresses that we now have the Spirit. It expresses that we're near now free to walk in newness of life. All of this is made possible through the sacrifice of Christ. And also in verse 18 of chapter 8 he says that the sufferings of this present world are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. The point of these verses is to show you one simple fact, that Christ's sacrifice on the cross is so weighty because of the weight of our sin Because of our absolute inability to come to God through anything that we do for Him or anything that we give to Him. Because of what He was willing to do in our place. To do on our behalf, to suffer for us, and then ultimately what it gives us forgiveness Cleansing, a righteous position, no longer under condemnation, transformed by the work of the Spirit in us, free from the law of sin and death. All of this is a part of what God has done for us. And so I want to encourage you today to take time, significant time. to reflect on the weight of the cross. Maybe you can even join us tonight as we'll have a special Good Friday service up at Calvary Baptist Westminster. Looking forward to that. It'd be a great time to Celebrate the cross, to sing about it, to read scripture about it, to reflect on the sayings of Christ on the cross and the significance of the most significant moment in history. May God help us to not get over the blessings that we have in Christ and what it cost him so that we could be reconciled to God. Well, have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, tomorrow I'll give you some final thoughts to think about as we prepare for Resurrection Sunday. Bye now.