Good morning, welcome to our second Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And yesterday we talked about some introductory thoughts, dealing with some context, and today what we're going to do is focus in on something that Jesus says that's very significant. And what he says is a reaction against the disciples as they are arguing amongst themselves, and it's a reminder that God's ways are very different than the world's ways. And so This morning what we're going to do is look at the contrast between this world system and how the world looks at authority and the practice or the exercise of authority and then how that is supposed to be done in the kingdom of God. So I hope that you'll join us as we dig into this text again this morning. Again, we're in Luke chapter 22. Let's turn in our Bibles there and then begin reading in verse 23. Here's what the scriptures say. And there was also a strife among them, which of them should be accounted the greatest. And he said unto them, the kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them And they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors. But ye shall not be so. But he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger, and he that is chief as he that doth serve. And I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my father hath appointed unto me, that ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom. and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you. that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren As I mentioned just a moment ago, we're going to look at a contrast, and that contrast is between leadership in this world system versus leadership in the kingdom of God. And notice what he says in verses 25 through 27. He that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger, and he that is chief as he that doth serve This text kind of encapsulates that distinction between these two different concepts of the world system and God's ways. Now what does the world system look like? Well Christ actually describes it in the text in front of us. Notice what he says in verse 25. He says that the kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them. And that word lordship has the idea of being domineering. Exercising lordship is like I'm lording it over you. That would be the idea. Another way to put that is that these are people who are ambitious. Who seize power by force and they manipulate and they coerce. This is the way of the world. This is the way that dictators and tyrants get authority. They seize it, they're ambitious. They are brutal. They are manipulative. They generally will do anything in their ability to maintain and to expand that authority. And they're going to do it through ambition, manipulation, and force. That's the way the world does it. In fact, Eve expands it even more. It's not just about them being domineering, but the fact that they expect to be honored And so in verse 25 he says, those that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors. Now a benefactor is a title. that would be given to someone who has paid a great service to his society or to others. And there is an irony here Because when you call someone a benefactor, you're assuming that they're a good person, they're a kind person, they're a generous person But when people are abusing authority and they're seizing by force, then what they're doing is they're actually expecting people to treat them with honor, though they are not honorable people. I've been reading a book about tyrants of the past. And one of the things that you see that's very uh significant about well-known tyrants of history authoritarians. They were brutal and they were masters of manipulating the masses of people to view them as a hero or someone who is kind and benevolent and good. And so some of the most vicious and violent dictators in all of history were admired and nearly worshipped, and in some contexts they actually were worshipped because the people wanted some benefit from them. And so Christ says, that's what you see in the world. And by the way, they were living at a time where this was very visible for them These are subjects who are in terror of those who are over them. These are people who try to coerce through flattery to keep their leaders happy. Jesus says, you know what that looks like. Don't be that way. On the other side we see leadership in the kingdom of God. And it's amazing how he describes it. Verse 26 says, but you shall not be so. Now, the way that God's system works is entirely different. Whether someone's a pastor, a father, a mother, a boss, whatever the context, a government official, if you're a Christian and you're exercising your authority in a godly way, you will not do it like the world around you. We see in verse 26 he says, He that is greatest among you. What does that show you? Well there are some people who have authority. But in the kingdom of God, that's an authority that's not seized by force, but rather that is one that is given, it is delegated. Whenever we talk about human authority, In a godly sense, it is authority under God's authority. Even a pastor is a under shepherd. A shepherd under the shepherding care of the Lord Jesus Christ, or a father is under the authority of his heavenly father. We have those concepts. Godly leaders are not to be people who seek preeminence. He says in verse 26, let him be as the younger. Not you are younger, but the the the the concept of being as the younger Is that this is a person who takes the humble position. This is a person who is deferring. This is a person who does not domineer. This is a person who acts like they don't deserve or they're not entitled to honors. That's the idea of what he's saying. And then in verse 26, he that is chief as him who does serve. They're willing to do the lowly things. So what you're seeing here is something that is is radically different. And we see this concept and this illustration in Christ perfectly. He is the perfect, the right example. Listen to some of these scriptures. Verse 27. I am among you as him that serves, as a servant. Or, in John 13, same ti same time period, just a different ex a different one of the Gospels. He says, if I, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet, you had also to wash one another's feet. Jesus says, I'm the example. Or Philippians 2. Being in the form of God, he thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but he made himself of no reputation, took upon himself the form of a servant. It was made the likeness of men. Or another passage of scripture, we could go into several others. But the whole point is this Christ is the foremost perfect example. You and I are to follow him. We are to imitate him. We are to live like our Savior. And by the way, because we are believers. Because we are new creatures in Christ, because we have the Holy Spirit, we can live for Him. Not just we should, we can. We're empowered. We have been liberated to walk in newness of life. And so I want to encourage you to do that. May God help us to exercise the authority He has delegated to us in a godly rather than worldly way. Well have a blessed rest of your morning. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through this passage of Scripture. Bye now.