Good morning. Welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And this week we've been looking at the mysterious growth of God's kingdom. And yesterday we talked about a doctrine, and that is the doctrine of two kingdoms that are in opposition, at enmity, at war with one another. And we're going to look at two more doctrines this morning that sort of further develop this concept of why Jesus used the illustration illustrations of leaven and a mustard seed and how it grows into a grape tree, why he uses those illustrations to describe the nature of God's kingdom. And it's because of these three doctrines. So if you have your Bible, let's all turn together to this text again, Luke chapter 13, and uh we'll read verses 18 through twenty one. Here's what the text says. Then said he, Unto what is the kingdom of God like? Whereunto shall I resemble it? It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and cast into his garden. And again he said, Whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God? It is like leaven, which a woman took, hid in three measures of meat Now, yesterday we talked about two kingdoms that are in conflict. This morning I'd like to look at two more doctrines. The second of these two doctrines doctrines is that God personally restrains evil and builds his kingdom during this time. Yes, it is true that there are two kingdoms in conflict, and yes it is true the kingdom of darkness is evil, it is destructive, it is organized, it is wreaking havoc in the world. But the second doctrine is also there. God personally restrains evil and builds his kingdom during the And we see this illustration in another kingdom parable in Matthew chapter 13, verses 24 to 30. This is what Jesus said: The kingdom of heaven is like unto a man which sowed God. good seed in a field. While the man slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and went in his way. The servant said unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up. He said, Nay, lest when we gather up the tares ye root up the wheat with them. Let's both grow together until the harvest And in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, bind them into bundles, and burn them, and then gather the wheat into my barn. Now what is the point of this of this parable? It's simply to say that God allows evil to occur in this world He allows evil people to live and to function and do what they're going to do. And he does this because if he did it, he would have to uproot those who are going to become a part of the world. of his kingdom. A very simple illustration of this is the fact that every single person watching this video or listening to this episode is a person who has ancestors who were not Christians. And if God were to have uprooted your ancestors many, many generations ago because they never embraced the gospel, well guess what? You and I don't exist. And so just a simple illustration, or sometimes the way that God works in the world has to allow the evils to occur so that he can use them them to accomplish good. A second passage of scripture I want to draw your attention to is Matthew chapter 16 verse 18. Jesus says I will build my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Well what is that? Well that is this positive affirmation that God will absolutely build his kingdom despite all of the challenges and difficulties difficulties and heartaches that are going on. Nothing can stop this work he is doing. Revelation five, verse nine, he says, You are worthy to take up the book and to open the seal, for thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God. And hast redeemed us to God by the blood of thy by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation, and has made us unto our God a kingdom of priests And he shall reign, and we shall reign on the earth. What does this tell us? Well, God is going to win. He is going to accomplish his purposes. He's going to build his church. He's going to establish his kingdom. And you and I will have an opportunity to participate in this. We see the foretaste of this in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, where he says By man came death, even so by man came also the resurrection of the dead. As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Every man after his own order, Christ the first fruits, afterward they that are Christ at his coming, then cometh the end, and he shall have delivered up the kingdom of God even to the Father. When he shall put all things and all rule and all authority and power. He must reign till he hath put all enemies under his foot. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. He hath put all things under his foot feet. And so the first foretaste of this future kingdom and what is accomplished is the resurrection of Christ. The second will be the establishment of his millennial kingdom. He writes in Revelation chapter 20, John says, I saw thrones and they that sat on them, and judgment was given unto them, and I saw the souls of those who were beheaded for the witness of Christ, and for the word of God, and which had not wished worshiped the beast or his image, and had not received the mark on their forehead or hand. They lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years, and the rest of the dead live not again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. Blessed in and holy is he that hath his part in the first resurrection. On such that the second death hath no power. They will be priests of God and of Christ and shall reign with him So we see this progression. We see the resurrection of Christ. We see the resurrection of the saints to enter into the millennial reign, which is a thousand years of peace and prosperity under the reign of Christ. This pushes ahead to the final, Revelation chapter 20, where God punishes evil, and then we see that he brings in everlasting righteousness It says, I John saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a great voice from heaven. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, there shall Be neither death nor sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. be a little bit He said, I make all things new. What is the point? The point is God wins. What do we take away from this? What we take away from this is even though there are two kingdoms at war, and even though God allows evil to prevail to a limited degree on this side of eternity, he Is personally involved to limit that evil and to move things to their ultimate end. And the third doctrine is that he's going to win. He's going to accomplish these things. And so we can take great comfort. In that this morning. No matter what's going on in our world, in our nation, in our communities, in our own personal lives, we are reminded that God's promises are sure. And that we are going to be able to experience his eternal kingdom forever. And so I hope that comforts you this morning. Well, Lord willing, tomorrow we'll wrap up this whole discussion. with a couple of final thoughts that I hope will be both practical and encouraging to you. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.