Good morning, welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And today what I'd like us to do, for lack of a better term, is digest the passage. I'd like us to really chew on it and reflect on the content that we've been looking at throughout the week. And now we're getting into some of the practical components. Not that the other part wasn't practical and important, but it really lays the foundation so that we can build off of the principles that are being laid out in this passage of scripture. So if you have your Bible, let's take it again. We'll turn to Luke chapter 19. We'll begin reading verse 28 to refamiliarize ourselves with the passage. Here's what it says. And when he had thus spoken, he went before ascending up to Jerusalem. And it came to pass, when he was come nigh to Bethfij and Bethany, at the mount called the Mountain of Olives, He sent two of his disciples, saying, Go ye into the village over against you, in the which at your entering ye shall find a colt tied. Whereon yet never a man sat. Loose him and bring him hither. If any man ask you, Why do you lose him, thus shall you say to him, Because the Lord hath need of him. As he went, they spread their clothes in the way, And when he was come nigh even now to the descent of the mountain of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen. Now as we dig into this passage, I want to remind you of a couple of basic principles that we see here that we'll unpackage a bit The first part that really stands out as we think about this passage is how God takes very ordinary things and he uses them to accomplish his purposes. And so The focus of this passage, at least as I'm looking at it this week, is it's really emphasizing the fact that God is sovereign. He is working as a providential preserving God to accomplish his purposes. And I just want us to go back and kind of lean into this concept so that we understand it very fully here. The first thing is he used the disciples. Now when we talk about him going up to Jerusalem, He sent them into the city. He sends them there and he gives them a very basic mission. He says, go and find a donkey, bring the donkey to me, and then I'm going to ride it into the city. And so it seems like a very basic and ordinary task, and it was, but there was a lot of significance to what they were doing. They didn't probably even understand what they were doing, the significance of it when he sent them. It's not like he said there are prophecies that we need to fulfill here. And so go and do your job. Don't don't drop the ball. Do it the way you're supposed to. But that's ultimately what's going on He also used donkeys, and most of the passages emphasize one donkey, but in the Matthew passage he emphasizes two. So God uses these animals who are a part of this prophecy being fulfilled. He uses the owner of the donkeys. The owner could have easily said, no, I'm not going to allow you to use my animals, but he permitted that. And we don't know all the back and forth and how that went, but If if something as simple as the owner saying, no, you can't use them happened, well, then we would have had these prophecies being disrupted. And obviously God's word will not fail and he accomplishes his purposes, but these are just simple, ordinary things that God is using. He even used the religious leaders. And this is a complex one. The religious leaders are obviously against Christ, but not all of them were against Christ. We know that Joseph of Arimathea did not consent to his death. We know that another person, Nicodemus, did not consent to his death. And so there was division within the Sanhedrin about what they were to do with Christ. The vast majority of the religious leaders, the parts of the Sanhedrin, the high priests, those individuals, they were against Christ. And so their desire was to kill him. Innocent blood. However , God was going to use that to accomplish his purpose of redemption. The practical way that Christ ended up being delivered to the Romans and ultimately condemned to crucifixion was through the jealousy and the animosity of the religious leaders. And that's not saying that God put into their heart that animosity. That was their that was of their own will and their own desires, their own sinful desires, that they They deliver Christ to Pilate and they persist in that rebellion. But God used it. He permitted it. And it was a part of accomplishing his plan of redemption. The second thing I want to emphasize is this. Despite the mixed response, God used everything and everyone to accomplish his redemptive purposes. And this is kind of leaning into that last statement we just made before of how he dealt with the religious leaders. It is through this interruption and it's through this conflict that the I that the identity of the Messiah is is further strengthened. So Think about it this way. When Jesus is coming down from the Mount of Olives and then He's coming up into the city and they say you need your disciples To be silent, what does Jesus say if I silence them even the very rocks would cry out? What's that doing? It's reinforcing who Christ is Christ goes up into the temple, and as he goes up into the temple, he returns the money changers, and then there's this confrontation where the religious leaders say, by what authority do you do those things? And Jesus basically emphasizes that he has the right to because this is his father's house. And they do not have the ultimate authority. in his father's house. And we we see that this conflict with the religious leaders is something that was used to identify the Messiah Or we see that these animals being used to bring Jesus down from the Mount of Olives. What were they being used for? Identifying who the Messiah is. And so God is using all of these things to point to that. The second thing I want to emphasize is that he established redemption through their rejection. And we really see this emphasized in the preaching of Peter. um at Pentecost and he talks about the fact that God determined that these people would deliver up Christ to be crucified because this was a part of the plan of redemption. And so God is establishing a basis of redemption through the ultimate rejection of the religious leaders. Interestingly, when we go to Romans chapter 9 and 10 and chapter 11, the argument that is made when he talks about the nation of Israel and the covenant promises and God's faithfulness to those promises. Is that when the nation of Israel rejected their Messiah, that is when God turned to the Gentiles and brought the gospel to the Gentiles, which ultimately was his plan His plan was for Jew and Gentile to be a part of the same body, the church, to be grafted in. And it was ultimately through the Gentiles coming to faith in Christ that God will one day provoke the Jewish people to jealousy. and bring them into that body as well. And in the text it says, at that time all Israel will be saved. And so we know that there will be a massive number of Jewish people who have ultimately rejected, who are later on a generation is going to embrace the Messiah. And what does it show you? God uses everything to accomplish his purposes. The third thing we see is that he acted on very firm grounds to judge the generation who rejected him. I'm reminded of the statements of the people. They said, we have no king but Caesar. They said, his blood be on us and on our children. And when these individuals rejected the Messiah in such strong language, God had a just and righteous basis. to to judge that generation of people. And it's also important for us to recognize that even though this is a generation under judgment, there was a remnant within that generation who embraced the gospel. And during the preaching at Pentecost, thousands of people came to faith in Christ in Jerusalem. And when Peter is preaching and the people say, What shall we do? He says, repent, be baptized, and save yourself from this untoward generation. What that's telling you is even though the fate of the generation was sealed, Individuals within that generation still had time to turn to Christ, to repent and believe, and to separate themselves from a generation under judgment. What does that show you? God's grace and God's justice and his patience. Fourthly, he used this moment to point forward to his ultimate fulfillment of all things. And so when we see this, a lot of times we look at prophecy. It's like looking at mountaintops. There are near-term events, there are long-term events in the distance. And we may not see all of the details that will take place between those two mountain points that are mentioned in prophecy. But at this moment, he's going to emphasize the fact that there is coming a day When the Messiah will come back as king and he will rule and reign forever. That's a lot to process. That's a very practical series of principles for us to consider The thing I really want you to walk away with this morning is the fact that we serve a God who's in charge. He's on his throne. He rules and he reigns. And he uses everything. He uses everything to accomplish his purposes, and therefore we as his children can trust him to, as the scripture says, work all things together for good. To them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts on this passage of scripture. Bye now.