Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Deflection. And I hope that today is a wonderful day of Thanksgiving. as we focus our attention on the many blessings that we enjoy from God's good hand. And today I'd like us to look again at this text of Scripture. As we've been working our way through it, we're looking at truths three and four from the passage that I hope will be an encouragement to you. So if you have a Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Luke chapter 17. I'm going to read that again, and then we will pick up in our third and fourth truths. Here's what God's Word says. And when he was demanded of the Pharisees when the kingdom of God should come, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation. Neither shall they say, Lo here or lo there. For behold, the kingdom of God is within you. And they said unto the disciples, The days will come when ye shall desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man. Ye shall not see it. And they shall say to you, See here, or see there, go not after them, nor follow them. For as the lightning that lighteneth out of the one part under heaven shineth unto the other part under heaven, so shall also the Son of Man be in his day. But first must he suffer many things, and be rejected of this generation. And as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it also be in the days of the Son of Man. The first of these truths that I want us to analyze this this afternoon or this morning, whenever you get it, or this evening, is I'd like us to look at the concept that history is something that repeats itself over and over and over again. when people fail to learn from the past. History does not have to repeat itself, but history will repeat itself when people don't learn. And so we see this illustrated in the passage in front of us. In fact, he gives several examples and he exhorts these people, learn from the past. The example of Noah, verses 26 and 27, he says, as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it also be in the days of the Son of Man. They were eating and drinking and marrying and giving in marriage on the day that Noah entered into the ark and the floods came and destroyed them all. And here's the second example, Lot. Verses twenty and twenty nine. Likewise also so was it in the days of Lot. They did eat and drink and brought, bought, and sold, and they planted and built, but on that same day Lot went out of Sodom, and it and rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all. I think of a third example, and this is not supplied in the text, but this is a biblical example. Think of pre-captivity Judah. Ezekiel 14 says Though Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, as I live, saith the Lord, they shall deliver neither son nor daughter, neither shall they deliver their but they shall deliver only their own souls by their righteousness. Yet behold, therein shall be left a remnant, and you shall know that I have done it with not without cause, all that I have done, saith the Lord God. Or we think about first century Judaism, and this is going to be something that's realized after the passage that we're looking at today Acts 22, 30 2, 39. The promise is unto you and unto your children, and to all that are far off, even as many as call on the Lord our God. With many other words, he did testify, saying, Save yourselves from this untoward generation. And then I think about the generation who will live through these things. 2 Peter 2. 9, the Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation, and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment. to be punished. Three words describe what is in all of these illustrations. The words warning, grace, and judgment. In each of these examples, God gives warning after warning after warning. Those who respond correctly experience God's grace and his deliverance. And those who reject it experience his judgment. And so as we think about this illustration, we see that history repeats itself for those who do not heed the warning. The fourth truth. Is that there's going to be a generation who literally lives through these events. Now I mentioned this on the first day. I believe that the rapture of the church will take place before the tribulation. But there will be a generation of people who are living in the tribulation, who are converted during the tribulation, and they're going to live through these things. And these passages of scripture. that we're talking about this week are going to be very important to them because it will be speaking directly to their situation at that time. And so in verses 31 through 37 we see this. There will be a generation who can be described as the generation who in that day these things take place. Every generation, not just that generation. is a generation that needs to have healthy priorities. But especially that generation who's going to live through these things. He says, remember Lot's wife Whoever will save his life will lose it. Whoever will lose his life shall preserve it. He's saying there are situations where when your priorities are upside down, you're going to lose something that has great value. And when your priorities are correct, you may lose something temporarily, but what's most important will be preserved. And so he warns about that. We see that there's going to be grace for those who heed the warning, judgment for those who reject it. One will be taken, the other left. One will be taken, the other left. He repeats it several times in the text before us You say, what can I take away from this? What you can take away from this is that we have opportunity to learn. We have opportunity to not repeat what has happened in the past. And so my prayer and my encouragement to you today on a day of Thanksgiving is that we will have a wonderful day and we will learn from the past. We will learn from the biblical history. We will learn from the lives of the people around us. We will learn from our own nation's history. We will learn from the things that we've experienced in our own lives and in our families. May God help us to learn and not repeat the same fatal mistakes of people in the past. Have a blessed day. Let's really focus on the Lord today. Celebrate His goodness with great thanksgiving. And Lord willing tomorrow will give you some final thoughts to think about by now.