I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a good middle part of the week. Today's Wednesday, and looking forward to digging back into this passage of scripture. If you've been joining us this week, we've been talking about being ready for the return of Christ and the importance of us living in a way that anticipates his imminent return. So the text that we're dealing with is Romans chapter, or excuse me, Luke chapter 12, and we're reading verses 35 through 48, though we're not going to focus in on that entire section in our reading. at the beginning. So let's all turn our Bibles there, Luke chapter 12, and we'll look at verses 35 through 48. Here's what God's Word says. Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning, and ye yourselves liken to men that wait for their Lord, when he will return from the wedding, that when he cometh and knocketh, they may open unto him immediately. Blessed are those servants whom the Lord when he cometh shall find watching. Verily I say unto you, he shall gird himself, and make them to sit down to meet, and will come forth and serve them Now, what I'd like us to focus in on as we think about these verses are the promised blessings that those who are ready to meet Christ at his return are going to experience. And in order to see the emphasis of the passage, it's important for us to notice the structure of how Luke writes these things. In fact, when you step back and you look at the passage, you'll notice that There is a logical flow of ideas that are directed to a certain point. And then there are some there are parallels to those ideas that kind of pull out of that point. We call it a chiastic structure And so the structure of the section looks something like this. The first thing that he states is found in verses 35 and 36 He says, let your loins be girded about and your lights burning. Another way to put this is be ready. You need to be ready to work. And you need to be ready at all times. And so when he talks about girding up loins, he's talking about a person who wore a robe, taking that robe and rolling it up and tucking it into their belt so that they can move about freely and they can actually work and labor. And when he talks about lights burning, he's emphasizing the fact that even when it's dark, it's l it's night, these people need to be ready because they don't know when the master is going to return. The second statement that he makes Is found in verse 37. He says, Blessed are those servants whom the Lord when he cometh shall find watching So he says, those who are prepared for his return, not knowing when it's going to be, are a people who are blessed. The third concept that he addresses is also in verse 37. He says, Verily or truly, I say unto you, that he, meaning the master who's coming back, shall gird himself and make them, meaning the servants who are ready, to sit down to meet. And he will come forth and serve them. This is an absolutely fascinating statement. He's saying that he, the master, is going to serve and host those servants who are ready And so you see this focus. Be ready. Those who are prepared will be blessed. He's going to serve them. Then we see the second aspect of this, how he comes out of it, so you can see the kiassic structure. Again, I tell you, they are blessed. We see this in verse 38. If he shall come in the second watch, or come in the third watch, and find them so blessed are those servants. You see the emphasis on the blessedness of those who are prepared. And so the last statement is what he leaves them with, which is also what he started with. Be ready, verse 40. Be he therefore ready also For the Son of Man cometh at an hour when you think not. So you can see this flow of ideas. Be prepared. There's a blessing to those who are prepared. He's going to host and he's going to serve those who are prepared. So again, you will be blessed if you're ready, so be ready. This is the call to action that we find in these verses. And so there are three pieces to this challenge that Christ is giving. The first of those pieces is that God's servants must live with a healthy anticipation of his imminent return. And that word imminent has the idea that it can happen at any time. When we talk about the second coming of Christ, we talk about something that has signs that are going to take place leading up to that. When we talk about the rapture of the church. The snatching up of God's people. This is a sign-less event, meaning there aren't signs that predict it. It's just going to happen and catch people off guard. And then that we will enter into that period of time known as the day of the Lord, which has the tribulation, the millennial kingdom, and then the completion of all things. And so God's servants need to live with anticipation. These things can begin at any moment. Secondly, those who are ready are blessed. And the reason they're blessed is not because they're smarter, not because they're stronger, not because they're more skillful. It's because they're ready. They're wise. Thirdly, when he comes, he's going to serve them and commune with them. The picture that comes to my mind is what Jesus did on that Passover night when he was preparing to be betrayed and and ultimately would would be crucified and rise from the dead. What does Jesus do on that night? He he gets on his knees and he pulls out a basin of water, and he kneels down, and he begins to wash the feet of the disciples. This was Jesus' way of saying, I am going to serve you. And then he later on says, so you need to serve others. We see the emphasis here of the fact that when he comes, he's going to invite them to sit down and he will commune with them and they will be his guests. And this is a reference to the kingdom of God. Those who are ready will enter the kingdom and enjoy its benefits forever. So how do we apply this text? What can we take away from this passage of scripture as we we think about this. Well, here's the first thing. The Christian life is to be lived with a diligence and an urgency. Let your loins be girded with truth. Be ready as a worker. Be ready at all times. I think of what Paul says to Timothy. He says, be instant in season and out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and patience. And he's basically saying, it doesn't matter what is going on around you. Don't get your eye off of your responsibility. Don't get distracted. Don't get weary. Don't get lulled into complacency. Live your life with a diligence and an urgency about the return of Christ. Second, do not be lazy. He says he will return open unto him immediately. We as God's people. Need to be diligent, need to be urgent, we need to be willing to lay aside those passions that lull us into complacency, and we need to be focused on what God has called us to do on a daily basis. basis. I hope that you'll join us tomorrow as we take this concept and we break it down a little bit more and we hopefully develop it in a way that will be a tremendous help to you. Let's be working and ready for the return of Christ. Have a blessed morning and Lord willing we will meet again tomorrow by now