The word morning reflections. Very excited about the text that we're going to deal with this week because it is such a practical passage of scripture that deals with um how God's able to take ordinary cer circumstances and situations. and use them in a very powerful way. So I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage of Scripture. If you have a Bible, let's take it and turn together to Acts chapter 18. We're going to read this portion of Scripture and then look at a couple of introductory thoughts that really will lay the foundation for what we'll be dealing with this week. Acts chapter 18, verse number 1 says the following. After these things, Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth. and found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius, lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla, because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome. And he came into them, and because he was of the same craft he abode with them and wrought, for by their occupation they were tent makers. And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paulus pressed in the Spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. Now as we dig into this passage, I want to share with you two statements from the book of Ecclesiastes that I think really will be helpful for setting the tone for this study. The first is Ecclesiastes 3. 1. It says, to everything there is a season and a time and a purpose under heaven. That word season means it doesn't last forever. That word time means that it's something that is going to be very specific for that period of time. And then purpose means that God is doing something that is going to end in something for his glory. And that lur that little word to everything, or that little phrase to everything, means that the everything God uses Then we see in verse number 11 it says that he that's God has made everything beautiful in his time. He has set the world in their hearts so that no man can find out the work of God that he maketh from the beginning to the end. As God is working in each season of our life, those specific times for his ultimate purposes. We do not understand sometimes what he's doing until it's over, until we're on the other side of it. And this passage that we're dealing with is one of those passages. It shows us that God in his providence triumphs even over life's frustrations. And today we're going to talk about the story of Aquil Priscilla and the Apostle Paul and how God used frustrations in their life ultimately to bring them together. And then for there to be a long-standing relationship between this couple and the Apostle Paul that God was going to use in a very powerful way in many churches. Now there are two storylines that are going on at the same time that are part of this foundation to the story. In verses verses 1 and 2 it says, after these things. Then we have our story. You say, well, what are the things that Paul was talking about, or that Luke was talking about in the book of Acts, that were part of the story of Paul and Aquil and Priscilla meeting one another? Well, the things that we're talking about are frustrating circumstances that were used of God to bring these three people together. And there are at least three frustrating things that are in the text leading up to chapter 18. The first is that God is disrupting Paul's ministry plans. In Acts chapter 16, it says, when he had gone through Phrygia in the region of Galatia, they were forbidden of the Spirit to preach the word in Asia. They swayed or desired to go to Bithynia, but the Spirit suffered them not. In these verses we see that twice Paul is told not. To go to the location that he desired. And the third time, he's given the instructions as to where to actually go. And that was over into Macedonia. It was not Paul's plan. Whilst Paul is traveling in Macedonia, at the same time, there are two individuals who are living in Rome that were kicked out of Rome. And the reason for this is because Aquila and Priscilla were living in a time when Claudius was upset with the Jewish people and kicked them out of Rome. Now, the circumstances are frustrating for Aquila Priscilla, probably very humiliating. Their lives are massively disrupted, and the Apostle Paul's plans were disrupted. Both are frustrations, but God has a purpose in them We then see that as Paul travels across to Macedonia, in each of the places that he goes, he experiences ministry frustration. in Philippi, and Thessalonica, and Berea, and in Athens, all of those places he spends a very short time there and deals with frustration. In Acts 16, it says that he was beaten openly. As a Roman citizen and thrown into prison and he experienced legal injustice, we see that there are two raging mobs who try to tear the Apostle Paul apart and kill him. In Acts 17, it says that the Jews who did not believe were moved with envy, and they gathered a company, and they set the entire city in an uproar, and they assaulted the house of Jason. In verses 10 and 14 of chapter 17, it says the same group that tried to kill him there in Thessalonica, they follow him to Berea. And it says that the Jews of Thessalonica Who knew about Paul going to Berea came, and they stirred up the people, and immediately the brethren sent them away. We also see that when he went to Athens, he was mocked. And the people did not listen to what he said. Each of these frustrations is something that God used. Now that didn't make the frustrations good. It didn't mean that Paul wasn't treated unjustly. What it does mean is that God was going to take those pieces to weave together to establish a great story. And I want you to know that God does the same thing in your life and in my life as well. It's not just Paul and Aquila and Priscilla. This is the way that God works. He is a sovereign Lord. He works in all circumstances, and he uses them for his glory And so this morning you may find yourself in a frustrating season. Maybe there are things that have happened that are outside of your control and you're discouraged about it. Don't get down. Don't get discouraged. Don't be wearied. God has a plan. God is going to use these things in your life. You don't understand right now what it is, but he's going to use these things to build you and to strengthen you, to give you opportunities to point people to Christ, to draw you to him. And so I want to encourage you, don't allow the frustrations of life to weigh you down. Turn to God, draw strength from Him. and learn from this story this week. I hope you'll join us as we dig into this passage. If you have any questions throughout the week, don't hesitate to reach out. If you think this would be an encouragement to others, share that. And uh Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now