Good morning and welcome to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. This morning we're going to look at a principle that is illustrated in this text. And this is a very important principle for us to learn in life, and that is the principle of how God uses all things, even difficult things, frustrating things, sometimes even evil things. to accomplish good in the life of Christians. And so if you have your Bible, let's turn again to Acts chapter 18. We're going to read this text and then we're going to break down this principle, both as a general principle and then how we can see how it plays out in the text in front of us. Acts chapter 18 verse number one. After these things Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth, and found a a certain Jew named Aquilla, born in Pontius, lately come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome. And he came into them. Because he was of the same craft, he abode with them and wrought, for by their occupation they were tent makers. And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the Spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. Now, as I mentioned just a moment ago, there is a general principle that this passage illustrates, and that is the principle of God's providence being used to accomplish good through all things in the life of the Christian. The most familiar passage of Scripture that we think of here is Romans chapter 8, verse 28. It says that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Now let's break this down just a moment to think about. First of all, we have the word all. That covers everything. And then we have the phrase, to those who love God. This passage is qualified not in the number of situations that could occur. but in the people that these situations are happening to. And so the focus of this passage is how God uses all things, even difficult things, frustrating things, evil things. to accomplish good in the life of the believer. And the question is, how does he do this? Well they work together for good. It doesn't mean that it makes them good. It simply means this is what he uses to bring out good. It's as if these are the strands that are being woven together to accomplish something that is good. And at the heart of this principle is the fact that he uses them for good according to a purpose that the believer is called to. And that purpose is conformity to the image of Christ. God uses everything to accomplish that purpose of shaping us into the image of Christ, maturing us, growing us, using us to spread his word. Using us to learn about him , using circumstances to draw us to himself. This is the kind of stuff we're talking about. And so that simple principle, all things work together for good to them that love God, to them with the called according to his purpose But then I want us to look more specifically at how this plays out in the text in front of us. This week we've seen two strands of frustration that move together ultimately to bring these individuals, Paul and then Aquila Priscilla together, and he how God uses that to accomplish good through their lives. The first is the imprisonment of Paul. In Philippians chapter 1, verses 12 through 14, Paul talks about imprisonment. And it says, I would that you should understand, brethren, that the things that happen unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherness of the gospel. My bonds in Christ are manifest in all places and in all other places, and many of my brethren in the Lord wax confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Now, when we think about something like what's going on with the Apostle Paul leading up to the conversation in Corinth with this couple, you have him getting thrown in prison at Philippi. You have him getting beaten in several cities. You have him getting driven out of those cities. Those are all examples of Paul being treated unfairly. But God used that to get the gospel into one place and then to another place and then to another place and to meet certain people. That's what God's doing. Now in this passage in Philippians chapter 1, this is kind of after all that history. This is Paul talking about how he's in prison and people are very discouraged that he's in prison. And he's not saying that being in prison is good, but he says, despite that, I want you to understand that God's using this. He's using this to spread the gospel all over the Roman world. He's using this to strengthen those who are weak and who are discouraged and don't think that the message is somehow they think the message is bound. And people who are timid are now bold because of that witness. And so Paul talks about that. Another example in Philippians chapter 1, which is the next little part. Is he even rejoices in the fact that sometimes people don't preach the gospel for the right reasons, but God still uses it. And so again, he's not excited about ministry for He's not excited about people who don't handle the Word of God carefully or for the right reasons, but he's glad about what God can do through it. And so he says it this way. Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife. Some of good will. The one preaches Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds. What then? Supposing, notwithstanding in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached, and therein do I rejoice. So we see this principle. The principle is that God uses everything to accomplish good in the life of the believer The specific examples that we think of here in the Philippians passage are Paul's imprisonment and people who are not preaching the gospel for the right reason. And then when we step back into our story here in Acts, where Paul is meeting Aquillon Priscilla, what do we see? That God used all of these difficult circumstances, these frustrations. ultimately to bring apart, bring together these individuals for salvation, for discipleship, for ministry partnership, for friendship. That's the way God works. And we can rejoice in the greatness and in the goodness of our God. So I don't know what you're dealing with this morning. You may be in the midst of a very difficult, frustrating season. Please do not allow the frustration to keep your eyes off of the good that God can and most certainly will do through those things. Look for his hand of grace and mercy. Look for his hand that is powerfully working. And don't allow the pain and the frustration to define your entire perspective about those issues. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. This has been an encouragement. Please share that. If you think somebody else can be benefited by it, please share that with them as well. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts. on what we've talked about over the the last several days this week by now