Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a great start to your Friday morning or whenever you're coming in contact with our episode. And I hope that you have a wonderful week. This week we've been working our way through Luke chapter 17, and we've been talking about the story of Jesus taking ten men who were lepers, healing them, and out of the ten, only one coming back to say thank you. And so we're going to finish up with some final thoughts on that, some applications that I hope will be an encouragement to you, some questions for us to ponder together as we go into the weekend. So let's go ahead and read through this passage together, and then we're going to look at some final thoughts. Here's what God's Word says. And it came to pass as he went to Jerusalem that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered into a certain village there met him ten men that were lepers. which stood afar off. And they lifted up their voices and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go show yourself unto the priests And it came to pass that as they went they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God, and fell down on his face at his feet. giving him thanks, and he was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed, but where are the nine? There was not found to return to give glory to God save this stranger? And he said unto him, Arise, and go thy way. Thy faith hath made thee whole. What a great text. I hope that it's been a challenge to you throughout this week Well, the first thing I want us to talk about this morning as far as application is this text of scripture tells us we desperately need to think right about God. And so there are a couple of things that I want to take under that statement, thinking correctly about God. First of all, we need to know him not in an academic sense, but in a practical, real-life sense. It's easy for us to read the Bible, especially if you've grown up in a Christian home. You you made a profession of faith when you were a child. You grew up and awanas, truth trackers, uh Christian school, homeschool, those kinds of things. It's very easy for us if that has been our background To approach the Bible in a very academic way. We like to discuss it. We like to have debates about theology But the Bible is not just about us knowing facts about God, but it's about us knowing Him personally. And so it's not about academics. It's actually about God causing us to grow in a vibrant, practical, daily relationship with him. I think of Enoch who walked with God and God took him. Or I think about Abraham who was called the friend of God. These are people who knew God in a very personal way. Thirdly, he is demonstrating through the difficulties of life his trustworthiness. And he's doing it by the way that he cares for us And so as we think about life and the challenges and the struggles, God wants us to move from an academic understanding to a vibrant practical relationship. where we are beginning to trust God because we have seen that in fact He takes very good care of us. He is faithful. Fourthly, he wants the facts that we read to become the convictions that drive our lives. He wants us to be motivated, and that motivation is going to come with a genuine knowledge of God. Second thing I want to address under this application side is we need to ask ourselves some very practical, pointed questions that are going to get to the heart of how we think and how we relate to God. First question I ask is, well, how am I actually thinking about God right now? When I think about him, do I think of him as a tyrant, someone who wants to destroy my life, someone uh whose wisdom is is not to the level of mind, someone who's not as morally pure and right as I am. There are a lot of people that, frankly, they view God that way. They don't trust him because they think they're wiser than God. They don't trust him to do what's right because they think that his righteousness and theirs are different and theirs is actually better than his. So how do we actually think about God ourselves? Do we act like he's good? I mean, do we rest in him? Do we trust what he says? Do we recognize that the things he's accomplishing in our lives, they are actually good, and we can trust him with those things. Do we act like he's actually sovereign? What I mean by that is he rules and he reigns and he oversees what's going on in the world and he's accomplishing good out of all things that are going on in our lives. Do I actually believe that? Do I actually act like I believe that? Am I acting like I know that he knows what he's doing and that what he's doing is ultimately good and best? Am I acting like his word is true? That he is faithful and that I can trust what he says? Am I learning the lessons? In life that he wants me to learn. As I think about God and I think about these questions, I think it's important for us to ask them of ourselves. How do we think about him now? Is he good in our mind? Do we view him as sovereign? Not academically, but practically in the way that we think. And then I want us to move from asking those questions to actually writing down what we know to be true about God based on his word from our experience that is being guided by what the scripture teaches. Write it down and then express praise to him like this man whose faith had made him whole. Write down things like, he is wise, he is righteous, he is holy, he is just, he rules, he reigns. He's accomplishing good in our lives. Write those things down. Write down what you know about his goodness. Write down things that are specific. Specific ways that he has been good to you. Thank him for your spouse. Thank him for your children. Thank him for your job. Thank him for your church. Thank him for your health. Thank him for the seasons of life where he has given you tremendous blessings and those that were difficult the lessons that he has taught you. There are lots and lots and lots of things. That we can write down from our reflection at a point like this. And then get alone with him, spend time with him, praise him, thank him , glory in him. Praise him for what you have written down. May the Lord help us to be a thankful people as we go into this weekend I hope you have a wonderful weekend, Lord willing week. We hope to see many of you this Sunday. If not, we hope that you'll join us on Monday as we keep working our way through our Anchored in the Words. And uh if you need anything, please don't hesitate to reach out. Have a blessed weekend. Lord willing, we will meet again on Monday. Bye now