To the saints which are at Ephesus and to the faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace be to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings and heavenly places in Christ. according as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. Now the phrase that I want us to focus our attention on as we look at this study is the phrase in Christ. The fountainhead or the emphasis of the book of Ephesians, all that we are to do and all that we have is found in Christ. I want you to notice how many times this is talked about in the book. In fact, if you were to go, you're going to see either a direct or fairly close indirect reference to our union in Christ anywhere from 30 to 40 times in the book. It's talked about a lot. And I want to give you some of the examples. Not exhaustive by any means. We're not going to go through 30 examples. But just to get a sense of how important, how foundational this is to the discussions that we find in the book, notice some of these examples. The first one is in verse 3 of chapter 1. Blessed He has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. Every blessing that we have, spiritually speaking. is found in Christ, our union with him. Or verse 4. He hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. that that being chosen in him to be holy and without blame is focused not just on the holy and without blame, but how we get there. It's in him. Or verse 7, in him or in Christ. We have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. We are redeemed to God. We are forgiven in Christ. Verse 13. In whom also after you believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. So we we trust Christ and in that position we are what? Sealed as his possession. Another example Chapter 2 verse 5. That he hath quickened us together with Christ. There's that phrase again. By grace you are saved. He has raised us up together. And made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ. So we see words like with him, in Christ, together. What's all this showing us? Our regeneration is all about our position in Christ. Verse 7, we're objects of his grace. In the ages to come, he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. Again, it's our position in Christ, our union with him. It's through his work and our unit of our being united to that work. That is where we receive this grace. Reconciled to God by the blood of Christ. Verse 13. Now in Christ Jesus, you who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He's our peace. And then another one in verse 22 of chapter 2, in whom also you are built up together for inhabitation of God through the Spirit. Built up together as his dwelling place. What do all these passages have in common? Something very simple. The phrase in Christ or with Christ, united to him, that is talking about our union with him So that should lead us to a final question. Why does it matter? Why is this so central? Why is this so important? Why does Paul talk so much about this? And so let me give you a couple of thoughts here at the end. The verse is this. You are a new creature in Christ. Who you were is not who you are. The old man is dead. You have a new identity. I have a new identity. That's a big deal. And that's one of the focuses, uh one of the focal points of this study. Secondly, every blessing that you have, every spiritual blessing, is found in him. If you weren't in him, you wouldn't have it. Third thing is this. We are called to live like the people that we are in him. And this is a very common way the New Testament calls us to obedience Because this is true in Christ, this is how you're to live. So we are called out of that position to walk consistent with that position. We also see fourthly that we're not just called to live based on who we are, but we're empowered to live out of that position as well. We can walk as new creatures because we are new creatures by the Spirit's enabling as those who are now alive in Christ, not dead. And so these are huge reasons for this to be emphasized. And when we're struggling in the Christian life, we've got to get back to the basics. We've got to get back to the basics of who we are. We've got to get back to the basics of what is true about us because of who we are, who we're not, how we are to live consistent with who we are as opposed to who we were. And then the power, the enabling to do that. And so I want to remind you of those very simple truths this morning. As Paul reminds us that our union with Christ is central to everything he will teach. I want to remind you this morning that as a new creature in Christ, you have this position, you are empowered in that position, and you are called to walk consistent with that position. May God help us to do that this morning. Well, if you have any questions, please do not hesitate to reach out and want to be an encouragement any way that I can. Hope you have a wonderful, wonderful rest of your day, and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow for our final thoughts going into the weekend. Bye now.