Good morning. Hope you are having a great Friday morning or whenever you watch this video and looking forward to our weekend and digging into the Word of God this coming Sunday. And I hope that you'll be able to join us if you are local and you're part of our church family, or maybe you don't have a church family and you came across this video because somebody shared it or something like that. I hope that you will find a church family that will really point you to Christ and dig into the Word of God and lay it before you. And so uh really looking forward to this Sunday. And I also love this season because we're really going to start focusing our attention on the cross and the empty tomb and the significance of the death and the resurrection of Christ. And the heart of our faith rests in what? The gospel and the resurrection. That is really where the heart of our faith lies. Christ's triumph over death. And he paid in full our sins debt and then he rose triumphant from the grave. And we emphasize uh that during this season, maybe a little more than we do at other seasons. And so I love this season. Hope you'll join us. uh if you um if if you don't have a church family. And if if our church is your church hopefully as well. I'd like to give you some final thoughts from Psalm 37. And I'm going to read it one more time as we think about it, and then we'll put it all together. So here's what the text says. Fret not thyself. because of evildoers. Neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass and wither as the green herb. Trust in the Lord and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass, and he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. Cease from anger and forsake wrath, fret not thyself in any wise to do evil. So as we've looked at this text throughout the week, we've emphasized several key points We've talked about the fact that the Christian life is not a life that should be lived idly, but in fact we should take all the resources that God has given us. And we should invest them in his kingdom work. Invest them in the purpose that he has designed for us. Invest them in something that has eternal value. And we we talked about kind of the way that Psalm 37 is laid out. We looked at several key pieces to it and the emphasis is on the fact that we're supposed to walk in wisdom, the fact that God is going to punish evil, the fact that uh God promises to preserve his people and to encourage his people. And that God is active in the world, and that is that is why he punishes evil, and that is why he preserves the righteous And then we focused in our attention on an encouragement from the righteous character of God. He punishes evil, he preserves the righteous, and so that character of God is something that motivates us to walk in wisdom. And so yesterday we talked about how we walk in wisdom. We looked at eight key principles for walking in wisdom. What I'd like to do this morning is give you some final thoughts going into the weekend. And so here they are. The first thought is this. God did not pour rich blessings into our lives so that we would tremble in fear and live a life that was idle. He didn't do it. If you're listening to this episode this morning, the chances are you have been blessed in many, many ways that you actually take for granted. Now, maybe I don't even know you, and I don't know anything about your situation. But if you think about it, you have been given some wonderful blessings. And those blessings weren't given to you for without a purpose. God had a reason for it. And that reason is he wants you to take those resources. Whether large or small, and he wants you to invest them in eternity. He doesn't want you to be crippled by fear He doesn't want you to be crippled by anxiety. He doesn't want you to be lazy. He doesn't want you to live idly. He wants you to be industrious and to work hard and to do good. The second thing, he never promised an easy road to anybody. And that is not a legitimate excuse for us to tremble in fear and live idle lives. Someone might say, well, this is one of the worst times in history. Well, that's that's Arguably not true, okay? I mean there have been some really awful times in history. But the fact is that even during the darkest moments of human history God has blessed his people. God has used them to accomplish good. Even in the darkest moments. In fact, in the darkest moments. Darkest moments. Maybe that is even when God's grace and God's God's strength and God's work in people's lives is even more evident than at times where everyone is prospering and things are easy. And so, even if life is difficult, that doesn't give us an excuse to sit idly by or to be crippled by fear. Thirdly, he wants us to build our lives on him And he is continually turning us to himself so that we will invest our lives in eternity. Sometimes God puts people in our lives or allows us to pass through circumstances. that they humble us and they break us down and and they make us feel as if we can't carry on. It's not because he's cruel and harsh. But it's because he knows that we need to be softened and we need to be humbled and we need to be reminded of our frailty and we need to be reminded of what's Most important and the things that we depend on that are replaced him need to be pulled away from us. So we we lay freshly upon him. And then we begin to build our lives on that sound and solid foundation of Christ Himself. Fourthly. We have to continually grow in a practical, experiential knowledge of God. We need to know who he is, his character. We need to know his ways, his providence. And we need to live lives that are healthy and productive and rich and eternally significant. And so I want to challenge you, let's grow in our knowledge of Him. And then fifthly, I want to remind you, God never abandons his children. He delights in us. He loves us. He cares for us. He preserves us. And that should cause us to rest in him and to delight in him and to enjoy him and to testify of who he is and how he works. And so my simple challenge to you going into this weekend is may God help us to be faithful in these very specific ways this week. May he help us to walk in godly wisdom, even though we live in a fallen world. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will meet again either on Sunday or next Monday. Talk to you later.