Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And this morning we are again in Luke chapter 13, as we were last week, but this week we'll be looking at verses 18 to 21 together. And the topic that we'll be addressing is the mysterious growth of God's kingdom. And we're going to examine two parables that Jesus gave that are simple illustrations of the way that God builds his kingdom. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles together. Let's look at this text and we'll read it together. Here's what it says. Then said he, unto what is the kingdom of God like? And whereunto shall I resemble it? It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and cast into his garden, and it grew and waxed a great tree And the fowls of the air lodged in the branches of it, and again he said, Wherein to shall I liken the kingdom of God? was was leavened. Now as we read this passage of scripture and think about it this week, I want to give you two summary statements that will help you. as we lay the foundation. The first is this. The following passage contrasts the way in which the world system establishes itself through manipulation, deceit, brutal force and the way that God very steadily and unassumingly builds his kingdom. Now if you want to get a good example of what we mean by how the world establishes itself. Just look at our political situation and the kind of tensions that are going back and forth and the movement where where basically people are trying to establish themselves in power. or keep their par power by brute force, manipulation, destroying others. This is not the way that God builds his temple. Very or his his kingdom. Very, very different. And so as we look at this passage, what we're going to see is that God's desire is for us to take comfort in the mysterious way he is building his kingdom. And the comfort is the way that we would assume things to be based on what we see around us and the way it actually is. In fact, they're not the same. We've got to look at God's word. So to think of it this way, when things are going really well , And we think that God is really working in a place in our lives, in our families. It's very easy for us to begin to become proud and pragmatic when we look at those things. We start thinking things like, hey, my programs are what have built this. Or we start being tempted to think that it's our talent. and our work ethic and w we could never be replaced. How could God ever use someone to the same extent that He's using us, maybe in our family or in our church or in on a mission field or in some other context? We're tempted to think that we should rely on what we see rather than what maybe we can't see. And so tangible results and numbers and those kinds of things. of things they become the focus of our attention. We're often tempted to compromise for the sake of building something that is visible and impressive a part of a movement. But then we can take this to the other side. Rather than looking at it positively where we become proud, we can become very disillusioned, discouraged. We could be tempted to compromise on the other side. We might try to figure out how we can switch the momentum in the situation that we're in in or how we can begin to bear this tremendous weight trying to manufacture a different result through programs and strategies. We can be anxious and And we don't see tangible results, visible results, things that we expect to see or want to see. And so we we carry this great weight of anxiety. We become defensively minded, believing. that we're the only people that God is still working through and we're the only ones that He's really that are really serving Him the way that we should. We become exhausted trying to do something that we are powerless to accomplish. You and I cannot make someone become a Christian. We can't make someone change or make someone someone do right. That's an issue of the heart. We we are able to present the means through which God uses that. The word of God. Faith comes to hearing the word of God and God brings people to repentance through the Word of God. But we can't make it take place in the heart of people. We can lose sight of the big picture of what God's doing in the world. We can try to establish our relevance through solution. All of these temptations can fall on one side or the other. But the fact is, God wants us to have a very different approach. And so what do we take away from this? Well, what we take away from this is that you need to join us this week as we look at what Jesus says about the way he builds the kingdom. And it is unassuming. Sometimes it's what's going on below the surface that you cannot see that is really the movement of God. And so we're going to look at this through two parables throughout the week. So I hope you'll join us this week. Hope that this will be encouraging to you that you will share that with others who maybe can be encouraged and blessed by it. And if it if one of these videos really is a great blessing, take a moment to share that, share some feedback. If there's something that uh you have a question you want to want to learn, I'd love to get into a discussion with you about the content. of what we're talking about if that's something you'd like to do. So Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again and hope that you have a great rest of your day and we'll see you then. Bye now