Good morning. Welcome to our final Anchored in the Word of Morning Reflection for this week, as we have been looking at how God and His providence works through ordinary circumstances. Today we're going to do as we always do on Fridays, and we're going to focus on some applications. So if you have your Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Acts chapter 18. And we're going to read a couple of verses and then dig into these final thoughts together. Acts chapter 18, verse number one After these things, Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth, and found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius, lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla. Because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome, and he came unto them, and because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, and wrought, for by their occupation they were tentmakers. And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the Spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. Now, as we think back over some of the things that we've talked about this week, the first place I'd like us to camp is the importance of finding comfort, comfort in how God works. Now bring it down this way. When we talk about the need to take comfort, we should take comfort in the fact that God is in control. He knows what he's doing. He's good. He's working all things together for good. Despite our many limitations, and each of us have them, he is consistently working to accomplish his purposes through our lives. And so we can take comfort in that. He never wastes the things that he permits. So if God allows a thing, he's got a reason for it. There's something he's going to do through it. The second is to be faithful. When I say be faithful, what I mean is this. Be faithful with the things that God gives you talents, time , opportunities. Be faithful as a steward of those things. Work hard to cultivate redemptive relationships in every area of your life The first area that I think about is our relationship to our spouse and then our relationship to our children. And then from that, the relationship we have with the people in our church context. the people that are our neighbors, the people that we work with. This can branch out into lots and lots of different areas, but we need to be faithful to cultivate redemptive relationships. We need to be ready for gospel engagement. You never know when God is going to provide an opportunity to share a track, to answer some questions, to point people to the gospel. We need to be ready whenever that time comes Third word is the word anticipate. When I say anticipate, I mean anticipate that the gospel has real power. That when God allows us to proclaim the gospel, he opens a door of opportunity and we begin to walk through that door, that there is real power in the Word of God and in the gospel itself. Anticipate that there are needs beyond the little bubble that we live in. And we need to look for those opportunities. We need to anticipate that God will bless through the ordinary circumstances of life, the ordinary areas of faithfulness. God works through those things. We need to anticipate God's ability to do more than what we thought was possible. A lot of times we get focused in on the little things in front of us. We get focused in our little sphere, and we don't what we don't realize is that if we will be faithful and we will do the right thing, there's a lot that God can do through that. And the last thing I'm going to mention, invest with invest what you actually have. Not what you want to have, not what others have. Invest what you have. Take time to learn. And as we learn, what are we doing? We're developing skills. We're developing knowledge. We're developing areas of ministry opportunity. Take time to teach others. While we need to be learners, we also need to be investors of instruction. As we learn things, we don't want to just internalize them and keep them to ourselves. We want to give them to others. We need to let others into our lives. We need to let people rub shoulders with us. Many times we'll be tired, we're worn out, there's a lot that's going on, and we just don't feel like we have to have do time and energy and the need to engage with other people, but we have to make sure that we open our lives to other people. We should never stop doing the things that are here. Don't stop learning. Don't stop teaching. Don't stop allowing people into your life. Don't look back at the past and say, I did this in my twenties or my thirties or whatever time period it was. I don't need to do it anymore. I've arrived. Don't come to that perspective. Lift up the people around you who are investing wisely. That's what I love about Missions Month. We have people that come to our church. They have a burden to take the gospel to the nations. They've been studying. They've been working hard, and they're willing to go out. And we need to get behind those who really have done the work to prepare themselves and are willing to do it. So as we go into the weekend, that's what I want to leave you with. The need to be faithful, the need to invest, the need to look beyond ourselves, the need to have a hopeful anticipation of what God will do. Let's be faithful in the ordinary circumstances of life. Let's use what he gives us and let's see what he does. Well, if that's been an encouragement to you, take a moment to share that. Perhaps share this with other people who you think could be benefited by it. If you have any questions. Please don't hesitate to ask them. Lord willing will meet again either on Sunday or next Monday by now.