Good morning and welcome to our Thursday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we're going to talk about the resolution. We've looked at how this story is developing. with a rising tension, it comes to a head. Yesterday we talked about that in the quote from Psalm 118. Today we're going to talk about how the issue is resolved. And this is Really the height of the story. This is the best part. And that is, even though people have rejected Christ, he's made it possible. that they can be they they can be reconciled to him. And it's all because of what Christ did for us. And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to Roman, or excuse me, John chapter 12, and we're looking at verses 12 through 19. It says, on the next day, much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, they took branches of palm trees. They went forth to meet him and cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereupon, as it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion Behold, thy king cometh sitting on an ass 's coal. These things understood not his disciples at the first, but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they these things that were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him. Now, as I mentioned just a second ago, we've seen that the tension comes to a head. And the people are crying Hosanna, but they don't understand that salvation has to come through a price Salvation has to come through redemption. And so the question is, how does God resolve this issue? Well the resolution comes. through God accomplishing what he promised to do. And him doing it at just the right time. And him doing it through these people that are actually participating in this story. And we see this in the statement in verse 23, the hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Though these people had rejected him in rebellion, They were unknowingly participating in the unfolding of that plan. And just to kind of help you see how the book of John really highlights the statement, the hour has come. we should look at the language that's used in some of the other Passovers that are that are referred to in the book of John. So in John chapter 2, verse 4, Jesus is getting ready for his first Passover during his public ministry. And this is when Jesus performs the miracle at Cana of Galilee, the wedding. It says, Jesus said unto his mother, Woman, what have I to do with thee? Mine hour is not yet come. What does he mean by that? Well, it's not time for the Son of Man to be revealed. It's something coming in the future. Or then we come to The third Passover, and this is mentioned in John chapter 7, verse 30, then they sought to take him by force. But no man laid hands on him. Why? Because his hour was not yet come. Now it's not like the people are going, oh, we don't we're not ready to kill him because it's not yet the time. They don't understand what's uh that what's going on there, but in God's plan The hour had not yet come. We then come to John chapter 8, verse 20. These words spoke Jesus in the treasury as they taught in the temple, and no man laid hands on him. His hour was yet not yet come. What does that show you? God is working. This isn't just happenstance. This isn't just random things. God is working providentially. Then we come to Passover number four, and that's the one we're talking about here. The triumphal entry, John chapter 12, verse 23, Jesus answered and said, The hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. What does that tell you? Now is the time, in the fullness of the time. God his bring to pass what he said he would do. Or in the upper room, John chapter 16, verse 32, behold the hour cometh, yea, and now is come. Or then we see in John 17. 1, before his betrayal, these words spoke Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify thy son, that thy son may also glorify thee. In other words, this was the time, the time that God had appointed for redemption to be accomplished. And so through the cross, God is demonstrating that he is righteous. And salvation is now possible. I love this text. Romans chapter 3, verse 24. We are justified freely. By his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Now someone might say, hold on a second. How are you justified freely? And then in the same verse it says, through redemption, because free seems without price. And redemption seems by price. And the answer is very simple. It's free to you, but not to him. It costs Jesus his life. He died for you. He paid the price so that you and I could be justified freely by his grace. That's what he's saying. God set forth Christ to be a propitiation through faith in his blood. I love this statement. To declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past. You go, well, what does that mean? Well what that means is that the cross demonstrated that when God forgave sin in the Old Testament, He was not doing it in an unjust way. And you say, well, hold on a second. You mean that salvation in the Old Testament, New Testament is different? Well, in one sense it is. It's through the same sacrifice. But the Old Testament saint is forgiven before the sacrifice is accomplished. The New Testament saint is forgiven after the cross. And this is what's important. Because it shows you that the cross was absolutely inescapable. He says that the cross demonstrated the righteousness of God when he, and the word remission here, has the idea of the Passover or forbearance. And that's a word that's very similar to what we talk about when we talk about the fact that our sins were atoned for in the Old Testament. Atonement was covering. Atonement was not payment. Atonement covered pointing to the ultimate sacrifice. And so these verses are very important because they show us. That salvation is unjust and unrighteous. God is not doing it in a just way unless a payment is made. And so that means that the cross was absolutely necessary. And so it was through the forbearance of God declaring at this time his righteousness that he might be both just and the justifier of the one who believes in Jesus. And so the cross is the resolution to this issue. God 's grace was available because of what Jesus did. And by the way, not just available to anybody. but especially available to those who even participated in the culmination of these things. That's something that I think you need to not forget. Because the disciples, John chapter 20, verse 19, they're afraid. They have failed. And what does he do? He pursues them. John 20 verse 19, this is after the cross and after the resurrection, the same day in the evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut because the disciples were afraid of the Jews, Jesus goes to them. Or Thomas in John chapter 20, verses 27 and 28, then said Thomas, then he said to Thomas, reach hither thy finger and behold my hands. Why does he say that? Because Thomas didn't believe. Grace is available. Or Peter, after he's denied the Lord three times, I don't know this man. In John 21, verse 17, he said the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me, then feed my sheep. Here's the point. These guys stumbled, and grace was still available. But that's not the biggest story. He literally pursued the very people who rejected him through the people that stumbled over him. That's an amazing thing to think about God used Peter, the same Peter who said, I don't know this man. He used him to preach at Pentecost, and 3,000 people were converted. And don't miss his words. Acts 2036. Let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God who has God hath made that same Jesus whom you crucified. Both Lord and Christ. When they heard this, they were pricked in their heart and said unto Peter and the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what do we do? Peter said unto them, Repent, be baptized, every one of you, in the name of the Lord Jesus. In other words, you might have been with those who betrayed him. And plotted against him and said, crucify him. But salvation is available to you if you'll repent and believe. That's an amazing thing. Even more amazing is the story of the Apostle Paul. He's on the road to Damascus. He's the greatest enemy of the church. And he embraces the gospel. And Paul says this in 1 Timothy 1. This is a faithful saying, Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am the chief. Before I was a blasphemer, I was a persecutor, I was injurious, but I obtained mercy And so the point I want to leave you with this morning is an important one. The resolution to this great tension is the cross. The cross is what makes it possible for a sinner to be reconciled to God, and not just any sinner, even a sinner like Paul who said, That man needs to die. Or even a sinner like Peter, who says, I don't know the man. Or even a sinner like Thomas who says, unless I can see his hands and I can touch them, I'm not going to believe. And just like the disciples who were hiding because they were afraid, the grace of God is available to all of us if we will repent and believe. And so may God use that to be an encouragement to you this morning. This is the same Savior that we serve today, the one who laid down his life and says, come. Embrace my gospel. Be reconciled to God. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow, one more time, to look at some final thoughts of application. Bye now.