Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And uh if you are with us this past Sunday as we celebrated the resurrection, I hope that your heart was was really richly blessed that you were uplifted and encouraged and strengthened in the Lord and that the things that we talked about would have strengthened your faith, uh would have encouraged you as you think about the fact that we serve a risen Savior. Now what we're going to do this week is we're going to go back a couple of weeks of reflection and we're going to focus in on the passage that we looked at on Palm Sunday. And so we're going to go back and refresh ourselves and then Lord willing next week what we're going to do is we're going to deal with the resurrection and the passage that we dealt with on Sunday. So If you have a Bible, let's turn together to John chapter 12. That's where we will be this week. And we will be digging into the story of uh the triumphal entry on the week of Passover when Christ is going to be betrayed. He's going to be crucified. And then ultimately he's going to rise on the third day. And so that's where we're going. We're looking at the triumph and the tragedy of Palm Sunday and how we, as we understand this passage of Scripture, are to live in the light of these wonderful truths. Alright, Psalm or excuse me, Psalm. John twelve, and we'll begin reading in verse number twelve. On the next day much people that were coming to the feast when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. took branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosannah, blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereupon, as it is written Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, thy king cometh, sitting on a colt's ac colts, an ass 's colt. These things understood not his disciples at the first But when Jesus was glorified, they remembered that they had done these things as they were written of him, that they had done these things unto him. The people, therefore, that was with him when he called Lazarus out of the grave and raised him from the dead bear record. This cause the people also met him for they heard that he had done this miracle. The Pharisees therefore said amongst themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing. Behold, the world is gone after him. Now, each of the Gospels give us information about this event, what we call Palm Sunday, the Triumphal Entry. And the emphasis of each of the four different passages that deal with this event now have a slightly different emphasis. I really enjoy the emphasis that we find in John 12. because he really connects this event and the way that people responded to what was going on when Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead. And obviously a lot of things took place during that final week. And the vast majority of the details that we read about And a lot of our gospel accounts are going to deal with events that took place after the triumphal entry. So when we look at John, we see 21 chapters, but we're looking at chapter 12 right now. So half of the book of John is dealing with from the triumphal entry to the events after the resurrection. So a lot of focus in John is on what happens this week. So I'd like to set it up this way this morning as we dig into this passage of Scripture. By introducing this passage, we're going to notice that this is a story within a story. A lot of the Bible is written this way. When we're reading a passage of Scripture, if we really want to understand the passage correctly, we shouldn't just look at one verse or the details that are in the text that we're dealing with. But we need to step outside of that passage of scripture. We need to look at the book that's been written and ask the question, where does he start? Where does he end? And how does the piece that we're looking at um as we analyze it, how does that fit in the storyline? And what that's going to do is it's going to help us to understand the big picture so that as we dig into the details, we will notice more quickly the details that are most important to the purpose that's being presented in that book. And so this is the way that we're going to deal with this passage this week. This is a story within a story. So let me summarize the passage in front of us and then we'll kind of look at what's been going on in the life of Christ as it leads up to the Palm Sunday Triumphal Entry. So John 9 to John 12 retells the unfolding events that led up to Christ's crucifixion and the resurrection. These are recorded to show how these events fulfilled messianic prophecy and established the only basis through which we could be redeemed. So chapter 9 to chapter 12 is giving a series of events that took place that lead up to the cross and the resurrection. And what God wants us to do as we read this passage as we dig into it is he wants us to resist the tragic response that these people who misunderstood Christ, his person, And his work and what what God was doing, the redemptive purpose, he wants us to not follow into their tragic response. We need to respond correctly. So with that in mind, let's dig into this event as a story within the story. We see this in chapter 12, verse 9, how he starts it out where he says this. The next day. Now, why does he start it out by saying on the next day? Well, he's connecting what has been talked about to what is going to be talked about in these verses. The Palm Sunday event is a part of a story. And the story in the big picture really starts with the fact that God has prophesied in the Old Testament. for thousands of years that he's going to send a redeemer. You go all the way back to Genesis and the fall of of man when Adam sins in the garden and God promises that the seed of the woman is going to crush the serpent. And then we see this unfolding story of God giving promise after promise after promise and picture after picture after picture that point to the Messiah so that when he comes, people will say, that's him. And so that each of those generations can embrace the gospel story that Jesus is going to come, God's going to send a Redeemer. Well, this story really begins to unfold when John the Baptist is born, he grows up, and then John the Baptist, Christ's cousin, who by the way is a child who is uh can see them the old the old age of his of his parents and it it it's very reminiscent of what happened to Abraham and his wife Sarah This is God erupting the story by doing the miraculous. John the Baptist begins to preach the bapt uh the gospel of repent. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. Now, that word repent means prepare yourself. Think right about the Messiah. He's about to come and you have an opportunity to embrace him and ultimately to embrace the kingdom that he's going to bring in. And so as he preaches, he preaches repent and believe. And Jesus comes and preaches repent and believe. And Jesus performs numerous signs that ultimately demonstrate he is the Messiah. He is the fulfillment of all of those things. And as he does that, what happens is people are listening to the teaching, And they hear the claims of Christ and they witness the miracles, they have to make a choice about who Jesus is. Is he God in flesh? Is he Messiah? Is he really going to die and rise from the dead? Or is he just a good man? Or is he a troublemaker? I mean, people had to make a choice about who Jesus is. And ultimately that choice was going to come to a head on that final week. And as it comes to a head, what we're going to see is some people embraced him. Some people rejected him. And some of the people that rejected him in that moment, we will see later on this week as we're looking at this passage, they actually are going to turn to the Lord after the fact because they recognize They missed the Messiah. They crucified the Messiah. But he rose from the dead. And so there's this division. And there were also a lot of people who desperately wanted the Romans to be crushed. and the Jewish people to be liberated. And in the same way that the nation of Israel was delivered out of Egypt at the Exodus. They want to see the Messiah come like Moses did and deliver his people. from their enemies. What they don't understand is that the Messiah did not come to establish the kingdom without the cross and without the empty tomb. And that piece is something they don't understand. And that's really going to come to a head in the passages that we're looking at this week. So I'm going to pause there and I'm going to stop and Lord willing tomorrow we're going to continue developing this because this is a pretty long uh introductory thing, but I want just to notice this is a story within a story, and if we're going to understand and interpret this passage correctly, we're going to feel the weight of what's going on in these verses. We have to start with seeing the big picture. Lord willing, tomorrow what I want to do is I want to burrow down into some of the events that were unfolding within the book of John, chapter 9 to chapter 12, to help us understand. You might say, well, what's the takeaway this morning? Well the takeaway is this. First of all, God promised, and when God promised, despite all the things that happened, and the responses of the people, He fulfilled his promise. He sent the Savior. The Savior has come. The Savior has died. The Savior has risen, and we are redeemed because we've trusted in him, or we could be redeemed if we trust in him. And so whether you are a believer or not a believer, there's something for you to learn here today. If you're not a believer, turn to Christ. Trust Him as your Savior. The one who came in on Palm Sunday and they said, Hosanna, save us. If he is your Redeemer, then rejoice in God's faithfulness to his promise. and the sacrifice that was made so that you could be redeemed. Another takeaway is that when we read the Bible, we need to read the Bible carefully in its context. Read it carefully, humbly, with an eye to notice the details, with an eye to see the big picture, because ultimately what we want is we want God to change how we think about what is in his word if our thinking is wrong. That's what repentance is. And we want our thinking to shape our heart. And that heart is going to worship God as we ponder the truth. And then lastly, we want to be people of action. If it's one of turning to Christ and trusting him, that's the action where to take, where to repent and believe. If it's we're a Christian and we need to be reminded and we need to live in the light of those truths. Again, a call to action Whatever the response, we need to have a heart that is humble, a mind that is willing to change when the truth tells us what is right and we don't understand it, and we need to worship and we need to be people of action Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to look a little further into the immediate context. So I hope that you'll join us tomorrow as we continue to have a blessed day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.