Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And I hope that this passage has been a help to you, that the concepts that we have addressed as we've worked through it have been things that have given you some things to ponder and ultimately are very practical and helpful to you as you process the things you deal with every week. This passage is very encouraging and very practical. Alright, well let's go back to Luke chapter 19 one more time, and as we dig into this passage one last day, I'd like us to work on some applications that we can find in the passage. So here's what the text says, Luke chapter 19, beginning in verse 28. It says, When he had thus spoken, he went before ascending up to Jerusalem. It came to pass, when he was come nigh to Bethfij and Bethany, at the mount called the Mountain of Olives, he sent two of his disciples, saying, Go ye into the village over against you. into which, at your entering in, ye shall find a colt tied, whereon yet never a man sat, loose him, and bring him hither. If any man ask you, Why do you lose him? thus shall ye say unto him, Because the Lord hath need of him As he went, they spread their clothes in the way, and when he was come nigh, even now to the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God. with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen. So I'd like us to look at this in two parts when we come to application. One would be to the unbeliever. And I use the term unbelieving because that is a current state. Perhaps as you're listening to these lessons, you're not coming as one who has placed your faith in Christ. Maybe you are Just not convinced of uh the story of Christ and the gospel and the resurrection, and you're not sure if you believe it, um, but you're investigating, you're you're intrigued, you're interested. And so I have uh some application for you in that situation. Maybe you're in a situation where um you've had a church background and the fact is you've just rejected this. You want nothing to do with it, but for some reason you are listening to um this this video today. If you find yourself in that category, this is what I think we need to take away from it. First of all, we need to accept who Christ is. Jesus said, Unless you believe that I am, he, you will die in your sins. And that word I am is actually referring all the way back to the Old Testament. When we look at the story of the burning bush, where Moses takes off his feet, he's on holy ground, the the angel of the Lord speaks to him through that burning bush and sends him to Egypt where he's going to bring the nation of Israel out of enslavement. into the promised land. And so when Christ says that, he's saying, you need to believe that I am God in flesh. Emmanuel. We have to accept who he is in order to be saved. Secondly, we have to be willing to rest in the cross. The cross is where Christ goes and pays our sin debt in full so that we can be forgiven. The cross was about removing the stain of our sin. And giving us access to God because our sin debt has been paid in full. Christ died for our sins. The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. It was the just for the unjust to bring us to God. And so you have to accept who he is, and you have to accept what he did. Thirdly, He needs submit to his rule. What I mean by that is there's no other king who has the right to demand such a level of of trust and dependence and obedience. He is Lord over all. He is called the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And so I want to challenge you, if you've never embraced the gospel, accept who Christ is, Trust in his cross and resurrection and submit to his rule. Secondly, I want to address those who are believers And the thing I think we should take away from this passage is we need to glory in how careful God is and how meticulous he is to accomplish the things that he has promised he would do. If God said he'll do a thing, he's going to do it. Even if this the the odds are stacked against the fulfillment of promise and prophecy, God will do what He has said He will do. He cannot lie. He's not going to be caught off guard. He's a faithful God. And we see this illustrated here. Despite the mixed responses, what did God do? He used everything and everyone to accomplish his redemptive purposes. We also think about the fact that he confirms his word. And because he confirms his word, we can trust in it. We can rest in it. And we see example after example of us, even in this one little passage of Scripture. We're reminded that in the end he will not lose. Now that doesn't mean that there won't be apparent setbacks for seasons. But if you resist the purposes and ways of God, there's going to be a day. that what he said he's going to do, it's going to happen no matter how you feel about it, or no matter how you push against it. He accomplishes what he said he will do. He uses everything to do what he has promised. He triumphs over evil. He turns the schemes of the wicked on their heads. He accomplishes what he says he will do. And so we can trust him. We can trust him when life seems unjust. We can trust him when life is overwhelming. We can trust him. Even when it appears that there's no way this could ever redound to anything positive in the end, God is and will work his good purposes. And so I encourage you, wait patiently for him. As he is working in your life. There were thousands of years of history that led up to the events that we read about this week. And between those promises and their fulfillment were a lot of questions and a lot of doubts and a lot of moments where people said, Is it possible that these things will not happen? But in fact, God did that. Abraham lived 2,200 years before the death of Christ. And when God said to Abraham, I'm going to make you a great nation, and through you all the nations of the earth will be blessed. Abraham had no children, and his wife was beyond the age of childbearing. Yet what does God do? He fulfills all of these promises. David lived a thousand years before the time of Christ. And what what do we see in David? David has promised that he will have a descendant on his throne forever. And it appeared that that was not going to happen. But what did God do? He fulfilled his promises. 700 years before Christ, we have Isaiah prophesying of the Messiah, how he will suffer, and all of these messianic prophecies. And what did God do? He accomplished his purposes. 500 years later, Zechariah prophesying the same kinds of things about the Messiah coming down from the Mount of Olives riding on a donkey. And guess what? God did it. And here we are living 2,000 years later. And we look back at the cross, we look back at the resurrection, but there are still prophecies that we are looking forward to. And those prophecies have not yet come to pass, but in fact they will. I want to leave you with this final thought as we close out the week. 2 Peter 3, verse 8 says this. Beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing. One day with the Lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years is as one day. The Lord is not slack concerning his promises, as some men count slackness. But his long suffering to us were not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. The day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night What is this passage saying? It's saying God has promised, God has purposed, God will fulfill The reason he delays is because he loves people's souls and he wants them to be saved. And so until that final person is converted, Christ will not return. His promise his promises are sure. His purposes are sound. He will do what he said he will do. Let's trust his promises this weekend I hope that that's been a lot for you to be encouraged by. If this has been an encouraging series of studies, maybe take some time to share that. Share it with somebody that can be encouraged by it as well. Have a blessed rest of your day and weekend, and Lord willing we'll see many of you on Sunday by now