Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and also a new week. And the passage of scripture that we're looking at this week is in fact one that I think it will be very encouraging, very helpful. And so I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn with me to Luke chapter 13, and we're reading verses 31 through 35. Again, that is Luke chapter 13, verses 31 through 35. Here's what the text says. The same day there came certain of the Pharisees saying unto him, Get Get thee out and depart hence. For Herod will kill thee. He said unto them, Go ye and tell that fox, Behold, I cast out devils, I do cures today and tomorrow. And the third day I shall be perfected. Nevertheless, I must walk today and tomorrow and the day following. For it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killeth the prophets and stonest them which are sent out, how often would I have gathered thy children together as a hen doth gather her b brood under her wings, and ye would not. Behold, your house is left desolate. Now when we read those verses, it It's important for us to recognize what they are, and they are a lament. And so what we see is Christ's lament over a rebellious city, the city Jerusalem. Which paints a powerful picture of how rich God's grace is toward sinful people. Now you may ask, well, if you're talking about Grace, then why does he warn about judgment? And it's important for us to dig into the details in order to appreciate what's there. So as we do that, I want us to To reflect on the fact that God wants us to have a healthy view of His grace and marvel in it. And so that will be the driving focus of our entire week, the marvelous, infinite richness. Of God's grace, dwelling on them and considering the practical implications of them. And so before we close out this morning in our introduction, I want to remind you of some of the songs That we sang on the Sunday that we dealt with this passage of scripture. We sang songs like Grace Greater Than Our Sin. And think about this statement. It says, marvelous, infinite, master. Matchless grace freely bestowed on all who believe. What a beautiful statement about God's grace. Or arise, my soul, arise, shake off thy guilty fears, the bleeding sacrifice. Sacrifice in my behalf appears. I now am reconciled. His pardoning voice I hear. He owns me as his child. I can no longer fear. What amazing statements. Or the path of the the uh song that we closed out the service on was my hope is in the Lord and he says my hope is in the Lord who Gave himself for me, paid the price of all my sin at Calvary. No merit of my own, his anger to suppress. My only hope is found in Jesus' righteousness. His grace is planned at all to his mind but to believe and recognize his work of love and Christ received. These songs that we sang that Sunday are all about celebrating the grace of God. And so I asked this question. As you sang those songs, we have sung these songs many times in church. When we sing about these songs, how deeply has this grace really gripped our hearts? Do we have a healthy and vibrant view of the grace? That's the question we want to really focus our attention on this week. And then the question of how does this view of our of of God's grace actually impact our lives on a daily basis? We're going to consider that as well. So as we enter into this week, let's ask God to give us a clearer view of His grace and then to act upon what we know. Well that's all I have for you this morning. It's a simple introduction, and I'm looking forward to digging into the passage. Uh share these videos with people that you think could be encouraged by them and always enjoy getting feedback when uh that is shared. So Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again. Have a blessed rest of your day. Bye now.