Good morning and welcome to our Thursday anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. If you have your Bible, let's turn again to Luke chapter 21, and we are talking about comfort this morning. And so I know that there's a lot of terror oriented uh in the conversation about the second coming of Christ and the day of the Lord and all of the events that are going to take place during that time. But this passage of Scripture, and really whenever the Scripture talks about Christ's return, for the believer, it is meant to be something that brings them tremendous comfort. So let's turn our Bibles to Luke chapter 21. We're going to pick up in verse 20 as we read through the details of this passage. It says, and when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that the desolation thereof is nigh. Then let them which are in Judea flee to the mountains. Let them which are in the midst of it depart out. Let not them that are in the countries enter thereunto For these be the days of vengeance, but all things which are written may be fulfilled. But woe unto you that are with child, and those that give suck in those days. There shall be a great distress in the land, and wrath upon this people They shall fall by the edge of the sword and shall be led away captive into all nations. And Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles until the time of the Gentiles be fulfilled. Now, what is the ultimate comfort of this passage of Scripture? The answer is found later in the text, which I did not read this morning. It says, then shall they, and I think that word is important. It doesn't say you, it says, they shall see the Son of Man coming in a cloud With great power and glory. And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, lift up your heads, your redemption draweth nigh. So what does this passage emphasize to you? It emphasizes that the people that live through these things, when they see the Lord Jesus Christ returning, they will see it as a great comfort He will be coming to deliver those who are in great turmoil. Despite the terror of the last days, there is hope, and that hope is in Christ. He is going to come at a time when history is darker than it has ever been. It's going to be like the days of Noah, the days of Sodom and Gomorrah. This is going to be one of the darkest periods in all history. The Bible speaks of strong delusions being in the world at that time. It's going to be a time of great pressure on those who are converted. And when the Lord Jesus Christ comes, he's going to come with great power and with great glory. In fact, the book of Revelation describes what it will be like when he comes. And he has his saints with him as he comes. He's gonna come and when he comes he's coming to do something. He's coming to set everything right. He's going to establish his kingdom And then there's going to be the judgment on the nations. And ultimately, after all of these things, he's going to usher in his eternal kingdom. And we as his children will be able to be a part of it. God will make all things new, and that is a tremendous comfort. He's coming, and he's coming through a process. And this process is going to be troubling and disturbing and struggling. But what we need to do is as we look at these things recognize That while there's a process that people are going to live through, we must process everything through the promise of his return. And his return is imminent. That means it can happen at any time. When we think about Christ's return, we need to remember it is a triumph, and it is the greatest triumph in all of history. It will be triumphant for those who have died in Christ and are going to come with him, as it describes in the book of Revelation. It's going to be a triumph for those who have lived through the misery of this period, and they're being rescued in their darkest hour, people who turned to Christ during that day of the Lord. that tribulation period of time who are converted, who live through all the persecution of that time, they're going to see Christ coming as this great rescuer It's going to be a decisive trump triumph over all the king the kingdoms of this world and over the kingdom of darkness, and it's going to be an everlasting triumph. And this is a triumph that we will look back on for all of eternity. So I want to remind you, while there are many terrifying things that are mentioned in this text, troubling things that are mentioned in this text, The ultimate purpose is to bring you encouragement and comfort and hope in Christ. And so may we be a people who look forward to his coming with tremendous anticipation. If this thing has been a challenge to you or an encouragement, take a moment to share that. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. Hope you have a great rest of your morning, and Lord willing tomorrow we'll look one more time at this text. As we lay out some primal thoughts going into the weekend, by now