Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a great week and I'm thankful for this last. section of scripture that we're going to look at for anchored in the words as we close out the season. And this passage of Scripture, Daniel chapter 9, is is It's a special passage because of what it says about the timing of the ministry of the Messiah, but especially what it says about the nature of the Messiah's work. And so this morning We will focus our attention on the stunning grace of God towards sinners who are in rebellion against Him. And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles together. We will look at this passage. We'll listen to a short video clip and then I'd like to comment on this concept of God's immense grace and how stunning it is and how beautiful it is and how absolutely grateful we should be for God's grace. Here's what it says. Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people, and upon thy holy city, to finish the transgression, and to make an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity. and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy. Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and build Jerusalem, Unto the Messiah the prince shall be seven weeks and three score and two weeks, and the street shall be built again in the wall, even in trouble 's times, and after three score and two weeks Shall Messiah be cut off, but not for himself. Now let's pause and let's listen to a short excerpt from the sermon. God didn't cut off humanity and say, humanity is toxic, I'm done with it. That's what we do. Hopefully not, but That's what a lot of people do. But what does God do? He loves us though we have sinned against him. In Romans chapter 5, verse number 8, it says this, but God commends us His love toward us. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. John three, sixteen, God so loved the world, the same world that He made, and that we're just Now pause and think about that for just a minute. Rather than God abandoning his creation , He immediately established a promise. And that promise in Genesis chapter 3 was that he was going to provide a redeemer. He talks about the seed of the woman who is going to crush the serpent's head. And then as we follow that redemptive revelation all throughout the Old Testament, we see that God establishes pictures. And God makes promises and God establishes covenants with people who are going to be a part of this redemptive plan. The question is, what was the motive of God to do all of these things? And the answer is it was his grace. And it was his love. And so God, in his tremendous grace, gives to us what we do not deserve. In fact, when we study the Old Testament, we tend to think of the different people that are talked about in the Old Testament as mighty heroes of the faith. And in fact they really were heroes of the faith. When I look at Abraham and I think about his willingness to offer his son Isaac believing that God could even raise his son from the dead, that is a tremendous example of faith. Or when I think about David describing the blessedness of the man who's iniquities are forgiven and whose sins are covered, whom the Lord does not impute sin to. He's speaking as a man who has incredible faith. But when we look at the story of redemption, we see that before God fulfilled the promise to Abraham, Abraham failed miserably in the matter with Hagar. He failed miserably when it came to this issue of lying about his relationship to Sarah when he uh goes to Abimelech down, or when he's down in Egypt. Oh, we look at the story of David and we're reminded that the two sons who were a part of the lineage of Christ, their mother, It's Bathsheba. And that is the lowest moment in David's life when he chooses to commit adultery, to abuse his authority, and ultimately to have Uriah killed at the hands of his enemies. And so when we think about the story of redemption, we may talk about those people that God used and who are part of that plan as great heroes of the faith, but they're also examples of tragedy. There are examples of people who sin grievously against God. And if it were not for God's immense grace and his mercy and his forbearance, and his willingness to stay true to his word, there would be no plan of redemption. And every single time we look at one of those examples, it ought to remind us that when these people failed, We are really of the same same stuff that they are. We fail as well. We are sinners as well. And it is only the grace of God, this immense grace, that we are able to stand righteous before God through. And so I'm reminded of Ephesians 2. It says, by grace We are saved through faith. It is not of ourselves. It is the gift of God. It is not of works, lest any man should boast. And so as we get closer to this Christmas season where we're going to remember the incarnation and celebrate it, and we think about the birth of Christ, let's remember that it is the grace of God that was poured out towards sinners And the grace of God that continued this moving plan of redemption that allows us to stand righteous and forgiven and cleansed for all eternity. before a holy and righteous God. May God help us to rejoice in that good news throughout this Christmas season. Well, have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, tomorrow we will have our fourth Angered in the Word episode. Bye now.