Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And we traditionally deal with application. on this day. And yesterday actually we dealt with some application as well, but I'd like to get into some really practical, just simple statements that I hope you can take with you into the weekend as we reflect on the things we've talked about from Psalm 47. And so if you have your Bible, let's turn there one more time and let's dig into this passage one more time, read it again, and then we'll look at those final thoughts. Here's what the text says, Psalm 47, verse 1. O clap your hands, all ye people, shout unto God with the voice of triumph. For the Lord most high is terrible, he is great, king over all the earth. He shall subdue the people under us and the nations under our feet. He shall lose he shall choose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob, whom he loved. Selah God has gone up with a shout, and the Lord with the sound of a trumpet. Sing praise to God, sing praises, sing praises unto our King, sing praises. For God is the King of all the earth. Sing ye praises with understanding. God reigneth over the heathen. God sitteth upon the throne of his holiness The princes of the people are gathered together, even the people of the God of Abraham. For the shields of the earth belong unto God. He is greatly exalted. Now, as we reflect back on the things that we've talked about this week, I wanted to leave you with the final applications to go into the weekend with. And the first is this. We need to regularly stop and reflect on who he is, what he has done, and how personally gracious he has been to us. In fact, one of the authors that I used to read years ago used to say you should preach the gospel to yourself every single day. Remind yourself of how great a sinner you are. And remind yourself of how great a Savior He is. And remind yourself of how forgiven and how righteous in Christ you are because of what Jesus has done for you. Remind yourself that you are forgiven, you are cleansed, you are righteous in Christ, you are accepted in the beloved, and because of that you are now dead to sin. You should and you can live unto God. And as you reflect on how good God has been to you and how great the sacrifice has been to secure your salvation, that should provide tremendous encouragement and should press you into worship. And so take time to reflect, take time to think. We live in a time where things are so busy, there's so much background noise, there's so many things going on. schedulings and entertainments and uh technologies and all of those things distract us from being able to reflect on the Lord and we need to do it. Secondly I want to remind you that the more that you know God, the more substantive and the more passionate your worship will become. If you know God as He is, it's going to affect you. Every time we gather together for corporate worship on Sundays, I hope that your attention is drawn to the glories of Christ and that you think about Him more than you ever have before. That when you leave our gathered worship, your heart has been uplifted and strengthened, and you have poured out your heart and praise to God. Why? Because you have been reminded of who He is. Third thing I want to say is that we need to remind ourselves that understanding starts, or that worship starts with understanding the truth. And if we want to be worshipers, we need to be thinkers. We need to be men and women of the Word of God. We need to be constantly digging into these truths. And so do not neglect the private worship of God. Do not neglect family worship. Do not neglect corporate worship in the local church. Next. I want to remind you that we need to take action on the conviction that if we will ponder the truth, it's going to produce real expressions of worship. And those expressions of worship flow into lots of areas of life. Submission appropriately in the context of relationship. An absolute amazement with God's character and ways. I think of that word terrible that is mentioned in Psalm 47. It's basically saying he is an awesome God. We can't fully comprehend his greatness He is an infinite, uh immortal, invisible God, only wise. Think of the song that we uh that we sing, we think about the greatness of God. We will be amazed at him. It should produce joy. We're going to be a thankful people, a happy people, a joyful people. And then we have the word gratitude. We will express our gratitude to God. And so if we'll take the time to dig into the word, then we're going to live in that place. The last thing I want to mention here, and this is very important. Is that we cannot worship God in this way if we've never faced the gospel correctly. There are many people that are outside of the church that do not understand how wonderful it is to worship our God because they don't know him personally. They've never seen the the the highness of God's righteousness and holiness the the the incredible depravity of their own hearts, how guilty they are in the presence of God, the absolute inability that we have to come to God through our unrighteousness. And so they've never embraced the gospel, they've never placed their faith in Christ, his death and resurrection and righteousness. And so that keeps them from being able to worship God as they should. There are Christians who have embraced the gospel, but they don't think of it very often, and they need to. And so may God help us to take the Word of God. to apply it to our lives and to live in the light of it. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll see many of you this weekend on Sunday. Bye now.