Good morning and welcome back to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. Hope that you had a great weekend and looking forward to digging into this text with you. Now a couple of comments about what we're going to do this week. This is the last section of the book of Luke, but it is not going to be the end of our Luke series. So if you have been joining us, we kind of skipped over a section. And we did that during the month of April, and we did that because of Easter Sunday and Palm Sunday and Good Friday and all those things. And so our goal was to really focus on the last portion of Luke that focuses in on the death, the resurrection, and then uh the events between resurrection and ascension. But then we will go back and we will look at several of the things that were stated throughout that chunk of time between Palm Sunday and the crucifixion. So kind of gives you an idea of of where things are are sitting in our study. We still have a little bit more that we'll be dealing with. in the book of Luke. But this week we will focus in on Luke twenty-four, verses forty-four to fifty-three. And this focus is going to be on God's purpose for the nations. And this is A very important topic. So if you have your Bible, let's turn together. We'll look at this passage. We'll read it together. Then I'd like to make a couple of introductory comments about it. Here's what it says. And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the Psalms concerning me Then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the Scriptures. He said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead on the third day. And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. You're witnesses of these things. And behold, I send the promise of my father upon you. But tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem until ye be endued with power from on high And he led them out as far as Bethany and lifted up his hands and blessed them. And it came to pass that as he blessed them, he was parted from them and carried up into heaven. They worshipped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy, and were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen. Now a couple of thoughts that I hope will be helpful as introduction. I'd like us to put ourselves in a story. What I mean by that is not the story being about us, but how the people who live through these events that this is recording what their experience was between the resurrection and the ascension, what would have been going on in their minds, and how is this significant to the story of the gospel going from Jerusalem? to the uttermost parts of the earth. The first thing I want to mention is that there appears to be disunity in the story. What I mean by that is they're about to enter into a new era, and this new era will be different from the Old Testament era. This newness and this distinction is not contradictory. And so while it appears that there might be disunity between Old and New Testaments, As we dig into this passage, we're going to see that in fact there is no disunity. There is a wonderful blending of the old looking forward to the new and the new looking back to the old The second thing that we see is an apparent disillusionment. What I mean is that the apostles were very discouraged and would have seriously doubted that God still had a mission for them. They had failed on their most basic duty. One of the examples would be Peter. Peter denies the Lord three times, and then Luke records that on that third time, as the rooster's crowing, Peter catches the eye of Christ and he goes out and he weeps bitterly. Why? Because he felt that he had failed. And their expectations had been completely turned upside down. And so we see this side to it. We also see that there's an apparent disorganization. There is no well-crafted, carefully communicated plan. We know that the gospel is going to go from Jerusalem to Judea, Samaria, the uttermost parts of the earth. But it's not as if Christ sits down with his disciples and he says, okay, you're the leader and you're working with him and he divides up the group and he pulls out a map and he says, here's the section you guys are going to focus on, and here's the section you're going to focus on. It's not like that He says, You are my witnesses to the uttermost parts of the earth, beginning in Judea, at Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, uttermost parts of the earth. And so what we see is it appears that there's disunity, there's disillusionment on the parts of the disciples. disorganization. But that is actually not what we will see by the end of the passage. In fact I'll summarize it this way. When we look at the passage in front of us, it is the hinge between several ministries that are talked about. We have the prophetic ministry of the Old Testament, then we have the redemptive ministry of Christ the Messiah, we have the foundational ministry of the apostles, and we have the universal ministry of the church taking the gospel to the nations. All of these ministries, the Old Testament, the Ministry of Christ, the Ministry of the Apostles, the enduring ministry of the Church amongst the nations, it all hinges in on the text in front of us. Secondly, I'll mention this. God's redemptive plan is in fact coherent, timeless, universal, personal. It's not something that's contradictory. It's not something that is disorganized. It is God's plan that has been a part of His thinking for all of time. And it is universal. It is to the nations. And it is a personal. It involves you. It involves me. And then the last thing I'll mention is this the cross and the resurrection. are fulfillment of prophecy and foundation of Christ's command of the apostles to take the gospel to the nations. Without the resurrection and the cross You do not have promises being kept, and you do not have a foundation for the ministry. And so the gospel meets both. So as we think about this, we go into our week. I hope that it will give you some things to ponder. Maybe you look at the passage of scripture in front of us and you don't see how it all fits together. I hope by the end of the week you will. So join us. Share these videos. Encourage people to watch them so they can be benefited by them. Lord willing tomorrow we'll start working our way through this text. as we dig into how it is the hinge between Old Testament, New Testament, Apostles' Ministry, Christ's ministry, and the ministry of the church. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willingly meet again, we will meet again tomorrow. Bye now.