Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection this week. The text that we're looking at is Psalm 46, a very comforting, a very encouraging Psalm. So let's go ahead and turn our Bibles there. And as we read this passage, we're going to zero in on a Important topic and that is God's presence with us in difficult times. Here's what the Psalm says, Psalm 46, verse number one. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore will not we fear though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea. Though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof. Selah. There is a river, the streams thereof shall make glad the city of our God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God shall help her in that right early. The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved, he uttered his voice, the earth melted. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Sheelah. Come, behold the works of the Lord, what desolations he has made in the earth. He maketh wars to cease into the ends of the earth. He breaketh the bow and cutteth the s the spear in sunder. He burneth the chariots and the fire. Be still, know that I am God I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah. The key focus that we're going to look at this morning is a key to the rest of the Psalm. That statement is God is our refuge. and strength. The next phrase, a very present help in trouble. I want to break this down so that we think about this. And really the rest of the Psalm is going to Zero in on this concept. The first word that we'll notice is the word refuge. A refuge is a place of protection. The idea is that in time of need we can flee to God And God will be that place of security and protection from the elements, from the danger, from the struggles, protection. But a second word is a little bit different, and that's the word strength. The word strength is dealing with more of an internal matter. So when we talk about protection, we're saying I'm safe. When we're talking about strength, we're saying I actually am living out the experience of that safety. It's almost like the illustration of people during the time of the Passover who were told that if they would apply the blood to the doorpost, then the the death angel would pass over their house and the firstborn wouldn't die Well, there are many people in Egypt that obeyed what God said. They believed the message and they applied the blood to the doorpost, and that night some of those people slept soundly because they knew they were safe. Others who were as safe as those who were doubting, who had the blood applied to the doorpost, were very fearful. What's the difference? They were both safe. God is their refuge. But they were both not strong, that internal comforter. Third thing I want to mention is this the statement, he is a very present help in trouble. The idea is that he's with us in all circumstances. This is a major theme in Psalm 46. So we have obviously the example that we've just looked at. He is very present as a help in trouble. In verse 5, it says that God is in the midst of her. This is Jerusalem when her enemies are round about her. Verse 7, it says that the Lord of hosts is with us. And by the way, that statement in Martin Luther's song, The Mighty Fortress is our God, Lord of Sabayoth is his name, that's what the word Lord of hosts means. He is Lord of Sabayoth. He is the one who has this host of armies that can defend his people. He's with us. Verse 11, again, it stated the Lord of hosts is with us. So a major theme Is that when we are going through trouble and struggle and difficulty, God is a refuge, God is a strength, and God is present. He is with us in those circumstances. We can have a healthy response to Him because of His presence. And so we see that in this next statement. Therefore, here is the response. We will not fear. Because he is our strength, we will not fear. Because he is with us, we will not fear. Because he is our refuge, we will not fear. We should result, or we should rest. In him as our present uh defender and refuge and strength, we should rest in him and have confidence. We see that word though And then he lists all these unthinkable, terrible events that could happen. Though the mountains shake, though the earth be removed. being cast into the sea. I'm not exactly sure some of the things that he's describing, but it sounds kind of like earthquakes, mudslides, volcanoes, terrible things. Things that would just terrify you if you were to see them take place. He says, This doesn't matter what's going on around me. God is my refuge. He is with me. He is my strength. I will not fear What an amazing and important response. Despite all of the unthinkable things we can experience in life, we can and we should trust God. And I want to give you some examples in our closing that I think will help you. The example that I think of, first of all, is Joseph. Psalm 39, verse 2. It says, and the Lord was with Joseph, and he was prosperous. The question is, with him when? Despite being betrayed by his brothers. who were willing to kill him, but instead decided to sell him as a slave to their cousins. He ends up enslaved in Egypt, working in Potiphar's household, but it says God was with him and he prospered. That's what we're talking about. Or again in chapter 39, verse 21, it says, But the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison, despite him being imprisoned. Despite him being falsely accused by Potiphar's wife. Here is Joseph doing the right thing. And Potiphar's wife lies about him, ends up in the prison. What does he say? What does the text say? But God was with him. God showed him favor and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. God's presence matters. And then I think of the story of Daniel, Daniel chapter 1, verse 9. Now God brought Daniel into favor and tender love with the Prince of the eunuchs. Despite being ripped from his homeland during that attack on Jerusalem by the Babylonians, what does God do? He protects Daniel. He preserves his life, and he elevates him to a position of prominence because he's with him. And so I'm reminded, despite all the unthinkable things that can happen in this life, God is with us. And you can trust him today. You might be in a very difficult situation. I don't want to in any way diminish the weight of what you are feeling and experiencing, but I can tell you. That God is not off in the distance looking at you with this callous disposition, but in fact he's with you. He loves you. He will never leave us. He will never forsake us. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Trust him. Rest in him. Don't fear. Have a blessed rest of your morning, Lord willing. We'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through Psalm 46. Bye now.