Good morning. Welcome back to a new week in another series of our Anchored in the Word morning reflections. And I'm excited about the topic we're going to address this week because It is something that is foundational to how we understand what a healthy church is supposed to look like and function like and what is at the core. to a healthy, vibrant local church. And so this week we're going to look at the devastating consequences of Christless religion. And in order to do that, we're going to look at Luke chapter 20. We're going to pick up in verse 41, and then we're going to read our way through into chapter 21. And we're going to look at uh a question that Christ asks to the religious leaders. And we want to analyze why he asked the question, what is at the heart of that, and then ultimately what he is revealing about the deficient view of these people. And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn together to Luke chapter 20. We'll read the text together, and then I'd like to give you a couple of introductory thoughts. uh reading a section from a book that I really like called Christless Christianity. Here's what the text says. And he said unto them How say they that Christ is David's son? And David himself said in the book of the Psalms, the Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand till I make thine enemies thy footstool. David therefore called him Lord, how is he then his son? Then in the audience of all the people he said unto his disciples Beware of the scribes, which desire to walk in long robes, and love the greetings of the marketplace, and the highest seats in the synagogues, and the chief rooms of feasts, which devour widows' houses, and for a show make long prayers. the same shall receive greater damnation. As we think about the topic in front of us, I want to read to you an excerpt from a book called Christess Christianity, written by Michael In fact, this was written quite a quite a few years ago. I think it would be at least 20 years ago now. And the way he opens his book is really, really helpful, especially when setting the tone for the topic we're going to address. This is what he writes, and he's quoting from Donald Barnhouse, who was a pastor in Philadelphia in the 1950s. And this is what Donald Barnhouse said in one of his radio broadcasts. He said, if Satan took over Philadelphia, all the bars would be closed. pornography banished. The streets would be filled with tidy pedestrians who smiled at each other. There'd be no swearing, the children would say, Yes, sir, no, ma'am, and the churches would be full every Sunday. Now, before you get upset at what's being stated, you need to understand that there is more than just these things. In fact, when Donald Barnhouse mentions these things, he's not suggesting that he wants a city that is filled with vice. He's saying that he wants to under he wants to us to understand why It is dangerous for us to have moralism without the gospel being the center of everything. And so he continues on. The churches would be full of recendre, and here is the catch, where Christ is not preached. His concern was a moral yet Christless society. A place where there were churches filled, but churches that were not filled with genuine believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, because there was no gospel being preached. He continues on. It is easy to become distracted from Christ as the only hope for sinners, where everything is measured by our happiness rather than God's holiness. The sense of our being sinners becomes secondary if not offensive. He then goes on to say this. If we are good people who have lost our way, but with the proper instructions and motivations can become better persons, we need only a life coach, not a redeemer. A lot of things that distract us from Christ these days are even good things. All that Satan has to do is throw several spiritual fads, moral and political crusades. Other relevant operations into the field of vision, focusing the conversation on us, our desires, needs, feelings, experiences, activities. and aspirations energizes us. Wherever Christ is truly, clearly being proclaimed, Satan is most actively present in opposition. I love that statement. I love that quote from this book because I think it really captures the heart of some of the greatest problems in the American church and in American evangelicalism today. There is a dearth of gospel preaching and doctrinal soundness, and many churches in the United States are simply places where there is a religion of therapeutic deistic moralism where people want to feel good and they want to look good and in fact they don't believe That God is active and personally involved in their lives, they see Him as far off. We need to get back to a biblical Christianity built exclusively on the gospel. And so that's what we're going to talk about this week, why that is so important, what it looks like when there is a religious system that is not built on that and how Christ addresses that issue. So with that in mind, let me give you kind of a summary for the text we're going to deal with this week, and then we'll close. And I hope you will think about this throughout the week. And I hope you'll also encourage people to join us for these studies, because I think they're very helpful. Here's the summary. Christ exposed religious blindness by highlighting its deficient view of the Savior, its shallow preoccupation with reputation. And it's hypocritical devotion. We must reject any system that replaces or diminishes Christ alone. And so this week I hope you'll join us as we look into this topic. Have a great rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll see many of you tomorrow. Bye now.