Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word More Reflection and hope that the things we talked about yesterday were a challenge and encouragement to you. This morning we're going to focus in on how Christ responds. Yesterday we saw that obviously he was displeased with what he saw when he entered the temple. And so this morning we want to focus in on the action that he took. And it was a very decisive action. So let's go ahead and turn. Go ahead and turn in our Bibles to Luke chapter nineteen. We're going to read verses forty five through forty eight, and then we're going to dig into this second concept today. It says this. And when he went into the temple and began to cast out them that sold therein, and them that bought, saying unto them It is written, My house is a house of prayer, but you have made it a den of thieves. And he taught daily in the temple, but the chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him and could not find what they might do, for all the people were very attentive to hear him. The second thing I'd like us to notice this morning is the decisive public action that Christ took. Now, in verse 45 it says, And he went into the temple and began to cast them out that sold therein and them that bought. Now, pause for a second. We see those who sold and those who bought, and you go, why both? Cap that. We're going to come to this at another time later in the week. But I want you to keep in your mind that that should be a question we ask. Why does it Why is it that he addresses both of those groups? Why not just those who are selling? Also those who are buying? We'll come back to it. But I want to show you a couple things here before we get into that topic on another day. This is not the first time that crisis thrown out the money changers. In fact, there are two instant instances that The gospels tell us Jesus did this. The first is mentioned in John chapter two, and that's very early in the book of John. So in John chapter two we read about the the turning of the water into wine at the wedding at Cana of Galilee And that's just after the baptism in the Jordan River. And then one of the next things we read about in verses 13 through 22 Is that Jesus goes up to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover? This would be his first Passover of his public ministry. And what does he do? He throws out the money changers. And interestingly, in chapter three, we read the story of Nicodemus coming to Jesus. Nicodemus is one of members of the Sanhedrin, and when he comes to Jesus, he says, We know that you are a teacher come from God, for no one can do these miracles unless God is with him. So interestingly, what Jesus was doing and what Jesus was saying as he was teaching as something that the religious leaders were all aware of, and they knew that it was something they couldn't explain away. They knew that he was doing true miracles. They just didn't understand how to make sense of it. And it is possible that one of the reasons Nicodemus was sent to Christ was initiated by the fact that he throws out these money changers and he calls this his father's house, which would have been a completely shocking thing for the people to consider. The second example is at the end of his ministry. So it's as if we have these bookends. He inaugurates his ministry. The first Passover, he throws out the money changers, the last Passover, the one that is going to come to a head, where he's going to be crucified, he throws out the money changers. And we read about that here in Luke chapter 19. This event leads to the Sanhedrin not sending Nicodemus to talk to Jesus, but plotting to kill him. And interestingly, Nicodemus, the text is going to tell us in another place in the Gospels. That Nicodemus was against their decision to crucify Christ. And some of the members of the Sanhedrin were actually secretively disciples of Christ. And so it wasn't everyone who was a part of this religious establishment that was corrupted, but those who were not were not strong enough to stand up against those who were. And so we see how this played out. The second observation is in relation to timetable. And I know I mentioned this last week, but I kind of want to reiterate this a little bit this week, just so that we know where this sits. So in Luke chapter 19 verses 29 through 40, Christ has gone up to Jerusalem. He stops in Bethany. The disciples get a donkey, actually two donkeys, but one that Jesus rides on in the focus of most of the text. And he comes down from the Mount of Olives, and as he's coming down from the Mount of Olives, the people cry out, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. As he goes down into the Kidron Valley and then comes up into Jerusalem, there is some some contention with the religious leaders in Christ, where he basically is told by these people, tell your disciples to be quiet, not to do this. And Jesus says, I can't do this. If I were to tell them to be silent, even the rocks would cry out. He goes up into Jerusalem, into the temple, he sees it And then he goes back up to Bethany, and Mark chapter eleven records that for us. When he comes back down from Bethany and then up into Jerusalem on the second day, he comes across a fig tree that is barren, and he curses the fig tree. And this fig tree was, we could say, sort of like a prophetic utterance, if you will. God was using this as an illustration of what was going on in the nation and what was going to happen to the nation. And so the nation was a barren tree that was going to be judged because they were rejecting the Messiah. And then Jesus goes up into the temple and he disrupts the system. And that's what we read about in the verses that are in the text in front of us. The people who were bringing animals into the temple were were abusing the system. Because as they were selling those animals to the people who were going to be you could say they were selling it wholesale they were selling them at a rate that was taking advantage And then the people who were buying these animals and then selling them to the people who had come up to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover again, they were abusing the people because they were selling these at exorbitant rates. The people who were exchanging money. in the temple area where we're abusing the system. Why? Because they knew that the people who were coming up to celebrate the Passover were coming out of religious duty and obligation. They knew that these people were sometimes coming from a great distance. They did not have the animals that they needed. They did not have the currency that they needed to do the exchanging. And so they took advantage of that. It's almost like when a person goes to a resort town and everything is inflated because you're in a re a resort town. during the typical time that people vacation, gas is more expensive, food is more expensive, uh trinkets are more expensive. Everything that you buy Is basically being gouged in price. This is what the people were doing. The entire system that was established at the time of Christ was thoroughly corrupt. And people were participating in it, and Christ was not pleased with it. Third thing we see, and this is what I think might be perhaps the most significant. Is that out of all the people who were being abused by the system, the ones who were the most faithful were the ones who were the most abused. What I mean by that is the people that traveled the greatest distance. These are the people that didn't have animals to participate in the sacrifice, so they had to buy their animals in Jerusalem. These are the people that were coming from regions that had different currencies than what was being used in Jerusalem And so these are the ones that had to exchange their money and were being extorted multiple times in this system. Those who had traveled the greatest distance and needed to purchase the sacrifices and exchange the money, they're the ones that were abused the most. And so what we really could say is the people who took it most seriously were the people that were hurt the most by the system. And so that leads me to the question, how should we respond to this? And the answer is we should grieve whenever people take what is true and what is good and what is ordained by God and they misuse it and they use it to take advantage of others. We should pray for those who may be in such situations. We should pray that God will bring town leaders who are corrupt, that God will establish people who are godly and people who are conscientious and people who will do what's right. He will raise up an entire generation of people who will be godly individuals leading the Church of God. God help us to have a correct view about these issues. I'm looking forward to digging into this passage a little bit more with you, a little bit later on tomorrow. So have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow by now.