Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. Hope that you're having a great Wednesday, assuming that you watch it on the day that we uh put this out. And uh if you are enjoying this, I hope that you'll take a moment to share that. Share it with someone else who can be encouraged by it. And the topic that we're addressing this week is God's compassion and the dead religion and dead religion's rotting fruits. And this morning we're going to look at this contrast of systems, one that is the truth and what it produces, and the other a false dead religion and the rotting fruits that it produces. And so I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles. Let's turn together to the passage we're looking at, Luke chapter 13, verses 10 through 17, and we'll read it together. Here's what God's Word says. And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath. And behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and was bowed down and could no wise lift up herself When Jesus saw her, he called her to him and said unto her, Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity. He said, and laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight and glad. Glorified God. And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation because that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath day, and said unto the people, There are six days in which men ought to work, and then therefore come and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day. The Lord then answered him and said , Thou hypocrite, doth not each one of you on the Sabbath day loose his ox? Ought not this woman being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound low these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond On the Sabbath day. You can almost feel the tension of this moment where Jesus is confronted and he is rebuked in front of the people. And then he turns the table and he points out this man's hypocrisy and lack of compassion. Well, what I'd like to first of all look at is Christ and the truth and the compassion and the authority that is demonstrated by Christ, showing us God's compassion and God's In verses twelve and thirteen it says, When Jesus saw her, he called to her, and he said, Woman, thou art loosed of thine infirmity. And he laid his hand on her, and immediately she was made strong. What do we see? We see this progression. First of all, he saw her. God is not disconnected from our truth. This woman had been coming to this to the synagogue for for years. 18 years she was like this. And you have to think that the people, when they saw her, became fairly callous toward her her and got to the point where they didn't want her around, it made them uncomfortable. But what does Jesus do? He looks on her in her weakness. This is how God is toward us. We don't feel this way many times when we're in in these tough situations and we are we are weighed down by the challenges of life but in fact it's true he sees us think of exodus chapter three verse seven Where God says, I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt. I have heard their cry by reason of their taskmasters. I know their sorrows. What does that tell you about God? Compassionate. He sees. Psalm 38. We looked at this text a few weeks ago, and he says, Lord, all my desire is before thee. My groaning is not hid from thee. I know that you are aware of what's going on in my life. The second thing is he went to her. God moved toward the woman, not away from the woman. As he moves toward us, not away from us. Every person that listens to this today, or whenever you listen to this, if you are saved, you are saved not because you are looking for God. But because he sought you. It says that there is none who seeketh after God. But when God works in our heart, we respond to the truth. And so what do we see? Jesus going to this woman because he cares. This is a beautiful picture of grace and mercy and compassion. And then he healed her. God is not Satan's peer. He spoke and she was healed. He touched her. He showed compassion. And so in Luke 4 verse 34 it says we we see that Satan is most clearly not God's peer. They said, let us alone. What have we to do with thee, Jesus of Nazareth? Thou art come to destroy us, I know thee, who thou art, the Holy One of God. Who said this? The demons that were afflicting this poor man. What did it tell you? They were afraid of him. He's not their peer. He's in charge. Or in Luke chapter eight, verse thirty one, they besought him that he would not command them to go. Why did they plead with Jesus? Well, because they're under his authority. He can command them and they have to go. They have no choice. They know who's in charge. On the other side, we see the dead religion of the Pharisees and the rotting fruits that it produced. In verse 14, it says, the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation. Because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath day. And he said to the people, there are six days in which men ought to work. In those days come and be healed not on the Sabbath day Now there's a lot that doesn't make any sense about what this man is saying. But what it shows you is the divide between genuine Christianity, God Himself, Jesus, God in flesh. And then the dead religion of the Pharisees. There's this deep divide, and you can see it. And by the way, there's something that sets apart true Christianity from all other religious systems. It's all about the gospel. And the gospel is about a person, and that person is not you or me, it's Jesus. The gospel 's for us. It's not about us. It's a redemptive work. He died for our sins. He rose from the dead. His righteousness can be imputed to us. God saves us by grace alone. through faith alone in Christ alone. That's the true faith. This message when embraced will radically transform people people. I think about 1 Corinthians where it says, and such were some of you, but you are washed and sanctified and justified in the name of our Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. That's the one side. But there's the other side. Every substitute, no matter the form, is powerless to save from sin and to transform the substitute. Sinner. First century Judaism was no different. They had lots of truth, but they didn't have the source of life. And so what was produced by this dead rotting system? Well, it was a system that was harsh. The ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation, Why was he angry that a woman for eighteen years who had been stooped down and infirmed, how in the world could he be upset that she was healed. Makes no sense. It's blind. It says, because Jesus healed. He didn't consider the implications. I mean, he should have been saying, who is this man? And how does he do this? By what power does he do this? I have seen it with my eyes. I know it is true. How do I make sense of it? That's not what he did. He said, how dare you do this? And it's irrational. It makes no sense. He says, there are six days in which men ought to work. In them, come and be healed, not on the Sabbath day. In other words, he's saying, God doesn't have time for you to be healed on the Sabbath day, because that's a day of rest. Well the fact is that his harshness and his blindness and the irrationality of his thinking Was produced by dead religion. And so I asked this final question this morning: Do you have genuine faith in the true faith? Have you placed your faith in the finished work of Christ? Saved by the grace of God alone, through faith alone in the finished work of Christ alone. His righteousness has been imputed to your account. His sin debt has paid in full. You are a redeemed, justified sin. Can you say that? And if you are a redeemed, justified, forgiven sinner, are you thinking and acting and living in the light of the position that you have in Christ. A healthy, vibrant faith in the true gospel is going to produce godly fruits, love and joy and peace and gentleness and goodness. And faith and meekness and temperance. But dead religion will produce the rotting fruits of a calloused arrogance and hypocrisy and the kinds of things we see in this text. It's given us some things to think about, has it not? Well I hope that you'll take a moment to share your thoughts, share it with someone who can be encouraged by it, and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow as we look at uh the the fourth point in these verses. Have a blessed day by now