Good morning and welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope that this study has been a challenge, a blessing to you. We've been talking about the need to find comfort in our desperate situations. And today, this will be probably one of the most important parts of this discussion because we're going to get into the center of the confidence. that David had during this very difficult time. So if you have your Bible, let's take it, turn to Psalm 54. Going to read through the text and then dig into what he says here about the center of his confidence. Here's what the text says. Save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me by thy strength. Hear my prayer, O God. Give ear to the words of my mouth. Hear my prayer. For strangers are risen up against me. Oppressors seek after my soul. They have not set God before them. Selah. Behold, God is my helper. The Lord is with them that uphold my soul. He shall reward evil unto my enemies. Cut them off in thy truth. I will freely sacrifice unto thee. I will praise thy name, O Lord. It is good. He has delivered me out of all trouble, and my eyes have seen his desire upon my enemies. Now, as we look at this passage, I want you to notice the way that David expresses his confidence. For instance, he expresses it with passionate confidence for things like, verse 4, God is my helper. He says, the Lord is with those who uphold my soul. He sees God as his advocate In verse 5, he says he's going to reward evil unto my enemies. He sees God as one who executes justice. Verse 6, he says, I'm going to freely sacrifice to you. So he knows or he believes he's going to continue to worship the Lord. And then in verse 6 he says, I'll praise your name. So he continues to emphasize his confidence. The question we should ask is, where does the confidence come from? What was the grounding of that? Well the grounding of that was in something that was substantive, it was solid, and he's going to express this. He says in verse number one, Save me, O God, by thy name. Verse 6, I will praise thy name, O Lord, for it is good. David's confidence was grounded in the name of God. And you say, well, what is God's name and why does that matter? Well, that's going to lead us into a very important side topic that's not an insignificant topic to think about. When we talk about names in the Old Testament, a name was more than some general way of identifying a person. Like someone knows me as Joel, okay, but does that tell you anything about my character? Does it tell you anything about my story? Well, maybe not a whole lot. But when the Bible talks about names, there is a lot more being stated than just, oh, that's an identification of that person. It tells the story of their life in many ways It identifies things about their character. It memorializes what their reputation was to individuals that lived with them. It even in some situations was a predictor of future things that God had said was going to take place in their lives. And I want to give you some examples of what I mean by this. For instance, when we look at the story of Abraham. In Genesis 17, he says, your name will no more be called Abram, but thou shalt be called Abraham. For a father of many nations have I made thee. Now why does he call his name Abraham? It's because the name means a father of many nations. Or Isaac, Genesis 21, it says Abraham called his son that was born to him whom Sarah bare him Isaac. And Sarah said, God has made me laugh. So all that here will laugh with me. And she said, Who would have thought that Abraham and Sarah would have given that Sarah would have given suck? I have borne him a son in his old age What does Isaac's name mean? It means laughter. And it reminded people every time that they called him Isaac that he was a miracle. They didn't believe that that they could actually have a child. And God does the miraculous, and they did not believe it at the time. And then a third example would be Jacob. And I love this story, Genesis 32, when he's wrestling with the Lord, and God asks him, what is your name? Jacob, the trickster, the heel snatcher, the one who's known for manipulation. He said, you're not going to be Jacob anymore, you're going to be Israel. And you're a prince with the Lord. So the reason I bring these up is to say, hey, when we talk about a name, a name is more than just an identifier, a general identifier. It tells you something about the person. And so when David talks about God's name being his confidence, he's thinking about what he knows about God and how certain events in the Old Testament are going to remind us of God's name. I'll give you some examples of what I mean by this. Genesis 16. He's called Elroy, the God who sees. It's the story of Hagar when she is dying in the wilderness and she thinks that She's been abandoned and God sees her and God provides for her and preserves her life and preserves her son's life or else should die. Genesis 17. He's the Almighty God. Abraham doubted that God would actually fulfill his promise. And God says, I'm the Almighty God. Stand before me and be perfect. I'm going to do what I've said I'm going to do. Or we think of Genesis 22, where he provides a ram in the place of Isaac, and he's called Jehovah Jirah, the Lord who will provide, because he provides this substitute. We're Exodus 3. He's called the I Am, the eternally existent one. And we're reminded that he is outside of time and space. He's not dependent on anyone. He is the God above all gods. Jehovah Rapha, he's the Lord who yields, Exodus 15. Or Jehovah Rav, the Lord who is our shepherd, Psalm 23. The Lord is my shepherd, I'm not going to want or lack. He makes me lie down in green pastures. Each of these names of God tell us something about who he is, his character. And these are the things that David was resting in. Think about him being Lord of Sabbath, Sabaoth, Lord of hosts, Psalm 46, and the Lord our righteousness, Jeremiah 23. 6. But the one that I think is the greatest of all is Matthew 121, Jesus, Yeshua, the Lord our Savior. That is who Christ is. And so when David says, I rest in your name, he's saying, I know who you are. Your name tells me your character, your ways, the things that you've done in real time in people's lives And so that was the first basis of his confidence. The second were the testimonies of the Lord. And we see that in this statement in verse 7. He hath delivered me out of trouble. My eyes have seen his desire on my enemies. You say, what is that? That's David remembering how God has taken care of him in the past. David knew the history of God's people. Psalm 19, the testimonies of the Lord are sure and they make wise the simple. David also knew God by experience. 2 Samuel 5. 12, this is after these events when he's already king. It says, David perceived that the Lord established him king over Israel, that he had exalted his kingdom for his people, Israel's sake. What is David saying his confidence was in? What the Bible says about the name of God and what the Bible gives us as the testimony. And so as we go throughout our day, let's remember who our great God is. Let's remember his names, his character, the way he has followed through when his name has been put to the test, his testimonies. of his faithfulness. May God help us to rest in him today. Hope that gives you some things of encouragement. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for our final thoughts on the week. Bye now.