Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the week. And I hope that as we've worked our way through Psalm 45 this week, it's been a great encouragement to you. I hope that it's caused you to want to worship and celebrate and rejoice in our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. If you remember, yesterday we talked about the second half of the psalm. and how it really highlights the love that Christ has for his church. My goal this morning is going to be to take all of the things that we've seen. This is obviously a prophetic psalm. And I'd like us to look at some of the New Testament passages that really are rooted in the concepts that we find in this passage of Scripture. So Let's go ahead and take out our Bibles again. We're going to turn to Psalm 45. We'll read the first couple of verses together, kind of pick up where we left off, and then look at some final thoughts together. God's word says, My heart is indicting a good thing, a good matter. I speak of things which I have made touching the king. My tongue is the pen of a ready writer Thou art fairer than the children of men. Grace is poured into thy lips. Therefore God hath blessed thee forever. Gird thy sword on thy thigh, O most mighty With thy glory and thy majesty, and in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness and righteousness. And thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things. Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of thy the king's enemies, whereby the people fall under thee. Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever, a scepter of thy kingdom is a right sceptre. Thou lovest righteousness and hatest wickedness, therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. This passage of scripture reminds us that we have a glorious future. And in verses 15 through 17 he highlights this. He says, With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought. They shall enter into the king's palace. instead of thy fathers shall be thy children, whom thou mayest make princes in all the earth. I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations, therefore shall the people praise thee for ever and ever. Now let me show you three statements that are made in those scriptures we just read. The first statement is with gladness and rejoicing they will be brought and enter into the king's palace. The second statement, it says, Whom thou makest princes in all the earth. Third statement, therefore shall the people praise thee for ever and ever. Now if you look back at those three statements, we can see some principles that are pointing forward that are going to be talked about in the New Testament. What are those principles? Well, I'd summarize it like this. The future of God's people, the church, is going to be filled with unspeakable joy. The second principle is that these individuals who are part of the church, are going to actively participate in this administration that God has. The third principle is that this is going to be an unspeakable joy and privilege that never ends. And I want you to see how these concepts are spelled out very explicitly in the New Testament. As we look at the elements of this psalm that are prophetic, We are going to see some wonderful truths talked about in the New Testament. So let me work my way one by one through these. Christ obviously is the King that is described in Psalm 45. We see this in Isaiah 9, 6 and 7. Unto us a child is born, a son is given, the government will be on his shoulders, his name will be called Wonderful Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end. Upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order and establish it with judgment and justice, from henceforth even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts shall perform this When Psalm 45 talks about the prince, the king, it's talking about the same person who is mentioned here in Isaiah 9, 6 and 7. We also see a similar statement in Luke chapter 1, verses 31 to 33. where Mary is uh hearing from an angel that the Lord Jesus Christ is going to be born. It says, Thou shalt conceive in thy womb, bring forth a son, call his name Jesus. He shall be called the Son of the Highest. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. He shall reign over the house of Jacob forever and ever, and of his kingdom there shall be no end. So the first thing I want to highlight here is that this psalm is talking about the son of David, the one who is referred to in Isaiah. and in Luke. Second thing I want to emphasize is how God delights in his people, just like a man delights in his bride. Matthew 22, 1 through 3 it says, The kingdom of heaven is likened to a certain king which made a marriage for his son. Revelation nineteen nine. Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb God loves to refer to the picture of marriage to illustrate the love of Christ for the church And it's really state explicitly in Isa in Ephesians chapter 5, which I kind of highlighted yesterday at the end of our study. It says, Husbands, love your wives, notice, as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it, so that he might present it to himself a glorious church. without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but at that it should be holy and without blemish. He says, No one ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as the Lord the church. And so we see not only that this psalm is pointing to Christ, but it's talking about the church. Third thing, his kingdom is going to be filled with citizens from every people group. This is also highlighted in the psalm. Luke 13, 29, they shall come from the east and from the west and from the north and from the south and shall sit down in the kingdom of God. Revelation 5. 9 says they sang a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take up the book, open the seals, for thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tribe and tongue and nation. And so when we see someone bringing gifts from Tyre, it's reminding us of the fact that there's going to be a day that all the nations who are redeemed are going to bring their goods to worship the Messiah in Jerusalem. Fourthly, his people have a meaningful role in this kingdom. We see this in Revelation 20, verse 4. I saw thrones, they that sat on them, judgment was given. They lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. Blessed and holy, blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection. on which the second death has no power, they will be priests to God and of Christ and shall reign with him a thousand years. That leads me to some questions. How should we respond to these incredible truths that we've talked about all week? I take you back to that question we asked at the beginning of the week. Are these truths gripping your soul? The answer I hope is yes. If the answer is no, I say, why not? What is keeping you from glorying in these wonderful truths? How should we respond? Well, first of all, we need to glory in Christ. We should marvel at how he loves us, both as individuals and as members of his body, the church. We should rejoice in the incredible grace that will one day assemble this remarkable kingdom from every kindred and tribe and nation. We should labor to be faithful today, knowing that he has an eternal purpose for us as his people. As we go into this weekend, I hope that that is how you'll respond to this psalm. If you've been challenged and encouraged by this, I hope to take a moment to just share that, perhaps share some thoughts, ask questions if you have any. I hope we'll see many of you on Sunday. And Lord willing, we'll be back at this again on Monday of the following week, just digging into the Word of God again. Have a blessed weekend, and we hope to see you soon by now.