Good morning and welcome to another edition of our Angered in the Word Morning Reflection and looking forward to digging into a new passage of Scripture with you this week and we are back in the book of Ephesians. And we're looking at Ephesians chapter 3, verses 14 through 21 this week. So I hope that you'll join us as we work our way through this passage of Scripture. that I think will be very, very helpful. And as we dig into this passage, we're going to be talking about the need to desire and long for spiritual maturity. And we're going to look at this in the context of the way that Paul prays for the church So if you have a Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Ephesians chapter 3, and we're looking at verses 14 through 21 together. Here's what the text says. For this cause I bow my knee unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named. That he would grant unto you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by the Spirit in the inner man That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height, and to know the love of Christ. which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with the fullness of God. As we look at this passage, we see that growth is something that is needed for the Christian. And when we talk about the concept of growth, we need to recognize that growth comes with several very important components. For instance, something doesn't grow unless it It's alive. And we're going to see that come out in the text that we're looking at. Not only does it need to be alive, but it needs to have time. Things go through seasons. So If I plant something in the spring, I don't reap the harvest the next morning. I have to go through a process. It takes time to grow. So it needs to be alive, needs time. And when we talk about life growth, our growth in our own personal lives, we need experience. We have to actually pass through certain things and we're to see how this is a part of how we grow spiritually And then another piece to this is we've got to respond the right way in those circumstances. So when we talk about this concept of life and time and experience and response, all of this is a part of this passage. As Paul is praying, all of these components come together. And he's praying that as God works in our lives, we will be shaped in the image of Christ. So that's where we're going this week. I hope that you'll join us for that. Now, what I want to do is kind of focus first of all today on the object of our prayer, the direction of our prayer. And that would be to the Father. We pray to the Father. We don't pray to Christ. We don't pray to the Spirit. We pray to the Father through the Son, being motivated by the Spirit. That's the way that we're supposed to pray. And you see this come out in verses 14 through 16. For this cause I bow my knees unto who? The Father. that he would grant to you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with might by the Spirit in the inner man. So let's break this down a little bit. When we talk about the Father being the object of our prayer, we recognize first of all that it's normal to desire to grow. And it should be normal for us to desire to see others grow spiritually. And in order for that to take place, there's got to be a process. And we mentioned this thing called life and time, an experience and response. All of that is bound up in this concept of process. So, first of all, dead men don't grow. And we see in chapters 2, 1 through 10, that that is the emphasis. You were dead, now you've been quickened. You were dead in trespasses and sins. You're now alive into Christ. In the past you walked according to the course of this world. Now you walk in a distinctly different way. It's because you're a new creature in Christ. And this growth doesn't just come because you're alive and because of time, but it's actually cultivated. In the same way that we have to cultivate a plant or we take care of an animal, we raise our children. In the same way that cultivation takes place in those realms, it takes place in the spiritual realm as well. And so the one who cultivates that life is the Father. It says that he, the Father, would grant unto you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strength with might. He is actively working to cultivate and shape us into the image of Christ Another piece to this is that the Father is working actively, persistently, through circumstance to cause us to grow. There are several passages that I can take you to. For instance, James chapter 1 Let or permit or allow patience to have her perfect work. Now patience is not a person. The idea is that you are actually being shaped through a process. If you lack wisdom, ask God. He's the one who's shaping that process. And so that's the idea. The Father literally works to shape us. Or we see that he works from outside of us. John chapter 15 talks about the fact that we are in a vine, Christ, and the Father is the husbandman who prunes, lifts up, and he does all that work. so that we will be fruitful. Or we think about Hebrews chapter twelve, where he says, Don't don't allow the chastening of the Lord to cause you to be weary. Whom the Lord loves, he chastens and he scourges every son whom he receives. And ultimately through this process We are shaped to be more and more like Christ, partakers of his holiness. So the idea is that we are literally shaped by God in this process. So I want to remind you as we close out this morning, That the object of our prayer is the Father. We pray to the Father because He personally works in our lives to shape us in the image of Christ. And so this week we're going to break this down quite a bit. Hope you'll join us for that. Pass it along to people that you think might be benefited by it. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through this concept and this text. Have a blessed day. Bye now