Good morning and welcome back to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. I hope that this week you'll join us as we work our way through a fascinating passage of Scripture and Christ is dealing with continued conflict with the religious leaders and in this passage we're going to see how Christ handles a very delicate question that they ask He handles it with such wisdom and he handles it with such precision. And so I hope that you'll join us as we dig into this passage. The passage is Luke chapter 20, verses 20 through 26. So if you have a Bible, take it. Let's turn together and let's dig into this passage. Together. Here's what the text says. And they watched him, and sent forth spies, which should feign themselves just men, that they might take hold of his words. that so they might deliver him under the power and authority of the governor. And they asked him, saying, Master, we know that thou sayest and teachest rightly, neither acceptest thou the person of any But teach us the way of God truly. Is it lawful for us to give tribute unto Caesar or no? But he perceived their craftiness and said unto them, Why tempt ye me? Show me a penny. Whose image and superscription hath it? They answered and said, Caesar's. He said unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which be Caesar's, and unto God the things which be God's. And they could not take hold of his words before the people, and they marveled at his answer, and they held their peace. I want to begin by looking at a few kind of introductory thoughts that are not necessarily in the text, but I think help prepare us to think correctly about the text. And that is that there is a big difference between looking back at history versus living through history. What I mean by that is that as we live through history, there are certain things about the perspective of those moments that we don't really understand as we're living through them, but then as we look back, it's a lot clearer. For instance, there are lots of working parts when we're living through history, and we don't usually have the ability to see how all those pieces work together. we don't necessarily recognize what are the most significant pieces and how they're going to play out. And so sometimes something that's a really big deal and down the road it's going to be a massive part of the movement of events We don't realize it at the time when it takes place. We rarely see how all these pieces fit together. And so when we're living through it, we lack clarity, we don't see how it ends. and we don't have a full perspective. But as we move our way through things and we come to the other side and then we look back, what we're able to see is the mysterious and beautiful work of God and providence. And it is a mystery. How God orchestrates events, how he moves things to a certain end, how he allows people to do certain things and stops them in their tracks, all of those pieces are a beautiful thing for us to behold. And so as we look at history, we should and we will see the hand of God at work in these things. The passage in front of us is something that illustrates this very, very well. Christ is moving to the cross. You have these people who are raging against him, and you see how he handles them, and ultimately all of these pieces are going to move together to the cross of Christ So let me kind of give you the basics of the story. The religious leaders are furious with Christ. They're now willing to do anything to get rid of him. They're willing to trick him, they're willing to lie to him, they ultimately want to use the Romans to have him brutally executed, and they know he's innocent, but it doesn't matter, they 're willing to do it. They're so angry That those basic restraints that had it kind of held them back from certain actions earlier in the story. In fact, those dark passions are no longer in check. They're willing to do whatever it takes to get rid of him. They're not thinking clearly, they're blinded by hatred, they're filled with pride, they're filled with hypocrisy. And so the question is, what is the overall picture of this passage? Well, the overall picture is that it's illustrating God's wisdom and how Christ faces the opponents. The things that they ask him, the things that they say to him, he just navigates their traps so very skillfully and so very simply But there's more than just his wisdom. There's also the providence of God in this passage of Scripture. And we see that the reason he's able to navigate this is not just because of his wisdom. but because his time has not yet come. And so at the exact moment when God has ordained that Christ will go to the cross and die for our sins, That is when this is going to take place. And Christ's actions and their actions are all going to play a part in that ultimate plan of what God is doing. And so as we step back and we think about our responsibility in the light of these truths, I think what we're going to see is that what God wants us to do is rest in His wisdom. He is ordering our steps. He is establishing his purposes. We need to rest in that. And so I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage of Scripture. My prayer is that the things you hear will help shape your thinking, will give you strength and confidence and encouragement in the Lord, and ultimately it will cause you to walk with a greater confidence in Him. Have a blessed rest of your day, and the Lord willing will meet again tomorrow by now.