Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for this week. And I hope that the discussions that we've had over the last several days have been an encouragement to you. Psalm 43 is a great psalm. It's very encouraging and really the heart of this psalm that is encouraging and challenging to us is what we'll talk about this morning. And so we're going to focus our attention on the need to speak stabilizing truths to ourselves. And so if you have your Bible, I'd like to invite you to turn there with me. Psalm 43, verses 1 through 5. I'll read it, and then we will listen to a short clip from the sermon and then spend a little bit of time discussing that concept. Here's what it says. Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation. O deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man. For thou art the God of my strength. Why dost thou cast me off? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? O send out thy light and thy truth. Let them lead me, let them bring me unto thy holy hill, and to thy tabernacles. Then will I go to the altar of God, unto God my exceeding joy. Yea, upon a harp will I praise thee, O God, my God. Why art thou cast down on my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him who is the health of my countenance and my God. Let's go ahead and listen to this short little section. Speak stabilizing God's inner truth to yourself. Hope thou in God. We've got to talk to ourselves. Everybody talks to themselves. This is true. We do. We talk to ourselves when we're angry. We talk to ourselves when we're sad. We talk to ourselves we're anxious. Hopefully people aren't listening to us when we talk to ourselves, right? Well this is telling us to talk to ourselves the truth. Not what we want, not what we wish we had, not what we're so angry about what is true. Hope in God. Such an important concept for us to think about here this morning. And uh I want to say that verse again just so that we're thinking about it. It says, why art thou cast down, O my soul, and why art thou disquieted? within me, hope thou in God. Notice what the psalmist is doing. He's beginning by asking himself questions about the root cause of his question. Why are you cast down? Why are you disquieted? Then you see a second side to this where he says, hope in God. Question is, who is the psalmist speaking to? He's speaking to himself. What he's saying is, don't allow circumstances To drive you. Don't allow your emotions to drive you. You need to stop and you need to remind yourself about what is true and then speak those truths back to yourself and then reckon them to be true. Act as if they're actually true. And that's what he means by hope in God. And so you may ask, well, what are some of the things that we need to speak the truth about ourselves, uh speak the truth to ourselves about God? Well, first of all, remind yourself that he loves you. Remind yourself that he's good. Remind yourself that he's righteous, that he's just, that he's sovereign, that he takes all things that are going on in the lives of those who love him. And he uses them to accomplish good in our lives, to shape us and conform us into the image of Christ. Remind yourself that based on the work of Christ you are forgiven. and you are cleansed, and there's now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. And remind yourself that you are accepted in the beloved. Remind yourself That there is a limited period of time that you will experience whatever heartache or difficulty you're encountering. Remind yourself that there's always redemptive value in the things that you're dealing with. Sometimes it's important for us to take the truths and just write them down. Write down scripture references. Write down, you could say in your own words. a little summary of these specific passages of scripture and read them back to yourself and say, I know this is true about God. I know this is true because the Word of God tells me that it's true. And I know this is true because I have seen it demonstrated in the lives of people who have walked with God in the scriptures. I know this is true because even in my own life I have been able to see the evidence of God's faithfulness to his word, to his promises, that his his his nature, as it's demonstrated in the scriptures, is exactly how he is. Speak those truths yourselves. And I remind you, these are stabilizing truths. When we remind ourselves that we have peace with God, when we remind ourselves of His righteousness, and his goodness and his justice and his holiness and his love. Those things give us a solid foundation for us to plant our feet on. And when we are in the midst of troubling circumstances, that's what we desperately need. So that is my simple encouragement to you this morning. As the scripture says, we should ask ourselves, why are we cast down? Why are we disquieted? We must hope in God and we must purpose to praise Him who is the help of our countenance. Have a blessed rest of your day, Lord willing. We'll meet again tomorrow for our final thoughts on the week. And I pray that these uh discussions have been an encouragement to you. Looking forward to talking to you tomorrow, by now