Good morning. It's Friday, and I want to welcome you to our final Anchored in the Word of Morning Reflection. And my desire is that this week all of these studies have been a great encouragement to you and uh either they have been a prick to the conscience because that's what you needed to hear or they have just warmed and comforted your soul because That's what you needed to hear. And when we talk about God's grace, this is a concept that is so rich and so deep, and it's something that we can never fully grasp. The depths of the grace of God Toward people. And I hope that as you think about this, you would say, you know what, I am a trophy of God's grace. I am hopefully being an instrument being used to express God's grace to other people, and uh I stand alone as righteous in the grace of God that has been given to me in the imperial righteousness. of Christ. And so as we think about this issue of God's grace, I pray that it really warms your heart. We're going to read this text one more time together, and then we're going to break down a couple of final Thoughts based on some different possible situations we could find ourselves in. So, Luke chapter 15, we'll begin reading in verse number one. Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to Hear him. And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them. And he spake this parable unto them, saying, What man of you having an Hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness and go after that which is lost, until he find it. And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. When he cometh home he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto him, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which is lost. I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sin Sinner that repenteth more than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance. The second parable he says this either what woman having ten pieces of silver For if she lose one piece, then not light a candle and sweep the house and seek diligently till she find it. And when she hath found it, she calleth her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the peace which I had lost. Likewise I say unto you, There is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. So as we've worked our way through this passage and we've considered what was going on when Jesus taught this, we think about the people Jesus Teaching this to. We think about the different categories of implication. What I'd like to do this morning is get to application. How do we apply what Jesus taught? So let's begin with application number one. We must all ask ourselves some really important questions. And these are questions that are not just, well, if I go to church, I I should, I don't have to ask these questions, or if I don't go to church, I absolutely have to ask these questions. 'll go I would say all of us should ask these questions of ourselves. And so here they are. First of all, have I been humbled by God's grace? Second, have I been sober by God's justice? Third, have I been stirred up in my soul with a love for Christ? And when I say have I been humbled by God's grace, do I understand I am a sinner I am separated from God, and if God didn't do something for me, I would have zero hope of standing in his presence. And he did not do it for me because I I deserved it or because I I somehow merited it. He did it all of his grace. Or if I've been sober by God's justice, does my sin really matter? Do I recognize how serious sin is in every category of sin is in the eyes of a holy and righteous God who is going to judge every sin? Has my heart been stirred by God's love? Do I understand how great it is? These are very important questions. Have I been confounded by God's mercy? I realize his forbearance and how when he looks at me Me in my sin and in my misery. He looks at me with compassion. Have I considered that? Am I a penitent sinner who is trusting alone in the finish? Work of Christ. This is really the question that all those other questions drive to. Have I turned to God as a sinner who is repentant and understands it's Christ? Christ alone, and I've trusted in his finished work and in nothing else. Am I a sinner saved by grace? If the answer is I don't know, please reach out to me. I would love to Take a Bible, show you how you can be saved. I can have a conversation with you over email. I can have a conversation with you in person. I can have a conversation with you over the phone. If you need to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that. The second question, application, or encouragement application, I would say, is that we need to get a renewed sense of God's grace. And that really is the the The ultimate focus of the text in front of us. He cares about my soul. And he cares about my soul because he's good. I am an image bearer, you are an image bearer. image bearer, I am a sinner and a rebel, you are a sinner and a rebel, but he loves us and he cares about us. It's because he's good. He paid the ultimate price in the death of Christ for our redemption. It says that we were not redeemed with corruptible things as soon as And gold received by tradition from our fathers, but rather with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. Thirdly, he looks down on our spiritual brokenness. And you know what he has? Compassion. Now, when you and I look at other people Who have made really bad choices in life. You know what we tend to do? We tend to really look down on them. We tend to almost disdain them. And I I say, um I know I'm projecting this to other people, but I understand human nature. I understand it because of the scriptures. I understand it because I'm I'm a father. I understand it because I'm a pastor. And I understand it because when I read the Word of God, the Spirit of God convicts my heart over and over and over and over again of how easy it is to be proud and self-righteous and self-centered and look down And other people. The fact is that we need to recognize God looks at us with great compassion. That is what mercy means. God has lovingly pursued mercy Through the preaching of the gospel. And the fact that I'm a child of God is all about his grace alone. By grace, we are saved through faith. I am no more or less deserving of every blessing that I have in Christ than any other Christian. I could look at some of the great Christians of the past and I could I can admire their conviction. I can admire their sacrifices. I can admire their stability and their consistency. And those are things that, you know what we should aspire to to to be consistent, faithful people. But the fact is that those people don't have a greater access to God or a greater position in Christ than I do. And I don't have a less Position than someone else, or a greater position than some of someone else, based on what I know or what I do. Our position is all about Work of Christ. It is his death, it is his righteousness, it is his resurrection. That's it. That's why we have a position in Christ. It's important for us to Keep this in the back of our minds. The third application that I have is this. We've got to express this with a renewed sense of God. God's grace in passionate worship. God created us to be worshippers, and for all of eternity we are going to be worshippers of God. Think about Psalm 96. Talked about that last week. Psalm 96 was all about taking the gospel to the nations because if his name is not known, he's not worshiped. And if he's not worshiped, we're not functioning the way that he created us to. We are not living consistent with what God made us to do. He made us to worship him. And we need to express worship to him. But we're not going to worship him if we have a really low view of him. And we don't understand. Understand his grace to the extent that we should. And so, what does an understanding of the gospel and being overwhelmed by it do? Well, the first thing it does is it causes us to live as an expression of this worship. This literally cuts into every single area of our lives, every single relationship, interaction, the the reason we work, why we work, how we work, all of those things. They're connected back to what we believe about God and whether or not we're overwhelmed by it. And so I think about how Paul caps off 1 Corinthians 15 when he celebrates the resurrection, and we could say the capstone of the gospel. And he says, thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, because of this, we are to be what? Steady. Steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know your labor is not in vain, the Lord. What is a knowledge of God supposed to do? It's supposed to press us into worship. And that worship is expressed in real-life action. Let's live as an expression of worship to God. Secondly, let's sing his praises. Let's express worship to him. This is a Friday. We're going into the weekend. I hope that we will all be in the Lord's house on the Lord's Day, that we will be gathered with the church of God, that as a body we will lift up his praises. And we will worship him with a robust robust passion for his glory. We would express what we know to be true with passion because he's a God who's worshiping us. And I I think about Colossians 3, he says, Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom. And what does that cause you to do? It causes you to teach and admonish one another in Psalms, Him, spiritual songs. To sing and make great with sing with grace in your heart to the Lord. And whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by Him. So we see that this worship is not just a practical in the family, in the relationship, in the work. It's also in the congregation. So please let us Not reject, or what should I say, let us not neglect the assembling of the church and the need for corporate worship. And so I want to leave that with you this weekend. Let's think about everything we've talked about from Luke chapter 15, and let's go from knowledge to practice. Let's go from understanding to worship. So, Lord willing, we will see many of you on Sunday. Sunday, have a wonderful weekend, and Lord willing we'll talk to y'all later by now