Good morning and welcome back to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection edition. And this is our fifth episode and the last of the section that we're looking at. with 1 Chronicles 29. And this morning my desire is to give you some things to think about going into the weekend. And since uh Lord willing you have a little bit more time this weekend. um without the work week being done and all. I'd like to encourage you to to take some time to really follow the instruction or the encouragement of uh this little episode that we're going to talk about. So let's go ahead and read the text together one more time and then we'll listen to a little video clip that was at the end of the sermon. It was in the the practical side, the application side. And I'd like to talk to you about that a little bit this morning. Here's what it says. 1 Chronicles 29, verse 10. Wherefore David blessed the Lord before all the congregation. And David said, Blessed be thou, Lord God of Israel, our Father, for ever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. For all that is in the heaven and in the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. Both riches and honor come of thee. And thou reignest over all. And in thine hand is power and might, and in thine hand it is to make great and to give strength unto all. Now, therefore, our God, we thank thee and praise thy glorious name But who am I? What is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? For all things come of thee, and of thine own have we given thee If you remember, this passage of scripture is a record of David speaking at the end of his life as he's getting ready to give all of these materials to his son Solomon. And he's expressing his thankfulness to God that he has the opportunity to do this. Let's listen to one more thought from this sermon, and then we'll kind of lean into it a little bit with some applications. I think one of the most appropriate things that you and I can do going into this new year, coming out of this past year, is that we stop and we write down things that we can thank God for. Write them down. You say that takes time. I know it takes time. But it would be so good for us to each do it. It'd be so good for us to sit down and write down the blessings that we have received from God's good hand. And recognize thereof is great. And I know that journaling is not something that uh comes naturally for some people. I actually myself am not much of a journaler. Probably part of that is because my handwriting is so poor. But the truth is that when I read the Bible, one of the things that's very helpful for me to do is to highlight and to jot down little notes. And I may not necessarily be able to go back and read those notes and remember everything that I was thinking at the time that I wrote that down or I may not uh even be able to read very well what I've written, but part of that process of digesting something is putting into words, your own words, your thoughts on that particular topic. The expounding of a concept in Scripture, we can do that. But another thing that we do when we journal about how God has blessed us and what we have learned in the past year from Him is it is personalizing our relationship to God. God doesn't want us to just have this informed knowledge of Him where we're these armchair theologians and we can talk deeply about God and we can discuss these complex topics and answer these philosophical questions. That's not what God's desire is for us as his people. God wants us to know him in a very personal way. He wants our relationship to him to be something that is very rich. Something that uh is is the dearest thing in our lives, in the same way that we love our spouse and we love our children and We love our siblings. Um we we may have people that are very dear to us that we have worked with over the years or people that we grew up with or people that we have served with. Lots and lots of different contexts where we know people. But when we talk about our richest human relationships, we don't say, well, I can give you all these facts about my spouse, or I can give you all these facts about uh my children or I can give you all these facts about one of my parents or my brother. No, what we do is we talk about our life experience with that individual. We talk about uh a vacation that we went on. We talk about a difficult season that we went through and how God taught us and how we grew together. We talk about Good memories, hard memories, instructive seasons. We talk about how we've lived life together, and as we've lived life together, the bonds between us and our knowledge of one another are something that has grown much more richly. And when David speaks in 1 Chronicles 29, he speaks as someone who's not just giving you a lecture about God. He's speaking as someone who lived life. with God. And through the heartaches, he saw that God had purposes. And through the struggles, he saw that God never left him. He saw God's personal work in his life. life. He saw the triumphs, he saw the blessings, he experienced God's enduring faithfulness in his life. And so over the course of David's life, his affection for God, his warmth toward God, his knowledge of God's wisdom His willingness to rest in him, his confidence in God's faithfulness. All of those things were part of David's life experience. And so When David's writing the Psalms, he's writing as a prophet. I mean, he is writing as the Spirit of God is moving through. The Holy Spirit literally speaks by David. But what you also see is David is, on some sense, he is journaling his thoughts. He's journaling the highs and the lows. He's being very transparent and honest with us about what was going through his mind and what was going on in his heart. And God would have us to do similar things as well. Not writing as a prophet, obviously, that's not what I'm suggesting. But what he would have us to do is to pause, to reflect, to write down, to think, to consider. And then to express back to him in words what we have learned about him and how this has caused us to love him more deeply. And so I want to challenge you this morning as we go into the weekend, set aside some time to do that. Maybe on Saturday, maybe on Sunday. But set aside some time. Reflect on the Lord. May every day be a day that we're growing closer to Him. Our affection for Him is growing deeper. And our confidence in Him is becoming stronger. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing we will meet again next Monday as we pick up on the next topic that we're addressing in our services. Have a blessed day and weekend. Bye now.