Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word morning reflection for the week. And I hope that as we've studied this passage of Scripture, Your understanding of the text has been opened a bit, that you have seen it to be very practical, be very encouraging, and the word that we have consistently spoken this week has been one of comfort. And this morning I'd like us to close out the week looking at some final thoughts and the final comfort that I think we can find in the text. And that is comfort in the words of Christ that are so very gracious toward this man now who had lived a very sinful life and was scorned by those whom he lived around. And so let's go ahead and turn our Bibles when we're time to Luke chapter 19. We're going to read verses 1 through 10 together, and then we're going to look at this fourth comfort. Here's what the word of God says. And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. Behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans, and he was rich. And he sought to see Jesus, who he was, and could not for the press, because he was of little stature. And he ran before and climbed up in a sycamore tree to see him. For he was to pass that way. And when Jesus came to the place he looked up and saw him, and said to him, Zacchaeus, make haste, come down for to day I must abide at thy house. And he made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully. And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, that he was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner Zacchaeus stood and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. If I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house, for as much as he also is a son of Abraham, for the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. Now as we look at this passage, there is a fourth comfort that I want to draw your attention to before we look at our final thoughts. And that is comfort in the gracious words of Christ. And I want to take them one by one. As we look at verses 9 through 10, notice what it says. This day is salvation come to this house. For as much as he also is a son of Abraham, the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which is lost. Now when we look at this statement, there are a few pieces to it that are very comforting for Zacchaeus. The first statement is salvation is come to this house. Now the the tense of it has the I it has the idea of not so much focusing in on the time element of when it has taken place It 's simply to emphasize that in fact it has taken place. And so when he uses this word salvation, this is the exact same word that we get the word soteriology from when we talk about the doctrine of salvation. He's affirming that in fact Zacchaeus is a saved man. We see the same word used in Luke chapter 1, verse 69. And this these are the words of Zechariah. It says he hath raised up an horn of salvation, same word, for us in the house of his servant David. Or Luke 177, that Jesus came to give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins. And so we see that salvation has come, a salvation that includes forgiveness of sins and all of those promises. that are rooted in the gospel message, the proclamation of God saving his people. The second phrase that stands out is the phrase, He also is a son of Abraham. He is affirming that this man is in fact God's child. And we see throughout the book of Luke that there are times that he says these are people who cannot take comfort in the fact that they are Abraham's descendants because they're not truly Abraham's children. And he's speaking in the spiritual sense, not the biological sense. And then there are other passages where he calls someone a child of Abraham, meaning that this is a believer. He's indicating that these are people that are part of the the true church of God, God's people. You could say the true Israel. Not all Israel is Israel, only the true Israel. When we talk about Romans 9, 10, 11, Paul speaks in those terms And so he's affirming that these people are, in fact, looking at someone who is God's child. The third affirmation is he says the Son of Man has come to seek and has saved that which was lost. Now this is the one that I think should really bring comfort to us. No matter who you are, no matter what you've lived through, no matter what struggles and difficulties you've encountered. You are a person who God is reaching out to and desires to be saved. He has come to seek and to save those who are lost It is God who reaches out to people and draws them to himself so that they can be saved. He deals with the basis of salvation, the cross and the resurrection. He deals with the means through which a person is connected to those uh to the to the benefits of the gospel, and that is he brings people to repentance and faith. And so he has affirmed that this is a salvation that has come because God has initiated it. He has come to Zacchaeus. And so these three statements are very, very comforting How do we put it together practically for who we are right now in our situation? Well, let me give you these final thoughts. First of all, biblical salvation is always a miracle. We should never get over the magnitude of this miracle in our lives. You know when a child comes to place their faith in Christ, a child who grew up in a Christian home, went to church from the time they were a little kid, and they hear about the gospel in Sunday school and in junior church and in Sunday morning and Sunday evening messages and truth trackers and tiny trackers and family devotions. It's a miracle when that child places their faith in Christ. It's a miracle that God puts this child in such a blessed home with so much opportunity, that he works in the heart of that child to repent and believe. It's a miracle when God saves someone who's lived a notorious life, and you would have never believed that they would come to faith in Christ. God is in the business of saving souls, and that is a miraculous work. Secondly This miracle will result in visible transformation that brings glory to God. We see this in this passage. One of the most compelling testimonies to the power of the gospel is what it does in the lives of broken people. Now, I don't simply believe the gospel because of how it's changed other people, but I can see there's something there. If you lived in a household with someone for many, many years who was not a Christian, And then later on in life they become a Christian, their life is transformed, and the only explanation is the gospel. What does that do? It compels you to ask questions Well what could this do to me? Perhaps this is true. Perhaps this is actually a message that genuinely saves people. I have seen the power of the gospel at work in people's lives. This reminds me of 1 Peter, where he says that we are to always be ready to give an answer of the hope that lies within us with meekness and fear. And so as people examine our lives as Christians, there should be things that they see that cause them to ask questions. Third, God graciously pursues sinners, even those whom we overlook. This pursuit of the lost comes through people like us How can they call on him of whom they've not heard? How can they hear without a preacher? Faith comes by hearing, hearing by the Word of God. Have they been sent? The answer is of course they have God has sent people out, and the very fact that you're hearing this message today is an indication that God is graciously pursuing you. He's bringing the gospel to you through videos like this and through other memes. And so do not overlook this wonderful truth that God pursues sinners This pursuit of the loss comes through people like us. So let's be actively engaged in reaching people who are lost in our sphere of influence. And lastly, I want to give you these final thoughts that are really connected back To the comforts that we see. We can take comfort in the gracious way that God dealt with this despised man. He's going to do the same thing in the lives of others. We could take comfort in how, despite the arrogance of those hateful people who mocked Jesus and they're like, Why would you go to eat with this man who's a sinner? But it didn't faze him at all. He said, I've come to seek and to save those who are lost. I've not come to say to not to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. There's joy in heaven over one soul who repents. That's the way that Christ responded to these people. Thirdly, we can take comfort in the transforming power of the gospel. This gospel is real. It changes people's lives. And many of you who are listening to this message can actually personally testify to this because God has used it to transform your life. Lastly, we can take comfort in his gracious words, that you are a child of God, that your sins have been forgiven, and that in fact you belong to him because he has sought you. That's what I have for you this week. Hope that you have a great weekend. Lord willing, we'll see many of you this Sunday. I hope that you'll be out at church. And I hope that the services will be a great blessing to you. If this has been a challenge to you, please take a moment to share that Perhaps share it with someone who can be encouraged by it, and Lord willing we will meet again next week by now