Good morning. Welcome back to our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good Thursday morning. And the text we've been dealing with is a short and simple passage, Luke chapter 18, verses 15 through 17. And we've been talking about the concept of how important it is that if we're going to enter into the kingdom of God, we have to enter as a little child. in humility, recognizing our unworthiness and in dependence alone on Christ and the gospel message. And so this morning we're going to continue to emphasize that concept by looking at the basic components of the gospel. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's turn together to our text, Luke chapter 18, verses 15 through 17. We'll read it Listen to a short excerpt from the sermon and then talk about this concept of the basic fundamental components of the gospel that are the foundation of our faith. Luke 18, 15 says this. And they brought into him also infants, that he would touch them. But when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them unto him and said , Suffer little children to come unto me. Forbid them not, for if such is the kingdom of God. Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God, as a little child shall in no wise enter therein. Alright, let's listen to this little section What are the basics? First Corinthians 15, 3. Christ died for our sins according to the script. scriptures. He was buried and he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. That text tells us about a person, Jesus. Who did something for us? He died for our sins. He conquered death. He rose in triumphant from the grave. It tells us why he did it. For our sins, we are sinners. We are unrighteous. We have no basis to come to God save through what he did for us. Now you're going to notice something about that passage of Scripture, 1 Corinthians 15, 3 and 4. The passage never says anything about our worthiness. And it never never says anything about our work. The gospel is not your story and my story. It's God's story. And as it was mentioned in the little section, the gospel is first of all about a person. This person is the Lord Jesus Christ, a real man who lived 2,000 years ago, Jesus of Nazareth. But he wasn't just a man. He is God in flesh. The second person of the triune God took on humanity so that we have a person who is fully God. and fully man at the same time. As it says in Philippians chapter 2, he made himself of no reputation and took upon himself the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. Where in John it says that the word became flesh. And he dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. And so when we talk about the components of the gospel, it begins with the person of Christ. Christ, and then it says he died for our sins. And so it's not just about the person of Christ, but it's about the action that he took so that we could be redeemed. When we talk about the passage saying the word became flesh and he dwelt among us, or in Philippians chapter 2, where it says he made himself of no reputation, and took upon himself the form of a servant, it says, and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. That second component of the gospel is what he did for us. He literally died on the cross in our place. This is a substitutionary death. In other words, Christ took our sin upon himself and was punished in our place where we rightfully deserved to be punished for our sins. And through his sacrifice, the Bible says that the wrath of God against our sin was satisfied. The scriptures use the term propitiation, literally meaning that the offense between man and God because of his sin has been removed because of the sacrifice of Christ. He literally satisfies the demands of God's justice against our sin. And then it doesn't just say that he died for our sins. But he says, he was buried, and he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. And so the third component to the gospel is not just the person of Christ, the death of Christ. as a substitutionary atonement for our sin, but his resurrection. Christ triumphed over sin. triumphed over death. He demonstrated his power. And because he is a risen Savior, we can be redeemed from our sins. In fact, in 1 Corinthians 15, later in that same chapter, it says, If Christ be not raised, we are yet in our sins, and we are of all men most miserable. And so when we talk about the gospel, we're talking about a person His work, both in his death, and then positively in his resurrection. And so when we talk about the foundation of our faith, The basic fundamental components of that message, they're those simple truths. Those simple truths say nothing about what you do for God, only what he did for you. And that's why the Bible says that salvation is a gift Ephesians 2. 8. 9. For by grace are you saved through faith. It is not of ourselves. It is a gift of God. It is not of works lest any man should boast. And so I ask you this question, when you think about the simplicity of the Christian experience, the basics of the Christian faith, do you understand and do you go to those basic components of the gospel? The person of Christ the death of Christ, the resurrection of Christ. When Jesus says, unless you become as a little child, you'll never enter the kingdom of God, he's basically saying you have to personally accept those basic facts about himself and what he did, and you have to rely humbly upon them, recognizing you have no right to enter the presence of God save through the merits and sacrifice of Christ. Well, I hope that gives you some things to think about this morning. I'm so thankful for the gospel that we are forgiven and cleansed, and there's now no condemnation because we're in Christ Jesus. It's all because of what he did. If you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, maybe you're uncertain about that, please don't hesitate to reach out. Send us a message through Facebook. Now send us a message through YouTube or whatever, and we would be very happy to try to set up a time to sit down with you and go through the gospel with you. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts on this passage of Scripture and the things we've talked about this week by now.