Good morning. Hope you're having a great start to your Friday morning or whenever you watch this video, maybe you watch it over the weekend, and hope that you've had a great week. And I hope that you will also be able to join us this Sunday as we gather together for corporate worship. If you're a part of our church family, we hope you'll be there. And it'll be a very Christ-centered Lord's Day. The passage of Scripture that we've been dealing with this week is a challenging passage. It's a heavy passage. And I'd like us to close on some really practical stuff as we reflect on the need to have discernment in the last days. So here are my final thoughts as we look at Luke chapter 12 verses 49 to 59 one more time this week. Go ahead and turn there in your Bibles or join us on the screen as we look at what the scriptures say says. It says, I am come to send fire on the earth. And what will I if it be already kindled? But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how am I straightened till it be accomplished? Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on earth? I tell you no, but rather division. Later Jesus says, he said also of the people, when you see a cloud rise out of the west, straightway you say, There cometh a shower, and so it is. And when you see the south wind blow, you say, there will be heat when it cometh to pass. Ye hypocrites, you can discern the face of the sky and of the earth, but how is it that you do not discern this time? So as we've worked our way through this passage of Scripture, we should ask the question, well, how should we respond to Christ's teaching? He's emphasized the urgency, the exclusiveness of the Christian gospel. He's emphasized the fact that we should not procrastinate, but we need to take action. Well what is the response? What is the action that we should be taking? as we read these verses. Well, the first thing I want to say is this. We've got to recognize that it is God's will for us to be discerning people. in the times that we're living in. This discernment calls us to a perspective that thinks correctly about two matters. The first matter is discernment concerning the moment in history that we live in event. Every single one of us is living in a moment in history. We we don't we don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. We don't know what lies in the future in certain areas. areas, but what we know is that God has a purpose for us today at this moment, and we need to think clearly and correctly about our responsibilities, our duties in this moment of history. Secondly, we should have discernment concerning the movement of history toward its ultimate end. Like I said, we do not know what's going to happen tomorrow. We don't even know what's going to happen later today. But what we do know is the ultimate end of all things because God gives us that information in the scriptures. So there are three ways that people can tragically fail to think correctly about the times they're living in and the movement of history. When we think about that, the first is a tragedy of failing to discern this moment. Some Christians have this longing for Christ's return, and that is a good thing, and that is a right thing, and that's obviously what the scripture tells us to do. But they fail to live with discernment today. They are so focused on what will happen in the future. that they fail to live practically and wisely and robustly in this moment now. The fact is we can have this tension and we must have this tension. between being ready for his return when it will happen at any time, and living with this understanding that there may be another thousand years of human history beyond us. We do not know where we stand in history. And so we need discernment about the moment that we are living in. We need to walk in practical godly wisdom. The second tragedy is a tragedy that fails to discern the movement of history. Some people who are not Christians are very astute students of history. They study the movement of history. They may study ancient history. Roman history, American history, European history, World War II history, Civil War history. You could talk about so many different periods and so many different culturals, uh cultural situations and wars and things like that. And people can learn so much from history by studying it. They are astute observers of history, but they fail to recognize. That there is a dynamic that they are not considering. And that is the most important and most significant dynamic of all, and that is that of where the world ends. It ends with the establishment of God's kingdom, and it also ends with the destruction of evil and the removal of it, the eradication of it from this creation. And so people who can understand this time need to also understand the movement of history to its ultimate end. And then the third tragedy is the tragedy of people who don't discern either. They cannot figure out how to live today. They don't know who they are. They don't know why they're here. They don't know where they're going. They don't know why things are the way that they are. They're failing to understand how to live wisely in the moment, and they're failing to understand the movement of history. And sadly, that's where many people are today in our culture in our society. So what I want us to notice on the positive side is that discernment leads to balance of perspective. There's got to be this tension that we experience when we think about this moment that we live in and where it's ultimately going to end. When we look at the world, we should have some measure of conflict. We shouldn't look at this world as everything's the way it's supposed to be The fact is it's not. We see sickness and we see the destruction of sinful choices. We see the pain and the misery of this fallen world. We look at so many different things like injustice. And our attitude should be, this isn't the way that it's supposed to be. There's a problem. We should desire for it to be resolved. And when we feel this conflict, we need to recognize that the ultimate solution is not in some human mechanism like education or politics or science. No, the true solution is something that only comes through Christ and his redemptive work and the establishment of God's kingdom because of what Jesus has done for us. And so when we feel this conflict, we need to embrace the function that God has for us in this moment, and we need to submit to his timetable because we do not know what it is. Jesus says, no man. knoweth the day or the hour. When the Lord Jesus comes, will he find faith? Will he see people watching? The idea is that we need to go from this conflict of soul. to embracing the fact that God's going to set it all right. I need to be ready for Him to set it all right. But today I need to function as salt and light because that's what I am. I need to seize this moment in history and I need to live wisely in this moment of history. And that's the kind of balance of perspective that these verses should drive us to. We are salt, we are here to preserve. We are light, we're here to expose truth. And so that leads me to some final practical thought. We've got to live practically in the light of being a discerning person. So do your work to the glory of God. I think of what it says in 1 Corinthians 15. He says that we are to be always abounding in the work of the Lord because we know That our labor is not in vain in the Lord. How do we know that? Well, because of the resurrection. We're to be engaged citizens who contribute to the good of our community. It is true that the political process and education and science and and those kinds of things, they're not going to bring a utopia. But we should desire the good of our society. We should desire the good of our neighbors. And part of that is contributing to that good by being a diligent and hard worker, by investing our resources in whatever God has planned us. us and to be faithful and to do good to our neighbor. Thirdly, we need to be faithful gospel witnesses. The fact is if I'm kind to my neighbor but I don't share with him the gospel, I'm not giving him what he most needs in life What he most needs is not a smile and a hello, but it's to know how to have peace with God through the Lord Jesus. So I encourage you, let us pray this. God, help us to obey the word. Help us to do it. Help us to be faithful as laborers, engaged citizens, gospel witnesses. I pray that you have a wonderful weekend and that we're able to see many of you this this Lord's Day coming. If this has been an encouragement to you, please take a moment to share that. And if this is something that you think will help someone else, share that so that they can benefit by it. Have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again soon. Bye now.