Good morning and welcome to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we're going to talk about David's comfort. So we've looked at the context. of the psalm. We've looked at the content of the psalm. Today we're going to look at the comfort of the psalm. So I'm trying to keep this alliterated, which is something I don't typically do. But we're going to ask the question, where does the comfort come from? How does David, uh, how is he so motivated to go to God in this very difficult situation? And so let's go ahead and open up our psalm. Again, we're going to read verses 1 through 7 and then look at the comfort that's communicated there. Here's what it says. Save me, O God, by thy name. Judge me by thy strength. Hear my prayer, O God. Give ear to the words of my mouth For strangers are risen up against me, and oppressors seek after my soul. They've not set God before them. Selah. Behold, God is my helper. The Lord is with them that uphold my soul. He shall reward evil unto my enemies. Cut them off in thy truth. I will freely sacrifice unto thee. I will praise thy name, O Lord. It is good. He hath delivered me out of all trouble, and my eyes have seen his desire upon my enemies. All right, well, let's look at this psalm and ask the question, where is the comfort? And when we talk about David's comfort, it's really in the heart of the Psalm, the section that's really the main point, and that's verses 4 and 5. And so in those verses, we see that God is emphasized as the deliverer. And not just the deliverer or a deliverer, he is my deliverer. Verse number four. God is my helper But it's not just that God is his helper, but David understands that God has consistently been in this business of helping his soul out of trouble. And he communicates that in verse 4 by saying that the Lord is with them that uphold my soul. Now, when David says that, he's emphasizing the fact that a lot of times God's deliverance has come through the means of other people. And by the way, those people were not always people that realized that they were coming to defend David. Sometimes they were people that were acting in their own interest, and David wasn't on their mind at all, but God used them. And so It shows us how God and his providence works. And so God isn't bound to use people only because they understand what he's doing or because They're aligned with the right side of truth. God can use anyone at any time, however he chooses. And that's really going to be a a theme that we see in these verses. For instance, Think about the way that God delivered him in the past. He says in verse 14 of 1 Samuel 23, David abode in the wilderness, and Saul sought him every day. But God delivered him not into his hand. And the question is, well, well, what were each of those situations? Well, some of them aren't even recorded for us in Scripture, but others are. And in some of those situations, the way that God delivered him wasn't Through somebody going, I love David and I'm gonna do what's right and I'm gonna stand on the side of truth. That's not necessarily how he's delivered. For instance, in verses 25 through 28, we see that God actually used the Philistines as part of this deliverance. It says in verse 25, Saul and his men went to seek David. But there came a messenger from Saul saying, Hasten thee to come, the Philistines have invaded the land. Wherefore Saul returned from pursuing after David and went against the Philistines. This is fascinating. Why were the Philistines fighting Saul? Was it because they wanted to deliver David? Of course not. They had been at war and they were constantly at war. In fact, David was a a a tremendous enemy to the Philistines. He killed their national hero. So if they knew that that invading Israel at that time was going to take Saul away from killing David, most certainly they wouldn't have done that. They're just acting in their own interest, but God used that. So this is the idea that the Lord is with those who uphold my soul. He works through the means, the ordinary means sometimes, to do what he's going to do. We also see that his comfort came in another way. He understood that God is righteous and that God will always do what is right. Verse 5. He shall reward evil unto my enemies. Now why does he say that? Because they were on the wrong side of truth. David understood that there was a personal dynamic to this. He was being unjustly hunted by his jealous father-in-law. If God is righteous, most certainly this personal injustice is going to be something that he addresses. Is God righteous? Of course. Is he going to protect David? Of course. And so David understands that. There's a second side. There is the national side. God has sent Samuel to anoint David to be the next king. He is the rightful king. And so as people are fighting against God's plan, God has spoken, and God is going to work. And so either God is a liar or he's going to intervene, and of course he's going to intervene. We see that But then there's a third, and to me this is the most substantial, and that is that there's a redemptive side to this. David was appointed by God. to become a central figure in the redemptive plan. When we talk about Christ, who is Jesus? Jesus is the son of David. His right to the throne was through the lineage of David. And so when we talk about the gospel story, part of the gospel story is the life and lineage of David. And so David has comfort in the fact that God is a righteous and just God. He will deal with it on the personal level. He'll be faithful to his promises to a nation. And yes, there are even redemptive promises that are there. And so let's keep this in the back of our minds. When we think about God, he works through means, ordinary means. He is a sovereign lord. He even works through people that they have no idea that that's what he's doing. He can provide through people that had no intention to actually do what they were doing, but through some other means they accomplished the purposes of God. This is how God works. And He's righteous. He'll always do what is right. So let's take great comfort in that this morning. Well, that's what I have for you. Hope you have a great rest of your day. Any questions? Don't hesitate to reach out. Perhaps share it with somebody who could be encouraged by it. And hope we'll see many of you tonight at our midweek Bible study. We'll talk to you later by now.