Good morning. Welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for this week. And uh today's episode will probably be a little bit shorter than yesterday's episode is kind of long. But we're just going to look at a simple question. And the question is, how do you think about your life? What in your mind gives you value? What makes your life a valuable and meaningful life? But we're going to answer that question by looking at what Jesus has to say in these verses. And so let's open up our Bibles again to Luke chapter 12. And we're going to read verses 22 down to not to the end of the section, but we'll get about halfway through it. Here's what it says. And he said unto his disciples, Therefore I say unto you Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, neither for the body what ye shall put on. And here is the statement that I want us to focus our attention on this morning The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment. That little statement is so very important. And I mentioned this on our first day that one of the reasons that there is so much uh anxiety in our culture and so many people feel absolutely helpless and hopeless and they they really feel like their life doesn't have meaning and value. It's because there's a piece of their worldview that is missing that really gives them that sense of purpose and value. And what these verses are going to do is they're going to touch on where we tend to struggle, where the world around us struggles, but where we as Christians also are often inclined to struggle. And that is how we actually define the true value of our life. What is the purpose and what is um what what makes our life actually meaningful and valuable? And so simple statement this morning is We might need to rethink how we think about our lives. Now when I say might, I understand that most of the people that uh follow this This study, this anchored in the word study, are believers. You understand that God loves you, that Christ died for your sins, that you wrote that he rose from the dead. And you recognize that through trust alone in the gospel, the death, the burial, the resurrection of Christ, God declares you righteous, you're forgiven, you're placed in Christ, and that is an eternal position. that is free from condemnation and you are accepted in the beloved. You understand that. But the simple fact is though we may understand that, we may not live in a way that is being consistent with that worldview. Or we may not be thinking regularly in a way that is consistent with that worldview. And so we can drift into the common thinking of those around us. Stated very simply, the true value of our life is not what we accomplish. It's not our experiences. It's not our reputation. It's not our academic credentials. It's not the wealth we accumulate. Now, why did I mention those things? Well, those are the kinds of things that people in the world around us who don't have a biblical worldview Those are the things that in their mind gives true value to your life. And I'm not saying that people shouldn't desire to accomplish things in life or that we shouldn't enjoy the rich experiences that we have, or that we should desire that we have a worthless reputation, or that we shouldn't uh pursue academics uh to the extent that is necessary for the field that we are uh that we are working in. Or that we should be lazy and not accumulate wealth that we can pass on to our uh to our children. I'm not suggesting that at all. What I am suggesting is that that doesn't define your value. That doesn't define the richness of your life. That's how the world around you is going to define your life. But as a Christian, our lives are much more valuable than those things. Because those are things that are temporary. So things that don't last. Those are things that are for this moment, but not for the eternal state. What really matters in eternity is very different. And let's just be very clear about it. Our lives on this earth are very short. So Christ addresses this in three ways. The first thing that he states Is that you have value because you're made in the image of God. Now he doesn't state the Amagio Day in this particular text. But he is implying that you are not an animal. You are something that is different, something of greater value. He's going to say that. In verse 7 he says, the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not, ye are of more value than many sparrows. Why does he say that? That's because you're not an animal. You're a thinking person who's created in the image of God and is meant to reflect his glory. And that gives you value and that gives you purpose. And that means that he loves you. And by the way, that motivated him to redeem your soul. And so we see that first part. The second way that he addresses it As he states emphatically, your value is not defined by the stuff that you accumulate. In verse 15, he says, take heed, beware of covetousness. What is covetousness? Well, it's ultimately saying, I'm not content with what I have. Well, the question is, why are people not content with what they have? Well, it's because deep down in their heart they say the person with the most stuff wins. That person happier than me because they have more than me. And I and I fill this void in my life. And I I feel that if I could get what they have, well maybe it would fill that void. But what does Jesus say? He says, a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things that he possesses. So our true value comes from God because He created us in His image. Our value is not ultimately what we possess and what we accumulate A third thing that he mentions is that we're more than just physical bodies who have daily needs and desires. We 're not just defined by our desires. We are defined by the image of God that has been stamped upon us. We reflect him, okay? And so in verse 23 it says, the life is more than meat, in the body is more than raiment. It's not just about being a physical world. It's not just about meeting those physical needs and those physical desires. Our lives are more than that. You say, well, why does that matter? It matters because the true value of your life goes back to the fact that you as a human are created in the image of God And you as a human who is created in the image of God, though you were a sinner, you are the object of God's love. He commendeth his love toward us. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And the fact is that your life is not just about what you get here, it's about how you are preparing for eternity. And the greatest way to prepare for eternity is to make sure that you have been made right with God through the redemptive work of Christ. And then after that fact to live in a way that's consistent with eternal purpose rather than temporal purpose. And so this morning I want to challenge you with this very, very simple fact. The way we think about our lives should not be defined by what we accomplish, what we experience, our reputation before other people, the academic credentials, and the stuff we accumulate We should recognize that our lives are defined by what God says matters. And so I want to encourage you this morning, be a person who thinks about your life with a biblical worldview that is shaped by God's love for you, demonstrating the gospel, and your future eternal inheritance that is awaiting you. May that give us encouragement this morning. Have a blessed day, and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow by now