Good morning. Welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope that this uh series of lessons has been an encouragement and has challenged you. And this morning what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to focus in on how The things that people witnessed were going to establish a division. And this division was irreconcilable. People were going to stand on one side or the other when it came to who Christ is and whether or not he has the right. the true authority to say and to do the things that he's doing. And so if you have your Bible, let's turn again to Luke chapter 19. We're looking at verses 45 through 48. I'll read it and then we'll look at how the passage refer refers to these two different groups that lined up on different sides of their attitude towards Christ. Here's what the scripture says. And he went into the temple and began to cast out them that sold therein. and them that bought, saying unto them, It is written, My house is the house of prayer, but ye have made it a den of thieves. And he taught daily in the temple, but the chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him He could not find, and they could not find what to do, for all the people were very attentive to hear him. Now, as we think about what the people witnessed, everybody saw the same thing. Everybody heard the same thing, but not everyone came to the same conclusion about Christ. There was this irreconcilable division that was established by his words and his actions. Notice in verses forty-seven and forty-eight it says that he taught daily in the temple, but the chief priests and scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him. They could not find what they might do, for all the people were very attentive to hear him. Now if you think about it this way, this is a festival, a festive season. This is coming to the culmination of the Passover week. And so there are people from all over the Roman world, not just Jewish people, but Gentiles as well, proselytes from all around the Empire, who were coming to worship in Jerusalem. And as Jesus goes up into the temple on each of the days of the Passover, the chief priests and the scribes and the religious leaders are watching him. And as he teaches, they can see this large group of people gathering around him and listening intently to what he's saying. And you have people who are intentional and they're listening. And you have people who are just trying to figure out how they can destroy him. What do you see there? This division that cannot be reconciled. His actions and his words inflamed one group. The chief priests and the scribes sought to destroy him Their desire was to somehow eliminate him because he was a threat to their position, their authority, their their control over the people, their access to the political power. They were threatened by him. On the other side, you see that his actions brought comfort to others. It says that the people were very attentive to hear him There are lots of other passages where we see this kind of a thing. For instance, in Luke chapter 9, verse 6, chapter 6, verse 17, he says It says, a great multitude of the people out of Judea and Jerusalem, from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, came to hear him and to be healed of his diseases. Or again in Luke 15. Then drew near unto him the publicans and the sinners to hear him. Or Matthew 21. The blind and the lame came to him in the temple. What do we see? Whenever there are these conflicts with Christ between the religious leaders, the unbelieving religious leaders, and his words and actions, There were people who cowered, there are people who plotted, and there are people that came and submitted to his teaching and listened. And so we see that the division always all comes down to this. Some were willing to embrace him, and they were saved. Others rejected him and eventually they would face his judgment. So there's no middle ground with Christ. You can't say, well, he's a good man, but he's not God in flesh. because he claimed to be God in flesh. He took actions that only God could take. He presented himself as more than just a Jewish carpenter. but in fact the Son of God. As we think about Christ, it's important to recognize that a true understanding of who he is and what he has come to do and what is accomplished through it is something that you have to choose on. Either you're going to choose to accept it and trust in it, or you'll choose to reject it and ultimately be judged by it My prayer is that if you are on the side of rejection, God would soften your heart. You would humbly turn to Him in repentance and trust in what Christ has done for you. Have a blessed rest of your day. If anyone needs to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that. Want to be an encouragement any way possible. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow. As we look at some final thoughts of application on this passage by now