Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. I know it's Wednesday, uh middle of the week, but uh we're looking at this passage in four pieces rather than five as we know normally do. But if you have your Bible, let's turn together to Psalm 96 and we're looking at the kind of motivation we need in missions, a healthy motivation. And from the text we're going to be looking at the universal nature of the command that we find in the passage. So Psalm 96 verses 1 through 13. Let's read it together, please. Here's what it says. New song. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. Sing unto the Lord, bless his name, show forth his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among the Among all people. For the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods. For all the gods of the nations are idols, but the Lord made the heavens, honor and majesty are Before him, strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Give unto the Lord, O ye kindred of the people. Give unto the Lord the glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the Glory due unto his name. Bring an offering and come into his courts. O worship the Lord and the beauty of holiness. Fear before him all the earth. Say among the heathen that the Lord reigneth Now, as we've looked at this passage of scripture, there's a word that I think you've heard it several times. He says, sing to the Lord all the earth. And we see that that phrase Over and over and over again, all the earth, all the earth, say among the heathen. What is the point of what he's saying? God commands all people everywhere to worship him. And so we see that in verses one to three. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. Sing unto the Lord, bless his name, declare his glory amongst the people, amongst the heathen, his wonders amongst All people. There are three commands that are mentioned in the text. The first one is to sing to him. And so he says, Sing to the Lord. all the earth. Now there's a problem. That's the command, but not everyone knows the Lord. And in order to sing to the Lord you have to Know him. The second is to ascribe greatness to him or bless his name. And again, this is something that is given to all of creation, all of God's people. All people are to sing praise to God. And then the last statement is show forth his salvation amongst the heathen, and that is preach the gospel. If people do not know the Lord. And that's what he means by heathen. These would be the Gentile nations, the people that were outside of God's covenant people. They did not have the law, they did not have the prophets, they did not know the Lord. He says the only way those people are going to know him is if we show forth his salvation. We literally proclaim the gospel, preach the gospel. Where his name is not known. And so those three commands are important. Consider the context where these commands are given. The answer is among all the people. This reminds me Me of something we read later on in scripture. of In fact, in the last the last book of the Bible in Revelation chapter 5, this is what the scripture tells us. It says that they're going to sing a new song Song saying thou art worthy to take up the book and open the seals, for thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood, out of every kindred and tongue and peace. people and nation, and has made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign with him on the earth. What is what what is Revelation chapter five doing? It's telling us that what What is stated in Psalm 96, which is a command to us and to all people, is ultimately going to be successful because God is going to have people from every kindred. And tribe and tongue and nation, singing his praises and recognizing that the Lord Jesus Christ is the one who died for their sins, rose from the dead, and has redeemed them So when we consider Psalm 96, we're looking at a universal command. There's a couple reasons why this command is so important. We will develop this more thoroughly not just today but also tomorrow but I want to show you a couple of the reasons the command is essential The first is that all of us owe our existence to God. We are here because he made us. Colossians 1. 16. It is by him that all things were created in heaven and earth. Visible and invisible, whether there be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and before him. And he is before all things, and by him all things consist. So when we say that we owe our existence to God, we're saying that if He didn't make us, we wouldn't be here. He also is the one who sustains us. But there's another piece to this that We find in the text. And that is this phrase: all things were created by him and for him. That means we weren't just created by him and sustained by him, but we were created for For him. He made us so that we could proclaim his glories, know him personally, and enjoy him forever. This is a God-glorifying purpose. The third thing I'll mention Is that we are a fallen people. And so all of us have a nature that is bent in rebellion against God. So he made us, he sustained us. Us, he trade us for his glory, but we reject his authority. And we see this in Romans chapter 1. He says that men hold the truth in unrighteousness. They suppress it. They don't want to think about it. They don't want to consider it. They try to cover the knowledge that they have. He says, that which may be known of God is manifest in them. God hath shown it unto them. When they knew God, they did not glorify him as God, neither were thankful. Became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. And they changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into So, what is the point of all of these scriptures we've just talked about this morning? Well, the point is, God calls all of us to worship him and proclaim him. His greatness and sing praise to him. But not everyone knows him personally. And so there is a need for those who know him personally to proclaim his glories and proclaim his gospel And so I want to leave you with that as we consider these truths. I hope you have a wonderful rest of your day, but as you go about your day, you reflect on the fact That there are people all over this world who don't know Christ and they need to know about him. And we who do know him have a great responsibility. to proclaim his gospel to those who don't have it. Alright, well I hope you have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, tomorrow we will meet again as we keep moving our way through this text of scripture. Talk to you all later. Bye now