Good morning. Welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And hope you're having a great week and a great morning or afternoon, evening, whenever you're watching this video. And the passage that we're dealing with is such an encouraging passage. And so this morning what we're going to focus in on is the word affection, and we're going to talk about how God has a tender affection for his people. especially when they're hurting. And we're going to see that laid out in the verses that are in front of us. So if you have a Bible, let's take it. Let's turn together to Luke. Ruth chapter one, and we're going to look at verses one through five together. Let's read it from our Bibles. He says, Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled that there was a famine in the land. And a certain man of Bethlehem Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. And the name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi, the name of his two sons Melon and Chileon, Ephraithes of Bethlehem Judah. And they came into the country of Moab and continued there. And Elimelech Naomi 's husband died. She was left of her two sons And they took them wives of the women of Moab, and the name of the one was Orpath, the name of the other Ruth. They dwelled there about ten years. And Meon and Kileon died, both of them. And the women, and the woman was left of her two sons and her husband. Now, yesterday we talked about the first little glimmer of hope and comfort. where God was revealing uh to to Naomi there in in Moab through just just ordinary circumstances that he was beginning to work in Israel and he was sending uh the rains and people's crops were starting to grow and there was food in the land. And so when Nami hears that she decides she's going to head back. Well from this point on in the book what we're going to see are little pieces of God's grace. And God is full of grace. And we're going to see that in these verses. In verse 14 it says, they left up their voices and they wept and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law. But here's the statement that that really begins to show you that God is working in the situation. It says, but when Orpah is going back, Ruth Clave to her, she wouldn't leave her, she wouldn't abandon her, she was gonna stay with her And we see in these verses that Ruth will not leave her mother-in-law. And this is one of the most significant moments in biblical history. You know, if we were living through this, we would we wouldn't think of it as being more than just two women having a conversation and one loves her mother-in-law and she decides not to leave her. It's a lot more hanging the balances as this is going on. And what's hanging in the balances is that the the story of redemption through the Lord Jesus Christ, through the seed of Abraham, through the seed of David, this is all in the balances because God is going to use this woman and a man she's not yet married and a child she's going to give this couple. to be a piece of the lineage of Christ. But when we're reading this story, we don't even realize it unless we've read through it many times. But we're going to see God's gracious hand working and moving in the various details of this book and I want to highlight some of those for you today. The first example is Ruth purposing to stay with Naomi despite her protest. And we see this in verses 15 and 18. It says that Ruth claved to her mother-in-law in verse 14, and then her mother-in-law says to her, she says, look, your sister-in-law is going back to her people And to her gods, return after thy sister in law. But Ruth said, Entreat me not to leave thee, nor to return from following after thee, for whither thou goest I will go. Where thou lodgest I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God. Now that last statement, thy people, my people, and then my God, thy God, my God, that is really the heart of what turns the story. Because here Ruth is going to say, I want to be a part of the people of God. And she's going to come to dwell under the wings of the covenant-keeping God of Israel. That's what we're going to see in these verses. So this purpose to stay with Naomi is the first example of God's grace. And then we see the timing of it in verse 22. They come to Bethlehem in the time of barley harvest. If they'd come in a different time, they would have not had the food that they needed. They wouldn't have had land. They wouldn't have st uh have had a storehouse that they could go to. They would have completely been dependent on the the the good hand of other people for them But when they come in the barley harvest, Ruth is able to go and go in in the fields, and this is very important. God raises up this man named Boaz. And he is going to become an important figure in the book of Ruth. And in chapter 2, verse 1, it says, Now Naomi had a kinsman of her husband, a mighty man of wealth. of the family of Elimelech, his name was Boaz. That statement a mighty man of wealth means that he was a mighty man of valor, sort of like the female equivalent in Proverbs thirty one of the virtuous woman. This is a person who is hard working, who is industrious. They manage their substance well. They're very wise. They're godly. They fear God. This is the kind of person that Boaz was. And there's a reason that Boaz is mentioned at this point in the book Then we see that Ruth just randomly, and I put that in quotes, chooses to enter the field of voac. She doesn't know who he is. She doesn't know that he is a relative of a limelight. She doesn't know his character. She just goes to this field by chance. But God's hand is in those details. In verse 3 he says, She went and came and gleaned, and her hap was to light on the part of the field belonging to Boaz, of the kindred of Elimelech. And then we see that Boaz is kind toward Ruth. In verses 7 and 8, he says, Do not go and glean in another field. Have not I charged the young men that they should not touch you? And when you are thirsty, go into the vessel and drink that which the young men have drawn. Boaz says, I know the kind of person that you are. I know how you've been towards your mother-in-law. I know how you've left Moab and its gods to serve the one true God in Israel. And so he showed her kindness. And then what do we see? We see that the appeal to the kinsman redeemer. And in verse 20 it says, Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, Blessed be the Lord who has not left off his kindness from the living to the of the to the living and to the dead. And Naomi said, the man is near kin unto thee, one of our next of kin. Now if we don't understand if you don't understand this Old Testament custom, Using the term kinsman redeemer doesn't mean anything to you. But the fact is that in Israel there was this practice that God had prepared for people in situations like this. where a woman had had had her husband died and she had no children. And what that meant was that her husband's lineage was going to be cut off because there was no child who was going to take the inheritance from her. His father, and there was no son to take the inheritance from the father. And so in situations like this, God provided a way that a widow would have the opportunity to remarry And when she remarried, she would remarry someone who was a family member, not her family member, but a family member to her deceased husband. And then when they had a child together, That child would be raised in the name of her first husband so that he would be able to have the inheritance. And so the inheritance would pass from the father who had died to the new husband's son. Called kinsman redemption. So essentially the widow would appeal to this man who was a family member and say, will you marry me so that I can raise a child in the name of my deceased husband, your your family member so that this name is not cut off in Israel. That is what Ruth is doing in these verses. And then we see that he's willing to do it. In verses twelve and thirteen, he he states, he says, The Lord recompense thy work, and a full reward be given unto thee of the Lord God of Israel, under whose wings thou art come to trust. I love that statement. There is a kinsman nearer than I, Tarry, and it shall be in the morning that I will go to perform unto thee the part of the kinsman. But if this person will not, then I will do it What is he saying? I'm willing. Well in God's providence, this relative chose to not accept this offer. And he said, I cannot redeem it lest I mar my own inheritance What is God doing? He's bringing the right man and the right woman together, and he gives them a child. And in chapter 4, verse 13, it says, the Lord gave her conception. And she bare a son. What do we see? This powerful witness to the grace of God. And in verses 14 and 15 , We really see this laid out where it says that the women who were there with Naomi said, Blessed be the Lord which hath not left thee this day without a kinsman. That his name may be famous in Israel. He shall be unto thee a restorer of life and a nourisher of thine old age. And they called him Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David. Well, what can we take away from these verses? A lot of rich truth and encouragement, but let me walk through it piece by piece. First of all, Naomi was broken and vulnerable. But Ruth chose to cleave to her And he did, and she did this because God would use this woman to ultimately complete and turn turn turn the course of history. I'll put it that way. This plan of redemption that was in the balances, it was held intact. And so God used this in in in in the lives of these people and really in our life. There's another piece. Naomi was a very bitter person. And she saw God as cruel. and an enemy, and she was in misery. When I say she was a bitter person, I mean she was a broken person. She was a wearied person. She felt as if God was against her. But what is God going to do? Through Ruth and through this child, he's going to rebuild her faith. He's going to lead that root of bitterness to be uprooted, and he's going to restore to her joy. when her spirit is parched and barren. That's what God is doing in these verses. He is doing something that is great and amazing. But the greatest significance of this moment is more than just what Ruth experienced and what Naomi experienced in the time of the judges. This story is about the future redemption of all God's people. And if this woman had not married that man and had that child, then the story would have unfolded entirely differently. And so what we see is that God worked in these people's lives in the midst of heartache for good. That should bring us comfort. And I want to remind you this morning that this God is the same God that we serve today. And the same God who worked in that way works in our lives very personally today. today. I hope that you'll trust him, walk with him, delight in him, be comforted by these truths. And this has been an encouragement to you take a moment to share that. Perhaps share it with a friend. Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again for our final thoughts on this Pass it of Scripture, have a blessed, rest of your day by now.