Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our final Anchored in the Word, morning reflection for this week. And uh today's going to be a little bit longer for our final thoughts than usual because we're really pressing the last piece of this passage of scripture into this as well as some implications at the end. So a little bit longer than normal but I think it'll be a help to you. So I hope that you You will take a few minutes to listen to this study that we have. The topic we've been addressing is a healthy motivation for missions, and we have been looking at uh Psalm ninety-six. And so turn in your Bibles please to Psalm ninety-six. We're going to read it together and we're going to look at a couple of final thoughts together. Here's what the text says. The Lord a new song. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. Sing unto the Lord, bless his name, show forth his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory among the heathen and his wonders Among all people. For the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods. For all the gods of the nations are idols, but the Lord made the heavens. Honor and majesty are before For him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Give unto the Lord, O ye kindred of the people. Give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his strength. His name bring an offering and come into his courts. Oh, worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness, fear before him all the earth. Say among the heathen that the Lord Lord reigneth. Now I want to develop a little bit more in what we talked about yesterday before we get to this last little section of final thoughts. We've been talking about why this command is oppressing Command. And we mentioned yesterday that it's a pressing command because of the greatness of God. We're now going to look at the other side of that, and we're going to see the emptiness and the easy And verse number five we see the word for again a reason. Now what's the psalmist doing? He's he's presenting this contrast between the one true God and the gods of the nations Which are idols. And when we use the word idol, we need to recognize that he's talking about something that is very empty. People are worshiping idols, and idols are empty. Notice what it says in Psalm one hundred thirty five. It says The idols of the heathen are silver and gold, the work of men's hands. They have mouths, but they speak not. Eyes have Have they, but they see not. They have ears, but they hear not. Neither is there any breath in their mouth. They that make them are like unto them. So is every one that trusteth in them. Now, when we think about what the psalmist is saying in Psalm 135, he's emphasizing the emptiness of idolatry. You are praying to a block of wood. You are pl praying to something created by people that has no power. It has no life in it. It doesn't have the ability to hear your words. It doesn't have the ability to see you bowing before it. It doesn't have the power to do anything for you. It is empty. It is foolishness. But there's a second aspect to that. Idolatry is not just empty. Idolatry is also evil. And there are a lot of scriptures in the Old Testament that emphasize the evil nature of idolatry. For instance, in Psalm 100 6 it says they served their idols which were a snare unto them. And here is the statement I don't want you to miss. They sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto Devils. Now that word devils means that there's more than just an emptiness to idolatry. There is a sinister and evil side to it. People are literally Worshipping the demonic realm. They are interacting in some situations with Satan and with demonic activity. And so idolatry is not just empty, it is empty, but it's also evil. In Revelation 9 verse 20, he talks about what's going to happen in the end time. And he says, the rest of the men which were not killed by the plagues did not repent of the work of their hands, that they should not worship devils and idols of gold and silver and brass Now he's making the point that their idolatry is both evil and empty in the Revelation 9 passage. There's another piece to this. Not only is it empty and evil, but it's something that's also a replacement for the one true God, and it brings an enslavement. And there are a couple of different categories. Of idolatry that I want to mention under this point. The first is the word hedonism. And what I mean by that is that people are given to their passions. They are living within out restraint. They have put themselves as the ultimate source. And it's like they worship themselves, to put it another way. In Ephesians chapter 2. He says, in times past you walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that worketh in the children of disobedience. Among whom also we all had our conversation, that's our way of life, in times past fulfilling the lust of the flesh and the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were By nature the children of wrath, even as others. That passage is emphasizing the hedonistic side of idolatry. Or in Philippians chapter 3, he says, Many walk, of whom I've told you often. And now tell you weeping, they are enemies of the cross, whose end is destruction, and whose God is their belly, and whose glory is their shame, who mind earth Again, Paul is emphasizing the hedonistic side of idolatry. But there's another kind of idolatry, and that is one that is substituting the one true God for a false God. A false God for the one true God. Jeremiah chapter 2, verse 11. He says, Hath a nation changed their gods to which are no gods? My people have changed their glory to that which is of no profit. Be astonished, O heavens, at this, be horribly afraid. Be ye very desolate, saith the Lord, for my people have committed two evils. They've forsaken me the fountain of life, and have hewed them out cisterns, broken cisterns, having no water. Now what's he saying? The one true God has been replaced by false Gods. This is an idolatrous substitute. And then a third example would be what we'd call Christian cults. These pretend to be Christian. They are like Christianity, but they are different. on the fundamental understanding of who Christ is and what he did. And so in 1 John chapter 5 he says, we know that the Son of God is come and has given us an understanding that we may know him. That is true. We are in him that is true, even the Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life. Little children Keep yourselves from idols. Now, why does John end this epistle the way that he ends it? It's because he is concerned that people would embrace a Jesus that falls short. of a biblical Jesus, the true Jesus, the one who is the one true God and eternal life. And so his command is pressing us because of the the the the way that I Idolatry should be looked at. It is empty, it is evil, it is a replacement of God. But there's another piece to this. God's going to judge the earth. And in verses 10 through 13, he says, Say amongst the heathen. The Lord reigneth, he shall be established, he shall judge the people righteously. Now, when we think about this this message, there are several pieces to it that Are emphasizing that God is going to judge. For instance, He is the sovereign. Say that He reigns. That means He is someone you have to answer to. There's none higher than Him. There's none that can say to Him, I'm going to do it my way and that there's not a consequence. Say this, he's coming to judge. This is the idea that the world is established, it will not be moved, and he is going to judge, and you can't establish it. Escape it. He shall judge the people righteously. And then we see the eminency of the return of Christ, that He will judge the world. He cometh to judge the world in righteousness. So we see that this is something that we will not escape. So what do we take away from this text this week? Let me give you some final thoughts. First of all, never Settle for a cheap, short-sighted substitute to real biblical conversion that is produced by the preaching of the gospel. This passage, Psalm 96, is teaching Teaching us, conversion is needed. People need to hear the gospel. That's what changes them. That's what makes them idol for takes them from being an idolater to being a worshiper of the one true God. Let's seek to do God's work by His power, not by the power of our flesh. Let's get a bigger and grander view of the greatness of God God, for that will press us. Let's be gripped by the inescapable command of God to ascribe greatness to Him and to live a life that is centered exclusively on him. Let's be completely invested and diligently involved in declaring his glory among all people. And so my final encouragement you is to have a great weekend and not forget these things. Let's be a people who care about missions are now fully invested in the work that God is doing. Have a blessed weekend. I hope to see you on Sunday. If this has been an encouragement to this week, I hope that you just take a moment, share that, perhaps pass it along to someone else who can be benefited by it, and we hope to see you on Sunday. Bye now.