Good morning. Welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope that you're having a great Tuesday morning. And this week we began looking yesterday. in Luke chapter 13 looking at verses 1 through 9. And the topic that we're addressing this week is how tragedy causes us to see God. And the fact is that the things that we're talking about in these verses this morning are very practical because we do live in a world full of tragedy and difficulty. Sometimes these tragedies touch us very personally. It could be a health issue, it could be a sudden death of someone, it could be a situation that's completely outside of our control and injustice that we witness. we do experience tragic circumstances. We're certainly in an age like we are living in today where you have instant access on social media and the internet. We're constantly getting stories and notifications about things going on. And the question we should ask is how do these tragedies affect us and how should they cause us to question and think about life and then ultimately look at God and see what He's trying to teach us. So yesterday we talked about how we need to be confronted sometimes by the things that are going on around us and God uses those things. This morning what I'd like us to notice is how God takes those confrontations and those tragic moments that we witness or live through. And he simplifies our life so that we look at things that are most important, most necessary. And so if you have a Bible, let's take it together. Let's turn to this text. And we're looking at Luke chapter 13. Verses 1 through 9. Please let's read it together. Here's what the text says. There were present at that season some that told him of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galileans were sinners above all the Galileans because they suffered such things? I tell you, nay. But except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Or those eighteen upon whom the Tower of Siloam fell and slew them, think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwell in Jerusalem? I tell you, nay, but except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. He spake also this parable A certain man had a fig tree, planted in his garden, or in his vineyard, and he came and sought fruit thereupon, and found none. Then said he unto the dresser of the vineyard, Behold, these three years I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree. I find none. Cut it down. Why cumbereth it the ground? He answered and said unhim, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I should dig about it and dung it, and And it and if it bear fruit well, and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down. Now this morning what I'd like us to focus on is how God takes those confrontations. And it causes us to have a simplistic. And when I say simplistic, I mean a simpler, most important focus in life. And so this word simplicity will be what we focus on. These questions that we ask ourselves in these moments should simplify how we look at life. And notice what Jesus said. Rather than asking all the questions that we tend to ask, when we experience or when we witness hardship. Jesus basically asks two questions and makes one statement. And the statement is, except ye repent, then you shall all likewise perish. Now, Jesus is not saying that they're going to die in the same way that these people died in a tragic way. But what he is suggesting and what he is telling us is that all of us are going to die and after we die we're going to stand before God. And if we are not ready when that happens we will have a tragic end, not just the way we enter into the eternal state, but the ultimate destination that we will have because we were not ready to meet the Lord. And if you think about the context, the context of this whole discussion has been be ready for the coming of Christ. There are some who are wise and there are some who are fools. That is what Jesus has been talking about all along. And so think about the way that he confronts us and how we think. There's a passage that comes to mind often when I think about ministry and working with people, and that's 2 Timothy 2, verses 25 to 26. Here's what Paul writes to Timothy. He says, in meekness, instruct those who oppose themselves. if God peradventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth, and that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, who are taken captive at his will. Now this is what Paul is telling Timothy He's saying, Timothy, your job as a minister of Christ is to stand in the gap between people and we could say a continuation of a path of destruction And God in his mercy raises up people in ministry. And God in his mercy causes us to pass through circumstances or allows us to pass through circumstances. Or allow certain things to unfold in our lives so that people who are there teaching the truth will in meekness instruct, who will do it with love. and compassion and persistence. And why does that, why does God raise up people for that? So that he will, through the word of God and through the circumstances, bring us to a point of repentance Repentance is a thinking change where he takes the way that we're thinking and the way that we're walking and he confronts us with his word and he humbles us and he conforms our thinking to the word of God. He brings about repentance. Why? so that people will recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who are taken captive at his will. What is Paul saying? God uses all kinds of things in life to bring the Word of God to bear on our souls so that our thinking will be simplified and focused on truth that we will be repentant. He confronts how we think. He calls us to humbly submit our thinking to truth. Some of the most basic questions, who am I? Why am I here? Where am I going? God takes the circumstances of life and he simplifies to those very basic questions. Why? For our own good. And so the question I want to leave you with this morning is how should we respond to these things? Here are some things that I want to encourage you with. One, do not resist God in what He is doing. It is his mercy that brings us to this point where we start asking the right questions so that we will think right about ourselves and him. Two, ask yourself. What are these circumstances revealing about me and about how I think? How is God showing me where I am not, where I need to be, and I am not thinking in the way that I ought to be thinking 3. Ask yourself, what are these circumstances revealing to me about what God is doing in the world and in my life? How do these circumstances reveal God's goodness and God's mercy? and God's providence and God's justice, different aspects of who he is. Four, allow God to shape your thinking to be what it needs to be When I think about Romans chapter 12, he says that we are to be transformed through the renewing of our minds. That is what he means by God peradventure bringing them to repentance. God is not willing that any should perish. But it all should come to repentance. God works in people's hearts to cause them to think clearly so they'll respond properly to Him. So I hope that you will join us tomorrow as we continue this study and as we dig deeper into this passage. And I hope that as you reflect on the things we've talked about this morning. that they will be a tremendous help to you. If this has been a challenge to you or an encouragement, please take a moment to share that. Maybe share it on your Facebook feed or whatever you use for social media so others can be benefited by it. And uh Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again to have a blessed morning and we'll talk again by now.