Good morning. Welcome back to our third Anchored in the Morning Reflection. And hope that your week's going well and looking forward to digging into the next section of Luke chapter 19, verses 1 through 10. Again, we've been dealing with a passage that's teaching about the conversion of Zacchaeus, and the intent of this passage is to provide tremendous comfort and encouragement to us. And it does it in quite a few different ways. And so this morning we're going to look at how we are comforted, despite the arrogance of the hateful people, that we're observing what Christ was doing, and in fact they had a very condescending attitude toward Zacchaeus and toward Christ. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles. Let's turn together to Luke chapter 19. We're reading verses 1 through 10 And then we're going to get into this topic. Here's what the Word of God says. And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. Behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans, and he was rich. He sought to see Jesus who he was, could not for the press, because he was of little stature. And he ran before him and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him For he was at he was to pass that way. When Jesus came to the place he looked up and saw him and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, come down. for to day I must abide at thy house. He made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully. And when they saw it all, they murmured, saying, That he has gone to be with guests, with a man that is a sinner. Ziachia stood and said unto the Lord said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, half of my goods I give to the poor. If I've taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore to him fourfold. Jesus said unto him, This day of salvation comfort to this house, for as much as he also is a son of Abraham, for the sin of man is to come to seek and to save that which was lost So as we look at this passage, the second comfort we're going to see is that we can take comfort despite how arrogant these haters were toward Christ and toward Zacchaeus. Now this is a topic that has come up quite a few times throughout chapters 13 through 19. And we see this coming up again in verse 7. It says, when they saw it, they murmured, saying that he was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner. Now before we dig into this statement, I have to ask a question. Is there anyone that Christ could have gone to visit who would not meet this classification as being a sinner? The answer: nobody. The reason that they're saying this is because it's their way of saying he's a notorious sinner. He's a noteworthy sinner. He's a sinner that there's no way that a person who is a prophet or a religious man Or maybe the Messiah. There's no way that he would go and eat with this person because certainly he'd know what kind of a person he was. But what we can see is that these are people who justify themselves before God, that they're righteous and they they look down and they demean other people Again, as I mentioned, this has come up quite a few times. And when this has come up, we see this contrast between how merciful God is And how opposed the world is to Christ showing mercy to people who are notorious sinners, needing a Savior. Notice what it says in Luke chapter 13. Ought not this woman being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day? Jesus is saying, why why are you being so harsh with this woman? Why are you being so harsh with me? Isn't it a good thing that this woman who has been oppressed for all these years is now free from the suppression. You see, mercy and opposition. Or then we look at Luke 15. Then drew near unto him all the publicans and the sinners to hear him The Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. And what you see is the response of those who need a savior, and they know they need a savior, and they're not unwilling to admit that they need a savior. They're coming to Christ because they recognize He has something to offer to them that they desperately need. And again, the condescending Pharisees and scribes look down their noses at Christ and these people and say What's your problem? Why are you eating with these people? Third example. Luke eighteen. He spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others. And then he gives this story of a publican and a Pharisee who go into the temple. The one man speaks with himself, Lord, I think you 're not like other people, like this phara like this publican over here, I fast twice in the day, give tithes of all that I possess. I do this, I do this, I do this, I don't do these things like this man over here does. And what does Jesus say? The man who fell on his face and said, God be merciful to me a sinner, he left that place justified. We see God's mercy, worldly opposition. This passage is no different. But here's what I think really provides the comfort to us. And that is that not only does Christ treat this man with kindness and compassion But he makes a statement at the end of this interaction that should stick in all of our minds. , And that is that he is truly delighted. And heaven is truly delighted. When a sinner repents and is saved. Notice what it says in Luke 15. I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. And so that leads me s to some concluding thoughts. Perhaps maybe we should say some questions. How do we look at other people? Are there people that if their life was transformed by the gospel? If they were saved from their sins, they started starting attending church, they started interacting with God's people, would we kind of maybe look down on them and Perhaps when we look at them go, oh, there's no way they can really be a Christian. There's no way that God really saved that person. I know who they were and I know what they've done and I know what they've said. Or can we simply marvel at the power of the gospel and the depths of God's grace and how deep God's love is for us, for all of us, including the most notorious of sinners? This passage of Scripture reminds us that it is God's delight to seek and to save those who are lost. And it is God's delight to rejoice in those who come to repentance and faith. whose sins are washed away and they're cleansed and they become God's children. Well it gives us some things to think about this morning. Hope that you have a great rest of your morning and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow as we look at our fourth Anchored in the Word Topic and another comfort from the Word of God by now