Good morning and welcome to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and today is Voting Tuesday and so we have been talking about the Christian and civic duty and this morning we're going to look at the third part of this And that is a call to action. And if you have not voted yet, I hope that you will listen to this video and perhaps go back and listen to the other ones as well, because they will challenge you, number one, to see that you have a responsibility. a civic duty to go out and to actually engage in this process of who ends up getting into our government and the kinds of laws that are that are on the book And so it's important for us to recognize that not only do we have objective duties to pray for those in power and to engage in the in the process, but we need to actually go out and vote. And it means stand in that line, doing our duty. And so this morning I'd like to go ahead and read that passage again from 1 Timothy. Read that passage again from Romans chapter 13. And then I'd like us to look at how to take action on what we have talked about over the last uh two sessions. So 1 Timothy chapter 2 verse 1. I exhort therefore that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men, for kings, for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honor. honesty. Romans 13. Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers, for there is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. He is the minister of God to thee for good. So what is the call to action? How are we supposed to respond to the discussion that we've had in the last two sessions? The answer is this. We must be actively engaged in a distinctly Christian way. I didn't say we we should consider being engaged. or that we should uh just sit on the sidelines and pray. I said we need to be actively engaged in a distinctly Christian way. You say, well how do I do that? Let me give you a couple of thoughts that I hope will help you as you think about it. The first of these simple thoughts is be wise. Before you vote, you've got to be a wise person. And it is my view that the wisest people in this country should, not they are, but should be Christians. Why? Well, because we understand human nature. We understand biblical principle. We have a perspective that and that understands the value of government and the purpose of government, and we understand God's institutions. So out of all people in society, those who should be the wisest Those who should be the most engaged in this process are not people who are just sitting on the sidelines and have a worldview that's full of inconsistency. And thinks that we're just stardust. No, people who believe correctly that there's a God in heaven who made us with a purpose, and he instituted government, and he instituted male-female, and he instituted marriage. And he is the one who tells us how to live in this world. Be wise. Wisdom prioritizes biblical concerns. And we've already discussed three of them. The first one is this, an administration that promotes the opportunity to live a quiet and peaceable life. life in all godliness. That should be concern number one. Concern number two, an environment that is conducive to the spread of the gospel. Why is that? Because that is the reason that we pray for kings and all who are in authority. Concern number three. An administration that promotes good and punishes evil as God ordained government to do. So we think about the sense that it's to promote peace. It's to promote a place where the gospel spreads very freely. And it's also to promote good and punish evil, because that is the whole purpose of So we talk about this wisdom, we can break it down even a little bit more. Not just what our primary concerns are, but what shapes how we look at the laws that are being in and the and the party platforms that are in front of us. For instance, wisdom understands human nature. We understand that people are not naturally good or they're not morally neutral. No, things like laziness and free handouts incentivize destructive behavior. Think about 2 Thessalonians 3, verse 10. This we command you that if you would not work, neither should ye eat. And we hear that there are some which walk among you disorderly, working not at all but as busybodies. The fact is that we should support candidates or support administrations or support party platforms that are going to incentivize good industrious behavior, not laziness, which leads to destructive behaviors. Or we think about how laziness produces poverty and industry produces prosperity. Proverbs 10. 4 He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand, but the hand of the diligent maketh rich. He that gathereth in summer is a wise son, but he that sleepeth in harvest is a son that causeth shame. A lack of justice incentivizes violent behavior. Ecclesiastes 8. 11. Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil. I'm just going to give you a really basic illustration. of this. If you walk into a a store and you want to buy something at, let's say you go to Home Depot and you want to buy a a mower, you have to have somebody come and unlock a locker so that you can go and get the mower. And then they'll literally take the mower to the place where you pay for it. And I remember one time I asked the guy, why is this? He said, well because people just steal this stuff And I asked the question, why do people just steal stuff? The answer is, the government isn't doing its job. People are not being prosecuted appropriately. And so when that happens, law-abiding honest people get crushed by people who are dishonest and have destructive behavior. And so when a government is not actually being just, it actually incentivizes violent behavior. Well, we should look at the parties and the options. and the administrations, and we should look at the platforms that are being presented and ask which one incentivizes violence and which one deals with violence the way that a government is supposed to to. Or think about another example. Ecclesiastes 11. Wisdom thinks practically about life in a fallen world. This is a great passage of scripture because it covers a lot of things about practically what it's like to live in a fallen world. world. For instance, cast your bread on the waters, and thou shalt find it after many days. What does that encourage you to do? It encourages you to be involved in industry When he talks about casting bread on the waters, he's talking about people shipping their goods so that they're involved in business. He says, give a portion to seven and also to eight. Thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth. It's talking about diversification. Interestingly, one of the reasons that our system of government in the United States is set up the way that it is, where we have this balance of power, and we have this struggle in the Congress. between one one one political party and the other political party. And the fact is you could have someone in the White House who's from a different political party than who's running the House of Representatives or running the Senate. And the judiciary is supposed to not be political, but it's supposed to be to just follow the law pr uh uh appropriately. The reason that that balance of power is there is because our founding fathers understood human nature is sinful and there are problems that come into society. So that balance of power is a really good thing. And you even see Concepts like that coming out in the text in front of us with diversification, diversification of power in the sense of our government. He says, if the clouds are full of rain, they empty themselves on the earth. If the tree falls towards the south or towards the north, the place where the tree falleth, that's where it shall be. The idea is that when you look at a person's life and you look at the things that they've said over the last ten years of their life, it gives you a pretty good idea of where they're going to fall out in life. Or you think about the people that are that are really backing them uh politically or those who are pumping a lot of money into their campaigns, what does that do? It tells you this is the direction that the candidate leads. This is the direction that the administration leads. These are the things that they've said in the past. This is their track record. This is how they governed. What does that do? The direction it leads is where it's going to fall. That's the way it works. And when it falls, you've got to live with it. If people choose not to vote, guess what? We're going to have to live with whoever ends up in power If people choose to vote and they vote in a way that is destructive to the country, we're going to have to live with that. And that's the point of a passage like this. He says, He that observeth the wind shall not sow, he that recardeth the clouds shall not reap, as thou knowest not the way of the spirit, nor the bones that you grow in the womb of he that is with child, even so thou knowest not the work of God. What's he saying there? Hey, you can't predict everything. Do the best you can with the information that you have. You're not going to get a perfect political candidate. You're not going to get a perfect uh administration. You have to recognize you do the best with what you have. And that's the way that we have to engage in this process. And then we're reminded that what does God do? He works despite the failure. And the flaws of the individuals that are there, the weakness of our people. This is what biblical wisdom looks like. Second statement. Be informed. Proverbs 18, 13 says, He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is a folly and a shame to him. Do not vote for somebody that you have not investigated very carefully. Know what they believe. Know how they have governed. Know what they have said in their past. When they say, these are my values, believe it. Those are their values. When a person has changed their viewpoint, but they give you no reason for why they change that viewpoint, you should actually have a question about that. When you think about these things, you've got to get information. Just because you saw it online or just because somebody said it doesn't mean it's true. True. And so know what people believe and the patterns that they have established from verifiable sources. If somebody says, oh, this person believes it, but you've watched a video of them saying they don't believe a thing, then believe what they say said more than what someone says about them. When you hear a little clip and oh so-and-so made this statement, why don't you get the whole context before you come to the conclusion about what they said? Or they didn't say or the tone of it or why they said it. We've got to be informed before we go and engage in the process. Know it is being celebrated and actively being promoted. If it's something that's against nature and it's something God hates, why in the world would you promote it by voting for it? We've got to think about these things. carefully. I'll also make this statement. Admit where better options fall short and do not allow the sifting views of society to influence you to drift from biblical positions. I will say this very carefully. There is no party in America that is truly Christian in the way that it is promoting its agenda. There is none. There is no candidate that I voted for this week, this past week, who I believe really holds biblical values up and down the line. I'm voting the best I can with the information that I have for the individuals that I believe will best promote the good of society. and push against the drift of uh the the evil drift of our culture, but they do not hold satisfactory views on so many, many different issues. Thirdly, be responsibly engaged. Pray for those in public office. When you think about it, raise your kids right. Prepare them for life. If you have children, take them in the voting booth with you. Bring them through the process. Talk to them about the importance of being involved. in this process. Shape their values while they're young, or they will embarrass you when they are old. The fact is the people in office aren't going to affect your life as much as the way you raised your kids. They're going to have a greater impact on your well-being of life when they are older than the person that gets elected into power to tomorrow. It's just not the same. Vote for the best option that's available in whatever area that it is. And I understand that some people say, I mean, I just could not in good conscience vote for this person wholeheartedly. I'd say, well then vote against this one because they're obviously a terrible choice and they're going to be extremely destructive. Or you know what, I'm just going to sit out on this particular area of the ballot. Well, don't sit out on all of them. I want to encourage you, get involved, vote in the best options possible. Be engaged in what's happening in your community, in the state that we live in, in our nation. What I mean by engage is write letters. Have you ever written a letter to your congressman? Congressman over a bill that was going through the Congress that you were concerned about? There might be some times that you should do things like that. political side than during COVID. Why? Because that's what most uh directly impacted me. But the fact is that we learned during that COVID-19 time period. period that the people that are in the state and in the local actually have more impact on us sometimes than those who are on the federal level. And so be engaged in what's happening in our society. Live a faithful life in all godliness no matter what you face. And lastly, accept God's providence and trust his power to use all circumstances. For good. If you have not yet voted, I hope that you do it today. And if you vote today, I hope that you will do it with a conscience that is that is guided by principle, not emotion, not how people look and how they sound on camera, not based on something you heard from somebody But based on the facts, according to wisdom, the very best options that are available for the good of this society. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, tomorrow we will pick up Up again with our fourth anchored in the word morning reflection. Have a blessed day by now