Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And yesterday was a very brief introduction. Today we're going to dig into some serious content as we look at this passage in front of us And so if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it, turn with me to Luke twenty-four, and we're going to read beginning in verse number one. Here's what the text says. Now, upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning They came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them, and they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre, and they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments. And as they were afraid, and bowed down their face to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen. Now, as we think about this passage of scripture, I want to begin by focusing in on the reason that we should glory in the resurrection, being that it has radically changed. the disciples that were there at the time of Christ. And what we want to do is we want to kind of step back and then put ourselves in this passage of scripture. And think about what we examine in relation to the disciples. So in verse number one it says, On the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came to the sepulchre, bringing spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them. You say, well, why does that matter? Well the reason that it matters is because of several important details that you can pick up in the text. The first is this. The disciples of Christ expected him to be in the tomb because they knew he had actually died. Now When we look back at the chapter before in verses 52 and following, it gives us a lot of information about how we know that these disciples knew that Christ had actually died. It says, This man, being Joseph of Arimathea, went unto Pilate and he begged the body of Jesus. He took it down, wrapped it in linen, and laid it in a sepulchre that was hewn in stone, where never a man was laid before. And that day was the preparation, and the Sabbath drew on. The women also which came from Galilee followed after, and beheld the sepulchre, and how his body was laid. And they returned, and notice what it says, they prepared spices and ointments and rested on the Sabbath day according to the commandment So, Joseph knew that Christ had died. Pilate knew that Christ had died. Joseph puts him in a tomb. The women had prepared spices to anoint his body. They ran out of time. And so they knew that he was dead. He had been laid in in the tomb, and they were waiting for the day that they could actually go and anoint the body, which would have been the first day of the week after the Passover. Second detail I want you to notice here is that when they went to the tomb, they were expecting to find a dead body. They knew he had died, and they weren't expecting there to be an empty tomb. They weren't expecting to meet the Savior alive. We know that because in verse 1 it says that they came to the sepulchre bringing spices that they had prepared. In fact, if we look at some of the other accounts, we know that the women actually discussed amongst themselves how How are they going to be able to roll the stone away to anoint the body? Because obviously they didn't have the strength to do it. And there were guards who had been placed in front of the tomb, not permitting anyone to go into it. Third thing we see Is that their initial response was not faith, but rather it was doubt and confusion. So when we when we see what it says about the things that they observed in verse 2, it says they found a stone rolled away. And verse 3 it says they entered in, they did not find the body of the Lord. And when they are processing those things, this is how they responded. It says in verse 4 that they were perplexed. That's not faith. That's wonder. That's a doubt. That's, is this true? And verse 5, it says they were afraid. They did not believe that they were going to come across an empty tomb and then two angels. We then see in verse eleven that when the women brought the report back to the other disciples, it says that their word seemed to them as an idle tale, and they believed them not. So we see that they're perplexed, they're afraid, they're doubtful, they're not believing. Even when Peter himself runs to the sepulchre and looks in and says he , departed wondering in himself at that which was come to pass. So what we see in these verses is that none of these statements indicate confidence that Christ is alive. None of them have seen the risen Savior at this point in the narrative. The emphasis is that these are people who believed that he was dead and would not rise from the dead, they didn't have any confidence that this is actually what was going to take place. The fourth thing we see is that these people who had been doubters and perplexed and fearful Are now fearless witnesses to the resurrection of Christ. And this is the transformation that I think really ought to cause us to glory in the resurrection. If this was a lie, there's no way that these people would experience such a transformation. For instance, look in verse 32 of Acts 2. And Acts is the sequel to Luke, it's the continuation of the story It says, this Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we are all witnesses. Verse 1415 of chapter 3, you denied the Holy One and the just one and you killed a murderer, and he was granted unto you And you killed the Prince of Life, whom God raised from the dead, whereof we are all witnesses. Or then we moved again to the next section, chapter 5. We are his witnesses of these things, and so is also the Holy Ghost, whom God hath given to them that obey him. Says when they heard this, they were cut to the heart and took counsel to slay them. And when they called the apostles and beat them, they commanded them that they should not speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go. And they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name And daily and in the temple and in every house they cease not to teach and preach Christ. What's going on? They are witnessing powerfully, fearlessly, boldly, of the resurrection. Chapter ten. We are witnesses of all which they have f We are witnesses of all these things which he did, both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem, and they slew and hanged on a tree. Him God raised up from the dead and showed openly, not to all the people, but unto we, the witnesses, chosen before of God. Even to us who did eat and drink with him after he rose from the dead. And he commanded us to preach the gospel, and that that He to testify it is he which was ordained of God to be the judge of the quick and the dead. To give him All to him give all the prophets witness that through his name whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sins. Now what do we see? We see boldness, we see power, we see transformation. But to give you a little more perspective, don't forget the way that these people responded. For instance, in Luke 22, 60, Peter is denying the Lord. It says, Man, I know not what thou sayest. Immediately, as he had spake the cock crew. And the Lord turned and looked at Peter, and Peter remembered the words of the Lord, how he said unto him, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice, and Peter went out and wept bitterly. Or we see another example of this. We look down in chapter twenty, verse nineteen. That same day, being the even of the week, the doors were shut, the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews. Then came Jesus and stood in their midst. Where again we see that Paul was one who hated the church. Paul or Saul breathing threatenings and slaughters against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest, desired of him letters to Damascus and to the synagogue that it might be founded this way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound into Jerusalem. Paul later says, I persecuted this way unto death. binding and delivering into prison both men and women. What is the point of all of these things? The point is these men And these women were radically changed by the reality of the resurrection. And this is one of many reasons we should glory in it. I hope that gives you some things to think about today. That same resurrection that they trusted in and transformed them is one that we can trust in and can transform us. into God's children. May you have a blessed rest of your day, Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through the text by now