Good morning and welcome to our Wednesday, Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. Today we're going to look at how this prayer, what it is founded on. And it's very important for us to dig into the context leading up to these verses in order to see the foundation of the prayer. So if you have your Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Ephesians chapter 1. And we're going to begin reading in verse 15, and then we're going to start breaking this down a little bit this morning. Here's what the text says. Wherefore, I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus, and love for all the saints, cease not to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation and the knowledge of Him. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that ye may know what is the hope of his calling, and what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints. And what is the exceeding greatness of his power to us for it who believe, according to the working of his mighty power, which he wrought in Christ Jesus? As I mentioned in the introduction, we're looking at the foundation of this shepherd's prayer. And so we looked at his heart. Now we're looking at what's his life built on? What drives him? What motivates him? What shapes the way that he prays? And the answer is found in the text in front of us. Here's what it says in verses 17 and 18. I pray that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you a spirit of wisdom. and revelation in the knowledge of him, the eyes of your understanding being enlightened that ye might know. Now, it's important to just make some simple comments here. When he says he wants God, he's saying, I pray that the Father would give you a spirit of wisdom and revelation and knowledge of him, he's not suggesting. that that he's praying that these people are going to receive some kind of mystical revelation that is outside of Scripture. What he's saying is I'm praying that they will understand what I've just taught them. So Paul has just broken down several very important concepts. He's presented them to the church, and he's saying, I'm praying that they will understand this. And so let me break it down like this. His teaching before is shaping the way that he prays. And he's really shaping it in at least two different ways. The first way is it's shaping his values and what he believes the church needs. For instance, he says I want them to have a wisdom in the knowledge of him. Now wisdom and a knowledge of him is basically saying I want them to know God. I want them to know God as he is, not how they want him to be. Not how someone tells him them that they are. No, I want them to know him as he actually is. And when he uses the word illuminate or when he I use the word illumination here to describe this concept of your eyes, the eyes of your understanding are enlightened so that you may know. And interestingly, that word is in the perfect tense. The idea is this is something that you do know and you continue to know this. And so he's really emphasizing the fact that when they were converted, there was an element of a knowledge of God that they were now aware of. Their eyes were opened to those realities. But Paul is praying that what they know and what they continue to know will become fuller and richer and more complete and it will be more personalized, more internalized. And so what we can see is that Paul's values and how he's praying are being shaped by these things. And also, this is the content that he wants them to understand. What I mean by that is he's saying, I want them to be gripped by the implications of the gospel. I want them to know who they are in Christ. I want them to know what God has done for them. how powerful, how good, how rich he is, how secure they are. Those are the things that we're talking about. And so think about some of these things that he's already talked about. They've been blessed with every spiritual blessing in Christ Jesus. He tells them this. They know this. He wants them to understand it more fully. Or you've been chosen to be holy and without blame before him. You know this, you've been told this. I want you to understand it more fully. Your salvation is absolutely certain and completed. It's going to happen. You're going to experience the fullness of what God has given you. You know this. I want you to know it more fully. You're accepted in the beloved. You have been redeemed. You have been forgiven. And it's all through the sacrifice of Christ. And we are sealed with the Spirit of God until the day of redemption. So we see all these little components of what Paul has already presented. He's saying, I've told you these things. Now I want you to understand them more fully. And the part that I think is really neat. Is what is the purpose? Why does God do this? Well, it's his good pleasure. It's because he loves us. It's because he wants to reveal the greatness of his grace to us. And so Paul's saying, you know this, I want you to understand it more fully. And so that should be our prayer for the people around us That God would open their eyes to understand the rich implications of the gospel, that they would live in the light of those things, that they would grip them more fully than they do today. May God help us to be those kinds of people. May we pray this way and may we actually be people who are growing in such a way. Well, that's what I have for you this morning. I hope you have a wonderful, blessed day, and uh Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.