Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the week. And I hope that as we've been digging our way into this passage of Scripture, that you have found it to be encouraging. I hope there's been some some insightful things that you've picked up. And ultimately our desire is that you would glory in the Lord Jesus Christ who has not just died for your sins. but in fact is risen from the dead, and it is because of that resurrection that we are able to enjoy all the benefits that we have in Christ. This morning what I want to do is just take all the things we've talked about and try to put it together in a very practical way and say how do I practically glory in the resurrection. So let's read the text again together and then we will look at a couple of practical thoughts here at the end. Here's what it says. Now, upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came into the sepulchre bringing the spices which they had prepared And certain others with them, and they found the stones rolled away from the sepulchre, and they entered in and found not the body of the Lord Jesus And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments. As they were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen. Now, all the things that we've talked about this week, the fact that we should glory in the resurrection, because in fact The disciples were radically changed when they came face to face with that reality. And the fact that we are able to participate in the triumph of Christ over sin and death and corruption. And the fact, as we looked at yesterday, as we're digging into this passage of scripture, of what Is is accomplished by the resurrection and demonstrating God's faithfulness both to his word and also to his nature. I want us to think practically, how do we glory in the cross and in the resurrection? The simple fact is God wants us to do it. How do we do it? Well, first of all, if you're not a believer, you can't glory in the resurrection while walking in unbelief. It's impossible. You need to come face to face with the reality that you're a sinner, that your sin separates you from God, that God in his great mercy and love for you Extended forgiveness because Christ who has promised came and died for your sins, and Christ who has promised to rise from the dead, in fact, did it. And through his sacrifice and his resurrection, you can be safe from your sins. Turn to him, place your faith in Christ. There are compelling reasons to believe that Christ came and died and triumphed over death. Thirdly, there's still hope. Even if you've repeatedly pushed him away, this is still an opportunity. Remember a week or two ago when we were talking about the thief on the cross, we saw that this is a man who It's right up to his point of death. He's hanging on the cross. And he could have easily continued railing against Christ, as did the other. But what did he do? He humbled himself. He turned to him and said, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And what did God do? He forgave him. He cleansed him. He saved him. Today you'll be with me in paradise. Turn to him now. And experience his forgiveness and the transformation that is available through his sacrifice. New life in Christ, a new creature whose old things have passed away and all things have become new. Second thing I want to say, and this is to the believers, walk by faith. There are many scriptures that talk about the resurrection and then give very specific, very direct applications to us. as a result of what we have in Christ's resurrection. The first example is victory over sin, Romans 6. 5 When God tells us to walk in obedience to Him and to turn away from sin, He doesn't say just do it because it's right. He says, do it, because you are dead to sin, but you are also alive unto God. In other words, he calls us out of position. And that's very important. He could have easily said, just do right. And that's true. Just do right But he he appeals on the basis of position. Romans 6. 5. If we've been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection. Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. He has delivered us from that body of corruption so that we can walk in newness of life. Enjoy victory over sin. Live in the light of your position in Christ. Second Purpose. That when life seems purposeless, you remember the resurrection says there is purpose in life. Life is not meaningless and empty. We look at the book of Ecclesiastes, and the whole point of the book is if you don't have the resurrection and you don't have the gospel And you don't have eternity, you have nothing. This world is is fallen and broken and miserable and repetitive. It is emptiness, vanity What does the resurrection do? It reminds you that it's not empty and meaningless. There's purpose. What does he say? Therefore, my beloved brethren, because of the resurrection. Be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord What an amazing application from the resurrection. Thirdly, there is hope for those who suffer, and suffering is a real part of life. I wish it wasn't, but it is. Romans 8. 18. He says, I reckon that the suffering of this present world is not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. And so when we think about the resurrection, it reminds us that even when we suffer in this world, this is not the end. There is a weight of glory awaiting those who endure such suffering. God has redemptive purposes in such suffering. It gives us the ability to enjoy the full blessings and benefits of eternity. in the backdrop of the hardness of a broken world. And so there's hope and suffering. And fourthly, and perhaps the most glorious of all, is comfort in death. I've done dozens of funerals. And at each of those funerals, when someone is a believer, and everyone knows that they were a believer, they trusted Christ, they had a strong testimony, there is so much comfort, even in death. 1 Thessalonians 4. 13, I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that you sorrow not even as others which have no hope. The believer sorrows, but not like the world. Our sorrow is not without hope. As David said in Psalm 16 , He says, My flesh shall rest in hope, because you will not leave me dead, but you will actually resurrect me. And you will not leave the Messiah dead, but you will resurrect him. And in your presence there is fullness of joy forever because of the resurrection. And so what do we have when a person who's a believer dies? We have comfort knowing They are absent from the body, present with the Lord, and we will be able to see them again for all of eternity. May God help us to glory in the resurrection. That's a lot to process. That's a lot to rejoice in. That's a lot for us to, by God's grace, put into practice Have a blessed rest of your day. Have a wonderful weekend. We hope to see many of you on Sunday. And then pick this back up on Monday morning. Have a blessed day. Bye now.