Good morning. Welcome back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. The passage that we're going to be dealing with this week is from Psalm 43, verses 1 through 5, and so I hope that you will Dig into this text with us this week. And if you were with us this past Sunday, we dealt with Luke chapter 18. We talked about two men who went up into the temple. One was a Pharisee, one was a publican, and we saw that that The one man was full of self-righteousness and pride, and Jesus was condemning that self-righteousness and talking about the nature of the gospel. So I'm really looking forward to digging into that text with you, not this week, but Lord willing, the following week. But if you take your mind back two weeks, we were in Psalm 43. And as I read this passage and I studied this passage and I talked to folks from our church who spent some time in this text, I found that this passage of scripture really ministered to a lot of people. And so I hope that you'll join us this week as we work our way through the text. I think it's very practical. It'll be extremely helpful to you. And so with that in mind, let's begin by reading Psalm 43, verses 1 through 5. We'll listen to a short excerpt and then dig into this topic of preparing for trouble before we encounter it. Here's what the Word of God says. Judge me, O God, plead my cause against an ungodly nation. Oh, deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man. For thou art the God of my strength. Why dost thou cast me off? Why go I in mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? O send out thy light and thy truth. Let them lead me, let them bring me unto thy holy hill, and to thy tabernacles. Then will I go into the altar of God, unto God my exceeding joy. Ye upon the harp will I praise thee, O God, my God. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me, hoping God? For I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance And my God. Let's go ahead and listen to this short portion of the sermon, and then we'll talk about the topic that's there. To do that, we've got to be prepared. Trouble's gonna come. It would be better to get in front of it than have to work through it. Now if you're working through it, okay, do it. But it's good to get ahead. Deliver or develop a right rather than wrong impulsive response. Seek God's face in prayer. Seek His will through studying His word. Seek His servants who can help you work through difficult situations. Now this topic that we're talking about this week is in fact an extremely important topic. And when I think about the pastoral ministry and what I've observed as I work with people, I have observed, and I would say any pastor who has spent time with a group of people has observed that it is far better for someone to have a good, solid theological foundation before they encounter suffering and before they encounter difficulty. Then to be in the midst of suffering and difficulty and then to try to be working through what they believe about God and themselves and circumstances. In fact, once we are in the middle of a situation, it's very hard for us to think anyway but emotionally. And so it's so vitally important that before we encounter heartache and difficulty and struggle that we are in the Word of God and our worldview is being shaped by the Bible. Now when we look at Psalm 43 and then we go back to Psalm 42 we see Now obviously the psalmist is struggling with his circumstances. His emotions are driving him. There are thoughts that are that are clouding his thinking and causing him to have a lot of internal noise and trouble. But what we see in these scriptures is that though the psalmist is troubled, the psalmist also has a correct view of God. Now that doesn't mean that he's always acting consistent with his correct view of God, or that his emotions are always feeling consistent with his right view of God, but what it does show you is that there is something that is solid that his feet are planted on, and there is something that continually draws him back to where he needs to be when he's going through the ups and the downs of life. The fact is we have to prepare before we encounter such such circumstances. Now, you may be listening to this video and you say, well, Pastor, I hate to say this, but I am there right now. I'm living through a very challenging period of time. My faith is being tested, I'm being tried, I'm being battered about emotionally. And I wish I could go back and I could learn these lessons beforehand and have a good solid foundation before I encounter this situation. But here's where I am. What do I do? Well the answer is you need to go to people who actually do have a good solid foundation. People who are spiritually mature, people who are wise, people who love you, people who will speak the truth to you, people who will be objective about the issue. They're not going to be battered around by the emotional highs and lows. And you need to draw strength from those people. You need to let them speak the truth into your life. You need to let them open up the Word of God and teach you and show you and work through things with you, listen to your questions and cry with you and pray with you and encourage you. That reminds me of what's stated in Galatians chapter 6 It says, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of meekness, considering yourself lest you also be tempted. And then the next statement says, and bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. There are times that we need the church to correct us, and there are times that we need the church to shoulder the burdens that we are carrying. And so when we find ourselves in a situation where we cannot get ahead of the circumstance, We need to draw that strength from those who God has brought into our life. But if we're not in a situation like that, especially someone who is in those formative years of of being a brand new Christian, they're being discipled. Learn as much as you possibly can about God Dig into his word. Allow the word of God to minister richly to your soul. Every time that the church doors are open, be there so that you can hear the word of God being preached and taught. Take notes. Meditate on the Word of God. Dig into the scriptures yourself. Try to memorize Scripture. Read good solid books. I think about Ephesians chapter 6, he says that we're to put on the whole armor of God so that we will be able to withstand an evil day Well, Paul is encouraging people to put on the armor of God before the evil day so that they will stand in the evil day. And so that is my encouragement to you this morning. Wherever you find yourself, if you do not find yourself in these difficult and trying circumstances, Don't allow that to cause you to become complacent. Get into the Word of God. You need to spend time there. And if you're in the midst of this and you're getting battered around emotionally, you need to get around strong, godly, matured people. who love Christ and love you will speak the truth to you and help shoulder that burden with you. Do not neglect the gifts that God has given us through his church. Well I hope it gives you some things to think about this morning. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to reach out. I would love to be an encouragement to you any way that I can And if this you think would be a blessing to someone else, share it with them. And Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow as we dig into this text a little bit more. Have a blessed day. Bye now.