Good morning. Welcome to our final Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and I hope that you have a really great weekend. And the text that we've looked at this week is Luke 14. I'm going to go ahead and read it one more time. So Luke 14, verse number 7 says the following. And he put forth a parable to those which were bidden. When he marked How they chose out the chief rooms, saying unto them, When thou art bidden of any man to a wedding, sit not down in the highest room, lest a more honorable man than thou be bidden of him. And he that That bade thee, and him that come and him come and say to thee, Give this man place, and thou begin with shame to take the lowest rim. When thou makest a feast, call the poor. The maimed, the lame, the blind, and thou shalt be blessed, for they cannot recompense thee, for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just. Now as we think about This text, what we see ultimately being taught in these verses is that we are to follow Christ's example. And so in the same way that Christ uh would it would relate to people in this world Way we are to relate after his , example. And so we see that the teaching was given in a context, and that context understood several things. For instance, Christ was watching how people interacted. But it wasn't just him watching how people interacted. He understood the heart behind those interactions. Why, not just what, but why they did what they did. And he understood even more than just the heart behind it, the theological structure driving those interactions. These are people who believed that God accepted them because they were good, because they looked good. Because they followed rules. And because of that, they were very condescending, very proud. They looked down on other people. And this was coming out in the way that they interacted with other people. And so as an Instructions are very simple and very pointed. Do what I'm doing. And so I want to break it down like this. He's basically saying, number one, don't exalt yourself. Verse eight, When thou art bidden of any man to wedding sit not down in the highest room. A great picture of this would be what happens at dinner sometimes in people's homes where you have a whole lot of food up there and uh it just happens to be dessert time and you know each kid gets a bowl of ice cream and the one with the biggest bowl of ice cream is the one everybody's fighting over. Do not seek to exalt yourself. Number two, put others ahead of yourself. In verse ten he says, When thou art bidden, go and sit down in the lowest room of your own desire and of your own own will go and take the lower place and let someone else advance you. Let someone else say, no, that's not where you're supposed to sit. Come sit up here. No, you don't need to take that small bowl of ice cream. Take the bigger one. Of ice cream. That's the idea. And so don't exalt yourself. Put others ahead of yourself. Both the positive and the negative. Number three, do not use people to get what you want. In verse 12, he says, When thou make us the dinner. Or supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbors. He's not saying it's wrong for us to invite people that we love. His point is don't Invite people because of what you can get out of them. And when the Bible talks about friendship, a lot of times people thought of friends as being this pool of individuals that they could draw from in time of need. And so So he's saying don't invite people so that you get an invitation back because this is a very noble and noteworthy person. Then number four, don't disregard people when they're unable to advance your work. In verse 13, he says, When thou makest a feast, call the poor, the maim, the lame, and the blind. Don't disregard people because they can't give you what you want in life. life. And so his instruction is pointed. It's very simple. Follow my example. And I want to remind you that God's loving actions are rooted in his goodness, not because of us, but because of his goodness. And only God's children who are growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus are going to have the character to do this. It's only God's children will have that capacity to understand these things and will have the will and the heart to do it. And you say, well, why do you say that? I say that because of scripture Scriptures like this one. First John chapter 4. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God. God and knoweth God. He that loveth knoweth not, knoweth loveth not, knoweth not God, for God is love. And this was the was manifest of the love of God toward us because God sent his love only begotten into the son into the world that he that we might live through him. Now what did that verse tell you? Well if you love people and the way that the Bible is talking about here it's because you're you're Christian and because you're walking with God. Or 1 John 4 12. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us and his love is perfected in us. And the idea is that we will grow in grace And then in verses 16 and 19, God is love. He that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God and God in him. Herein is our love made perfect. So I think as we read passages like this, it should be very clear to us that it's only the Christian, and it's only the growing Christian, the focused Christian, the one who's thinking clearly. Clearly, living consistent with their position and actually living in the light of their worldview that's going to do this the way that they're supposed to. And so I leave you with this final thought. We must live with an anticipation of the resurrection. That's what he says when he emphasizes that they will be blessed in the resurrection of the just. They will be Recompensed in the resurrection of the just. And so I remind you of this text, First Corinthians fifteen. When this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this more Shall I put on immortality? Then shall be brought to pass the the saying that is written, Death will be swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, because this is true, my beloved brethren, that's who you are, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord for as much as Much as you know your labor is not in vain, the Lord. What's the point of the text? Somebody who understands the therefore is going to live in a lie of eternity. Ultimately, they're going to live with a healthy anticipation that makes them live practically in this fallen world. Well, I want to leave you this final thought. Have a wonderful weekend I hope that as you think about these things that we've talked about each day that they've encouraged you. If they have, take a moment to share that. Perhaps share some feedback. And uh hope to see many of you this Sunday, as we dig into the Word of God, we fellowship together as believers, and we uplift the Lord Jesus Christ. Have a blessed weekend, Lord willing. We'll meet again on Monday by now.