Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good Wednesday morning. And today's going to be a very interesting discussion because we're going to dig into the actual teaching that Christ gives. So yesterday we looked at the wisdom of Christ and we will look at his providence as well. But today we're going to focus in on the teaching side. What did he actually say? when these people came to him with the question. So let's turn our Bibles again to Luke chapter twenty, we'll read it and then dig into his teaching. It says And they watched him and sent forth spies, which should feign themselves just men, that they might take hold of his words. so they might deliver him under the power and authority of the governor. And they asked him, saying, Master, we know that thou sayest and teachest rightly, neither acceptest thou the person of any, but teachest the way of God truly. Is it lawful for us to give tribute to Caesar or no? But he perceived their craftiness and said unto them, Why tempt ye me? Show me a penny Whose image and superscription hath it? The answer and said, Caesar's. He said unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which be Caesar's, and unto God the things which be God's And they could not take hold of his words before the people. They marveled at his answer and held their peace. Now as we look at the actual teaching of Christ, I want you to notice carefully what he states in verse twenty five. Render unto Caesar qualification, the things which are Caesar 's and render unto God the things which be God 's. What you're seeing is that there are two duties that are being affirmed in this passage, and there's also a jurisdiction that is being articulated in this passage. Caesar is a man who we have duties to if we're living under his rule. God is the creator and we have obligations to him as the creator. But the obligations to God and to Caesar are bound by their jurisdictions, and this is very, very important. One jurisdiction is limited, and the other is unlimited. But before we get into that, I want you to notice how they framed this question. The question was framed as an either-or. Either you render to Caesar or you render to God. It can't be, you do both. This is the way that they're framing the question. But the way that they framed the question was completely ignored in the way that Christ answers the question. How you ask a question actually is very important. And questions can be asked with an agenda, and that's exactly what's happening here. I'll give you the very first question in the Bible, the very first question that came with an agenda, and that was in Genesis 3. Hath God said, You shall not eat of every tree in the garden? You will not die. God doth know in the day that you eat thereof, your eyes will be open. You shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. When Satan asked that question, he wasn't wanting information. He was trying to plant doubt. He was trying to use it to accomplish an agenda. It began with a bias. We could see another example of this in Deuteronomy chapter 29. Where people try to answer every question they can imagine. And what does the scripture say? There are some things that God doesn't answer And there are some questions he never addresses. What he has stated, that's what you should worry about. And so Deuteronomy twenty-nine he says the secret things belong to the Lord. But the things he's revealed belong to us. Why? So that we might do all the words of the law of God. God gives us everything we need to know, but not necessarily everything we want to know. And that's an important piece for us to think about here. A third passage that's important is a passage where they ask Christ a question about the resurrection. That is in Matthew 22 When Jesus answers their hypothetical situation that was meant to try to twist the issue and ultimately Back Jesus into a corner. He says, you err, you do not know the scriptures or the power of God. And so he's basically saying your hypothetical question is a waste of time because it's beginning with unbelief. And so let's go back to what the heart of your real question is. So when he answers the question, he answers it by setting these two duties beside one another, one with the other. It's a both and an ant. Duty one, obey human government. within the rightful jurisdiction. That's what he means when he says render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's. Limited jurisdiction is what he means by the things which are Caesar's. Not everything that Caesar demands necessarily falls under his jurisdiction. But what he demands rightly, you absolutely need to submit to it. That's what he's saying. And so we also see that as he does this, there's a general principle here. We see it in Romans, we see it in 1 Peter We see it in other passages, where God talks about our duty to human government and our duty to God side by side. He says, Let every soul be subject unto the higher power. There is no power but of God, the powers that be ordained of God. He is a minister of God to thee for good. Render therefore to all their due. Tribute to him tribute is due. Custom to custom. Fear to him, fear, honor to him, honor. Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. First Peter two What do these passages affirm? Our duty to human structures of government. But human structures of government that ultimately are ordained by God and are not in conflict with God's ultimate commands. What we see though when we deal with human government is that there is always potential for conflict. And this is not just true with government. It's true in lots of areas of authority structure. For instance, in Daniel 3, you have Nebuchadnezzar demanding that the people worship him. This is outside his jurisdiction. And so Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendago say, O King Nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful to answer you on this matter. If our God, whom we serve, chooses to deliver us, then we will be happy. But if he doesn't, we're not going to submit to your idols. That's what he says. Or in Acts 5. 29, Peter and the other apostles answer the Sanhedrin and say we ought to obey God rather than man. What does that show you? There is real jurisdiction, but it is limited jurisdiction. Human government is a divine institution. It derives its rightful authority from God. We should be honorable citizens. But we have a second duty that sits beside this. And that is a higher duty that not only sits beside But it actually is over. We are to obey God in everything. When he says rendering to God the things that are God's, we recognize that God has unlimited jurisdiction. There is no area that God would demand of us that we could say rightfully, well, it's not his jurisdiction. That would be true with human authority, but never with God. When he says, unto God what is God's, everything is God's. Psalm 145, Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. Thy dominion endureth throughout all generations. Daniel chapter four, all the inhabitants of the earth repute as nothing. He doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth none can stay his hand or say to him, What doest thou? What's the point? God has unlimited jurisdiction. And so we should give to God absolute, unreserved submission. No human institution or law is the supreme authority This is God's world. We are ultimately accountable to him. There are always limits to human authority. We should never obey human authority in disobedience to God's clear commands. Our obedience to government is ultimately a form of submission to God. And so I want to leave you with Christ's very simple teaching. You have obligations to human authorities, you have obligation to God. God is one with unlimited jurisdiction. We never have to ask the question, is this God's jurisdiction? We always say, trust and obey. When it comes to human authorities, we may have to ask that question. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.