Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. This is our Friday edition, the application final thoughts, and so I hope that you will spend a little time focusing in on what we've looked at the entirety of the week. as we condense it into some practical final thoughts. Again, we are in Luke chapter 21 and we're looking at verses 12 through 19. So if you have your Bible, please turn there. Let's read it together and then we'll look at some of those final thoughts. It says, But before all these, they shall lay their hands on us, or on you, and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and into the prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my namesake. And it shall turn to you for a testimony. Settle, therefore, in your hearts not to meditate before what you shall answer. For I'll give you a mouth and wisdom, which your adversary shall not be able to gainsay nor resist. And ye shall be betrayed both by parents and brethren and kinfolk and friends, and some of you they shall cause to be put to death. Ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake. But They shall not, there shall not an hair of your head perish. In your patience possess ye your souls. The final word that I want us to remember as we go into the application side is the word peace. We can and we must rest in his promise to preserve us against all threats. And this is an important part of the discussion we're looking at this week. In verses 18 and 19, he says, but Despite all those things that I said, not one hair of your head shall perish. In your patience possess ye your souls. Now there's two sides to that statement. The first is the present side, the protection side. There shall not an hair of your head perish. So he's emphasizing the fact that as we go through heartache and difficulty and persecution God protects us. But then there's a second side. There is the ultimate deliverance. Does God protect and insulate his children from every single potential situation? The answer is no But he says, in your patience possess ye your souls. The idea is, endure, and in the end you'll be saved. That's what he's talking about The two sides, the protection side, the deliverance side. And so I could explain it like this. He protects us. He actively, providentially protects us through all kinds of dangers we may interact with. We see his presence. He will never abandon us as his children, even when we are suffering. Especially when we are suffering. He gives us all the tools that we need to persevere. When he permits suffering, he always equips us so that we can rise above those things that we're encountering, so that we can endure and persevere through them. He uses this to cause us to grow. Everything that we experience is a tool in God's hands to cause us to develop maturity as his children. And then we have this eternal preservation. Every Christian is going to one day be delivered from this present evil world. and be saved into eternal glory. And so when we talk about those two aspects, the protection side and the ultimate salvation, these are the things that should be in the back of our minds. So after processing everything we've talked about this week, how do we apply the text in front of us? Well let me give you some thoughts. First of all, We need to realize we are living in the last days. By definition of the last days, the time from the ascension of Christ until his return, we are living in that time period. His return is imminent. We should be anticipating it at any moment. Secondly, we don't know when Christ is going to return But because his return is imminent, we must make sure we are ready for it. Are you ready for the return of Christ? Are you looking forward to that return? That's how we should respond to this. There's another side as well. Despite all the deep uncertainties, we can find real comfort. And he talks about a lot of practical aspects of that comfort. He reminds us he will always bring good out of evil. That's a comfort. He will always use suffering to reveal the quality of our faith to be genuine. Comfort. He will use it to show the world the power of real life in Christ. If a person is a genuine Christian, it's going to be demonstrated when he suffers. That's a comfort He'll open the door to proclaim the gospel through our suffering, not just despite our suffering, but literally through our suffering. That again is a comfort. He'll give us wisdom when we need it, when we face difficulties. Comfort. He will lift us up when we are abandoned. Every single one of those pieces is a comfort to us. So despite the deep uncertainties we have, real comfort in Christ. So I want to challenge you. Rest in his care. It is tender. Rest in his care that will insulate you from evil. Not all evil, but a lot of evil. Rest in his presence that will never abandon you when you are experiencing great heartache. Rest in those tools that he has given you that will cause you to endure suffering. Rest in his care as your father to cause you to draw close to him and to develop spiritual maturity. Rest in the future glory that you will enjoy as his child. James 5 captures this very well. Here's what it says. Be patient, therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it Until you receive the early and the latter reign. Be patient, establish your hearts, the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Grudge not against one another, brethren, lest you be condemned. Behold, the judge standeth before the door Take my brethren, the prophets, who have spoken in the name of the Lord for an example of suffering, affliction, of patience. Behold, we count them happy which endure. You've heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the end of the Lord. The Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercies. May God help us to be patient in light of his coming return. Have a blessed rest of your weekend. I hope to see many of you this Sunday. I hope that if you're not able to join us Sunday, to join us in the live stream. And then on Monday as we keep working our way through the passages of Scripture preaching through on Sundays. Have a blessed weekend, and Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday by now.