Good morning and welcome to our Tuesday anchored in the word morning reflection. This week we are in Ephesians chapter 4 again and we're looking at verses 1 through 6. And as we dig into this passage of Scripture, we're talking about the Christian's faithful walk. And we're discussing the issue of ministry. And the question is, what is the ministry that Paul talks about in this passage of Scripture? So let's go ahead and take our Bibles again and let's turn together to this text and read it and then dig into what is there. Here's what the scripture says. I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called, with all lowliness and meekness, with long suffering, forbearing one another in love Endeavoring to keep the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace. There is one body, one spirit, and to which you are called, one hope of your calling. And if we continue in the passage. Now, as I mentioned on the Sunday that I preached this passage, we're alliterating. And so today we're talking about the nature of Paul's ministry. What were some of the key marks of that ministry? Well, the first thing that we'll mention about it is that Paul talks about himself as a prisoner of the Lord, who is beseeching people to walk in a way that is consistent with their calling. Now, what do we draw from this one verse about the nature of his ministry? Well the first thing is we see that it was built on a foundation, and that foundation was solid. And we see in the context that foundation because of the word therefore. So as we look back at what Paul has said, there are several different things that he mentions that are priorities that he has communicated and they shape the way that he ministers to the church. For instance, in verse 1, or chapter 1, verse 3, he says that these people have been blessed with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. He emphasizes their union with Christ. In verses 4 and 5, he says that they have been chosen in him before the foundation of the world to be holy. and without blame. They've been predestined unto adoption of children. This is focusing on the ultimate end of the believer. And this has been established by God. It is firm. It is solid. They can rest in it. We see in chapter 2, verse 1, You as he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins, you've been regenerated. So these are reasons that Paul is ministering the way that he does He knows that these people are united to Christ. He knows that they're alive in Christ. He knows their ultimate end. We could also add to that that He understands that God is working in them. They are his workmanship. Chapter 2, verse 2, verse 10. He says, we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, unto good works. So this is the foundation he stands on. And on top of all that, he's praying. And he believes that God answers prayer. Chapter 3 verse 20, unto him who is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us. So the foundation of his ministry, that would be the things that we've just mentioned here. We see a second mark of his ministry, and that is that it was a vulnerable ministry. He said, I am the prisoner of the Lord. And when he says he's the prisoner, he's saying that my identification with Christ has cost me something. Because I'm a Christian, because people know that I'm a Christian, my associate with him, that is why I'm in prison. He's also identifying with the church And if we go back to the passage in Acts where it talks about Paul being imprisoned, we see that the reason he was imprisoned is because of a man who was from Ephesus that traveled with Paul. And Paul is accused of bringing that man into the court that was not permitted to Gentiles. And so it's not just his association with Christ, it's just this association with the Gentile Christians at Ephesus that have cost them something. And then it's his commitment to actually do what is right as he purposes to follow Christ that will cost him as well. So we see that the ministry's foundation, we see its vulnerability, we also see the pastoral nature of this ministry. And we see this in the phrase, I beseech you. Now what does that word beseech mean? Well, it's a rich term that has a lot of color to it. And so the first thing is it means he's teaching them, he's instructing them. And so beseeching has an instructive element to it. That's very pastoral. He's also talking about the prayer side. He has been interceding for these individuals. And so he's not just coming to them with teaching, but he's coming to them with teaching that he has prayed over. And so there is a humility before God in that. We also see the concept of encouragement. And this is a really big part of this word, beseech. It's to come alongside somebody. It's to encourage them, to lift them up. One final aspect is exhortation. There are constructive confrontations that take place. when you beseech someone. And so we can see the foundation. We can see the background of what Paul believes that the church is doing. We can see what it cost him. And we can see that it's pastoral. One other thing I want to mention is that it connects the position and the theology to the practice. What I mean by that is that he's saying you have a calling, now you need to walk according to the calling that you have. That's position and practice. And so we have the word walk because this is indicating a long-term thing. We have the word calling that's emphasizing who he is and the ultimate end or destination that he'll experience. because of what God has called him to. And so he connects practice and position. And so when we think about the m the mint the ministry of the Apostle Paul, that should be a pattern that we follow, deeply pastoral, built on the gospel, and ultimately um it is driving towards these things. that he says at the end, whereas he is beseeching uh that they do what is right. Alright, so some things to think about this morning. I hope that that if you have any questions, you'll you won't hesitate to reach out. and I can dialogue with you on that and that we would pattern ourselves after this kind of a ministry. Theology, position, practice. Have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through this passage. Bye now