Well good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word morning reflection for this year. And uh it's been a great season, I believe our fourth season of Anchored in the Words. We actually started in 2020 And then from that point on, we've we've basically done full year series. And I look forward to digging into the book of Ephesians with you in the new year But this passage of scripture that we are ending our season on is, I think, one of the one of the greatest passages in all of Scripture because it it articulates in very simple terms. the the elements that are that are necessary for us to understand in order to have faith in Christ. This is the heart of the gospel. This is how a person is reconciled to God. And so this is a very, very important season, uh closing to our season, an important topic. So let's go and go ahead and pick up our Bibles one more time. And read it, and then we will look at some final thoughts of application that I hope will be an encouragement to you as you think about Christmas and the new year. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, we should be holy and without blame before him in love, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ Himself. according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved, in whom we have redemption through his blood. the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace, wherein he hath abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence. As we think about this wonderful text of scripture that praises the Father for his role in our salvation, praises the Son for his role in our salvation, praises The Spirit. We didn't read that part, but also praises the work of the Spirit on our behalf and our salvation. How do we apply these truths? How do we think about this in a practical way? I'm going to give you four simple things to remember as we close out this Anchored in the Word series. The first one is this. We desperately need gospel clarity. Christians must understand the gospel. We need to affirm the truth. And we need to articulate the basics of the gospel faithfully I think there are lots and lots of Christians that are truly born again. Their faith is in Christ. But if you ask them to articulate the gospel, it's kind of sad, but it's true. What they would say would be very sloppy, would be very confusing. It would be it would be difficult for someone to hear that and go, I know exactly how to respond to the gospel and be saved. And and it doesn't mean that they don't believe in the gospel, it doesn't mean they aren't saved, but what it does mean is they haven't really thought through the basics and the details very carefully. We need to do that. We need to articulate man's problem. We are image bearers and God loves us and we have value, but we've sinned against God. God is holy, God is righteous, God is just. He must punish sin. He cannot ignore it. It would be unjust. It would compromise his character if he were to just ignore our sin. And so God had a plan of redemption because we would have no hope if it wasn't for that plan. And that plan is rooted in his love. Rooted in his grace and rooted in his desire to demonstrate the greatness of his grace in his plan of redemption. And so Christ goes to the cross, he dies in our behalf. He dies instead of us, he dies in our place through his death and through the shedding of his blood and through bearing our guilt. and and receiving the justice of God against our sin, we can be justified because our sin is removed And we can be credited, imputed with righteousness from Christ. He rises from the dead, triumphing over death. And so we have forgiveness and cleansing, and we are justified all in Him. We've got to articulate the gospel clearly. We've got to articulate what it means to repent and to believe. We've got to articulate what we're trusting in. Secondly. Genuine faith. Genuine faith in Christ has to rest on an accurate understanding of the gospel. A child can place their faith in Christ. If they understand I'm a sinner. I need to be saved. Christ died for my sins and rose from the dead. I believe that. And I want to be saved from my sin and reconciled to God. A child can understand that. But we need to go from the basic childlike faith to a fuller, more matured understanding of those concepts. And as we grow as Christians, we need to make sure that what we are resting in is in fact the truth. Sometimes as people get older, They start realizing, you know, I didn't really understand the importance of the resurrection. I didn't understand the nature of the cross. I didn't understand how serious my sin is. And so we need to grow in our understanding of those things. Third, worship. God saved us to worship him forever and to enjoy him while we do it. And it's the wisdom of God that came up with this wonderful plan of redemption He purposed in himself to accomplish it. His love revealed the gospel to us. And when we think about how God has worked for us and in us and what he has given to us and what we have in him, We should have hearts that are stirred up with passion for Him. We should overflow with praise and gratitude and worship to God. And lastly, we should be comforted. By understanding the basis of our salvation, by understanding what Christ has done for us, it should cause us to rest, not be restless. It should cause us to be comforted, not fearful. It should cause our troubled consciences to rest in him. And when we think about Romans chapter 8, it says, who can lay any charge to God's elect? It is God who justifies. He he sent his own son. How shall he not with him also freely give us all things? No one can throw an accusation at you and say, You're no Christian because Christ has dealt with your sin. And it's been nailed to the cross, and it's been paid in full, and it's done. That should bring us comfort. We are secured in him. And we shouldn't be striving to earn something that we could never earn. We should be living with gratitude and joy, with an abundant life that overflows with spirit-filled work. And so may the Lord help us to take these things from this text. Gospel clarity, genuine faith, worship, comfort. It's a lot to think about. I hope you have a wonderful weekend as we prepare for the Christmas holiday. I hope you have a great Christmas holiday, especially if you're traveling. Pray you have safety. And then we, as we enter into the new year, I pray that it'll be a great time of reflection, a time of purpose to live in a way that's consistent with who we are in Christ. And I look forward to God willing. digging into our next anchored in the word series. Have a blessed weekend, a blessed holiday, a good rest of your year. Bye now.