Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope that you've had a great week. Hope that the text that we've been dealing with has really ministered richly to your heart and that each of these episodes together have been a great encouragement. If you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and let's all turn together one more time this week to Psalm 42, and we will read through this passage together as we look at caring for a distressed heart. And we're looking at application number two. So we've broken down application into two days. And let's look at the text. Here's what it says. As the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my meat day and night, while they say continually unto me, Where is thy God? When I remember these things I pour out my soul in me, for I had gone in the multitude. I went with them to the house of God, with the voice of joy and praise, with a multitude that kept holy day Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise Him for the help of His countenance Now, as we've mentioned throughout the week, there are several applications that we find in this passage of Scripture. And the piece that we really focused in on yesterday was the statement, Hope thou in God. I shall yet praise him who is the help of my countenance and my God. This morning what I'd like us to do is break this down by looking at how there is a New Testament parallel to that statement found in Psalm 42 that says, Hope thou in God. And the answer to that is what we find in Ephesians chapter 6, verses 14 through 17 in the armor of God. When we talk about the armor of God, it tells us that the way that we stand against the wiles of the devil is to take the whole armor of God and to put it on. And I'd like to move piece by piece through the instruments that are mentioned in that text and to see how they relate to this concept of hoping in God. The first thing that we see in this Christian armor that we're to put on is that we are to have our loints girt about with truth The idea is that we are be to be prepared for the struggle that we're going to encounter with a thoroughly biblical worldview. The picture that we have of the soldier is that when they go into battle, they're to take that skirt that they're wearing, I know that's not the word they would have used, but their robe, and they would roll that robe up into their belt, and this would give them the ability to be able to move about freely. and not to stumble in battle over the long flowing robe that they were wearing. The idea is prepare yourself for battle. And you prepare yourself for battle by truth. This is why a biblical worldview is so very, very important. Do we understand who God is? Do we understand a correct view of ourselves? Do we understand the nature of the world that we that we're living in? And do we understand the position that we have in Christ? Those are the kinds of things that we're talking about. This is preparation for the battle. The second instrument or piece of armor that we're told to put on is the breastplate of righteousness. And this could be talking about. a righteousness that is imputed to us, as in the the righteousness that we're justified on the basis of, or he could be talking about the practical righteousness that is flowing out of our position in Christ Really, there's an argument to be made for both of them, but the argument that I've made when I'm dealing with this passage is I think he's talking about putting on a right walk that is consistent with our position. When a person does not walk consistent with the position that they have, there are problems that are going to flow out of that incorrect walk. And when a person is walking consistent with their position in Christ, There are many blessings that flow from that kind of consistency. The third thing that's mentioned that we are to put on. is that we are to put on the stabilizing, we're to put have our feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. And the idea of footwear is going to give us stability when we're standing somewhere. The idea is that we are to have a stabilizing confidence that there is peace between us and God, and this peace is established through Christ. We've been talking about the issue of the cross on Wednesday night. And so this past Wednesday, when we're talking about the cross, we talk about the fact that the cross establishes peace. between God and man. Christ literally bore our sins, was punished in our place, and because the just uh took on sin for us, the just for the unjust, he did this to bring us to God. And so if I have questions in my mind as to whether or not there is peace between me and God, and I'm afraid that I'm under God's wrath and condemnation, As long as I'm in such a position, I'm not going to have stability. And so this is part of what he means by hoping in God. The idea is remind yourself that there's peace between you and God because of what Christ has done for you. Then we come to another piece, and that is the shield of faith. And I love this analogy because when he talks about the shield, there were two kinds of shields. that Roman soldiers would have used. One was a shield that you carried in your hand, and another was a massive shield that you would have locked in place with others that you were going into battle with. And the first analogy is not the one that he's thinking about. It's actually the second, where we are to have locked shields. And so the the the picture that is being used here is we are being edified by the community of believers that we are in, the local church. And so as we go to church and we interact with other Christians, we draw strength and help from them because their faith strengthens our faith. You even see this in Psalm 42, where we see that progression of hope in God, I will yet praise him as the help of his countenance. And then I will hope in God who has the help of my countenance. And then he says it a second time. You can see that corporate aspect to this where the psalmist is drawing strength from other believers who are stronger than him in that moment. That's what we mean by taking on the shield of faith. And then he talks about the helmet of salvation. And this really gets into that issue of hoping in God. He's talking about our future hope, the glorification that is promised for us. We are encouraged by being reminded of the final salvation that we will have. This is an unshakably secure position. And we remind ourselves of that when we begin to stubble and we are disheartened in the Christian life. And then the last piece that he talks about is the sword of the Spirit, the Word of God. We literally take back ground by speaking the truths of Scripture to ourselves and others And so as we think about these various pieces of armor, we think about having a biblical worldview that's pictured and having that belt that we tuck. that robe into, or we think about walking consistent with the position that we have, or putting on the helmet of salvation, or picking up the sword of the Spirit, the Word of God. All of these Our New Testament analogies used to talk about how we prepare ourselves for battle. And so I want to ask this simple question for you as we go into the weekend. Are you hoping in God, who is the help of our countenance? Are you speaking the truth to yourself, reminding yourself of who God is? It's very, very important that as we deal with these difficult seasons of life that we find ourselves in, that that is how we respond to God. We are to hope in Him alone. for he is the help of our countenance when we are cast down. I hope that you have a wonderful weekend and uh hope to see many of you on Sunday as we s as we gather together to worship the Lord as a body. If you have any questions, please feel free to reach out. If you think that this would be an encouragement to someone else, share that please. And uh if not, uh Lord willing, we'll meet again on Sunday or Monday as we dig into the next passage of scripture that we're dealing with on our Sunday mornings. Have a blessed weekend. Bye now.