Good morning. Welcome to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And I hope that you've had a really good weekend. And the text that we're going to deal with is one that I hope will be extremely encouraging and helpful to you. In fact, we're going to look at a balance, a blend of concepts. One would be the negative, the fact that in the last days they're going to be tumultuous days, but then on the positive How God brings us comfort in the midst of that challenging backdrop. So I hope that you will join us this week as we dig into this passage of scripture. And we work our way through some very personal and challenging situations that um we could find ourselves in at some point in our lives. And perhaps maybe even someone who's following these um anchored in the word series uh lessons maybe is in a situation where you need to hear some of the things that we're going to talk about. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn together to Luke chapter 21. We're going to read verses 12 through 19 and then dig into the first part of this. And here's what it says. Before all these things they shall lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and into prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my namesake, and it shall turn to you for a testimony. Settle therefore in your hearts, not to meditate before what you shall answer. For I will give you a mouth of wisdom, which all are your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist. And ye shall be betrayed both by parents and brethren and kinfolk and and friends, and some of you shall they cause to be put to death Ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake, but there shall not a hair of your head perish, and your patience possess ye your souls So as we read this passage of Scripture, I'd summarize it in the following way. First of all, it's showing us that despite intense struggles, the kind that we'll face in the last days, God's people have several layers of hope. And so as we dig into the passage, we'll see God's desire for us is to endure persecution. But to do it by resting and his care. So the question is how do we do that? Well, the first thing we'll notice is how the passage is very realistic about this issue of trouble. Realize in the last days they will be tumultuous days. We talk about tumultuous. Notice how he puts it in verse 12 It says they'll lay their hands on you, they will persecute you, they'll deliver you to synagogues and into prisons, you'll be brought before kings and rulers. For my name's sake. When he writes these things, he's talking about ordinary struggles. Now he's going to go deeper than that, but we know that living in a fallen world isn't easy. Job fourteen, man is born man that is born of woman is a few days and full of trouble. Ecclesiastes one fourteen, I've seen all the works that are under the sun. Behold, all his vanity is empty. Vexation of spirit. It brings turmoil and trouble and struggle to our hearts. And this talks about the kinds of internal struggles people experience. physical struggles, we get health issues, interpersonal struggles, difficulty with other people, and just struggles of of dealing with nature. Think about You know, people have had terrible natural disasters this past year. We've heard about terrible flooding out in Texas. We've heard about tornadoes, and there are tremendous tragedies that are a result of living in a fallen world. So there are ordinary struggles that are hard, but he's going even deeper than that because he's talking about the extraordinary struggles that will take place in the last days. and then in the time leading up to the to the return of Christ. And so when we say the last days, he means this period of history from the time that Christ ascends up into heaven. to when he will return. And his return is imminent. We should be looking for it. And so how does the scripture discuss or talk about the the last days, that time that is being referred to. Well in verse 1 of 2 Timothy 3 it says, in the last times, days perilous times will come. Or in 2 Peter 3, know at first that there shall come in the last days scoffers walking after their own lusts. So these are going to be tumultuous days, not just this period of time we're living in, but especially that time right before the second coming of Christ during the tribulation. This is that portion of the tribulation where there are signs of his coming, and his coming is very soon. In Matthew twenty four it says, Then shall there be great tribulation, such as has not been since the beginning of the world, up to this time. No never, or ever shall be, and except those days should be shortened, there shall no flesh be saved, but for the elect's sake those days shall be shortened. And so he's talking about extraordinary trouble And a big portion of that is because of a person's identification with Christ. He uses the phrase for my namesake to refer to the fact that the tumultuous days that you're living in will be especially difficult for you if you're a Christian. And so there are reasons for that. There's the distinction between the world and the believer. Matthew 5. Blessed are you when men revile you and persecute you and say, all men are evil against you falsely for my name's sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad. Great is your reward in heaven. Now, why is why are these people blessed? Well, it's because they're actually identified with Christ. Why are they suffering? It's because they're identified with Christ. And so that distinction is going to create trouble. Or another passage of Scripture, 2 Timothy 3, all that will live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. Living after a godly pattern in a fallen world where people are rejecting the gospel and rejecting the church and rejecting the truth in fact is going to create conflict. And then 1 Peter 3. If you suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye. Be not afraid of terror, neither be troubled, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Submit to God supremely. in the midst of trouble, and if you do that, you will at times face trouble. And so I want to encourage you that even though this is very negative, it is it's very transparent And the reason that he is speaking transparently is not to make us discouraged or frustrated, but to help us to look at life realistically. And if we look at life realistically, then we will have the tools to pick up and actually overcome the challenges that we're interacting with. So I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage of Scripture, as we talk about the tools that God has provided, His comfort, His care, His presence. But we've got to look at the negative, not just the positive. Have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow, and I hope that you'll join us as we work our way through this text. Bye now.