Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And as we always do on Fridays, we spend time in application. So today what I want to do is ask you some questions and give you some thoughts to think about and then give you a final exhortation. So let's go ahead and turn in our Bibles one more time to Ephesians chapter 2. We're focusing on 8 to 10, but we've been reading 4 to 10 just to get the context. Here's what the text says. But God who is rich in mercy. For his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace he are saved, and hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works lest any man should boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. Now as we think about everything we've talked about this week, I want to start with this first very important question. When you stand before God someday, when I stand before God someday, when we stand before God someday, what will be our hope? What will be our confidence? Ask yourself that question. When I stand before the judgment day, Christ on the judgment day, what's my confidence going to be in? If your confidence rests in anything other than Christ alone, you have a problem. And that problem is you're not born again Because salvation comes through faith alone in the work and person and righteousness of Christ. If it's in baptism, church membership, the money that you give, doing good things, kind things, general good behavior. You need to realize that none of those things have the ability to reconcile you to God. It's not through our works, not through our traditions, not through our money that we have access to God. While all those things are good, if understood in the proper way, they have no power to save us from sin. They can't change who we are. They can't remove our past. They can't wash away our sin. They can't give us a right standing before God. They can't satisfy the just demands of the law. And so when we stand before God, if our confidence is in anything but Christ alone, we have a problem. We need to recognize that salvation comes one way. It is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, and only he gets the glory, not us. Second question I have for you this morning. Is this. When you experience moments of weakness, assuming you're a Christian, and you know, we're gonna have times that we go through this. Let's say we have doubts. Where do we go for confidence? When we're shaken, when we're troubled, when things aren't right in our heart, in our soul, where do we go to find comfort and strength on this issue of the gospel? I want to give you the simple thoughts to encourage you. Number one, focus on the nature of salvation. It is all of God's grace, and it is free. If you are in some way shaken because you feel like you haven't measured up, then that means you need to get back to thinking about the nature of the gospel. It is all of God's grace. It is free. Secondly, focus on the basis of that salvation. It's all in the work of Christ. Not my work, not your work, Christ's work. Thirdly, focus on the simplicity of what it means to put your faith in Christ. You say, well, what is that? How can I remind myself of the simplicity of faith alone in Christ? Let me give you some things to think about. Number one Ask yourself, do you know the facts of the gospel? Do you know what Christ did for you? Do you know who Christ is? Do you know what the Bible says about how salvation is made available to you? Do you know the facts of the gospel? If you don't Well then you're not trusting in it because your faith has to have a real object. Secondly. Have you ever felt the weight of your sin? Have you ever desired to be reconciled to God? The question is, where did that come from? Well, it came from the work of God, the Spirit of God, working and drawing you to Himself. And so if you understand the gospel and you've felt the weight of your sin and you've desired to be reconciled to God, there's a third question you need to ask. Have you ever called on the Lord to save you? Has there been a time that you've understood the facts and from the heart placed your faith in Christ? If the answer is yes, you're saved. And those doubts are not rooted in the Bible, but they're rooted in something else. And so it's important for us to recognize this These are the elements of genuine faith in Christ. And the Bible says, by grace you're saved through faith, not of yourselves, the gift of God, not of works as any man should boast. You can be confident you're saved if you've placed your faith in Christ. Third thing I want to mention here is that we should consider the evidence of the Spirit's work inside of us. If you're in a position where you have felt the conviction of sin, the comfort of the Spirit, you listen to a sermon, And and and you feel the weight of that sermon and you desire to serve the Lord. And there are genuine godly desires that you have in your heart. And you feel genuine conviction over sin. You've understood the gospel. You place your faith in Christ as one who has felt the weight of sin and a desire to be reconciled to God, and you also see the evidence of the Spirit of God working in you, then don't doubt that you're saved. You belong to the Lord. The Holy Spirit is the down payment that reminds us that everything else that we've received from Christ is not yet fully experienced, it's coming. And we can trust him until that day. So if you're shaken, go back to the basics. Third question I have for you is this. When you think about your salvation, who gets the glory? It's possible for a person who's truly saved to get off base in how they look when it comes to the emphasis If you ask them to explain the gospel, they'll explain it clearly. If you ask them if you ever place your faith in Christ, they can tell you when it happened. But when it comes to the way that they practically live, they do not live like God gets all the glory and they don't. And if that's the case, then there needs to be a shift in thinking for that believer. It's all of God's grace. It's not of ourselves. It's a gift. A gift from God. And it's not of works. We do not have any right to boast in it. Our only boast is Christ. And Christ alone. And so I leave you with a final encouragement or challenge. When you think about this issue of the gospel, rejoice in the greatness of your salvation. If you've never placed your faith in Christ, today's the day you should do that. Reach out to me if you have any questions. I would love to be an encouragement any way possible. I hope you have a wonderful weekend, and Lord willing we'll see many of you on Sunday. Bye now.