Good morning and welcome to our Thursday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. As we've been working our way through this passage of Scripture, we've looked at the pain that's experienced by sin. And we've looked at uh the comfort that David found. We we see that the scriptures um point us to the fact that God is trustworthy. And what does David find? A renewed perspective as he looks at God. Well this morning what I want us to look at is the concept of hope. What I mean by hope is there is a comfort or consolation that we have that in fact the gospel provides everything that we need. to be forgiven, cleansed, and reconciled to God. And David is going to talk about that in this passage of Scripture. So if you have a Bible, turn there please and let's look at Psalm 51 together and then look at David's hope or his comfort, his consolation. It says, Have mercy upon me, O God, according unto thy loving kindness. According unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquities. And cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against thee, thee only have I sinned, and done this evil in thy sight, that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest. And clear when thou judgest. Behold, I was shapen in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Behold, thou desirest truth in inward parts, and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. The word we're going to focus on today is hope. What was David's hope? What was his consolation? Well the answer is found in these verses in a few statements. The statement in verse 1 says, have mercy on me according to thy loving kindness. Important word. According to the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgression. David is focusing in on two great comforts of forgiveness. The first comfort that he's going to say is the word according to your loving kindness. Now that word loving kindness is a covenant-oriented word, and it talks of God's faithfulness to his word and the promises that he's made. I'm going to develop this a little bit later as we work into this discussion. The second statement is it's according to the multitude of your tender mercies. Now loving kindness is emphasizing God's faithfulness to his word. Mercy is emphasizing God's compassion toward those who are in desperation. And so those are the two things that David is focusing in on as he thinks of his hope or his consolation. His desire for comfort is built on those two realities. One, God is faithful. God has promised God does not change. That's number one. Number two, he is merciful. He is tender toward his people. He's even tender towards his enemies. If God would be tender towards his enemy, how much more would he be tender towards his own children? You say, well, what is he getting at? Well, this is what he's getting at. God has promised he's going to send a redeemer. And here is David as an Old Testament saint as he goes and he gives his sacrifices. as he thinks about the promises that God has made for Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, all the way down, he believes that God is going to send the Redeemer. And he knows that he needs the Redeemer to come because the Redeemer will be the basis of his forgiveness. The second thing is that this promise and God's covenant faithfulness are what David is resting all of his comfort in. If God had not promised, he'd have no comfort. If God was not faithful to his word, he'd have no comfort. But God has promised. God does not change. God does keep his word. Therefore, David has hope. The third thing is though the promises had not yet been fulfilled, David knew that God was going to do what he said. He knew that God was going to deal with David and could deal with David as if it had already been accomplished because God is not going to lie. And this is an interesting concept for us to think about in the Old Testament. God dealt with sinners as forgiven, though the payment for sin was not yet made. And so he forgave them on the basis of credit. And he, being the one who has extended the credit, is the one who's going to ultimately take the burden to pay the price down the road. In fact, that's exactly what's being talked about in Romans chapter 3. where it says that God was demonstrating his righteousness through the forbearance of transgressions that were in the past. When Christ goes to the cross and he dies in our place and he's punished for our sins, Christ is demonstrating that God was righteous in the Old Testament when he passed over sin because he knew that he would actually deal with sin at the cross once and for all. And so what's David doing? David's saying, I believe this, and I'm resting in it, and I'm looking forward to that day. That's what David is saying. He knew that God would one day blot out his transgressions. And so God is dealing with him as one who is already forgiven, even though the forgiveness, the basis of that forgiveness will come down the road. And so what is David's comfort? It's actually the cross. Not the cross that has come, but the crop the prop the cross that will come. And his confidence that the cross would come was based on God's promise to his word. And so as we think about this passage of scripture, we're reminded that the key to comfort and forgiveness is the cross. You say, well, we aren't looking forward to the cross. It's already taken place. How do we find comfort Glad you asked that question. The answer is in 1 John 1. In 1 John 1, it tells us that we look back at the cross and when we sin. We look at that cross and we say, God, you have forgiven me on the basis of that. Listen to what it says. If we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us from all sin. Now that's not a blood that's continuing to be f to flow. It's a blood that flies a blood that was shed on the cross once and for all. And that blood that was shed on the cross once and for all is the basis of our cleansing. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. The truth is not in us. But If we confess our sins, he's faithful. That means he'll do it every time. He's just, he's in no way compromising his justice to forgive us our sins and to what? Cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And so when we have sinned and we feel the weight of that sin and the guilt of that sin and our conscience has been compromised because of our sin. We need to in our humble condition look to God and say, God, I remind myself again. I admit that I'm a sinner, but the cross has dealt with my sin, and I accept your forgiveness and your cleansing on the basis of that cross. Forgive me, cleanse me, you have forgiven me You have cleansed me. You have restored me. The cross dealt with it. When we remind ourselves of what Jesus has done for us, we are reminding ourselves that He's faithful and just to forgive us. sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And praise God he has done that and will continue to do that until the day that we meet him in glory. I hope that gives you some things to think about this morning. If you've stumbled, turn to God. Confess your sin. Remind yourself of the cross. and live in the light of the forgiveness that you have in Christ. Have a blessed rest of your morning. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts. Bye now.