Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our second Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection for the Week. And we are in Luke chapter 14 again today. And we're looking at verses 15 through 24, and we're talking about God's God's grace and man's folly and how man rejects what God has made available to him. And so we will look at this passage again today. Let's go ahead and read there. or turn our Bibles to that section of scripture. Let's read it together and look at the privileged who have access to God's word and how they respond to it. So here's what the scripture says. And when one of them sat at meat with with him, he heard these things, and he said unto him, Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God. Then said he unto him, And they all with one consent Let's skip to the end it says, And the Lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be For I say unto you that none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper. Now this morning I want us to focus on the response of those who were Privileged to have received an invitation to this dinner. And when we say a dinner, it is a wedding feast. And it's important for us to understand a little bit about the culture. Of the time that Jesus is speaking about in the illustration that's being used. So, first of all, let's look at the text again. In verse 16, it says, Then said he unto them, A certain man made a Great supper and bade many, and sent servants at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come, all things are now ready. And they all with one consent began to make Excuses. Now, when we read those verses, I want us to observe a couple of simple things about the text. The first is this: someone planned a great banquet. And in this passage, it is more than likely referring to an invitation to a wedding feast. And the second thing we see is that these people received invitations Now, if someone was going to uh throw a large banquet for a wedding, the way that they would handle it in those days, similar to what we do in our day. sense that when someone's going to get married, usually after they've gotten engaged, they send out invitations to friends, family members, people that they'd like to come to the wedding, but they have a date that they say is going to be the time and then they the people are supposed to respond and say, well we're coming or we're uh regrettably unable to come. That's the idea of the way we do it in our culture. Well in those days It was a little bit different because the timing of the the event was a little bit undetermined. In the sense that someone was preparing for a feast And then when the day came that the invited could would come, there would be a second invitation to say, all right, you've been invited. Now it's time to come. And so these invitations Were sent out, and when the people were called back after the invitation to come, the fact is they did not respond the same way that they should have. The people who were invited Rejected the invitation. When they sent out that call, all right, it's time to come, they said no. But they didn't all say say no the same way. Each one excused There gave an excuse for why they couldn't come, but the excuses were ultimately the same. The the reason that I say that is because with When he states it, he says, they all made excuse. They excused themselves. And what did they all have in common? Well, what they had in common is that their excuse was ultimately a rejection and viewed as an insult. Some people one person says, well I need to go and buy or I went and bought some land and since I went and bought some the land I need to go and I need to see the land. land Another person said, well I bought these these animals, this yoke of oxen, and I need to go and I need to try them, examine them, see how strong they are, what they're able to accomplish. Another person said, well I've recently gotten married and I need to spend time with my wife, so I can't come. Now, what do they all have in common? What they all have in common is at the root, they're saying no. Okay? And for the person that buys the land, to him his excuse is acceptable. To the one who's bought the animals, to him his excuse is acceptable. And to the one who's been recently married, to him it's acceptable. But to the one who has created the banquet and sent out the invitations and called them to come, it is not acceptable. It's considered a deep insult And so what we see in these verses is an illustration about the fact that our highest priority needs to be God. Not the temporal things of life. In fact, this past Sunday we really hammered out this point as we dealt with the next section of the text. And so what we see in the context Of these verses is that Jesus says, you must prioritize me and eternity and the kingdom of God above everything. For instance, in verse 26. six the text we dealt with this past Sunday, he says, If any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters Now, when we dealt with this passage of Scripture, we saw that this is not about Jesus encouraging people to have animosity. Towards family. It's about priority. He's saying if there's a if there's a conflict between a parent or a spouse or a child and what God says says what God says is highest priority. And we don't live in a shame honored society like these people lived in. But the fact is that if you put something ahead of your family Maybe your father, your mother, an uncle, an aunt, uh, someone who was very close to you relationally, that was considered a huge insult. And so that's why He uses this term hate because he is comparing and contrasting the allegiance of our allegiance to God and our allegiance to family. Another passage First uh excuse me, Luke 1433 says, Whoever he be that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. Again, what are we talking about? Priority So it leads us to a final question. What do we take away from the study this morning? What we take away from the study this morning is that we must be very cautious that we do not allow Temporal relationships, family relationships, or temporal pursuits to step between us and our ultimate allegiance to God Himself. He must be our highest priority priority and any kind of uh we could say excuse that we offer and it may be a well-crafted excuse it may be very compelling in our minds it It is an excuse that to God says I'm not first and that's a problem. He is to be our highest priority. And so I challenge you this morning, whatever is going on in your your day, make sure that the highest priority of all is God Himself. Well it gives us some things to think about this morning. I hope that you'll you'll you'll take some time to reflect on that. Look inside and say, am I really prioritizing God first? If there's been a challenge, you take a moment to share that. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Have a blessed day. Bye now.