Good morning, welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and I'd like to wish you a happy Independence Day. And so thankful for our country, thankful for the Freedoms that we have. And the passage that we're going to deal with here and what we're going to talk about, I think actually it's a great thing for us to talk about on a day that we remote Mind that we are reminded that in God's mercy and grace He raised up this nation um almost 250 years ago, uh just under that. And um we today have so many privileges because of the time that we live in and also the country that we live in. And um it's it's important also for us to consider the fact that as a people, uh we really are not who we used to be as a nation and we should pray for our nation and this text I think will be an encouragement to us on some level. So we are in Luke chapter 13. We're looking at verses 31 to 35 and we are marveling at the depths of God's grace and we're looking at the historic setting. So um or we're looking at it this statement And other places, what we've been digging into. So, Luke chapter 13, verses 31 through 35, the text says the following: The same day there came of the Pharisee saying unto him, Get thee out and depart hence, for Herod will kill thee. And he said unto them, Go ye and tell that fox, Behold, I kill I cast out devils, I do cures, and today and tomorrow, and the third day I shall be perfected. Nevertheless, I must walk today and tomorrow and the day following, for it cannot Be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killest the prophets and stonest them that are Sent unto thee, how often I would have gathered thy children together as an hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and ye would not. Behold, your house is left unto you Desolate. Now, we talked about this theme of God's grace and his forbearance in the light of the fact that He is just and holy and He will And so yesterday we looked at it within the text itself. This morning, what I'd like us to do is consider in other scriptures. And this this is a topic that we could just go to an unbelievable Number of examples of God's forbearance and grace, but I just wanted to select three that I think are fairly significant. The first is the repentance of Nineveh And in Jonah chapter 1, we see that the word of the Lord came to Jonah, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it, for the wickedness of it is come. Before me. Nineveh was a very wicked city. It was known for its brutality. It was known for its abuse of its neighbors. And it conquered a massive portion of massive region of that area by brutal force. And so when God comes to Jonah and tells him to go to Nineveh, that is the last place that Jonah would like to go. And you could even say that it was an extension of God's grace just by sending a Jewish prophet to that place. And then in verses 10, uh 5 to 9 in chapter 3, and we know the story. Leading up to chapter 3, Jonah runs from the Lord, he's swallowed by a fish, he repents in the belly of the fish, and then he's fit back up on the land. And he goes and it says that the people of Nineveh believed God and they proclaimed a fast and put on sackcloth and they said, This is fascinating. Who can tell if God will turn and repent and Turn away from his fierce anger that we perish not. And says, and God saw their works that they turned from their evil ways, and it repented him of the evil that he had said he would do. Do unto them, and he did not do it. And what does this show you? God's grace. God showed grace to the people who humbled themselves. I think of And so as these people humbled themselves before God with no promise that if they didn't know, I think that's a good idea. It he would spare them, he shows them grace. But then notice how Jonah responds. It says in chapter 4, it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was very angry. And he said to the Lord, Therefore I fled before thee unto Tarshus, for I knew that thou art a gracious God. And mercy. Merciful and slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repentest thee of the evil. Therefore, now, O Lord, take Abyssy my life from me. It is better if I die than live. What does this story tell you? God showed grace to this very evil city, Nineveh. Or consider another example. This is Nebuchadnezzar, the powerful ruler of Babylon. Again was a fierce, tyrannical kind of ruler. It says in Daniel chapter 4 that the king spake and said, Is not this great Babylon that I have built for the house Of the kingdom by the might of my power and for my honor and for my majesty. Now, how did he build that kingdom? By force. On the backs of the people that he had covered Conquered with the wealth that he had stolen by force and people that he had enslaved. And it says, While the word of the king was in his mouth, there fell a voice from heaven. Heaven, saying, Nebuchadnezzar, to thee it is spoken, thy kingdom is departed from thee. And so God humbles this man, and later on Later on in the chapter, it says that God restored Nebuchadnezzar, and his understanding returned to him, and he blessed the Most High. What is this? God's grace. But to me, the absolute greatest example of all is the Apostle Paul. And I mentioned at the beginning yesterday how when Jesus speaks of Jerusalem, he says, Jerusalem. Jerusalem in his lament. And when God speaks to Saul on the road to Damascus, he says, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? In Galatians chapter 1, he says, You have heard of my conversation in times past in the Jewish religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the church of God and wasted it, and profited in the Jewish religion above many my equals in mine own nation, more zealous exceeding of the traditions of my fathers, but it pleased God who separated me from the womb and called me by his grace. What is He's saying, God called me. God saved me. It's all of his grace. I was his enemy. And he saved me in his mercy. He set his love upon me. Or Acts chapter 25 He says, I punished them often in every synagogue and compelled them to blaspheme, and being exceeding angry against it, I persecuted them even into the strange cities. He says in 1 Corinthians 15, I am the least of the apostles. I am not me to be called an apostle. I persecuted the church of God, but by the grace of God I am what I am. What is the point? The point is that one great theme in Scripture is the grace of God. God saves sinners who are enemies against him. He extends mercy And so the question is, what can we take away from this this morning? What we take away from it is he He is a God of infinite grace. And we should marvel in this grace. We should be thankful for this grace. We should rest in this grace because we are secured because of his work toward us. And we should be those who channel this grace to others. Well, Lord willing, tomorrow, on Friday, I'll give you some final thoughts to think about, and then I hope you have a great weekend Take care. Enjoy your holiday. Stay safe. We hope to see many of you tomorrow for our next Anchored in the Word study. Bye now.