Good morning and welcome to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I'm really excited about this topic that we've been dealing with, that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, and to the glory of God alone. And today we're going to focus on that last statement to the glory of God alone. What is the ultimate end of our salvation? The ultimate end of our salvation is it magnifies the greatness of the grace of God. And so we're going to explore how he puts it. in this text of scripture because it is really fascinating. Some very specific words that he uses here that I want us to delve into. So let's go ahead and read the text again and then dig into this concept. It says the following But God who is rich in mercy, for his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace you are saved And hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. Now, as we look at this passage, we see this last little statement that we're going to break down before we get to the application, Lord willing, tomorrow. And that is how this passage demonstrates that salvation is all about the glory of God. It's not you, it's not me, it's not the evangelist, it's not the preacher, it's not the parent who gets the glory. The glory goes to God alone. Now we are instruments that he uses. But he's the one who gets the glory. And notice how he puts it in verse number 10. We are his workmanship. created in Christ Jesus unto good works. A couple of really important statements in that little verse. The first statement that I want to draw your attention to is the the phrase his workmanship That word workmanship is a really interesting word because the the Greek term that is used there is actually a term that we get the word poem from. And so when we think of a poem, we think of a work of art, something that is being crafted, something that's being uh created in a way that, in fact, it's very beautiful and it reflects the glory of the one Who has made it? That word workmanship has that idea. He is working on our lives. And so our lives are like a work of art in the hands of our great God The second phrase that we're going to look at is the phrase created in Christ Jesus. This is important. As God is molding our lives. As he is shaping us through his purposes, as we are that work in his hands, we are created in Christ Jesus. And so this creative work that he is doing is found only in Christ. Not found outside of him. It's not found in any other place. It's found in Christ alone. And so he is the center of the plan, and we're the recipients of the blessings of that work that he is doing. A third phrase that we want to focus in on is the phrase unto good works. So God didn't just save us to give us an escape from eternal destruction, though that is part of our salvation most certainly That's not the full extent of our salvation. He saved us for a purpose that goes into other areas as well. And so we see that the result of this of this positional change is a real life transformation. God's going to use our lives to display his power to change the sinner into one who is walking in according to God's purposes. And so we often talk about this as sanctification or growth into Christ's likeness. A couple different ways people talk about this. But the idea is that God gives us the position. And then he shapes us so that our lives reflect the position that we have. From the beginning to the end, God's plan, a glorious plan, is the work that is done for us. And in us and through us. And so that's what he means when he says it's unto good works. Fourth statement that I don't want you to miss, and that is which God has before ordained. Now this is a really interesting statement that is being made. This statement takes us back to the beginning of our salvation. In fact, if we go through chapter 1 and chapter 2, Paul kind of works in a s in a in a circle where he kind of comes back to certain themes. And so when we see that word ordained, the idea is from the beginning to the end, the complete package is a celebration of God's glorious grace. God determined that those who are saved are going to be kept and they're going to be shaped into the image of Christ And this is stated repeatedly throughout this text. And it's also a demonstration of God's glorious grace. Notice some of the ways that it's stated. For instance, in verse 4 He has chosen us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be what? Holy and without blame before him. That's almost the exact same kind of statement. He has before ordained that we should walk in them, chosen to be holy and without blame, even before the foundation of the world, it says. Verse number five, he's predestined us to adoption. And so We are predestined to what? The ultimate end of our salvation, where we reflect perfectly the position that we have in Christ. Or verse 11. predestined us according to the purpose of him who works all things after the counsel of his will. And so what is this talking about? It's talking about the complete picture. Verse number six. This is to the praise of the glory of his grace. Verse number twelve. This is that we should be to the praise of his glory. So, what are we seeing here? A very consistent pattern. God has ordained that those who are saved will be kept and will be transformed between the day that they are justified to the day that they are glorified. That's what he's going to do. And then I come to one final thought here that I think is really important. The most visible evidence that we are new creatures in Christ, things that people can see, is a result of the Spirit of God at work in us, changing us and shaping us and molding us. And that takes us back to what he says in verses 13 and 14. He says, after you believed, you were sealed with the spirit of promise, which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession. And that's a really fascinating statement. What he's saying is, God who drew you, when you believed in the gospel, At that moment the Spirit took you and indwelled you and sealed you. And now he works in you and he's changing you and he's shaping you and he's transforming you. And you know what that is? That is the proof. That is the down payment, the earnest. That's the little reminder that what God said he's going to give you, he's going to give all of it to you. And this, every time the Spirit of God's working in our lives, what does it do? It gives us that little reminder, that subtle reminder, that loud reminder. that we belong to him and he's working in our lives. As we grow, we're reminded this is just the beginning. As we learn, we're reminded it's only a small part of these wonderful concepts. As we experience God's comfort and conviction, we're reminded, hey, we we are his children. He loves us. He's given us everything. He secured us until the day that all these things are fully realized. That's what it's all about. And so when we think about our salvation, what does this do? It reminds us it's all a demonstration of the glorious grace of God He gets the glory, not us. Our forgiveness as sinners is something that is kept And the work that he's doing in us as saved sinners, forgiven sinners, is a work in progress. We are his workmanship. And I think of a couple little illustrations that I kind of want to close with. When we go to Ecclesiastes chapter 3, he talks about God's providence. He says that God makes everything beautiful in his time. He said to turn in our hearts so that no man can find out the work of God from the beginning to the end. What's he saying? You don't realize what God's doing until it's over. And then you look back and you realize he was up to something. We see the story of Israel in Jeremiah 18. He tells the prophet to go down and look at the potter, and he says, I went to the potter's house, and there was a work on the wheel, and the vessel was made of cla clay, and it was marred, and the hand of the potter And so he made it again a vessel that seemed good in the potter's hands to make. Our lives are like that. He's shaping us, he's molding us, he's breaking us down. And so 2 Corinthians 3. 18 it says that we are changed into the same image from glory to glory by the Spirit of our God. What's the point? Those whom he has saved he keeps and he shapes in the image of God, into the image of Christ, and it's all for the glory of God Hope it gives you some things to think about this morning. Well if you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out, and I hope you have a wonderful rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts of application. Bye now.