Good morning. Welcome to our fourth Angered in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we're going to get into a fascinating topic, and that is the word conversion. When we talk about conversion, we tend to think of it in the sense of repent and be converted that your sins may be washed out, washed away, in the sense of Peter preaching there around Pentecost. And so conversion is typically thought of as when a person is saved from their sin, justification, that initial aspect of our salvation where we repent, we believe, our sins are forgiven, or cleansed. We're declared righteous in Christ, and we have eternal life. But the Bible doesn't just speak of conversion as a positional reality, but also as a practical reality. And we're going to see that as it's demonstrated in the text in front of us. So if you have your Bible, take it. Let's turn to go to Luke chapter 22, and we're going to read verse 23 down to verse 34. Here's what the scripture says. And there was also a strife among them which of them should be accounted the greatest. He said unto them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them. And they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors. But ye shall not be so. He that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger, and he that is chief as he that doth serve And I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my father hath appointed unto me. Ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. Now the part of this passage that I want to focus on today is the conversion language. And notice what he says in verses 31 to 33. Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat, but I have prayed for thee. That thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. Now what exactly is Jesus getting into here? Well, first of all, we want to talk about Peter's temptation. What we mean by that is what we see in this first part, verse 31. First of all, the way that that Jesus addresses Simon Peter is very important to take a quick note of. He's approaching him as someone who is dear to him, a friend. When he says, Simon, Simon, it's not like, Simon, wake up, I got something to say to you. He's saying Simon, Simon, it's a term of endearment. That's really what it is. And so he's addressing him not as an enemy, but rather as a friend. While what he's going to say is very harsh, he still loves Peter, and that love is consistent, and he wants to communicate that to him. We also see that it's not just Peter who is going to be the object of Satan's focus, it's also going to be the other disciples. And this is a calculated effort on Satan's part to destroy them and to undermine their faith. He says in verse 31, Satan hath desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat. Now you say, what in the world does that mean? Well, the idea is that Peter and the rest of the disciples were about to face a great test of their faith. And this will be the greatest test of their faith that they've experienced up to this point. The phrase to sift as wheat is actually an idiomatic expression that's saying he wants to tear you apart. And so so Jesus is communicating to Peter that in fact Satan is a vicious enemy who wants to destroy him. It's very similar to what we see when Satan comes to God and he accuses Job before God and he basically says, if you would remove that protection from him and I can do what I wanted to him, he would curse you and die And what does God say? Well, you can do this within certain boundaries. And so what it's showing you is that Satan is under God's jurisdiction, under his authority. But God does permit Satan to do these things from time to time, and he puts limitations on them. So we see the temptation side of it. But then we see the prayer. How does Christ pray for him? Does he pray that he won't go through the temptation? The answer is no. He prays that when he does go through it, his faith will endure. It will persevere. It will not be extinguished. And so he says, but I've prayed for thee that thy faith fail not. He's not going to insulate Peter. He's not going to insulate the disciples. They're going to be tested. This is something that he expects them to go through, and it's actually not a bad thing that they're going to go through the test. His will is for them to face the test, but to endure triumphantly. To be strengthened by it, to be changed, to be matured as a result of it. He's praying that their faith endures, becomes strong, and that though they will stumble, they'll get back out. A third thing we see is that he predicts that Peter in fact is going to stumble, but when he stumbles, he's going to recover. And we see then in verse 32, when thou art converted. That means it's going to happen, but it's going to need to be happened. It's going to need to happen. In other words, he's going to get turned from one position to another or from one direction, maybe it would be the better word, from one direction to the other. He's going to fall down, but he's going to get back up. He's going to need to be restored. And he's going to be restored. Because God is a gracious God and He's going to do that. He also reminds Peter that God will still have a purpose for him when he's done. And this is where the comfort really comes in on this point. He says, when you are converted, then strengthen thy brethren. He's actually telling him that even though this is going to happen, I'm still going to have something for you to do. And that word strengthen has the idea of to establish them, to strengthen or restore their faith back to what it should have been or what it used to be, a soundness that is there. That's the idea, a stability. He wants him to have a strong faith Even though Peter is going to stumble and be shaken, that weakness is not going to lead to an abandonment of the faith. Rather, it's going to strengthen him. And that confidence when it's tested is going to give him the ability to minister to others down the road. That is the sense of it And so let me make some comments about this issue of conversion on Peter's part. And by the way, it's not just true of Peter, it's true of us as well. We talk about Peter's conversion, there were two sides to it. There was a positional side to it, which is the way we tend to think of it typically, and there was a practical side to it. The positional is this. Verily, verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word. believeth on him that sent me half everlasting life shall not come into condemnation, but has passed from death to life. A positional change that is permanent, converted Peter has been converted in that sense. But in another sense, there is a progressive side to conversion. That is the change into his image from glory to glory side of it. In other words, while there is a positional conversion, justification, there is a progressive conversion changed into the image of Christ in a practical sense Our faith will be tested, and that testing will purify us and strengthen us and demonstrate the genuineness of our faith God will use the failures and use the stumbling and use the weakness to develop us into mature, strong people who have an unwavering confidence in Him. That's what he's getting at, the progressive side of conversion. And so Peter's conversion, in fact, took place that way, and we see lots of scriptures that talk about this side. 2 Corinthians 3. We with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of God. That's what he's talking about. That practical growth into Christ-likeness Or 1 Peter 5. Be sober and vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking and may devour. Does this not sound very similar to what we're talking about here? Whom resist steadfast in the faith. But the God of all grace, after you have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. You see a lot of parallels. between the text we're talking about here today, Luke 22 and 1 Peter 5. Interestingly, Peter is the one writing that. Or another passage, James 1. 3. The trying of your faith, work it patience. Let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect, that's fully matured, entire, wanting nothing. Or 1 Peter 1 7, the trial of your faith being more precious than gold that perisheth, though it be try tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. Why do I take the time to go through all this? It's because we need to understand that though we are converted, we've placed our faith in Christ, we are changed into his image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of God. And we are growing into Christ's likeness. And God uses everything, the hard things, the challenging things, the sobering things, the painful things. The wearying things, he uses them to shape us in the image of Christ. Don't get discouraged in well-doing. In due season we will reap if we faint not. Don't doubt God's grace and his strength and his power as he uses all things to work together for good in our lives. I hope that'll give you some things to think about this morning. Have a blessed rest of your morning and Lord willing. We'll meet again tomorrow to discuss some final application thoughts by now.