Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we are going to expand slightly on what we talked about yesterday. In some ways this seems a little bit redundant. We talked about the immensity of God's grace. This morning we're going to talk about the stunning love of God for broken people. And so those two pieces really laid side by side are pretty similar, but love would be the motive and grace would be what he does. and how he relates to us. And so let's read through this passage again, one more time. We'll look at a short little video clip and then I'll comment on it again. Here's what it says. Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people, and upon the holy city, to finish the transgression, to make an end of sins, to make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness. and to seal up the vision and the prophecy, and to anoint the Most Holy. Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and build Jerusalem, Unto the Messiah the prince shall be seven weeks, and three score in two weeks, and the streets shall be built again, and the walls even in troubleless times. And after three score and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not for himself. Let's listen to a short video as we expand on what we talked about yesterday. God looks down at us in that kind of a situation, and rather than disdaining us, he loves us. And he's merciful towards us. And he has compassion toward us. And he has graciously provided a way for us to be safe from our sins. You see, how do you do it? First Corinthians fifteen. Christ died for our sins. He was buried and he rose again. That's what he did. It's a talking about a person who came, a person who died, who died for a reason for our sins, and rose from the dead. You know, I hear that and I think about this concept. It takes me back to Romans chapter 5. It says, when we were uh when we were without strength. In due time, Christ died for the ungodly. Says, for scarcely for a righteous man would one die, yet per adventure for a good man, but God commendeth his love toward us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Think about that statement. It says that he commendeth his love. That means he takes his love and he reveals it to us in such a way that we're able to see the beauty in the and the greatness and the glory of his love. And we think about John 3. 16, it says that God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. And so when the Bible speaks of God's love, God's love isn't something that's that is directed towards us because we're lovely. It's not extended towards us because we've earned it or Somehow we are keeping it. God's love is something that is given to us entirely because he is a good, benevolent, perfect God. And when he looks at his creation, he values his creation. because we are stamped in his image. We were created in his image to proclaim his glory so that we could have an everlasting relationship with him as Creature to creator, that we could enjoy him forever, and we could enjoy the life that he's created, that we could know him personally. God loves people and he doesn't love them because of their goodness. He loves them because of his goodness. And that makes his love an absolutely stunning thing to behold. I hope that as we go into this Christmas season, you will not forget the immensity and the goodness of God 's love for you. Remember what it says. He loved us and he sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins, and not ours only, but in fact the sins of the whole world. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow as we look at our final thought for this year and the closing of our season. Have a blessed day. Bye now.