Good morning and welcome to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. We're getting into the heart of the passage today and we're looking at the triumph of the cross. And so I hope that you will stick with us because there are a lot of things we're going to talk about today. that are really at the heart of the passage. This is like the foundation of everything that Paul's going to be saying in these verses. And so let's go ahead and turn there together and look at this passage. We'll read through it. And then look at how the cross is a triumph. And we're going to look at several different scenes that are being portrayed in this text. So first of all, let's read it. Here's what it says. But unto every one of us is given grace, according to the measure of the gift of Christ. Wherefore he saith, When he ascended on high, he led captivity captive, and gave gifts unto man. Now That he ascended, what is it but that he also descended first into the lower parts of the earth? He that descended is also he that ascended far above all heavens. that he might fill all things. And he gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers, for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. Now, as I said, this is the heart of the passage in front of us. And it is a a picture of triumph that Christ is doing through the cross. But There are actually three different scenes that are found in these verses. And we see the statement, verses 8 through 10, he ascended and he led captivity captive, and he gave gifts unto men. Two things that are stated here. One is that he is the triumphant warrior who is ascending and who is leading captives captive. Two things. One, he's leading captives. Who are the captives? Well, those are who he has conquered, who he has triumphed over. Secondly, he's given gifts. What are the gifts? Well the passage is going to tell us what the gifts are. Who's he giving the gifts to? The answer is the church, those who are the participants in this great triumph. And so we need to break down what he's getting at in these verses. So scene number one, the triumphant warrior. And when we say a triumphant warrior, he's actually quoting from a psalm, Psalm 68, where it says the following. The chariots of God are 20,000, even thousands of even thousands of angels Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive, thou hast received gifts for men, yea, for the rebellious also. Very important statement. Now that the Lord might dwell among them. Another important statement. Blessed be the Lord who daily loads us with benefits, even the God of our salvation. Now let's look at some details here. This quote from Psalm 68, first of all, is affirming that in fact when Paul writes this, he says Jesus is God. He's divine. He's God in flesh It's also connecting the events that are talked about, the cross, with God's desire and ability to dwell amongst his people. God is holy, righteous, we are sinners. How can a holy God dwell amongst his people? It's through redemption and the cross. Thirdly, it states that God's salvation is for people who are called rebellious. These people who were once rebels are now the object of God's daily blessings. He's daily loading us with benefits. And so that's what we see in this Psalm 68 passage. And it perfectly harmonizes. with the context of Ephesians chapter 2. Let me show you what I mean by that. In Ephesians chapter 2 it talks about how we were once slaves to our flesh in this world system. Chapter 2 verse 1, we were dead in trespasses and sins. Chapter 2, verse 2, we walked according to the course of this world. We walked according to the prince of the power of the earth. That's Satan. Verse 3, our conversation, the way that we lived in times past, fulfilled the lusts of the flesh and of the mind. And we were by nature children of wrath. That's a terrible description of humanity. But don't forget That's who we were. We were rebels. Now we're redeemed. The object of God's grace. And so we see that we are people who are now rescued to God out of this miserable condition, out of this enslavement. We are now the recipients of the triumph of Christ. Verse 4, but God, who is rich in mercy, for his great lover with he loved us. But God now but now in Christ Jesus, you who sometimes are far off are now made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. What does this show you? It's a change. It's who we were, it's now who we are. So Christ conquered this kingdom of darkness. And when he did this, people who were enslaved, that's us, are now participant in the spoils of the victory that Christ accomplished for us on the cross. That's an awesome thing for us to think about. So it's the triumph. But secondly we see that it's also about suffering. Jesus is suffering in this passage, and that's what's being described when it says, he who ascended first descended into the lower parts of the earth Now, that statement is talking about the nature of the victory of Christ. It was through descending first. And when he says he descended in the lower parts of the earth, that is a challenging statement. I do not believe that it is teaching that somehow Jesus went into hell and he paid for our sins in hell. That's not what he's saying You say, well, why do you say that? Well, first of all, the lower parts of the earth is not absolutely talking about a place of destruction. It could be used in a lot of different ways. In fact, in the New Testament and in the Old Testament, this path that that little statement, the lower parts is often talking about a place could be referred to as the grave or death, a couple of different ways it's being described. We know that Christ paid for our sins on the cross. Not in hell. When he said it is finished, that means it was done. There wasn't payment to be made in hell. It was made on the cross. And this price wasn't paid to sin or to death or to Satan. It was paid to God. We know that because of Isaiah 5, or 53, verses 10. It says, it pleased the Lord to bruise hell. Who is the one who is punishing? It's God the Father. He put him to grief. Who is putting him to grief? Well, it's God the Father You will make his soul an offering for sin. He'll see his seed, prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord will prosper in his hand. These verses are telling you that the price was paid to God. And so the cross is where that took place. Don't forget what he says to the thief on the cross, today you'll be with me in paradise. He didn't say I'll see you in hell. He says, I'll see you in paradise. Why? Because that's where that man was going after he believed, and that's where Christ was going. Or we think about how he came in the flesh and he died and he was buried, and ultimately that is what is accomplished for us. So that's what he's talking about. We are the recipients of that sacrifice. It's coming through the death of the cross. A lot of passages talk about this. John 12. Now is judgment come into the world. The prince of the world is cast out. And if I be lifted up, I'll draw all men into me. What's he talking about? Victory through the cross. Hebrews 2. 14. The children are partakers of flesh and blood. He also himself took part of the same. That means he took on flesh. That through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is the devil. The cross and its victory. The cross was the victory of Christ over Satan. And then another passage I think is very interesting is Ephesians 2. 13. He says, Now in Christ, you who sometimes were far off or made nigh by the blood of Christ, he's our peace. He's reconciled both to God by his body on the cross, having slain the enmity thereby. And then the cross reference in Colossians 2, where he blots out our handwriting of ordinances against us. He nailed them to the cross. And then this sounds very similar to Ephesians. He spoiled principalities and powers. He made a show of them openly. He triumphed over them in it. So when we see the cross, the cross is about the victory of God over sin and death. The third thing we see is that he is exalted as king. And it says, he who descended also is the same who ascended above all heavens, that he might fill all things in all. And when we talk about his exaltation, Philippians 2 talks about this, he humbles himself, and then he is highly exalted. Or we think about Hebrews 1 verse 3, who is the brightness of his glory, the express image of his person. He upholds all things by the word of his power. When he finishes that work, what does he do? He sits down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. These verses talk about how the cross is now a means through which Christ is exalted But to me, one of the greatest of all is Revelation 5. I love this text. In this passage, John writes, who is worthy to open the book, to loose the seals? The answer, no man in heaven, no man in earth was able to do it. He says, I wept much because no man was found worthy to open and read the book. And one of the elders said unto me, Weep not. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has prevailed to open the book and to loose the seven seal circles. of. How did he prevail to do it? He did it through the cross. And so when we talk about the cross, the cross is history's greatest triumph. It was the place where he conquered death. It was the place where he established a basis of redemption. It was now the basis of his exaltation. And so when you think of the cross, think about the humiliation and the suffering and the love of God, but also think of the triumph, because they're all there Well, that gives us some things to think about this morning. I hope you reflect on it. Have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through this passage. Bye now.