Good morning and welcome back to our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And today, as I mentioned, yesterday is going to take the last statement looking at the uniqueness of Paul's personal life. and um how God took that and all those de all those details and he used that to make Paul a very unique instrument to take the gospel to the Gentiles. So I I think that today is going to be a very important part of understanding this text. And that is looking at Paul's testimony, his testimony as a specifically uniquely positioned individual to do what he did. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter 3. And we're going to look at verses 1 through 13. I'm going to read the first little portion, but then we're actually going to really dig into the second part, which is what we've not really read this week. Here's what it says. For this cause I Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ, for you Gentiles. If you've heard of the dispensation of the grace of God which is given to me, to you, Word. How that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery, as I wrote to you afore in a few words, whereby when you read, you may understand my knowledge and the mystery of Christ. Which in other ages was not known unto the sons of men, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit, that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs of the same body. and partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel. So as we dig into the this concept of Paul's testimony before the church, we need to notice what he says in the second half of this portion of Scripture. He says, I, personal, was made a minister according to the gift of the grace given to me, by the effectual working of his power unto me, who am the least of all the apostles, and is this grace given. I that I should preach the to the Gentiles in search for riches of Christ. So what you notice in these verses is how much Paul speaks in the first person. I, me, not you and we, but he talks about himself. First person first person uh singular. And so that's showing you that Paul is emphasizing his testimony as an individual and how his background is a unique part of how God communicated his truth. Well, what does he say about his testimony that's so significant? Well, let's break it down. There were three distinct marks to Paul's ministry. The first is that his ministry was a testimony demonstrating the greatness of God's grace. Verses 7 and 8. I was made a minister according to the gift of God's grace. Now, when Paul talks about God's grace, he's emphasizing the simple fact that he was in no position to receive God's favor. There was no reason for God to be kind to him God was kind to someone who was an enemy, someone who was zealously persecuting the truth. And so that word of grace is huge. Unmerited favor, and I would say exponentially unmerited favor. Look at what it says in First Corinthians fifteen. He says, Last of all he was seen of me as of one born out of due time. I am the least of the apostles, and I'm not even meet to be called an apostle. Because I persecuted the church of God. But his grace was great in my life. And this grace was bestowed upon me. It was not in vain. Now what's Paul getting at? Well he's getting at what he develops in 1 Timothy 1, where he says, Christ came into the world to save sinners of whom I am the chief. He says, before I was a blasphemer, a persecutor, injurious, but I obtained mercy. So this first mark that's huge is that Paul was a minister by the grace of God. But there's a second feature that's very important, and that was that God demonstrated his power. When Christ was uh when when when Paul was converted and he met Christ on the road to Damascus, this didn't just demonstrate grace, it demonstrated power. God's work was effective in Paul's life, and no one could have ever thought that that would be the case. Verses 7 and 8. This was given unto me by the effectual working of his power. Unto me who am the least of the of all the saints, and this is this grace given to me. And when Paul talks about it coming effectually, this sounds very similar to what he says in 1 Thessalonians 1. 5 when he talks about the power of the gospel in the conversion of the Thessalonian believers. He says, our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power, and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance. What is his point? His point is that the gospel came with effect, with power. It moved his heart. There was a time where Paul was completely dead to the truth, and then he was awakened to his sinful condition. condition and he turned to Christ in repentance and faith and he was gloriously converted. And so the power of the gospel is demonstrated there. But then there's a third mark and to me maybe the most amazing. And that is the fact that it demonstrates a very special irony. In verse 80 says that I, as if the Apostle Paul of all people Sol of Tarshus would be the one who takes the gospel to the Gentiles, the insurgable riches of Christ. Now why was that so ironic Let's break it down like this. When we talk about Paul, we're talking about a man who was all about the traditions of the elders. And so the one who once imposed these man-made traditions, and he was vicious about it. He is now one that 's good to the people that he disdained. It's incredible to think about. 1 Corinthians 9. Though I am free from all men, yet I have made myself the servant unto all that I might gain them or Unto the Jews I became as a Jew. I mean, Paul is a Jew. He was he was a Pharisee. How does he make himself a Jew to reach the Jews? But what he's saying is, I'm free from the law, but I put myself under it for their sake. I'm free from the traditions, but I put myself under those traditions. So that I could give the gospel to these people. I was trying to remove as many unnecessary offenses as possible. Paul is prioritizing, taking the gospel to people. And putting himself under their rules and their rituals, even though he's free from those things, because he loves them. He wants them to be converted. He says to those who are without the law, as without the law, being not without the law of God, but under the law of Christ. That I might gain them that are without the law. To the weak became I as weak, that I might gain the weak. I made all things for all men, so that I might by all means save some. And so what's Paul saying? I was once an imposer of tradition, and now I'm willing to go to those who I was so viciously opposed to. Second thing that's very, very important here is the one who viciously persecuted the church is now being willing to be persecuted for the church. I mean, that to me is amazing. 1 Corinthians 4. 10. We are fools for Christ's sake. We are weak. We are despised. Even unto this present hour we hunger and thirst and are naked and buffeted and have no certain dwelling place and labor working with our own hands. Being reviled we are persecuted and defamed. We are made the filth of this world and are the offscoring of all these things unto to this day. What's Paul saying? He's saying, I'm willing to be persecuted for the truth. And I used to persecute this message. What an amazing irony. But the third thing that I think is the most important is that the one who once viewed the cross as weakness and foolishness, he now glories in the cross. In fact, he says, I glory only in the cross of Jesus Christ. First Corinthians chapter one. We preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling block, unto the Greeks foolishness, but unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, the wisdom of God, because the foolishness of God It's wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. And when Paul says it's foolishness to the Jew, guess what? He puts himself in that category before he's saved. And so the marks of Paul's ministry are demonstrating that he is a unique person to take the gospel to these people. And the fourth thing I'm going to mention, I think, is also very important. That message through Paul gives us undeniable validation that this is the truth. And Acts 26 really captures this so well. He says, My manner of life from my youth, which was the first among my own nation at Jerusalem. Known of all the Jews, after the strictest sect of our religion, I lived a Pharisee. I thought with myself that I ought to do things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. Which things I did in Jerusalem, and many of the saints did I shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief priest, and when they were put to death, I gave my voice against them. And I punished them often in every synagogue and compelled them to blaspheme, and being exceedingly angry against them, I persecuted them even unto strange cities What is Paul saying? I am the last person that anyone would have ever thought would do what I'm doing, but I'm doing it because of the power of the gospel. And so I'd summarize it like this. Do not fret. At my sufferings. God has used these circumstances to further his kingdom. That's what he's saying to these people. Don't fret at my sufferings And I go back to what we said yesterday. God uses our background, our life experience, our struggles, even our failures. He uses those things when we submit to his purposes and we live in the light of truth. He uses them for his glory. He uses them to position us in a place where we can reach into the lives of people. And so may God help us as we finish out reflecting on this topic today. that we would be very conscientious about what God's doing in our life and through our life. May He help us to think biblically about our circumstances. Well, have a blessed rest of your morning. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow one last time to give you some final thoughts of application. Talk to you later. Bye now.