Good morning and welcome to a new week of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections and hope that you had a good weekend and I'm excited about digging into this very important passage of scripture with you. We're in Ephesians chapter 4 this week. We're looking at verses 7 through 13. And we're going to focus on the cross. And when we talk about the cross, there are several different elements to the cross that we could be looking at. applications and this week what we're going to look at is the cross as the greatest triumph in history. And when Christ went to the cross, he conquered sin and death. And ultimately, we have salvation because of Christ's sacrifice. And so this moment of humiliation, of weakness, of suffering. is also a moment of triumph. And we will see not just the theological significance of that this week, but also some of the practical ramifications of that very important truth. So let's take our Bibles together Turn to Ephesians chapter 4, and we'll pick up in verse number 7 and then dig into the very first thing that we'll look at, and that is how this passage emphasizes the grace of God and how he gives the church. Here's what it says. Unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ. Wherefore he saith, when he ascended up on high, He led captivity captive, and gave gifts unto men. Now that he ascended, what is it that but he first also descended into the lower parts of the earth He that descended is also he that ascended up above all heavens, that he might fill all in all. And he gave some apostles and prophets and evangelists and some pastors and teachers. For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. Now the first part that I want us to focus on this morning Is how grace and the gift that God gives each individual is being emphasized. Now, when we say grace, there are a couple of things that we need to consider. First of all, when we when we talk about grace, we're talking about something that is given by God to people that don't deserve it. And that's what he's talking about in verse 7 when he says unto every one of us, meaning the church, believers, people who are the recipients of God's saving grace. There is something else that he is given. There is grace given according to the measure of the gift of Christ. Now this grace is not saving grace, but rather a grace that gives us an enabling to serve the Lord. Now when we talk about this grace, there are a couple of things that we need to observe. First of all, it's given to everyone that's a believer That's what he means when he says, every one of us. Each member of the church, of the body, is important to the body. And these gifts are given for a purpose, not to bolster our egos, not to give us a sense of self-importance. Not for us to establish a reputation. They're given to to contribute to the well-being of the body. And then we see that these gifts aren't aren't limited to just those who are leadership. That first part, that they're given to everyone. means that it's indiscriminate. God has a purpose in who he gives the gifts to. He gives them to pastors, deacons, Sunday school teachers, people that will never teach in a Sunday school class or never teach or preach in a service. He gifts every member of the body, not just the leaders. Then we see the second word, and that is grace. And that word grace is an enabling that is rooted in God's saving grace This enabling is something we don't deserve. It's given to individuals so that they will be well equipped and they'll be able to serve the church It's given so that people can be a channel, conduit, a tool in the hands of God to bless the body. Third thing I want you to notice is that this is given according to the measure of Christ. So what does that mean? What it means is that the gift has a manifestation that isn't necessarily equal within the body. God doesn't give everyone who's got the ability to teach an equal proportion of teaching giftedness or giving or one other issue. The idea is that he is the one who determines to what measure an individual gets it. He determines it, he grants it, it's his prerogative. He also determines how much we get. And by the way, we could say not just how much we get in the moment, but the fact is over the course of our lives, he may give us greater measures at some time than others We may grow in those things. He may give us those enabl in specific moments, but then not in others. He has the right to do it as he chooses. And so we could say that this grace will be proportionate to the challenge we face. At the end of a person's life, when a person is struggling, God will give them special grace in those moments. When a person is facing a very intense difficulty, God is going to give them a special measure of grace in that circumstance When there is a pressing issue and someone needs to step into a role and meet that role. And in fact, it's a heavy role. God will give the grace to meet those needs. And so the first thing we talked about this week is grace. I want you to realize that as a member of the body, one who has placed your faith in Christ, you have been gifted by God for a very particular purpose, and he wants you to bring glory to him and serving the body through those gifts. He gives us these things for a reason, and that reason is to edify. Alright, well it gives you some things to think about this morning. Lord willing, tomorrow we'll dig into this text again. And look at the second part to a very important topic on the grace of God that is given to us because of what was accomplished in Christ's tribe from the cross. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.