Good morning and welcome to another Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I'm going to be doing something today to fix yesterday's video. So I'm actually going to put out two videos today. One will be in the morning and one will be in the afternoon. And that's because it was brought to my attention that the video I put out yesterday did not have sound. And I I don't know how that happened. I didn't realize that it didn't have sound when I uploaded it. But it's really an important topic, and so I wanted to go ahead and redo that video this morning for you and then Lord willing this afternoon I'll put out the second video which would have been today's and then the rest of the week we'll we'll kind of do the normal sequence. And so if you have a Bible, please take it and turn to 2 Chronicles 32. And the topic we're addressing this week is walking by faith. in the midst of trouble. And if you're with us this past Sunday, this is the text that we dealt with in the evening service. And I got a lot of feedback at how much that passage was a really big encouragement to people. So I hope you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage. If you think it's helpful to you, perhaps share it with others who can be benefited by it. And I think that these are very, very practical things that we'll talk about. So go ahead and take your Bible, please, and turn to 2 Chronicles 32. We'll begin reading in verse number 1, and then we'll look at this first part of introduction. It says after these things and the establishment thereof, Sennacherib king of Assyria came and entered into Judah, and encamped against the fenced cities, and thought to win them to himself And when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come, and that he was purposed to fight against Jerusalem, he took counsel with his princes and his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains which were without the city. And they did help him. So there was gathered much people together, who stopped all the fountains and the brook that ran through the midst of the land. Now, as we look at this passage of Scripture, we're going to see a great example of someone who walked by faith, trusted God, yet the circumstances that he found himself in were very, very intense. And so that leads us to the first thought that I think is an important part of the entire discussion this week. And that is that walking by faith does not guarantee a smooth road. When we read through the Psalms, we see a lot of passages that are laments where a godly person looks at those who are not, people who have scorn and disdain for God. And they they they really struggle in their heart because they see the difficulties that they personally are encountering, yet this person who does not care about the things of God appears to have a life of ease. And they go, this doesn't make sense. Here I am walking with God, walking by faith, doing what's right. This person scorns God and he seems to be okay. How does that work? Or we could look at the story of Job. Here is a man who who is dealing with tremendous hardship and his friends assume he's done something wrong and that's why he's dealing with those things. There is a law of sowing and reaping. When you sow to your flesh you reap corruption, when you sow the spirit you reap life. But there's also a side to life where even though we can walk in even though a person may walk in wisdom, it doesn't mean that they're going to get a smooth road. God's going to give them the tools they need to go through those things. They'll triumph over them eventually. But seasons can be harsh And that's it we see in the life of this man, Hezekiah. Notice what it says in verses 1 and 2. After these things, you say what things? We'll talk about that in a minute. And the establishment thereof, another important statement. Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, came, he entered into Judah and camped against the fenced cities, and thought to win them for himself. When Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come, He was and that he was purposed to fight, he takes certain action. Now let's break this down a little bit. That little statement after these things should cause us to look back at what was previously stated in the story of Hezekiah. So if we go to 2 Chronicles 29, 30, and 31, we see some of the most in-depth passages, some of the most encouraging passages. that demonstrate a person in leadership who is leading a people that are are very disorganized, they are very troubled, they are not walking with God, and he leads this incredible reformation. that the nation is is getting cleansed, they are re-establishing proper temper temple worship, they're making sure that the priesthood is appropriate and cleansed. Um they celebrate the Passover for the first time in many generations. In fact, they they even when they celebrated the Passover had to push it back a month because there was so much they had to do to get things in order. Now what this shows you is that Hezekiah was a man who was motivated. And he was motivated to make sure that his duties were being fulfilled properly as a king, not just as a governmental ruler, but also as someone who is to point the people to God because they were a theocracy in those days. So when you see a story like that, you'd go, well, certainly this is a man who after all the work that he's done and the people have returned to the Lord, you'd think that there was a time of peace and prosperity. But that's not the case. The king looks out and he sees a man named Senacarib, one of the Assyrian uh rulers, or we could say one of the military captains. And Sennacherib is is just conquering city after city after city all around. In fact, if you were to look at the Assyrian Empire, you would see that it extended all the way from where modern day Syria Syria and Turkey are all the way down to Egypt. But there was one little place that was not conquered, and that was right around Jerusalem, and this is the story of how Jerusalem was spared. But what we see is a man taking decisive action, a man who's a good leader, a man who honors the Lord, and a man who's going to face heartache. And this reformation actually plays into the warfare, the psychological warfare of Sennacherib against Judah. As he lays siege on the city, they send messengers and they shout out, don't believe Hezekiah, don't trust in his God. He is uh you have you've removed your gods, and that was true. They removed the gods that they had been serving to serve the one true God, and they basically said, look , You've done all these things and it's gonna turn around and it's gonna hurt you. It's almost like the equivalent of someone who ha you know they become a Christian, their their life has been transformed. And then they go through a very difficult season and all their friends from the past and people who had influenced them come to them and they say, look at you, you're a Christian now. If you're going to church, you're doing all these things that you didn't do before, and things that you used to think were okay, now that you don't believe that they're okay. And And what has it done to help you? It's not helped you at all. And that can be used to really undermine a person's confidence. That's what's going on here. And so it's important for us to recognize at the beginning of this week that even though a person walks by faith, not by sight, even though they do what is right, maybe striving to walk in wisdom, it doesn't guarantee. that everything in their life is going to go smoothly. They will be tested. And when they do, when they are tested, they need to turn to the Lord. after the pattern of what we're going to see in this text. So that's what I have for you this morning. I hope that that's an encouragement to you. If you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out. Maybe share this with somebody who could also be encouraged by it. And then Lord willing, we'll put out in the afternoon what would be today's episode, and then after that, we'll do the rest normally. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will meet again later today, and then throughout the rest of the week. Bye now.