Good morning. Welcome back to a new week in another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you had a good weekend and looking forward to digging into this passage of Scripture with you this week. This week we're going to be in Luke chapter 19. We're looking at verses 11 through 28. And we're going to be analyzing a parable that Christ taught. And this is a very complicated parable because it has a lot of different elements with it. And also there are a lot of similarities between this parable and some of the other parables that are recorded by Christ of his teaching, but there are also some significant differences. And so Um those differences and the similarities have created a lot of discussion about this parable. I'm just going to say on the front side that my view is that when Christ was teaching there would be certain Parables that he would use that were very similar, that he might apply in different contexts, and so the fact that we have several different parables that are talking about stewardship. that have similarities and differences does it mean that uh each of the different um uh evangelists were writing about the same thing with different details, but rather they're actually writing about different times that Christ taught in similar ways. And so when we look at this parable, this would be just one example of that. And so our focus this morning will be looking at the need to be faithful in the light of Christ's return. So if you have your Bibles, let's turn there to Luke chapter 19. We're not going to read the entire section because of its length, but we'll read uh the book of it. Picking up in verse number eleven. And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable because he was nine to Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear. And he said, Therefore, a certain noble man went into a far country and received for himself a kingdom, and to return. And he called his ten servants, and delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, Occupy till I come. But his citizens hated him. And sent a message after him saying, We will not have this man to reign over us. It came to pass that when he was returned, having received the kingdom, Then he commanded these servants to be called unto him, to whom he had given the money that they might know how much every man had gained by trading. Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained ten pounds. He said unto him, Well done, thou good servant, because thou hast been faithful in a very little thou shalt be given authority over ten cities. The second came, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained five pounds. He said likewise to him, be thou also over five cities. Another came, saying, Lord, Behold, here is thy pound, which I have kept up in a napkin, for I feared thee, because thou art an austere man So as you can see in this parable, there are three different individuals who are highlighted, though there are ten that he left to manage his resources. And so let's dig into the first part of this parable and ask the question, why did he teach it? And so this week, as we work our way through the parable There are four questions that we are going to try to answer. Not all at the same time, but we will summarize it at the end. The first question is the one I just posed. Why did he teach the parable? Second question, who was Christ's audience as he was teaching the parable? Third, what does he want what did he want them to do And it's always important before we get into the application for how we are supposed to respond that we ask the question as Christ was teaching this, as Paul was writing this. What was he intending these people to understand and how were they supposed to respond? Because it is when we answer that question that we're in the position to answer the question on how we are supposed to respond to the text And then of course, lastly, how should we respond to Christ's teaching? We don't want to just look at this academically and talk about them. But the Bible was written for us. It was written for us to to know and to apply and to live in the light of. So those are the four questions we're going to, Lord willing, answer this week. Why did he teach the parable? Who is his audience? What did he want them to do? What does he want us to do? So, with that in mind, let me give you a simple summary and then a final thought about this introduction. First of all, the summary. Christ gave a parable to his disciples. Who were misreading the purpose of his coming to Jerusalem to challenge them to be faithful through the events that awaited them He wanted them to view him correctly, and he wants us to view him correctly, so that we will be faithful in serving him as we await his return. And so that's the driving simple focus of the text in front of us. Christ's kingdom cannot be established. unless we have the cross. And this is something that these disciples did not understand. And so we see this in verse 11 He spake a parable because he was nine in Jerusalem, and because they thought the kingdom of God should immediately appear. There's two little pieces to that that should catch our attention. The first is the statement, because he was nigh to Jerusalem, he was going for a reason. He was going to celebrate the Passover. But more than to celebrate the Passover, he was going to fulfill the Passover. He was coming to Jerusalem to go to the cross, to die for our sins. And so there was a redemptive purpose in him coming The second side to this is the phrase, because they thought the kingdom of God should immediately appear. The people were misreading and misunderstanding the purpose for him going to Jerusalem. They believed he was going to come and overthrow the Romans. There's a reason that they were arguing about who would be the greatest in the kingdom of God and who would get to sit in certain places as they're walking up to Jerusalem. It's because that's what they think Jesus is about to do. They think he's going to establish his rule. And they misunderstood the fact that the first coming was about establishing a basis for redemption. The second coming is about establishing that kingdom with those who have been redeemed. And so those two statements are very, very important. The people expected this to be a great moment where he establishes physical rule, and in fact, they're wrong. And we can actually see this misunderstanding by looking back at some of the things we've already talked about in the book of Luke, and then kind of looking forward at what's going to come a little bit later after this passage of scripture. And so let me just take a moment to do that in our introduction. First of all, look back at chapter 9. Verses 44 and 45 he says this. Let these sayings sink into your ears. The Son of Man shall be delivered in the hands of men. And they understood not the same. See, they didn't understand that he's coming to die. It was something that wasn't clear to them. We see the same kind of thing in chapter 18. This is something we just recently read in verses 31 to 34. It says, Then he took unto him the twelve and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem. All things that are written in the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. He shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated, and spit on. And they shall scourge him and put him to death, and the third day he shall rise again. And there's that statement again. They understood none of these things So Christ has explicitly stated that he's going to die, he's going to go to the cross, and they don't get it. They don't understand that. Even as we look back at after his death and the resurrection We see the ladies coming to the empty tomb in verse 5 of chapter 24. The angels say to these ladies, Why do you seek the living among the dead? He's not here. But he's risen. Remember how he spake unto you in Galilee, saying the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, be crucified in the third day rise again. And they remembered his words. Okay? So we're seeing that he stated this. They didn't get it. Now after the cross and after the resurrection, what are the angels doing? Referring back to what he has said and then they get it. Even on the road to Emmaus, we see this similar thing. Verses 25 and 26. They said unto He said unto them, O fools, And so heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken, ought not Christ to have suffered these things and have to enter into glory? So again as we look back We see this misreading, this misunderstanding of the disciples. And looking ahead, this is obviously beyond the text we're dealing with this week. This is Christ coming down from the Mount of Olives, and the disciples are rejoicing, and they're saying, Blessed is the King who comes in the name of the Lord. But they didn't understand the purpose of this coming. And he says If thou hast known, even now, at least this thy day, the things which belong into thy peace, now they're hid from thine eyes. And what is Jesus saying? He's weeping over the city because they don't understand what he's coming to do. And so the whole point that I want to emphasize here Is that this parable is about helping people who don't understand the first coming and the second coming and the gap between the two and the purpose of that gap It's to teach them. It's to prepare them for what they're about to experience and to prepare them to go through that period of time faithfully. And so as we go into our our our our reflection time, I hope that you will go back and realize, hey, the significance of this moment is something that I shouldn't miss. I don't want to be like these people. Who don't understand the importance of the cross. Now, Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to dig a little bit deeper into this concept of why the cross was so important. But I want to leave you with this thought When Jesus came to Jerusalem, they didn't understand what he was doing. And what he was doing was going to be hard, but it was for their good. It was going to be an absolute necessity for them to be able to become God's children. And the same way that God was doing that in that situation, there are times that God has redemptive purposes in the things that we're about to pass through as well. And we don't understand those things. Now they're not to the same level. as what we're talking about here, the gospel, redemption. But when it comes to how God matures us and he builds us and he strengthens us, how God is shaping us more and more into the image of Christ, sometimes we don't understand God's ways. And so we need to go to the Word of God, and we need to look at who He is, look at what He has done, look at what He has promised, and take Him at His Word and trust Him. as we walk through these seasons of difficulty and challenge. I'm looking forward to going through this text with you this week. I hope that as we work our way through it, it'll be a challenge to you and an encouragement. And more than anything, the Lord Jesus Christ will be exalted and will have a clearer and greater appreciation for the need for the cross. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.