Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And as we've looked at this passage of Scripture, I hope that each day you've had a deeper appreciation for the cross of Christ. And that triumph at that moment in history that not only gave us eternal life and forgiveness of sins, but it also gave us these wonderful gifts. And these gifts that are used by God to help us to grow and to mature and to be built up to serve others. And so what I'd like to do today, as I do on Fridays, is give you some final thoughts applications that we can take away with us and really ponder throughout the rest of our weekend. And so here's what I'd like us to do. First of all, read the text. And then we'll look at two different uh streams of application to those who maybe don't know the Lord as their Savior and to those who do. Here's what the text says. And every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ. Wherefore he saith, When he set it up on high, he led captivity captive, he gave gifts unto men. Now that he ascended, what is it but that he also descended first into the lower parts of the earth? He that descended is the same also that ascended up far above all heavens that he might fill all things. He gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers, for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. Now as we think about the application, I want us to look at it in two different ways. First of all, for the unbeliever. And it may be that you're listening to these This series, you just just happen to run across this video and you start listening and you're like, an unbeliever. What is an unbeliever? It's someone who doesn't know the Lord is their Savior. They've never placed their faith in Christ. If they were to die today, they don't have the confidence that they'd go to heaven. Or maybe they do believe that they would go to heaven, but it's not rooted in the cross, it's rooted in something else. What is the response from a text like this if that's your situation? Well, first of all, you need to realize that you and I, we were all born dead in trespasses and sins. That means we're separated from God. And we are slaves to this world system and our passions. The reason we sin is because it's in our nature, not because people made us do it. but because it's what's a it's a part of who we are. We are fallen creatures. And Satan at the cross, who has the right to point out your sin , and say he is guilty. Satan was visibly crushed on the cross. When the Bible calls him the accuser of the brethren, what it means is that Satan, more than any other creature, says these people have no right to enter into your presence and have no right to enter into glory and these people are sinners and deserve to be condemned and you know what he's right But at the cross, that argument against us was crushed. And Satan has been conquered, and he cannot accuse us any longer because of what Christ has done for us No matter what you've done, no matter where you've been, salvation is available to you. And so I give you a simple encouragement, a simple appeal. Turn to Christ. Place your faith in the finished work of Christ. Repent and believe in the gospel. If you do, you'll experience eternal life. And the rest of these applications would apply to you. Secondly, I want to talk about the believer. How are you and how am I supposed to respond to this? Those who have been rescued and those who have been given the spoils of victory at the cross. Well, the first thing I'm going to say is that we need to ponder the cross. We need to think about it often. We need to preach the gospel to ourselves. We need to remember what God has done for us. It was the greatest moment of weakness that Christ ever experienced. He took upon himself the form of a servant. He was made in the likeness of man. He humbled himself and he became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Yet It was the greatest triumph in history because that weakness, the weakness of God, is stronger than the strength of men, and the foolishness of God is wiser than the wisdom of man. The cross was the greatest triumph in history. You and I were slaves to sin. We were enemies to God, and we are now the beneficiaries of this great triumph And that is awesome to think about. God's grace started at the cross, but it doesn't end. We are saved from eternal judgment. We are being built and grown into Christ's likeness. because of what Christ has done for us at that cross. Secondly, we need to ponder the blessings of the church. What I mean by that is what is the importance of this body? Well, this body is filled with redeemed sinners, and God fits each of us in a unique way for a purpose, and that purpose is to serve one another as a body. He has given each of us some kind of gift, and that giftedness is for our mutual edification. He wants to use us to build up other Christians within the body. You and I should never neglect the gifts that God has given us to use them. We shouldn't neglect the context in which He has planted us in order to use them. Don't neglect the church. We desperately need it. It needs us. God uses us in it. Third thing I want to say is that we need to ponder the specific role that He has for us in it If God has uniquely fitted you for a specific role in the church, then you need to ask, what is it? How am I supposed to use it? What are the consequences if I don't? Those are things we have to consider. And so every single part of the body is important. Not just the pastor, not just the deacons, not just the Sunday school teachers. Every member of the body has a unique and important role. Every part is used to serve a distinct function in the church And so we need to think practically about how God has fitted us and how that affects the body positively or negatively. Maybe that I could put it like this. In what way is the church, the one that you were planted in, that God has put you there, in what way does that church lack? Because you are not embracing the purpose that he has for UN. I I think about when I was in high school, I played baseball. And I remember this one game in particular. We were playing in Ponce de Leon, in Flor Ponce de Leon, Florida. And I was pitching, and I remember that there were three ground balls hit to our third baseman. And he booted all three of them. Now, there's only three outs in an inning, right? Well, in that inning there had to be six. And so what that meant was I was frustrated. And everybody else on the team was frustrated and the inning went longer. And if I remember right, by the end of the inning I think I gave up a home run. Now, that was on me. But the point is this. If the third baseman boots the ball Then I gotta work harder. If one person fails to fulfill their duty, if your blocker doesn't block the guy, then you're gonna get get crushed at the s at at the uh uh uh in the backfield as a as a football player. Each member has a role to play. And so if we're not doing it, then people are affected by it negatively. In what way have you possibly allowed complacency to blunt the cultivation of those gifts that He's given you for the benefit of others? If someone has been gifted in a particular way and they don't grow in those areas, then they're not going to be as effective even when they do serve in some capacity. And so my job as a pastor. It's to preach and teach the word week in and week out so that you are built up and you are able to effectively serve. But if If you neglect that ministry and the ministry of others who are trying to serve the way they're supposed to, you won't cultivate the gift properly. Or if if you have the wisdom and you have the maturity and you have the opportunity but you fall short of it, then people are affected. And so I want to encourage you, consider this very practically, not just, well, you know, it's nice to know these truths But but what about you? How does it work in your life? We need to consider the simple point of the passage. And what is it? Well here it is. At the cross, the greatest triumph, Christ's triumph over the kingdom of darkness. That kingdom that was crushed, God has chosen through that action to graciously bless you and me. We were rebels and slaves to that kingdom. Now we're rescued from it. And he uses us to push back the darkness. What an awesome thought. May God help us to channel the joy of thinking beyond these truths and to practically serving for his glory. Have a wonderful weekend. I hope we'll see many of you on this coming Sunday. And if you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. Lord willing, we'll meet again on Monday next week. If we don't see on Sunday, bye now.