Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And I hope that you're having a great morning. And I hope that you are looking forward to digging into this text with us this morning. This is one of the most well-known parables that Jesus taught, the parable of the lost son, and we have lost sons because really it's not just the prodigal. who is not with the father, but it's actually the young the younger and the older brother. And so we're going to really develop that throughout the week. And this morning we're going to focus in on the scandalous nature of this particular situation. When I say scandalous, I mean that when When people thought about the action of this son and how he had betrayed his father and how he had wasted what his father had. uh had given him from really his entire life of work. Um it's something that would have really gripped the hearts of the people. that we're listening to this parable that Jesus was teaching. So let's jump into the text again. We'll read it and then we'll dig into some of the initial details of this parable. Here's what it says. And he said, A certain man had two sons, and the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in the land, and he began to be in want, and he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. And he would fain have and he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father have bread enough to spare, and I perish with hunger? I will arise and go to my father and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. And he arose and came to his father, and when he was yet a great way off, his father said unto him set saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck Now, when we read these verses, it's important for us to first of all consider the setting of the story. In verse 11, it says, A certain man had two sons. And what we're going to see as the stories developed is that the younger of those sons was a restless and a wild young man. The second of those sons, the older of the sons. was hardworking and duty bound. And so as the story develops, you're immediately going to look at this younger son and you're going to see him with disdain. Because he has disrespected the father. and he has wasted what the father has given him. And he's lived a scandalous life away from the family. I want you to notice what the text says about this behavior that could only be described as a scandalous behavior. In verses twelve and thirteen he says, The younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. He divided unto them his living. Not many days after, the younger son gathered all together, took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. His actions were disrespectful to the father. His actions were not only disrespectful, but they were an abandonment of his own community and culture. We see that he goes out and he lives this reckless life. That word riotous means that what he did was uh was very, very scandalous. It's something that Um when we see later on in the parable and and the older brother talks about him wasting his substance on terrible things Those are the kinds of things that Jesus is suggesting that this young man would have been involved in. And he also wastes the inheritance. All this money is just thrown into a pit with nothing to show for it. It's been a complete waste. And as we look at the story, we see that there are very harsh consequences that are a result of his behavior. And life has a way of giving us harsh consequences when we make bad decisions. That's because God is the one who created this world. And he created it to run a certain way. And when we go against those natural laws that God's created, there are natural consequences that flow from that. We see that in the text. In verses 14 to 16 it says, When he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in the land, he began to be in want he went and joined himself to a citizen of that s of that country, and he sent him into the fields to pi to feed swine. And when he would have feigned filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat, no man gave unto him. So what we're seeing is a young man who's left with nothing, and he's left with no one, and he is forced to beg to survive And as he's forced to beg to survive, the man sends him out to feed pigs for his survival. And when you think about this, being a Jewish boy in a Gentile nation, You you couldn't think of anything that would have been more disgraceful than for this Jewish boy to be forced to feed pigs, animals that were considered unclean, and he was forbidden to eat them by Jewish dietary laws. And the food that he's giving these unclean animals is something that he longs to eat because he's starving to death And so the most amazing part about this first part of the story is not the fact that he leaves his father and that he experiences the harsh consequences of his sin. But it's that he actually comes to a position of repentance. The text says in verse 17 that he came to himself. And he says, How many of my father's servants have bread enough to spare, and I perish with hunger? I will go to my father and say, I've sinned against heaven before thee, and I'm no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. And so when we look at what is happening here, his circumstances, God used to humble his heart. Now I know in the story he's he's simply giving a fictitious story. It's not a true story of a person's life. But the idea is that his circumstances humbled him And so he's beginning to think clearly for the very first time in the entire story. He sees his father not as an evil man or someone that doesn't b that he doesn't value, but He sees him as a good man, someone who he actually uh sees as taking care of the people that work for him. He sees himself as someone who deserves nothing good. And this is a position that every person who becomes a Christian has to come to, that they recognize I do not merit God's favor, I deserve his judgment. He saw that his offenses were directed at God first. He says, I've sinned against heaven and in your sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. And so he comes without any kind of expectation. He's simply saying, let me work in your house, not as a son, but as a servant, so that I don't starve. And so he humbles himself and he goes home. You say, well, what can we learn from this? Well what we can learn from this is that Jesus was telling this story to get at the heart of the people that were listening Some of the people when they heard this story were saying, I'm that prodigal. And some of the people that were listening to that story are saying, how in the world? could this young man end up going so far and think that his dad's actually going to accept him home? And so what Jesus is doing is he is setting up for what's going to be the main focus of the parable. And that is not the consequence of sin, but the way that the Father receives his repentant son. And so that's what we're really going to emphasize, Lord willing, tomorrow. So I hope you'll join us tomorrow as we dig into this text again. Hope you have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.