Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. I hope that each of these videos have been an encouragement to you. I know that they're a little bit shorter. I know that they're a little bit less technical, but I hope that they're practical and they give you some things to chew on throughout the week. And uh the the text we've been dealing with is in the prologue to John's Gospel It's really setting the stage for everything that that John is going to say about Christ. And his ultimate purpose is to convince us by laying out the case of who Jesus is and what he did. That in fact he is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing on him, we can have life through his name. And so the final thought that I want to go into the weekend with is what is the significance of the incarnation? And so let's read it one more time, and then we'll listen to a video clip and then give you a couple of thoughts about it. John chapter 1, verse 1. In the beginning was the Word. And the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by Him, and without Him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not He came into his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God. even to them that believe on his name, which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God Let's go ahead and listen to this final clip and then we will give you some thoughts on it. So who is Jesus? He's God in flesh. The eternal God who made everything, took on full humanity, and he did this so that well, we're gonna answer that in just a minute. Second question. What did he come to do? He came to establish the right for people to be called God's children. Now nobody living has the right to say I'm a child of God and I am accepted of God in anything that have done for God. Why is that? Because the Bible says that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. The wages of sin is death. Think about some of those verses. Think about what they say about us. I think of that Isaiah 64. It says that all of our righteousness is as a filthy rag. Romans chapter 3 verse 10 it says that there is none righteous, no not one. There is none who understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God Romans 3. 23, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There's another passage in Ecclesiastes that says that there is not a just man upon earth who doeth good and sinneth not. The whole basis of our salvation has to be rooted in something outside of what we do for God. In fact, it has to be a gift. It has to be of God's grace. It has to be through what He did for us. I love in Romans chapter 3, verse 24, where after all that Paul has said about the fact that there's none righteousness, There's none who can earn his way to God. He says we conclude that by the deeds of the law no flesh can be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. The very next statement he makes is this. But now the righteousness of God outside of the law or apart from the law is revealed, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ, it is unto all and it is upon all them that believe. There is no difference. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God, we are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. It is by grace we are safe through faith. It is not of ourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Why did the incarnation have to take place? Why did the eternal God have to take on human flesh? and live and die and rise from the dead? The answer is so that we could be redeemed to God. There is no other way. And you say, what is being demonstrated in the incarnation? The power of God? The miracle of God's redemptive plan? The wisdom of God, the kindness of God, the mercy of God, the grace of God, God's goodness is demonstrated in the incarnation. And so as we come together and we celebrate the Christmas season and we remember the baby who was born in Bethlehem 2,000 years ago. Let's not forget that that baby in the manger is the eternal son who took on hum human flesh, and he is the one who thought it not robber to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. And he took upon himself the form of a servant, and he was found in fashion as a man, and he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. When we celebrate the Christmas, season. Let's remember that it's all about Christ and it's all about redemption and it's all about God demonstrating his love for a fallen and broken world. And you're a part of that world. And I'm a part of that world. I ask this question as we go into the weekend. Have you turned to Christ and have you placed your faith in his finished work? Can you say with great confidence, that you are forgiven and cleansed, that you are God's child because of what He's done for you, not what you've done for Him. If you can't, I hope that you'll reach out to me. I'd love to take time over over email, uh over the phone, through whatever means necessary for us to be able to communicate, get the gospel to you. and and and let you think about what God has done for you and explain to you how you must respond to this wonderful message of redemption. May God help us to know for certain that when we die, we're going to heaven because of what Christ has done for us. for us. Have a blessed weekend. Please don't hesitate to reach out if you need to do that. And Lord willing, we will meet again next week. Bye now.