Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that this has been a really good week for you and that the study that we've done has been an encouragement and a challenge. Today what we're going to do as we always do on Fridays is we pull it together for some final thoughts of application. And we're going to look at it from really two perspectives. One would be a person who's not a believer. and needs to be reconciled to God. The other is the believer and how we are to respond to these scriptures. So let's turn our Bibles one more time to Ephesians chapter 2. We're going to look at verses 11 and then we're going to dig into the text one more time with some final thoughts. Ephesians chapter 2 verse 11. Wherefore, remember, ye being in times past Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision by that which is called the circumcision, in the flesh made by hands. At that time ye were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ, for he is our peace, who hath made both one and hath broken down the middle wall of partition. between us, having abolished in his flesh the enmity. Now let's go ahead and break this down into two parts. First of all, to the non-Christian. If you do not know the Lord is your Savior, you never place your faith in Christ, you do not have the confidence that you are reconciled to God, how do you respond to this passage? Well, I think it should be pretty obvious. The first thing I'll say is this: God absolutely loves your soul. He wants to save you. He desires for you to be reconciled to him And even though you have lived in rebellion against him, you've disregarded his laws, maybe you didn't realize the full extent to which those things were true. God has set his love on you and he desires for you to be saved. Turn to him. Place your faith in Christ. He is pursuing you. And he has done everything necessary for you to be reconciled to him. That sin that separates you from God, he has addressed it. That's what the cross is all about. And so the encouragement is humble yourself, place your faith in Christ, be reconciled to God. That is the application of this passage. But then we have the second series of application. That's to the believer. How should we respond? I want to break this down into three potential, I think, very important things we need to do. The first is we should really worship God and be grateful to Him. I think about Revelation 5, 9 and 10. Here's what it says. They sang a new song unto God saying, Thou art worthy. To take up the book, to open up the seals thereof, for thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue. And tribe and people and nation, and has made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. What is this passage demonstrating? That people who understand that they have been redeemed People who understand the price. People understand that they are reconciled to God. There's now peace between God and man. What do they want to do? They want to praise God. They want to worship him. They want to glory in him. And that's our first response, I think, that we should do from this text. The second is actually very closely connected to that. And that is that we as believers should have peace or rest in our souls when it comes to how we think of ourselves before God. Think of some of these scriptures, Romans 8. 1. There is therefore now no condemnation to those which are in Christ Jesus. Because of what Christ has done for us, because the cross has dealt with our sin, there is no more separation between us and God. There is no more condemnation. We belong to God. We are his children. We've been reconciled to him. And so we should have rest in our souls. Or Romans 8, 15 to 18. He says, You've not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry Abba Father. He says the sufferings of this present world are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. So when a person becomes a Christian, our relationship to God has changed, and our relationship to the Spirit of God working in us has changed. He was drawing us to see that we were lost, we were condemned, we had no hope outside of ourselves outside of Christ. And now what does he say? You are a child of God. Joy, rejoice in it, and find rest in it. Or I'll give you another example that I think is very, very helpful. Romans 5, 1 and 2. He says, being now justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Or also if we have access into this grace, wherein we stand and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. Or in Ephesians 6, when we put on the whole armor of God, he says that we're to stand, having our loins skirted about with truth. What truth? The truth of our peace with God. Having on the breastplate of righteousness. What's this? Reminding ourselves that we're clothed in the righteousness of Christ. Your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. What is this? Reminding ourselves that we have stability because there's peace between God and man, because the cross has dealt with our sin. And so we should be people who have peace in our souls. But there's a third application, and this one is one of the most practical of all. We need to be a forbearing people. In our interpersonal relationships, we need to be quick to forgive, slow to anger, long to extend grace. Colossians 3. 12. He says that we are to put on vows of mercies. That's tender, deep-rooted compassion, kindness. Humbleness of mind, meekness, forbearance, long-suffering, forgiving. If any has a quarrel, even as Christ forgave you, so also forgive and let the peace of God for you. Rule in your hearts. That's how we're supposed to respond. We need to be a forbearing people, a forgiving people, a grace-giving people. And so I conclude with this final thought. We are to forgive as God has forgiven us. This text gives us an alternate solution. to what we talked about at the beginning of our study. And that was the worldly view of forgiveness. I forgive because it's good for me. I don't hold on to bitterness because it's good for me. How about I forgive, I don't hold on to bitterness, I extend grace, because I have been the object of God's grace God has been kind to me. God has been patient with me. God has been forbearing with me. He has dealt with my sin at the cross. He's dealt with their sin at the cross. I need to extend forgiveness as one who has been forgiven. May God help us to do that as we go into the weekend. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. I want to be an encouragement any way that I can. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday. Bye now.