Good morning. Welcome back to a new week in another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. The passage of scripture we're going to deal with this week is the passage that we've dealt with on Mother's Day. And I think that you'll find it to be an incredibly interesting discussion that we're going to have this week. And I think that by the end of the week you'll find it to be a tremendous blessing. Uh whether you're a mom, dad, uh have no children, it doesn't matter the situation that you might find yourself in. There's a lot of truth that we can unpackage from this text. And so I hope you'll join us this week as we dig into the passage of Scripture. We're going to be in 2 Timothy chapter 2. We're going to look at verses 2, excuse me, chap chapter 1, verses 2 through 5. And as we read through the passage, uh we will dig into a couple of introductory thoughts. Here's what the text says. To Timothy, my dearly beloved Son, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank God whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day. greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy, when I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and in thy mother Eunice. And I am persuaded that is in thee also. Now a couple of things I want to talk about in introduction. I think it's important for us sometimes to highlight little details that become that are presented with an imbalance. And when we talk about the Bible, um sometimes people have this impression That somehow the role of women in the church or in church history or in God's purposes is somehow secondary uh to the primary work that God does through men. And I want you to recognize that in fact there are a lot of scriptures that elevate the role that women played in God's purposes. And this passage is going to be one of those examples, but I wanted to give a couple in the introduction that I think will be important for us to remember. The first example I want to give you is from Luke chapter 8, and this is talking about those who ministered to Christ and the disciples and literally financially supported them. during Christ's earthly ministry. So it came to pass afterwards that he went throughout every city and village preaching and showing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God. The twelve were with him. And certain women, which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, married called Magdalene, out of whom were s well went seven devils, and Joanna, the wife of Chuh, herit steward, it's an important person. Um This is somebody that had access to the person who ruled the area in Galilee. And Susanna and many others ministered unto him of their substance. Now this is talking about Supporting them financially, materially. God used these women mightily. A second example would be a person who anointed Christ's body for burial. Now, interestingly After Christ's death on the cross and then him being buried in the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea, no one had the opportunity to properly prepare his body for burial, but We see in Matthew 26, a person who understood what was happening that week going into the Passover, that Christ was going to die. And she prepared his body before those events. And we see that in Matthew 26, verse 12. It says, She poured out this ointment unto my body. She did it for my burial. Verily I say unto you, wherever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, they shall also see that this woman hath done. Behold, she has done it for a memorial, and it will be told of her. And then the third example I want to give is the very first people to testify to the resurrection of Christ, and that is in Luke 24 verse 10. It says it was Mary Magdalene and Joanna, Mary the mother of James and other women that were with them. Which told these things unto the apostles, and their words seen unto them as an idle tale, and they believed them not. So before the disciples were convinced of the resurrection, these women were and they gave testimony to it. So this week we're going to kind of highlight how God worked through two women who were very important in Paul's ministry and then the continuation of Paul's ministry through Timothy. So, in the introduction, as we think about this, we see that Paul's ministry is coming to an end. And there are a lot of clues to this in 2 Timothy in chapter 1, verse 6, he tells Timothy to stir up the gift that has been given him by the putting on of hands. In chapter 2, verses 1 and 2, he says, to be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus, to endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. In chapter 3, verse 1, he says, Know also in the last days perilous times will come. We also see in another passage later on in chapter 3. 14, he says, continue the things you've learned and been assured of. And then in chapter 4, verse 2, preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all longsuffering and indoctrine. And then lastly, chapter 4, verses 5 through 7, he talks about the kinds of things that he needs to do. Watch, endure affliction, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of your ministry. I am ready to be offered and the time of my departure is at hand. What does all this communicate to you? Well what it communicates to you is that Paul realizes he's going to die. He's feeling the weight of that transfer of ministry. And so he is reaching out to Timothy, and he's trying to prepare him in his absence. And as we read through this passage of scripture, as we dig into the details throughout the week, what we're going to see Is why Paul chose Timothy and why he had such confidence that Timothy would carry on in his absence. So it summarized the passage in the following ways. It presents a powerful testimony to the influence of two women who were converted out of difficult circumstances, yet were pivotal and Paul's closest ministry co-labor, the shaping of Timothy. As we dig into this text, we're going to see that God's desire is for us to have deep encouragement in the way He used these women. And to recognize that, you know what, He can do the same thing in our lives and through our eyes. I hope that you join us this week as we dig into this passage. I hope you share it. If you think it will be an encouragement to others, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we dig into these passages of Scripture. Bye now.