Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a wonderful week and hope that you're having a good start on Tuesday or whenever you're going to be watching this video. I want to remind you, we are in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, so if you have a Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to that passage. And we're going to read the text together. So I have it on the screen so that you can follow along. Here's what God's Word says. Now, if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen. And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also vain, yea, and we are found false witnesses of God. Because we have testified of God that he raised up Christ, whom you say he raised not up, if so be that the dead rise not. For, if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised. And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain. Ye are yet in your sins. then they also, which are fallen asleep in Christ, are perished. And if in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable But now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man also came the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Isn't that a great passage of Scripture? What a comforting, what a powerful passage of Scripture. And so what I'd like to focus our attention on this morning is the historic nature of the resurrection. We can put it simply this way. The resurrection is an historic fact. The Bible says that Jesus has risen from the dead, and history records, even outside of the Bible. that Jesus died and that his disciples were absolutely convinced and were willing to stake their lives on it that he rose from the dead. So let's dig into this text and consider this a little bit together this morning. First of all, I want you to notice the statement in verse 15. He says, we have testified of God that he raised up Christ. Now that word we is indicating a certain group of people are bearing a testimony. And so we should ask the question, who are these people? that are bearing this testimony? And the answer is, well, these are the people that are talked about in verses 3 to 7. Paul writes, I've delivered unto you, first of all, that which I also received. And that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he rose again the third day according to the Scriptures, and that he was seen of Cephas. and then of the twelve, and after that he was seen, above five thousand brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain unto this present. But some are fallen asleep, and after that he was seen of James, then of all the apostles. I didn't add this in here, but Paul says, and he was also seen of me. Now, what was the basis of the testimony of these people? The answer is they were first-hand eyewitness account. It was a first-hand eyewitness account. They actually lived through the event of the resurrection. For instance, in Luke 24, this is the passage that we opened up our scripture reading with on Easter Sunday. was uh a record of the actual events that took place. The question then we should ask is, well then what what was the test what was the actual content of this testimony that they were given? And the answer is that they claimed that they actually saw Christ risen from the dead. For instance, Mary Magdalene in John chapter 20, verse 18, goes to the disciples and she says, I have seen the risen Lord. Those disciples ran to the tomb. They saw that it was empty. And then later on that evening, Christ revealed himself to his disciples by meeting them once that night, and then a second time, and then a third time, all recorded for us. Let me kind of break this down for a minute. The first occasion where Jesus reveals himself to the disciples is on an occasion where Thomas is not there. Now, we call them the twelve, but remember Judas is not there. And in this moment, Thomas is not there. And he is a significant figure as John is giving the story of the resurrected Christ and the witness of him being risen from the dead. In verse 19 it says, That same evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, for the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, then came Jesus and stood in their midst. Jesus came, he spoke with them, he allowed them to touch him, he ate a meal with them, they had conversation, they saw with their very own eyes that Jesus is risen from the dead. And then when Jesus is gone and Thomas comes back, they say, we've seen the Lord. Mary said that she's seen the Lord. We've seen the Lord. And Thomas says, they don't believe it. He says, unless I can touch his hands and take my hands and thrust them in his side, there's no way I'm going to believe that he rose from the dead. And so what does Jesus do? He comes a second time. This time Thomas is there. And in verses 26 to 31, it says, after eight days, again his disciples were within. And Thomas was with them. Then came Jesus, the door being shut, and stood in their midst and said, Peace be unto you. Then said he to Thomas, I love this statement. Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands, and reach hither thy hands, and thrust it in my side, and be not faithless, but believing. When Thomas said, my Lord and my God. What is Thomas saying? I believe. I believe. On the third occasion is when Jesus recommissions Peter, who you have to remember, Peter denied the Lord, said, I don't know him, three times. And in John chapter 21, Peter goes back to fishing, and this is the third time that Jesus shows himself to his disciples after he is risen from the dead. Now, there's another group as well that's a very important part of this, and this is in Luke chapter 24. It says, Behold, two of them went the same day to a village called Maes. They talked together all of them of these things that had happened as it came to pass, that while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. And in this passage of Scripture, we see that Jesus actually had a meal with them, and their eyes were open, they realized that they had seen the Christ. What is the point? The point is these people saw him and they testified to him. But there's a second piece of this claim that I think is very important for us to not overlook quickly. And that is that they claimed that their initial response was not one of belief, but of disbelief, of fear, and in some cases even an antagonism toward the claim that Christ had risen from the dead. In John chapter 20, we see Mary Magdalene, and when Jesus comes to him, or when she comes to that empty tomb, the angels are there and they tell her that he's risen. And then she sees this man, and she thinks that the man is the gardener. And this is gardener, and this is what she said. Sir, if thou hast borne him thence, tell me. Where they have laid him, I will take him away. What is this telling you? She doesn't believe he's risked it. She believes that he's dead. And she believes his body is somewhere. And she's asking this man to help her find the body Or in Mark 16, 11 it says, they when they had heard that he was alive and had seen of her, believed not. The disciples did not believe that Jesus was risen from the dead. We see in John 20, 25, that Thomas says, Except I see his hands and the print of his nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. He was a doubter And then in Galatians 1. 13, Paul says, you have heard of my conversation in times past and the Jews' religion. How that beyond measure I persecuted the Church of God, I wasted it, profited in the Jewish religion, above many my equals in mine own nation, being more exceeding zealous of the tradition of my fathers The simple point that these people are making is that they did not believe that Jesus had risen from the dead until after they had personally seen him. And it is that moment that they personally saw him that changed everything. A third claim that they made is that they, after they saw him, then they understood That this was the fulfillment of something that had been promised or prophesied predicted. In Luke 24, 5 it says Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, he is risen. Remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee. The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified the third day again and rise again. And they remembered his words So we see people saying, I saw him, I doubted, and after I saw, and I believed, I remembered that this was predicted. The fourth piece is that these people claimed that Jesus literally called them and commissioned them and sent them to testify of the resurrection. And Acts chapter 1, verse 80 says, You will receive power after the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and you shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost parts of the earth. The question we should ask ourselves this morning is what does this all mean? Well what it means is that there are overwhelmingly compelling reasons to believe the witness of these individuals. Number two, they live through it, and because they live through it, we should listen to what they say They began as skeptics and opponents to the message, and then were compelled by what they lived through that in fact this was true. They risked and lost everything for this message. We should absolutely believe that this is true. It unfolded exactly as it had been foretold. So let's rejoice in the fact that we serve a risen Savior. This is a real historic moment in history. And it's something that we should all be absolutely grateful for. May the Lord help us to do that this morning. If this has been an encouragement to you, take a moment. To share that and uh perhaps share with somebody who can be encouraged by it. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow by now