Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. Hope that as we've been working our way through some thoughts on the cross and what Jesus has done for us, that this has given you some things to think about, that it has been an encouragement and more than anything, that it's really been a time of reflection and gratitude toward God. for the cost of our salvation. And so what I want to do today is just kind of pull it all together and as we look at tomorrow being the day that we we remember and we celebrate and we ponder the significance of the resurrection. I hope that this will be just a good way to kind of finish out our week and think about some final thoughts. Also, I'm really excited about the text that we're going to be dealing with. We're going to be looking at the resurrection from the book of John, and we're going to be highlighting, or I should say, uh focusing in on how John highlights Christ's interaction with four different people. And each of those individuals brought a unique dynamic to the story of how they responded to what Christ experienced on the cross. And then the fact that the tomb was empty, how they interacted with that information, and then ultimately how they come to uh to be firmly convinced that Jesus died. and is risen and in fact they went and testified to the resurrection and what Christ has done. And so I hope that you'll join us for that. The music should be very Christ-centered, really, really sweet. uh passages of scripture that we're going to read through and and songs that we're going to sing and praise the Lord. And so it's going to be a really good time. Hope you'll join us for that. Not just in a live stream, but in person if physically you're able to do that. Okay, well let's take our Bibles and turn to John chapter 18. We're going to read it one more time, and then I want to give you some final thoughts to think about today going into tomorrow. It says, when Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Kidron, where there was a garden in which he entered in his disciples. And Judas also which betrayed him knew the place. And Jesus oftentimes resorted thither with his disciples. Judas then having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees. Came thither with lanterns and torches and weapons. Jesus therefore, knowing all things that should come upon him, went forth and said unto them, Whom seek ye? They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus saith unto them, I am He. Now when we think about the passage and everything that we've talked about, here are some final thoughts to think about. And by the way, what we are breaking down this week, or what we have broken down this week is what we looked at last Sunday evening. And we celebrated the Lord's table and uh it was just a great time. to ponder all these things and then focus on uh the death of Christ, his body, which was crushed under the weight of our sin. and his blood which was shed for the remission of our sins. So with that in the back of our minds as well, let's think about these things. First of all, let's consider the suffering of the cross. And how Christ was willing to embrace that suffering. And this is what ultimately gives us salvation. The suffering of Christ, his willingness to embrace it. That is an integral part of our salvation story. Secondly, let's pause and let's remember the body that bore our sin and was crushed for us. I think of what it says in 1 Peter, who his own self bore our sins in his own body on the tree. I think about Isaiah 53, where he says that the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. And by his stripes we are healed. Christ became a sin offering for us. Our sin was placed on his shoulders It says that he was made sin for us, though he knew no sin, so that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. He literally bore our sins in his own body. He received the just payment for our sin so that we could be forgiven and reconciled to God. Let's pause and remember his blood that was shed for the remission of our sins. The Bible says without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sins. Every single time one of those animals was sacrificed and the blood was shed and it was sprinkled upon the altar, it was a reminder that atonement was made. Atonement is not payment. Atonement is simply covering. And so I'm reminded in Romans chapter 3 where it talks about Christ's blood being a propitiation for our sins. And the fact that God demonstrated his righteousness as he passed over sins in the past And the reason that he demonstrates his righteousness is because when he passed over, he would one day actually deal with those sins once and for all at the cross. And so let's remember that the blood of Christ was shed to remit our sins. We are cleansed before a holy and righteous God because Christ has shed his blood for us. So let's thank him for what he's done. Let's remember it. Let's be grateful. Let's purpose to live like the people that we are. We are a redeemed people. We have been reconciled to God. We are justified in Christ. We are declared not guilty, not because we haven't sinned, but because we've been united to the one who is sinless. And we've been found righteous in his perfect righteousness. Not a righteousness of our own, but the righteousness which is of God by faith. Let's purpose to live like the people we are And let's thank him for the power and the reality of the resurrection that, God willing, tomorrow, we are going to celebrate And so I look forward to that day. I hope that you'll join us as we spend time together in the Word of God, reading it, reflecting on it, hearing it preached. singing hymns of praise to God, hearing beautiful hymns being sung that we reflect on. May God be truly glorified and may we as his people be deeply encouraged tomorrow. as we gather for worship. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing, we'll see many of you tomorrow. By now