Good morning. Welcome to our final Anchored in the Word morning reflection for this week. And I hope that you're having a great Friday morning or afternoon or evening or weekend whenever you get to watch this video. And the passage that we've been dealing with is a really practical one. It's a vivid reminder of this contrast between the truth and what it produces and false religions and what they produce. And so the topic we've been addressing this week is God's compassion and dead religion's rotten fruits. This morning what I want us to do is wrap it up with some final practical thoughts. So let's read the text one more time together. Again, we're in Luke chapter 13. We're looking at verses 10 through 17 together. Here's what it says. And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath, and behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and was bowed together, and could in no wise lift up herself. And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said unto her, Woman, thou art loose from thine infirmity, and he laid his hand on her, and immediately she was made straight and glorified God. And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation, because that Jesus had had healed on the Sabbath day, and said unto the people , There are six days in which men ought to work. And them therefore come and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day. The Lord then answered him and said, Thou hypocrite! Doth not each one of you on the Sabbath loose his ox? Ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound lo these eighteen years, be loose from this bond on the Sabbath day? And then in verse 17 it says, When he had said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed, and all the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done. Done by him. Now, what can we take away from this passage of scripture that we have looked at each day this week? Here is my summary, the application of what we have learned this week. this week. First is this. We've got to think correctly about troubles. God rules over everything, including our greatest troubles. And this has been a theme actually several times in our teaching over the last several weeks. And it just so happens that what God has put before us in His Word, whether it's in the Sermon on the Mount, or whether it's here in Luke, or whether it's even in the Psalms, the thing that we are constantly being reminded of is that God rules his creation. And it is true that he allows things to play out, and it is true that Satan has power, he has authority, but it is limited, and he is answerable to God, and God uses everything to accomplish his good purpose. purposes in the lives of his children. So we've got to think correctly about our troubles. Next, he's never the source of evil, but he does permit evil to accomplish Good. This is the way that God works. We have to learn to trust Him. We've got to recognize that He will limit what we cannot handle. And he will deliver us and strengthen us through what he has permitted. We've got to think correctly about God in our troubles. He's never going to permit suffering without a ready supply of grace and a way to escape. So that's kind of the first side. The second side is this. He's never hard toward us. and cowloused toward us in our troubles. He's a merciful God. He literally comes to us. when we need him most. Even when sometimes we are pushing away from God, we're hiding ourselves from God, we're angry at him, we're frustrated, we're confused. God pursues us in those moments, and we should be very thankful for that. We've also got to think correctly about our religion. And when I use the term religion, I'm using it in the sense of our worldview when it comes to how we relate to God. Is our worldview a gospel? centered worldview or is it a man-centered worldview? Is it about what I do for God or is it about what he has done for me? Is salvation by grace alone or is salvation the product of the work that we do. There are really two religious worldviews in the world. The one is a law-oriented worldview. view the worldview that says here's what I can do for God here's what I did for God here's what I can give God the other is gospel it says he did this for me There's a contrast. Those two things are not compatible. You can't merge them together and say, well, God does his part and I do my part. And so God saves me by grace-ish. through faith-ish, through his work and my work combined. It doesn't work that way. It's either law or gospel. Either I'm climbing to God on the ladder or he's reaching down and giving me salvation as a gift. Which worldview do you hold? The fruit of genuine faith in Christ is not just forgiveness, but transformation, spiritual change in the life of the believer And so how do we apply what we've learned? Well, the fruit of Ted religion is the exact opposite. It's cold. It's proud. It's full of hypocrisy. It crushes people with unsustainable burdens. So we need to think correctly about God , our suffering, our religious views, and about how he handles proud people. He confronts them. And when he does it, it's not his hatred for them and his anger. It's his mercy. It's the mercy of God that gets us in these moments. I think about what what the the uh the hymn Amazing Grace says. He writes, 'Twas grace that taught my heart to fear. And grace, my fears relieved. How precious did that grace appear the hour I first? But he confronts us in his mercy. He confronts the foundation of our worldview. That's what he did in these verses. He express He confronts pride and the brokenness of how people are viewing others. God is good, so may He help us to see the rottenness of dead religions. religion, if we've embraced it, a turn from it, to embrace faith alone in Christ, and the vibrancy that genuine faith in Christ produces. Well, that's all I have to give for you this week. I hope that you have a wonderful weekend. Hope that we'll see many of you on Sunday. It's going to be a wonderful day to be in the Lord's house. So Please join us and if not, join us in the live stream, and I hope you have a great weekend. Talk to y'all later. Bye now