Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. Hope you've been having a great week and I hope that the things that we're talking about are very helpful, that they uh cause you to stop and think a little bit about. uh motivation to ask the question, how did I get where I am? And more importantly than anything, we want our lives to be built on what is sound and true. Especially in how we view God in ourselves. And so let's go ahead and turn our Bibles again to Luke chapter 20. We'll read beginning in verse 46. Here's what it says. Beware of the scribes, which desire to walk in long robes, and love greetings in the markets, and the highest seats in the synagogues, and the chief rooms at feasts, which devour widows' houses, and for a show make long prayers. The same shall receive greater damnation. And he looked up and saw the rich men casting in their gifts into the treasury. He saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two mites. And he said, Of a truth I say unto you, that this poor widow hath cast in more than they all, for all these have of their abundance cast in unto the offering of God, but she of her penury hath cast in all the living that she had And as some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts, Jesus goes into some other things. And so as we look at this passage, I think it's important that we kind of look at the commentary of Christ and see what exactly does he say And then why does he say it? And how does this fit in proportion to other passages of Scripture that go beyond this time of Jesus' ministry? So a couple of comments. First of all, what he said. Verses 3 to 4 We see the following statement. This poor widow has cast in more than they all. Now that is a shocking statement, and the reason is because the amount of money that she was giving was very small. In fact it was just a fraction of a day's wage. And if we were to look at the modern equivalent, it would be like someone going to the gas station and buying a candy bar after they've worked an entire day. So the amount of money that they earned while they were working versus the amount of money that it costs to get the candy bar, that's what we're talking about when we when we talk about the nature for gift. It's it's very small But the question isn't just what he said. It's why. Why did he say it? In verse 4 he says, all of these of their abundance have cast into the offerings of God. but she of her penury has cast in all the living that she had. So Christ is making a contrast here. He's looking at what she's done versus what they've done. And there's more than just the equivalent, but there's the motive behind it. What he's showing you is that true value is not found in the quantity of the gift. It's not about how much you give to God It's not about how visible the gift is, how many people see it and how they think about the gift that has been given. It shows you that God sees everything. He doesn't just see the amount, he sees the motive. He sees how much is given in proportion to what the person has. We also recognize that God doesn't need anything. It's not as if God is wringing his hands going, I just hope these people can give, because if they don't give, I'm not going to be able to do what I need to do. It's not the reason that God commands us to give, or that God encourages us to give, or that we should give He's not impressed with anything that we give him. He's not impressed with us as people. We talk about the gospel. It's all about grace. It's entirely God's work, not our work. So these pieces are very important. Everything starts with him, everything ends with him, he knows everything. And so the question is, what is the implication? for what he's saying. Well the implication is this, the object matters. It's got to be God and God alone. Not the people Not to get some kind of favor from someone. It's all about God out of a pure desire to honor Him. The issue of proportion matters. The relationship between what we have and what we give actually matters And the ultimate motivation is very, very important. Now, we see this in Christ's interaction with the Sadducees and the people in the crowd. But this is not just a time of Christ kind of issue. This is something that goes well beyond that. And we see that in the writers of the New Testament, there's a lot of instruction about the way that people give and the motivation and the doctrines that that push toward that giving. For instance, 1 Timothy chapter 6. In the first century says, if any man teach otherwise and consent not to hold some words, even the words of our Lord Jesus, and to the doctrine which accords with godliness He's proud and knows nothing, don 't think about questions and stripes of words, destitute of the truth, supposing, here's a key, that gain is godliness, from such withdrawal thyself. But godliness with contentment is great gain. We brought nothing into this world. It's certain we can carry nothing out. Having food and raiment, let us therewith be content. But they that will or desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare in many foolish and hurtful lusts. So what Paul is saying in First Timothy six Is that what people teach? The motivation for giving, what they're hoping to get back, all of this in 2 Peter chapter 2. He says, there were false prophets among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you. And then he talks about what they're going to do. They will follow pernicious ways, by reason of whom the truth shall be evil spoken of, and through covetousness they will with fain words make merchandise of you. And so what do we see? We see a warning by Paul and a warning by Peter that would be very consistent with what Jesus is saying. And so the point of all this is to say that we need to consider not just what is given, but why it is given and what is motivating it. And this should flow into the way that we give as people. So I want to encourage you this morning, before you give. Or before you choose not to give, ask the question, what is the source, the root, what is the motive for why I do want to give how I want to give, who I hope sees what I give, how I think about what I give, or why I don't give. All of those things are very important factors. Well, I hope that that gives you some things to think about. Have a blessed rest of your morning. Hope we'll see many of you at our midweek service. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.