Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Angered in the Word Morning Reflection. And I'm excited about this week for several reasons. One of the reasons being that we are dealing with vacation biological School at our church, and in the morning we have teens from 10 o'clock to 12 o'clock, and then in the evening we have children from 6:15 until 8:45 So I hope that you will bring your children if you come to our church or maybe you find these videos and you live locally and your children don't attend our church, but you might be in interested in bringing them to vacation bible school. Just want to give you an invitation to that. And my goal is to record all of our um all of our anchored in the words this week, but things can happen in vacation bible school week. So that is the plan. If for some reason I don't get some uploaded, uh just realize sometimes things come up. But that is my plan is to deal with this text of scripture and I'm also excited because This is a very helpful passage. It's an important passage, and I hope that it's going to be something God can use in your life this week. So the text we're in is in Luke chapter 14. We're looking at verses 1 through 6 And so I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles, turn there, we'll read it, and then I'll give you a couple of introductory thoughts, primarily dealing with some proverbs that will help set the stage for what we will talk about this week, Lord willing. It says, and it came to pass as he went into the house of one of the chief priests or Pharisees to eat bread on the Sabbath day, that they watched him. And behold, there was a certain man before him who had the dropsy. And Jesus answering spake unto the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath day? They held their peace. He took him and healed him and let him go. Could not answer him again of these things. Now, two two statements I want to make before we look at some proverbs that will help lay a good foundation for the principle That we're going to see illustrated in the text before us. The first statement is this: God graciously and masterfully confronts people's pride because the truth is. Truth matters and souls are in the balance. What we will see this week as we dig into this text is that Jesus is masterfully and graciously Confronting people for their good, but really also for the good of the people that are observing these conversations. The second statement: we must be willing to learn from this example of Christ and stand on the side of truth. That's where we're going this week. So the three proverbs I want to give you and then the application I hope will help Prepare hearts for this week. The first is the statement as follows: Foolish leaders are surrounded by wicked advisors because they will tell the leader what they want to hear. rather than what they need to hear. In Proverbs 29, verse 12, it says, If a ruler hearken unto lies, all his servants are wicked. The reason that someone in authority is supposed to surround themselves with wise people is so that for the good of a nation or a population that is under their jurisdiction jurisdiction, they will make good choices , being guided by wise and principled advisors. And so when a person is drifting off and they're we could say going Down a road that makes absolutely no sense, it's because the people around them who they've surrounded themselves with are likely telling them what they want to hear rather than what they need to hear. The second proverb. While contending with Foolish people is frustrating and generally a waste of time. There are times that we need to engage a fool in his folly. Proverbs 26:5 says, answer a fool according to You see something that's developing in these two proverbs. There are people that need to speak Speak to people so that when they hear the truth they are not going to continue down a road of folly. So he says, answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit If a ruler hearkens to lies, those who are his servants are our evil people. The third proverb: when God allows the wicked to fall, he does it because he is just and because He wants to warn those who are toying with the same kinds of folly. Proverbs 211 says, when the scorner is punished, the simple is made wise. And when the wise is instructed, he receiveth knowledge. So you see this consistent stream. There are times that That people need to be confronted. And so that leads us to an application. Titus 1, we must hold fast the faithful word that he There are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, especially they of the circum, whose mouths must be stopped, who subvert whole households teaching things that they ought not for filthy lucre sake. What do these four passages tell us? Well what they tell us is that there are times that we're going to have Have to stand on the side of truth, even if it makes us uncomfortable, and speak the truth. That's what Jesus is going to do in these verses. Jesus is going to confront the Pharisees, confront the religious leaders that were trying to set him up, that were watching him, that were hoping to bring accusation against him, he confronts them so that the truth is lifted to the top. And people are able to see what is true. And those who were potentially being led astray by the teaching of these religious leaders were going to take note of Jesus' instructions, take note of the confrontation and ultimately they would recognize we need to stand on the side of truth too. And so I want to encourage you this week in that stream. As we read this text, as we work our Way through the different details of it, we will see how Jesus wisely goes to the point and confronts error so that people who are observing can be preserved from it. Well, I hope that you'll have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll see many of you tomorrow. We may see some of you today or tonight at Vacation Bible School, and if we do, uh hope That you are able to have a great time either bringing kids, working in our VBS, or just hearing the stories of how God works throughout the week. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow. Bye now.