Good morning and welcome to our Wednesday Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. And the text that we've been working our way through is John chapter 1, verses 1 through 14. And today the video clip that's being featured Is a portion of the sermon that emphasizes Christ's purpose in coming. And if you remember back to the Sunday morning message, one of the questions we asked, the first question is, who is Jesus? The second question is, why did he come? And so the the the the heart of the text that we were dealing with is why Jesus came. And if you remember back to yesterday, It was important that we see that Jesus is qualified to do what he did. And so that was an important piece of yesterday's. If you missed yesterday's video, maybe go back and see that as we emphasize the eternality of Christ. that he is truly God, he is the eternal son, and uh when we talk of the incarnation, we say that he is the eternal son, God in flesh, fully God, fully man, and he has always and forever will be. And so let's go ahead and read through this text one more time as we reflect on the next little section and then we'll break it down a little bit. So here's what the scripture says, John chapter 1, verse 1. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by Him, and without Him was not anything made that was made In him was life, and the life was the light of men, and the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came into his own, and his own received him not. But, as many as received him To them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name, which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man. but of God. Now let's listen to this little chunk of the sermon. How in the world can you be reconciled to God? Three concepts that you need to understand. The first is Christ. It identifies the person who is qualified to come and to die for our sins. Nobody else could have done this. I could not have died for my children. And redeem them to God. Why? Because I'm a sinner. We're on the same page. We're on the same level. I am a sinful man. They are sinful. People as well. A sinful man cannot take on another sinful man's sin and die in the place of that. Only a righteous man can do this. That's why he says it is the just for the unjust. Christ is the only one qualified to do this. God in flesh So then the question is, why did he come? Well, he took on flesh so that we could be redeemed to God. And if you remember back to that statement that was just made in the video clip, it is the just for the unjust that he might bring us to God. And so as we reflect on this passage of Scripture, John 1, 1 through 14, We're reminded that the reason that the eternal son took on human flesh and took on the weaknesses of human flesh. human flesh and the limitations of human flesh. The reason, as it says in Philippians chapter two, that he made himself of no reputation and took upon himself the form of a servant. and was made in the likeness of men, the reason that he did this was for you. It was for me It was because he was taking on flesh to be the second Adam. The first Adam failed. The first Adam sinned in the garden. He led us into sin by his sin. It says, by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, so death passed on all men for that all have sinned. That one man's failure brought death and condemnation to all. And this one man's obedience, the righteous man, God in flesh, Jesus Christ, His obedience and his sacrifice is what gives us remission of sins, forgiveness of sins. And ultimately we are redeemed to God. And so the reason that Jesus came and the reason that he took on flesh was so that we could be redeemed. And there's no other way. As I said in that little clip, I could not have provided redemption for my own children. I could not have provided redemption for my wife My father could not have provided redemption for me. Why is that? Because none of us are qualified to go to the cross for the sins of another. We are not righteous, we are unrighteous. So the unrighteous cannot go in the place of the unrighteous. Only the just for the unjust to bring us to God. And so what makes his sacrifice actually matter, what it makes what it what causes it to actually take effect is the fact that the righteous one took on sin for us, though he knew no sin, so that we could be made the righteousness of God in him. I hope that gives you something to think about today. If you don't know the Lord Jesus as your Savior, if you've never turned to him in repentance and place your faith and the finished work of Christ, then why don't you do that today? What is holding you back from placing your faith in the finished work of Christ? May God help us to understand who Christ is why he came, what he accomplished, and how we can be redeemed to God through his work. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we look at a fourth video clip. Bye now.