Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And this week we are dealing with Luke chapter 16, verses 1 through 13, because it's a very lengthy passage. Passage of Scripture. I'm not planning to read the entire section, but we will deal with the entire section throughout the week. And uh the passage that we're dealing with is a fascinating passage because um it's a parable that has a very unique presentation and the way that Jesus is instructing his disciples is something that we really need to step back and we need to ponder very carefully. So what I'd like to do this morning is lay out a couple of introductory thoughts in dealing with this text of scripture that I hope will help set the stage for a deep dive into the passage. And I hope that as we work our way through it each of these lessons will be very practical and encouraging you encouraging for you on the day that we look at them. So we are in Luke chapter 16 we're reading verses 1 through 13 together Together again, not the entire section, but uh the bulk of the beginning of it. So here's what the text says. And he said also unto his disciples, There was a certain rich man. And he called him and said unto him, How is it that I hear this of thee? an account of thy stewardship, for thou mayest be no longer steward. Then the steward said unto himself, What shall I do? For my Lord taketh away from me the stewardship. I cannot dig To beg I'm ashamed, I'm resolved what to do, that when I am put out of the stewardship they may receive me into their houses. Now, if we were to read the rest of the passage, we will see that what the Steward does is he takes all of these bills that are owed to his master and he goes and he basically goes to each person and he offers to have them settle the debt at a lower price than what they actually owed the master. And by the end of the story, we're going to see that the master commends him, not because he is doing what is morally right, but because he's very shrewd. And his decision is basically insulating him from the trouble he's going to experience when he loses the ability to steward the master's resources. And so this is the text that we're dealing with. fascinating passage of scripture. And this morning what I'd like to do first of all is I'd like to summarize everything that we're going to look at here and then talk a little bit about the audience and why that is so important. So first of all the summary statement. If people with poor character and a short-sighted perspective can act shrewdly toward what they are given, how much more should we act And when we talk about someone with poor character, this would be the individual in the story that Jesus tells. And when we talk about the the person who is the emphasis Emphasis of his teaching, we're talking about the disciple, the person who understands , that there is a savior, they've embraced the savior, they desire to follow the savior and walk with him, they desire to be genuine disciples of Christ. believe in eternity. He's saying we should learn from the actions of this particular man. And so that is the focus of the passage that we're looking at this morning. If we were to think about what God wants us to do. He wants us to wisely steward the resources He's entrusted to us. He doesn't want us to be unfaithful stewards. And you will see that really drawn out in the end where Christ begins to teach and apply the parable that he presents to them. So this morning let's look at Christ's audience and let's consider why that is such an important thing. for us when we interpret the passage. Well, in order to do that, I want you to see a contrast between the things that Jesus has been teaching, the things that he teaches So we go back to chapter 16, verse 1, and it opens up this way. He said unto his what's the next word? Disciples. And I want you to contrast that with the audience before. If we go back to chapter 15, verse 1, he gives three parables, and this is how Luke interprets. He says, then drew near unto him all the publicans and the sinners, and the Pharisees and the scribes. Murmured, and he spoke this parable unto them. Now, in this particular situation, Jesus is speaking to a mixed audience. He's speaking to Pharisees and Sparta. Scribes who are complaining, and he's speaking to publicans and sinners who were noteworthy for their sinful behavior, he's speaking to them as well. That means that the parable that Jesus is teaching has kind of But then when we come to this next passage, Notice in verse 1, he says he spoke this to his disciples. This is a different audience. This is exclusively focused toward those who were followers of Christ. Christ, and they believed he was the Messiah. And then in verse 14, at the end of Christ's teaching, it says the Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard And then Jesus' teaching is going to be directed towards the Pharisees. Well, it's clear the way that Luke puts it in verse 14. that Christ was not intending to directly teach the Pharisees. They were overhearing what he said to his disciples, and they were mocking it. And there was a reason they were mocking it. mocking it because they had no heart for this issue. And so that draws us to an important observation. Why does this matter? Well it matters because stewardship is a discussion Directed toward Christians. This is not a not a teaching that is to be directed towards the unbeliever. So if we talk about an unbeliever, if someone is not a Christian, then their primary concern should be They need to think about the gospel. They need to recognize that they fall short of God's perfect standard of righteousness, that the law says they are guilty, they are condemned, they are unrighteous, they need to be forgiven. Given and cleansed and made right with God. And so the focus of the teaching to the non-Christian is you need to repent and believe. You need to turn to Christ. You need to trust in his finished work. Stewardship Is a discussion that comes after conversion. This is a discussion for the Christian who's already forgiven, who's already cleansed, who's already righteous in Christ. Now the discussion of stewardship becomes pertinent. And so if you're a Christian, if you're a believer, who would probably be the vast majority of people who watch these videos or listen to these recordings. Then your concern should not be how do I get saved, how do I stay saved, but how do I live the Christian life faithfully? There's a big difference, between those two things. And so the primary concern of the believer should be I desire to be a faithful steward of what God has entrusted. And so if you are a believer, I hope you will join us this week as we dig into the teaching of Christ, the parable, the instruction, and how to apply it. And if you're not a believer, I hope that as you think about these things, you would recognize that your greatest need is to turn to Christ, to trust in his finished work, to be forgiven and cleansed and justified. So that the issue of stewardship is something that you can actually begin to apply because you are a saved person. So that's what I want us to think about this morning as we go through throughout the rest of our day. Hope that you have a great rest of your day and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll meet again. If this has encouraged you or you think that this teaching throughout the week will be an encouragement to others. Take a moment to share that and uh talk to others about it so that they can benefit from these things. And my desire is simply to be an encouragement, to be a help. And I hope that's what these things are. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow by now.