Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And I hope that you have enjoyed this study. I hope it's been an encouragement. And it's very simple, but but it's also extremely important for us to think about. And we've been talking about how to walk by faith when we are dealing with trouble. And so today we're going to pull it all together and give you some final thoughts of application. So let's take our Bibles and turn to 2 Chronicles 32. And we're going to read through the passage again and then kind of review everything that we've talked about with some application. Here's what it says. After these things and the establishment thereof, Sennacherib, king of Assyria, came and entered into Judah, and encamped against the fenced cities, and thought to win them over to himself. When Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come and that he was purposed to fight against Jerusalem, he took counsel with his princes and his mighty men to stop up the waters of the fountains which were without the city. And they did help so that there were gathered together much people, who stopped all the fountains and the brook that ran through the midst of the land Now as we think about these words, here are some thoughts that I think pull it all together. The first thing we'll say about it is this. We need to be careful that we do not embrace the illusion that God's people always escape hardship and tests. Think about Job, great example. Think about David during some of the godliest moments of his life, some of his most faithful years, were when he was running for his life from Saul. And we see many, many examples of people in the scripture who face hardship. We will go through hard valleys and difficulties. And even though we may walk in a way that honors the Lord, that doesn't mean we're going to escape those things. Second thing, when our faith is tested, we need a balance. The balance is what is my responsibility, what is obedience, and walking in wisdom, and what is trusting God. They go together. I've got to trust him with what is outside of my control. I need to take seriously my responsibility that he's given me. Thirdly, we need to be people of action, decisive action. We need to be discerning. We need to seek out godly counsels. We need to take action on good godly counsel. We need to prepare for the worst. This is not living inconsistent with walking by faith. This is part of walking by faith. But on the other side, we need to avoid that danger of trusting in our provision. We don't do all those things because that's the final determination. We do them because that's what we're called to do. God may work through those means But he may also work outside of them, and we have to be prepared for that. Next, we must learn to trust God where the responsibility ends. When I can't do anymore, when I'm not responsible to do anymore, what do I need to do? Put it in the hands of the Lord and rest. Trust him. Let him do what he alone can do. And when we think about this, we need to be good leaders over the people that God has entrusted to us. If you're a father or you're a mother, pastor, missionary. Someone who's working and you have people under you at work, you are the leader. You're the one who is responsible to take the action. You're the one that people are looking to. And so we have to make sure that we lead well in these areas. And then we need to rest in God's care and in his power. I want to leave you with one final thought that I think really captures the full sense of the text in front of us. And that is that statement that we read in verses 7 and 8. It says, be strong and courageous. Be not afraid nor dismayed for the king of Assyria, nor for the multitude that is with him. For there are more with us than there are with him. With him is an arm of flesh. With us is the Lord our God to help us and to fight our battles. May God help us to have such a perspective. Hope you have a wonderful weekend. Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday. And then, if not on Sunday, hope you'll join us for our Anchored in the Words next week. Have a blessed weekend. Bye now.