Good morning. I want to welcome you to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflections. And this week we're going to be dealing with a very well-known psalm, that's Psalm 51. And I think there's a lot that we can really unpackage from this text of scripture. Super practical. So I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage. What I'd like to do today is kind of give you some introductory thoughts to just kind of set this psalm in its historic context, and then we're going to start working our way through some of the contents of the psalm. If you have a Bible, please turn there to Psalm 51. We're not going to read the whole Psalm, but we're going to read a good chunk of it. Here's what the scriptures say. Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness, according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquities and cleanse me from my sin, for I acknowledge my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against thee, thee only, have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight, that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and clear when thou judgest. Behold, I was shapen in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts And in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom. Purge me with hyssop, I shall be clean. Wash me, I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. Now as we look at this Psalm, it's important for us to understand the connection between Psalm 51 and and 2 Samuel 11. When we go to 2 Samuel 11, we're looking at the story of David's grievous sin against Bathsheba. And this is one of the most treacherous moments in David's life. In fact, it was probably the greatest blot against his very remarkable life, the reputation that he had. And we really see this stated in 2 Samuel 12, where the prophet says, By this deed thou hast given great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme. Because of David's actions, people would look at Israel and their God and their king and they'd say, is this really the truth? David's life at that moment was at one of its lowest places. And as a result of David's sin, there was tremendous misery that was reaped out of that action that he took. The action of adultery, taking another man's wife, the action of trying to conceal it. the action of sending a man into the battle to be killed by his enemies and then to continue to cover it with deceit. David's actions were extremely treacherous. And as a result of that, sowing to the flesh, he reaped tremendous corruption. A lot of pain, a lot of turmoil, people that turned against him. The list could go on of issues that David experienced as a direct result, as natural consequence from that action. But on top of that, we see there's another dimension to that particular story as well. And it's not just the sowing and reaping, but also the great mercy of God. God was merciful to David despite his sin. And we see this in the fact that God gave him additional children through Bathsheba. And one of those children, Solomon, was in fact loved the Lord deeply. When we look at the lineage of Christ either following his physical roots through Mary, or we see his right to the throne through Joseph, his guardian. We see that both Joseph and Mary descended from Nathan, or from David. And they they descended from David through Bathsheba's two sons, one being Nathan and the other being Solomon. And so what we see is God's mercy. It's not a testimony to David having made a right decision. It's God's mercy despite David's sin. He would become a part of the lineage of Christ. Solomon would build the temple. He would write scripture. His reputation would be known for wisdom. God hated what David did. But he also extended tremendous grace and brought good out of that circumstance. And so this is an important piece to understanding Psalm 51. So I'm going to summarize it this way, and then we're going to dig into some of those details a little bit. I summarize it this way. Despite the lowest moment in David's life, he turned to God in his brokenness, and he penned one of the most powerful prayers of repentance found in Scripture. As we read these verses, we must see the need to take great comfort in the gospel as we turn to God when we've sinned. So how can we do that? Well the first part that we're going to look at is the penitence of David and his cry out to God for mercy. And he he expresses it about five different ways. He talks about His desire to experience God's compassion, verse 1, have mercy on me. We also see that he understands that he is become defiled and dirtied by his sin. And so he wants that stain of his sin to be removed. So in verse 1 he says, to blot out my transgression. Wash me from my iniquities, cleanse me from my sin. David experienced the defilement of sin. Purge me with hyssop. I will be clean. Wash me. I will be whiter than snow. Hide thy face from my sins. blot out my iniquities. David is saying, God have mercy, have compassion, remove my guilt, deliver me. from the guilt of my sin. A third thing that we see here is that David wanted the joy that had been broken by his sin and that communion that he had with God before he sinned to be restored. So in verse 80 he says, make me to hear joy and gladness that the bones that you have broken may rejoice. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. Uphold me with thy free spirit We also see that he wanted to have a renewal in the inner man. Verse 10, created me a clean heart. Renew a right spirit within me. And he wanted God's presence and empowerment to be there in his life again. When he says, cast me not out of thy presence. He wants God to be near him. When he says, take not your Holy Spirit from me, he's talking about the role that he had as a king and how he needed the presence of the Spirit. So what do we see here? We see that the burdens that David is crying out to God over show us how sin wreaks havoc in our lives. And what we see in these verses is that the only remedy to this great problem is the gospel of Christ, God's action on our behalf, Him doing something for us we can't do for ourselves. And so what it reminds us is that this is what causes us to become the objects of God's wrath against sin, our sin. And the gospel is what causes that wrath to be removed. This is what leaves us stained and unclean. And the gospel is what removes that stain and cleanses us from our sin. This is what robs us of fellowship, communion with God, joy that we are supposed to have with the Lord. And the gospel is what restores that broken communion. This is what disorders our passions and our minds. The gospel is what gives us a renewed mind and transformation. It 's what separates us from God Leaves us powerless to live as we were created to live in the gospel, is what gives us the power to walk as new creatures in Christ. So this week as we dig into this passage of scripture, I hope you'll join us because there's a lot for us to unpackage, a lot of rich practical things for us to reflect on. And so I pray that you'll come and join us this week. Have a blessed morning or whenever you uh watch or listen to this recording and I hope that you have a great day bye now.