Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good middle of your week. And hope that this passage of Scripture will really be an encouragement and a challenge to you. If you have your Bibles, let's all take them, please, and let's turn to 2 Timothy chapter 3, and we're reading verses 1 through 7 together, and we're talking about the perilous times of the last days. and the church's mission and how it is consistent no matter what the church encounters. So let's go ahead and read the text together and then dig into a few more details as we work our way through this passage. It says this. This know also that in the last days perilous time shall come, for men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters. Proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, truthbreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, Traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof And as we look in this passage, we will see the emphasis this morning of how the gospel is able to overcome any obstacle. And it is ultimately able to penetrate any heart. We're going to see that illustrated in the passage before us. In verse 14, he says, continue in the things which thou hast learned. and been assured of. The question is, what is driving at this instruction of continue in the things that you have learned despite what you're facing? Well, what we see is that God's redemptive plan is an unshakable plan in the midst of great obstacles. And I think we talked about this last week, but I'd like to kind of re-remind you of it again this week. In Matthew 16, Jesus promised that he would build his church. Without any exception, he's going to continue to do this work. He says, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Then we see in Matthew 28 that Jesus not only promised, but he commanded that his disciples, because of the authority that he had as the one who died and has risen from the dead, He authorized and appointed the apostles to make disciples until the end of the age. And so he says it like this in Matthew 28. Go ye therefore, based on the promise and the work of Christ, and God's determination to bring people to Himself, go into all the world and teach all nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. And lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. And so we see the promise, we see the command, and then third, I want to want you to notice that the Apostle Paul took this very seriously He's commissioned as an apostle and he follows through with it. In 2 Corinthians 5. 17 it says, All things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation. and have committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now, then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you, by us we pray you in Christ fed, be ye reconciled to God. And so the first thing that we'll notice this morning is that God has a plan, a redemptive plan that is unshakable no matter the obstacle. Second thing I want you to notice is that there's a very distinct pattern in the passage despite the obstacles. And you're going to see this several times mentioned in the passage. For instance, the first example he says, perilous times will come. The question is, if perilous times are going to come, how are we supposed to respond to that? He says, well, but you've known my doctrine and my manner of life. So even though these are going to be difficult times, the truth is still the same. We see a second example. He says evil men and seducers will wax worse and worse. Sounds very similar to what he just said. Perilous times being coming. He says, but continue in the things that you have learned. So perilous times will come, evil men and seducers will wax worse and worse, but you've known my doctrine, continuing the things that I've learned. Then the third example he says, these will turn away from the truth unto faith. Fables, but watch, endure, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of your ministry. And so we see this progression. Perilous times, evil men, people turning away from the truth, but you know the truth, continue in the truth, watch, endure, and evangelize. And so the pattern in the text is to say obstacles will come, but you still have the same responsibility. You still have the same duty. Nothing has changed as it relates to your responsibility. Third observation I want you to notice is that there are three examples that he references that are going to demonstrate the power of the gospel despite massive obstacles The first that is mentioned is Paul's conversion himself. In verses 10 and 11 he says, But thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith. long -suffering, charity patience, persecutions, afflictions which came to me at Antioch, at Iconium, and at Lystra. What persecutions I endured, but out of them all the Lord delivered me. Now when Paul references himself, he's saying, Timothy, you know what I was before I became a Christian. You've heard the stories. You know that I was a blasphemer. I was a persecutor of the church. I hated God's church. Yet what does the gospel do? It transforms people like me. And to people who are willing to not just lay their lives on the line, but be an example of the believer in doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, all those things. And so remember me, the gospel can change anybody. It's changed me. The second example that's mentioned is the Exodus and Exodus 3. 8. He says, do you remember Jadison Jambres who withstood Moses? He says, like them, so do these also resist the truth. Now, if we go back to the story of the Exodus, even though Moses brings a message from God, and it's withstood in the palace, and there's tremendous resistance as Pharaoh's heart becomes harder and harder and harder. What does the Bible teach us? Well, God overcomes those obstacles. And we say that he delivers his people out of Egypt. And then the third example is the conversion of Timothy. And CHAPTER three verse fifteen he says, From a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise into salvation Now, Paul doesn't have to tell Timothy of his own history. Timothy knew that he had a Greek father and a Jewish mother. We don't know anything about Timothy's father. We know that he wasn't following the Jewish customs. And so he was circumcised before Paul took him to go to a typically Jewish uh uh environment where he was preaching the gospel. But Timothy was a guy who you would not have thought would become a great man that God would use, who would be a disciple, not just a disciple of Paul, but would be the person that he leaves in his absence in places like Ephesus So what's the point of these examples? Paul's conversion, the Exodus, and Timothy? Well the answer is, does it matter what the obstacles are? Does it matter how it appears that things are not going to work out the way they they should, the same message is consistent. are Preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine And so the answer to the question this morning of what's the point is the point is get back to the basics. The basics work. We've got to get back to the work that God wants us to do. Well, that gives us a couple of things to think about. Hope that you have a great rest of your day. Hope it goes very well. Hope that many of you will be here tonight as we dig into the book of 1 Corinthians again and we look at this passage of scripture. And if there's been an encouragement to you, please take a moment to share that. And if you think it could be an encouragement to someone else, please consider sharing that so that they can be benefited by it. And Lord willing tomorrow we will continue our series. Have a blessed day by now.