Go good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a great week and at the midpoint of the week, uh enjoying this cool fall weather. And uh the text that we've been working our way through is 1 Peter chapter 2 verses 1 through 12. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it. We're going to turn together to this passage, and we are looking at uh the important function that we have in the world as God's people. So here's what the text says beginning in verse 6. Behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone. Stone Elect precious. Unto you therefore which believe he is precious. But unto them which be disobedient the stone which the builder Disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, and a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense, even to them which stumbled at the word, being disobedient, whereunto also they were appointed But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that you should show forth the praises of Him who hath called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. Which in times past were not a people, but are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but But now have obtained mercy. Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which were against the soul, having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the Now if you think back to what we have been discussing this week, we talked about the darkness that we were once in and the darkness that the world is currently in. Then we looked at the light that we've been exposed to and how God has changed us, how we now see the Lord Jesus Christ as a glorious treasure. Well, this morning what I'd like us to focus in on is how we have been mercifully granted a glorious function in this world as God's people. So because we have been rescued out of the darkness, And we are now in the light. God has done some things in us that are supposed to impact how He works through us. in this dark world. The first thing that he mentions in verse 5 is he says that we are lively stones in a spiritual house. And when we use the f- when he uses the phrase lively stones, the picture is that we are actually the temple of God. We are the place that he dwells in. In the same way that in the Old Testament, people had to go up to the tabernacle or go up to the temple, and there they would offer sacrifices to God through a priest. through the death of an animal, the shedding of blood of that animal, where they're reminded of the sacrifice that gave them access to God, the sacrifice that ultimately was coming, we see that that has been fulfilled. And so now in Christ, we don't go up to the temple. We are the temple. When we talk about the church, we could say that God dwells amongst his people. And so when he talks about us being lively stones, that is a powerful illustration of what we are as God's people. He literally uses us to bring people to himself. And that's what he means in verse 5, where he says that we are a holy priesthood. In verse number nine, he talks about us being the eternal church of the living God, a chosen generation. And we are set apart to him. Verse number nine, we are a holy nation. When we think about this, the fact that we are going to bring people to God as a holy priesthood, that we are the eternal church, a chosen generation, that we are set apart to Him, a holy nation. that we are called to a distinctly God -oriented life, a peculiar people, it reminds us of what is talked about in the Old Testament. Testament. Now the Bible does not teach that we as the church have replaced Old Testament Israel. The promises that God made to Abraham and Isaac and to Jacob. Jacob about a seed and about a land and about an everlasting covenant. Those are still promises that God is going to fulfill. And when we read the book of Romans 9, 10, and 11, we see that God is still going to work through the nation. When we read the book of Revelation, we see the fulfillment of those promises being mentioned at the end of the book of Revelation. But there is a parallel that we function in here in the church age to what the nation of Israel Israel was at that time. For instance, Exodus chapter 19, verse 5, he says, If you will obey my voice and keep my covenant, then you shall be unto me a peculiar treasure above all the peoples of the earth. For all the earth is mine, and you shall be unto me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. Do you hear the similarities between what we read in First Peter and what we're reading here in Exodus chapter 9 19. A kingdom of priests, a holy nation, a peculiar treasure. Or in Isaiah 43, verse 21, he says, This people have I formed for myself. They shall show forth my praises. Again, we can see the parallel between the nation of Israel in the Old Testament and the function of the church in the New Testament. Again, Malachi 3. 12. All nations shall call you blessed. You shall be a delightsome land, saith the Lord of hosts. Now the question we should all ask is what's the difference? What is the difference between Old Testament Israel and us? The main difference is that we are now in Christ and He has accomplished this work on Our behalf. The nation of Israel never perfectly obeyed Christ, but Jesus did perfectly obey his Father. Because of his obedience and our union with him. We are now in a position where we are experiencing a similar function to what the nation of Israel was supposed to have, but never fully realized before. And so we're reminded that we are a people who are not just called out of the light or out of the darkness and into the light, but we are a people who are called to function like the nation of Israel in the old Old Testament to draw people to God Himself. And so I asked this question of you this morning. How are you functioning in that role? Are you a faithful member of the church? Are you functioning in a healthy way in the church where God has planted you. Are you a part of the work that He's doing in the world? Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow and I hope you have a great rest of your day. And uh if this has been encouragement to you, take a moment to share that. And if not, or if you have any questions, you know, feel free to reach out to me, and I'd be glad to answer those things. Have a blessed day, and we'll talk, Lord willing, tomorrow by now.