Good morning and welcome to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And I do apologize for getting this out late today, and I do plan to put together five episodes this week, so this will be our first one. It is introduction, but there are some really important foundational concepts that I'd like to discuss. in this episode and then Lord willing we'll put out the rest of them throughout the rest of the week and on Saturday um I'll put out our fifth episode so we do plan to have five this week And uh we are sorry, or I am sorry, that I didn't get it out um earlier today and even yesterday, uh really busy day for me. So Anyway, let's go ahead and get into the text that we're going to deal with this week. That's Ephesians chapter 2. And we're reading verses 19 through 22. And we're talking about the concept of reconciliation and how this is a really rich concept and there's a lot to flesh out in this passage. So here's what the scripture says. Now, therefore, you're no more strangers and foreign citizens foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God. And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Jesus Christ, himself being the chief cornerstone, and whom all the building fitly framed together groweth up and holy temple in the Lord. in whom ye also are built together in habitation of God through the Spirit. I want to begin by giving you a simple summary of the text And then from that, a few introductory thoughts that are very important to appreciating what we're going to look at in this passage. So first of all, a summary. Reconciliation to God is more than just the removal of animosity. It's not just negatively this is gone. It's positively. In addition, you also have certain blessings. And we will break those down, Lord willing, this week As we think about that, what we're what we're going to drive at is the need to delight in God's plan, a glorious plan for his people. And so with that in mind, let's consider a few introductory thoughts that are just kind of big picture concepts. The first question is, what was God's plan for humanity? The answer is it was simple and it was good. And I broke it down into a couple of different categories. First of all, it was about the glory of God. It was about people reflecting God's glory because we are made in his image. Now, all of creation is to reflect the glory of God, but we reflect the glory of God in a unique way as image bearers. Secondly, it was to take the strength and the wisdom, the ingenuity that God gives us, and to take care of his creation. Adam was to exercise dominion over the creation. And so that was to use what God gave him, those tools, for his glory in the care of his creation. And then the third is a relational concept, and that is to delight in the Lord forever, to know him, to enjoy him, to delight in him, to worship him. to have communion, fellowship, relationship. That is what God made us to do. Simple and good. But the second thing we see is the effect of the fall. The fall brought horrible misery to people, and not just people, but all of creation. So when we come to Romans 5. 12, it tells us that by one man, that is Adam, sin entered the world, and death by sin. And through that, death passed on all men for that all have sinned. People are born into this world, though physically alive, spiritually dead. That is a literal spiritual reality, a position that we are all born into. The second thing is that we are born into a world that is broken. Romans chapter 8, verse 20, it says that the creation was made subject to vanity. The creature itself shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption, and all of creation groans in travail and pain together until now. And so it's not just that man sinned and it affected him alone, but Adam's sin affected all of humanity, and Adam's sin affected all of creation. And so what we have is broken people living in a broken world. Romans 3. 10. There is none righteous, no not one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God. People are fallen creatures in a fallen world. The third thing I want to emphasize is in the context of the text we're looking at this week, and that is that the tension between the Jew and the Gentile is just a small little picture, a snapshot of this great mess that we see in this world. Now by the way, I know this is a pretty negative um thing that we're looking at this morning, but it's not going to end negative. In fact, it's really going to be very positive, but you have to see the negative in order to get to the positive And so notice the way that the text talks about it. In verse 11, he says that they are called uncircumcision. It's a a We could say like disdain. It's looking at people as if they're lesser. That was what was being communicated. And so the circumcision called them uncircumcision. It was mocking them, disdaining them seeing them as less than. Or in verse 12, he says that you are aliens or were aliens from the commonwealth of Israel. This talks about being excluded from those covenant people. We talk about the Old Testament. It's all about that Mosaic covenant and that covenant between God and his people. Well, these Gentiles were outside of that covenant people. And they were outside of the blessings of the covenants. And so in verse 12 he calls them strangers from the covenant. And so the Jewish people, at the time that Paul is writing this, had tremendous disdain for the Gentiles. And the Gentiles had tremendous disdain for the Jews. And there's a long history of that. And this is just a snapshot of the mess that we see in this world. But there's a fourth thing. Christ came to establish reconciliation between God and man. That's the good news. And we see this in verses 13 to 15. We are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. He has abolished in his flesh the enity between the Jew and the Gentile. What an amazing thing. Not just the enmity between the Jew and the Gentile, but the enmity between God and man. He is righteous, he is holy, we are sinners. And so Christ established reconciliation. We also see fifthly this reconciliation is bigger than just removing animosity. And I want to make this point, that when we talk about reconciliation with human conflicts many times There's a lot of pragmatism in those reconciliation moments. And that peace is just a temporary peace. It's a temporary removing of hostility. Even sometimes when we have tensions with other people, we temporarily have a removal of tension, but that rises up again Or when we think about nations that go to war, well, they may sign an armistice or they may establish terms for peace, but that doesn't mean that that peace will hold up indefinitely. Most certainly those people will find themselves in conflict again. And once they think that they can actually get even, people often will do that. So human conflicts are always temporary resolutions. But when we talk about the gospel, We're talking about an everlasting peace, a full restoration of God's purposes. And so God's reconciliation is way bigger than just a temporary removal of hostility And so this week, I hope you'll join us as we talk about the big picture, positive things that are part of this issue of reconciliation. May God help us to realize we are a redeemed people who are reconciled to God, and with that reconciliation come so many wonderful privileges and blessings, and we really need to reflect on them, and we really need to consider. the significance of them in our practical daily lives. Well that's what I have for you. Hope you have a wonderful rest of your day. And Lord willing tomorrow we'll put out our second episode all the way through to episode five on Saturday. Take care. Bye now.