Good morning and welcome back to our final anchored in the word morning reflection. And I hope that you have a great weekend. And as we prepare for the weekend, I wanted to leave you some final thoughts on the text that we dealt with. throughout this week. And we've been looking at Luke chapter 18, verses 1 through 8, talking about the difficult times that we most certainly are and will live through in the last days. And how we're supposed to respond to the Lord and in our circumstances as we deal with the challenges of that time period. And so this passage is focusing in on prayer rather than worry. and learning to turn to the Lord and leave our burdens on his shoulders and to trust him with that. And so with that in mind, I have a couple of final thoughts for you. So let's dig into the text one more time. Luke chapter 18, verses 1 through 8. And then I'll share with you some final thoughts that I hope will kind of pull it all together. Here's what the Word of God says. And he spake a parable unto them, to this end, that men ought always to pray and not to faint. saying, There was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man, and there was a widow in that city. And she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary He would not for a while, but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man, yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith Shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them? I tell you, that he will avenge them speedily Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? Now, as we think about this passage, I'd like to give you these final thoughts. First of all, we've got to have a realistic view that prepares us to endure difficulties in the Christian life. There are some times that in our desire to encourage young people or encourage a new Christian. We present a view of the Christian life that's not exactly balanced. What I mean by that is we present a life as if it never is going we're never going to face difficulties, we're never going to face hardships, we're never going to go through um the kinds of things, the ups and downs that are really a typical part of life. What happens when we do that is we fail to prepare people for the the the the realities that they're going to encounter sort of like the book of ecclesiastes why is this book written it gives us wisdom with the full picture of life it talks about a lot of the negative things that take place place in life. A lot of uh the the perpetual cycles that we see going on in life and how how endless and how dreary they appear. And how if you don't have a biblical worldview that points you back to God and living a life for eternity in light of the gospel, then life is very empty. So we need a realistic view of life. There is struggle. There are burdens. There are heartaches. There are hardships. There are things that we're going to encounter that we can't make full sense of And so affliction is a part of that. And this passage reminds us of that. Secondly, we can take tremendous comfort in the providence of God. God works all things together for good to them that are called according to his purpose. God is shaping us into the image of Christ. He's taking all of the stuff that we deal with, and he's using it to accomplish good. And we should be comforted by that. I love the balance of the reality of suffering and struggle, yet also the reality of God's blessing. and the reality of the goodness of God and how He works purposefully in our lives. And so we should be realists, but we should also be very optimistic in the way that we approach life because we as God's people are secured in Christ and He's working in our lives to accomplish His good purposes. Thirdly, when we are overwhelmed, and this is going to happen, we've got to roll our burdens onto the Lord. and cry out to him and then let him carry those burdens. Trust him to do what is right in those circumstances. We need in those periods to take great comfort in the security that we have in Him. The things that are most needful and most important in the Christian life. are things that cannot be taken away from us. And we can take tremendous encouragement in that simple fact. And then lastly, we've got to actively seek to point people to the Lord. While there is time, while there is hope, and we don't know how long we have, we don't know the day or the hour the Lord will return, but while we have time, we need to focus our energy. and drawing people to the Lord, being conduit, a tool that God uses to reach into the lives of people and point them to himself. May God help us this way week to have such a perspective. Realistic yet comforted, rolling our burdens on God, taking great comfort in the security that we have and actively pointing people to him. Have a wonderful weekend. I hope to see many of you this Sunday. This Sunday we're having our Christmas cantata which is always a highlight of the year. The the message of the cantata is going to be be very focused on the gospel, on the um the incarnation, the music will be very beautiful, and the Lord Jesus will be exalted and the gospel will be given with clarity. So I hope that uh if you are a part of our church you'll be there perhaps bring someone and uh looking forward to a wonderful time in the Lord's house have a blessed weekend Lord willing we'll either see you on Sunday or we'll meet again on Monday by now