Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our Friday edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope that you've had a fantastic week. And uh if you watch this on Friday, I hope that you have a good end to your week and a good start to your weekend if you're watching this over the weekend. I just hope that it will be a great time. And we hope to see many of you on Sunday morning as we gather together to worship the Lord and just look forward to a wonderful service. And you know, it's wonderful to think back to Easter Sunday. Uh we had a great service at Anchor. It was uh just filled with people and uh the preaching. uh was so well received, the the music was just very Christ honoring, and it was a very encouraging time to be in the Lord's house. And so um we've been able to go back and reflect on that passage of scripture that we dealt with on that Sunday morning throughout this week, and I hope that as we've done that, this has really been a challenge and an encouragement to you. What I'd like to do is leave you with some final thoughts as we go into the weekend. And so let's dig in again to this text one more time. I'm going to read it, and then as we read it, we will go ahead and give you the final thoughts. So 1 Corinthians 15, 12 starts out this way. Now, if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen. And if Christ be not raised, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also vain Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God, because we have testified of God that he raised up Christ, whom he raised not up, if so be that the dead rise not. For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised. And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain. Ye are yet in your sins. Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the first fruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as an Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Every time we have read that passage , It has been such a great encouragement to me, and I'm sure it has been to you as well. So, some final thoughts to think about as we just summarize everything that we've talked about this past week. First of all The resurrection of Christ is an historic event. It is well documented, and I want to remind you that we're talking about eyewitnesses who were still alive when Christ wrote these words. Not only were they eyewitnesses, but they were skeptics before they saw the resurrection, the resurrected Christ. Some of them were even more than skeptics, they were actually opponents, vicious opponents. to the gospel message. And it is through the resurrection that they came to understand that it was the fulfillment of Old Testament scriptures. And they were willing to go throughout the whole known world at the time, proclaiming the gospel as witnesses of the resurrection. This is the most significant event in history. Because through Christ's death on the cross and his resurrection from the dead, we are forgiven from our sins. We are justified, meaning we're declared righteous by God in his presence. And we have been made alive in Christ. We have literally been regenerated, spiritually dead, passing from death unto life. Thirdly. It's not enough to just be fascinated by the resurrection. And there are some people that they study this as almost like they would study some event uh something in science, some fascinating moment in history, as just something that's fascinating to think about. It's not enough to defend the resurrection. I'm most certainly saying we shouldn't be fascinated by it. I'm most certainly saying we should defend it as apologists. But it's more than that. God wants us to personally experience the saving power of the resurrection. And the way that someone experiences Personally, the saving power of the resurrection is they have to repent and believe. They have to turn to Christ, trust in his finished work, and childlike faith. So let me kind of put it all together in this way. If you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, then today's the day I encourage you to turn to Christ. To trust in him alone as your Savior. There is no other place that you can turn. As Peter said, there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. When when Peter was preaching at Pentecost and the people said, what must we do? He says, repent. I believe. That's what he said. Secondly, if you have trusted in Christ as your Savior, then you need to live each day reckoning yourself to be dead to sin and alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord I think about what Paul says in Romans chapter 6. He says, Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? He says, God forbid How shall we who have died to sins live any longer therein? And he goes on to basically say that when Christ's death on the cross took place, and we placed our faith in Christ, We were buried in the likeness of his death, and we were raised to walk in newness of life. And so while the resurrection calls the person in Adam to turn to Christ and trust in his finished work, It calls the person who is in Christ to reckon themselves to be dead to sin and alive unto God. I'll also mention this. This is how Paul concludes Romans or 1 Corinthians 15. Because we have to remember that this is the ending of a letter that started with the cross. And everything between the cross and the resurrection in this letter is pointing to the fact that it was a highly troubled church and it needed to be reminded of the position that these people had. and what it cost them to be in that position. And so here's what he says in verse 58. He says, therefore, my beloved brethren. Be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know, your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Because we serve a risen Savior, we are to be working and laboring as those who are redeemed. as those who are going to stand before him one day and give an accounting for the stewardship of our lives. And so I close with this very simple encouragement. May God help us to be a people who live in the light of the resurrection. This is a lot to process this week. I hope that it's been an encouragement to you. And Lord willing, we'll meet again on Monday as we continue to break down the text of scriptures that we've been looking at on Sunday mornings. Have a blessed morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again Monday. Bye now.