Good morning again. Welcome back to our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And today's Wednesday, and I hope that you're having a great Wednesday morning or afternoon evening whenever you watch this or listen to this. this. Hope that your week's going well. And the passage we're dealing with is Psalm 12. So if you have a Bible, let's turn there and let's look at the text together. And the focus of our study this week is encouragement for a dark time. And the word we're going to focus in on this morning is the word hope. And the question is, where do we we find hope in a dark time. Well let's read the text together and then we'll dig into its contents. Psalm 12 verses 1 through 8. Help, Lord, the godly man ceaseth, for the faithful fail for amongst the children of men. They speak vanity every one with his neighbor. With flattering lips and with a double heart do they speak The Lord shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that speaketh proud things, who have said, With our tongue we will prevail. Our lips are our own. Who is Lord over us? For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now will I arise, saith the Lord. I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him The words of the Lord are pure words, as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord, thou shalt preserve them from this generation. Forever. The wicked walk on every side when the vilest men are exalted. As I asked earlier, where do we find hope? And the answer is our only hope. is in God's merciful intervention. And we have good news. God intervenes regularly in history. And verses 3 to 7 he says, the Lord shall cut off all flattering lips, the tongue that speaks proud things. For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now will I arise, saith the Lord. I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. Other psalms express very similar concepts. In Psalm 124, he says, if it had not been for the Lord who was on our side. When men rose up against us, then they had swallowed us up quickly. When their wrath was kindled against us, the waters overwhelmed us, the streams had gone over our soul. Then the proud waters had gone over our soul. Blessed be the Lord who hath not given us as a prey to his teeth. Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowler. The snare is broken and we are escaped. Our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. Obviously, the psalmist is saying, if God had not intervened, We'd be in trouble. It shows us that when we look at the wickedness and the difficulties of a fallen world, our only hope is God. These verses remind us of how He worked. He punishes evil. The Lord shall cut off all flattering lips, and those that speak proudly. We are also reminded that he answers the prayer of his people. He says, For the oppression of the poor and the sighing of the needy, now I will rise, saith the Lord. He he hears their cries. He sees their What they're going through. cri He understands and he is compassionate toward us in these situations. And when we pray, he answers He protects his people. Sometimes we don't pray. Sometimes we don't pray with a lot of confidence. And he intervenes on our behalf for good. He says, I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. And so God works in this world, despite the fact that it's an evil world. He allows evil to prevail and prosper for seasons, but he does not allow it indefinitely. And he uses it and he works despite it. And there's a lot of scripture to back that simple concept. 1 Corinthians 10. 13. He says, God is faithful, who will not suffer or allow you to be tempted. tempted beyond that you are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that you may be able to bear it. Or in John 17, he says, I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. So what do we take away from this? What we take away from this is that even though we may not feel that there is hope, Hope there is hope. Even though we may not see where that hope is going to come from, we can rest assured that our safety and our deliverance and our hope is in the Lord. And God hears our prayer. He has compassion toward us. He fights against the wicked. He preserves the righteous. He hears our cry. He answers our prayer. He intervenes on our behalf. For good. And even when he permits evil to go on, he does not do it with a callousness toward us, and he doesn't do it without a purpose, and it's not going to thwart his ultimate purposes. And so we can take great comfort in these truths. Well, I hope that that gives you some things to think about this morning. Hope that you have a great rest of your day. If this has challenged you, take a moment to share it with someone. If you would like to share some feedback, that would be great. Always enjoy that. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow. Bye now.