Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And as I mentioned yesterday, we're in Psalm 48, and the focus of our study this week is the importance of not forgetting God's covenant faithfulness and how loving kind he is how kind he is toward us as a good and loving Heavenly Father. And so this morning we're a focus in on the character of God and how this passage of Scripture highlights it And we're going to focus on the goodness of God. So take your Bible and let's turn together to Psalm 48. I'll read the first half of the Psalm, then we'll dig into this concept of the goodness of God. and how this is the foundation for a right view of Him. This is great as the Lord and greatly to be praised, in the city of our God, in the mountain of his holiness. Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, is Mount Zion on the sides of the north, the city of the great king. God is known in her for a refuge. For though the kings were assembled, they passed by together. They saw it, and so they marvelled. They were troubled and hasted away. Fear took hold upon them, and pain as of a woman in travail. Thou breakest the ships of Tarshus with an east wind. As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God. God will establish it for ever. Selah Now this first portion of the Psalm is going to focus on the goodness of God, and not just his goodness, but the power that he demonstrates as a good God. And so I want to remind you that he is good. Verses 1 through 3. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised in the city of our God. God is known in her, her palaces for a refuge. And so this is focusing on the doctrine of the psalmist. What does he believe about God? What is he teaching about God in this psalm? Well he's teaching that the Lord is great. We see that in verse 1. Great is the Lord, greatly to be praised. And then when we think about this, the primary focus of this greatness is in relationship to his covenant faithfulness to Israel. I think of the story of David and Goliath, and as Goliath is mocking Israel, and ultimately Israel's gods David overhears this. And when he hears this, how does he respond? Well, he's he's angry. He's zealous for God's glory to be preserved. And so in verse 45 of 1 Samuel 17 it says, I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. This day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand, and I will smite thee, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. What is David saying? I want people to know how great you are. These are God's people that you're mocking. You're messing with him. We also see the secondary focus. What I mean by that Is that not only is God great, but his goodness is demonstrated in the context of covenant relationship. Deuteronomy 7. 9, he emphasizes this. It says, Know therefore that the Lord thy God, he is God. He is the faithful God, which keepeth covenants and mercies with them that love him and keepeth his commandments to a thousand generations. And so the psalmist emphasizes what these verses emphasize Not only does he talk about the greatness of God, but he also talks about how this great God has blessed the city of Jerusalem. He talks about it as a richly blessed city. Verse 2 it says, Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth. is Mount Zion on the sides of the north, the city of the great king. A couple of statements in that verse that I want to direct your attention to. The first is that this is the place where all the nations would come. Now, he talks about it beautiful being beautiful and the way that it's situated. He talks about it being a beautiful city. But the thing that is very important is he talks about it being the city of the great king It's called the joy of the whole earth. It will one day be ruled by the greatest king in all of history. And that king is the Lord Jesus Christ. That's why he says this is the city of the great king. Reminds me of some messianic psalms that emphasize God's relationship to the city of Jerusalem. It says in Psalm 24, Lift up your heads, O ye gates. Lift it up, be lifted up ye everlasting doors, for the King of Glory shall come in. Who is this King of Glory? It is the Lord, strong and mighty. The Lord mighty in battle. Or Psalm 22 All of the ends of the earth shall remember and turn unto the Lord. All the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee. For the kingdom is the Lord's, and he is the governor among all the nations. And so when he talks about the nation of Israel and Jerusalem and their relationship to God, he speaks in terms of covenant He also emphasizes that this king, the great king, the one whom all of the earth is going to look to, is the one who defends Jerusalem. He is her refuge. And we see this in verse 3. It says, God is known in her palaces for a refuge. Now we're going to develop this later, not today , not not this morning, but we are going to dig into this concept all throughout the week. The whole point of us understanding the loving kindness of God is that we see who He is, we see what He has promised, and we see how He has put His honor, His Repation, His Word on the line. He defends those whom he has entered into this covenant relationship with. And so we're going to see that. We need to remind ourselves that this is not just the God of Israel. But this is our God. And he has redeemed us to himself. We belong to him. And so we can see some very wonderful truths that are parallel to how he relates to Israel and also how he relates to us. You say, well, what is the worldview that kind of shaped this? Well, it was that covenant relationship that God has with had with his people. For instance, in Genesis 12, it says that God entered into a covenant with Abraham. Or in Genesis 15, he talks about how he has promised to give to Abraham's descendants the land of Canaan. Or Deuteronomy chapter 7, it talks about God calling out the nation of Israel, all the nations of the earth. He has elected them to be his chosen people. And then we see in 1 Kings chapter 9 that God has chosen Jerusalem to be the place where he plants his presence and his temple will dwell forever. So I hope that you'll join us as we keep digging into these truths. Have a blessed rest of your morning. Lord willing, we'll see many of you tomorrow. Bye now.