Another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection, not just another edition, but a new week. And the topic that we're going to address this week is one that I feel the weight of very heavily, and that is this issue of discipleship. And the passing on of the Christian faith and a good example from one generation to the next generation. And And we've been talking about missions this past month, and this is at the heart of what we call missions. Missions is doing this, what we're going to talk about this. this week in a cross-cultural context. And so I really hope that you will join us this week as we work our way through this passage. I hope that the things that are shared will be very practical and helpful and that uh as we work through them. Um they'll give you some things to think about. And ultimately, my prayer is that we will take action on the things that we will talk about this week. And so So I want to encourage you, follow the lessons and share these because I think that they're very, very important, not just for people in our church, Anchor Baptist Church. But really anyone who comes in contact with these videos, my prayer is that the church that you attend, you will be plugged in and engaged. And the Lord will really use you to be effective in this particular area. So let's take our Bibles and turn together to 2 Timothy chapter 2. We're going to read the text. It's verses 1 through 7. And then we're going to look at the importance of recognizing everyone's ministry will one day come to an end. And here's what the text says. Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him. And if a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned except he strive lawfully. The husbandman that laboreth must be firm First partaker of the fruits. Consider what I say, and the Lord give thee understanding in all things. First of all, I want to summarize the text, which will show you kind of the direction that we are going. And I hope it gives you a good understanding of the basic point that Paul is trying to communicate. What Paul is saying is that ministry leaders have to pour their lives into the next generation. And those who have received that investment. must passionately embrace their future duties. As we look at the text, we'll see that God's desire is for us to pour our lives into this great work He is doing. of making disciples. And so the question should be, not should we do this, but how do we do this most effectively? How are we most effective in obedience to what Jesus commands and what Paul is telling Timothy to do. And so I begin with this first observation. Every leader is going to experience generational transition. There are no examples. Now I'm not addressing this topic because I'm an old man and I see the end of my ministry coming very soon and I'm concerned about people. who are coming behind me. That's not the reason that I'm addressing the issue. The reason I'm addressing the issue, obviously it's because it's in the text. But long before we come to that period where there's going to be a generational transition The investment of time during the times that we don't feel this pressure are actually the most important part of a good generational transition. And so I want you to notice what he says in verse 1. He says, thou therefore, important word, my son. Another important word. The words therefore and son are indicating that Paul is saying things earlier in the letter. And his relationship to Timothy are the driving factors in why he is saying the things that he will say. And so that should lead us to the question of, well, what has he said? Well actually we should consider what he has said and also what he will say later on in the last the letter because this is a piece of the entire message So the immediate catalyst for Paul's instruction is what we see in 2 Timothy 4, verses 6 through 8. He realizes that he's come to the end of his life And he's feeling the weight of that, and he wants Timothy to follow his footsteps. He says, I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course, I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me in that day. He knows his time is short. Secondly, Paul is feeling the weight of isolation. Paul is in prison and he anticipates that he's going to And so he talks to Timothy throughout this letter about some of the people that they both knew and that they loved very much and had worked with them, who were no longer standing beside Paul. And the reason for that was ultimately fear. They didn't want to be associated with Paul, who they believe, and he believes, and they were right about this, is about to die. In verse 115, he said, or chapter 1, verse 15. Verse 15 he says, All they which are in Asia be turned away from me, of whom is Phagellus and Hemogenes. And then in chapter 4, verse 10, he says, Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world. Later on in verse 16 he says, at my first answer, this is on his trial, no man stood with me, but all men forsook me. I pray God that it may not be laid to their charge. And so as Paul considers the fact that he's going to die soon and his ministry is going to come come to an end, he's also very concerned of how Timothy is going to be affected by the isolation that he's seeing with the Apostle Paul. , He is concerned that Timothy may stumble out of the gate, and that's why he's writing this letter. The third thing I'll mention is that he wants Timothy To carry on in his absence. He wants Timothy to be faithful. He wants Timothy to take the baton and to run his leg of the race and to do it very, very well. He says, I charge thee before God and the Lord Jesus. Who shall judge the quick and the dead as the puring to preach the word? Be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all longsuffering and doctrine He says, watch in all things, endure affliction, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry. So this is the immediate reason. that Paul is writing the letter. He knows he's going to die. People have abandoned him. He wants Timothy to take the baton and to run his leg well. The question though is, well why is Paul concerned in this kind of a way? Why isn't he just concerned about running his own leg well and then Timothy you're on your own. I hope you do a good job. Well the reason is because Paul understood correctly That our lives are just a small part of God's story. The building of God's church from one generation to the next generation is a story that He is writing as He works in the lives of people in all different cultures. at all different times of human history. And our lives are a small piece of that. Now they're an important piece of that. Because every single little piece of it is a part of the story. But our life is just apart. And this goes all the way back to what Jesus says in Matthew 16. He says, I will build my church. The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. That little statement, the gates of hell shall not prevail against it, could be looked into two ways. Either one, he's talking about the kingdom of darkness pressing against the work that God is doing, which is a possibility. Or he may be talking about the fact that people are going to die. And when people die, they're going to be gone. And the next generation is going to have to step up in their place. And despite the fact that people will die, and despite the fact that there are attacks from the king of darkness, and Satan is at work in the world, God will continue to build his church. So then the question that should pop into our head is, well, if he has promised this, what are the means through which he will do it? And the answer is found in Matthew 28. He appointed his apostles to to make disciples. He says, all power is given unto me in heaven and earth. Go therefore teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. Lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. Now the emphasis of this text is teach. Teach the gospel. Teach all things that I've commanded you. That last little statement, I'm with you always, even unto the end of the world. is an indication that though this command is given primarily and most directly to the apostles, the work that the apostles start and the continuation Of this pattern that's established is something that God is going to work through from one generation to the next generation until the end of the age that we're living through. And so in the big picture, Paul realizes The promise of Christ, the command to the apostles, and his duty as an apostle to follow through with what he has been told to do. And then we see a third thing. Paul takes this commission very seriously. Second Corinthians 5. 17 it says, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, all things are become new. And all things are of God who has reconciled himself by Jesus Christ. Christ. And he has committed to us the ministry of reconciliation. He has committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ Christ. As though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's stead, be reconciled to God. Now, if I was to summarize all the things that we've just talked about, the emphasis is that Paul understands that God is building his church, he's doing it through the apostles, but their ministry is going to come to a conclusion. And they're going to have to pass the baton on to the next generation. There are church leaders who they have led to Christ, who they have discipled and they have trained to do the work of ministry. And they are going to have to carry on in the absence of the apostles with what they have been left with. And so in the same way that the apostles felt that weight, those whom they discipled would feel that weight, and there would be a continuation of passing on the faith and church doctrine and all those things, passing those things on from one generation. to the next. So we should be gripped with the reality that every single Christian leader is going to one day be replaced. And what they do today is going to have a huge impact. on how well that transition from one generation to the next is going to go. Lord willing, we will address this issue, I feel, fairly thoroughly. And so I hope that you'll join us this week. And that you'll enjoy these lessons. You'll be challenged by these lessons. You'll share these lessons. And if you need to reach out, don't hesitate to do that. Have a blessed rest of your day. And Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow morning. Bye now.