Good morning. Hope you're having a good Wednesday morning, middle of the week, and uh we're continuing to work our way through this passage of scripture, Luke chapter 22. We've been talking about immaturity, that would be the immaturity of the disciples, their stumbling that Christ predicts, and then God's grace. And so I'd like us to look at this text this morning and focus in on the comfort that Christ gives to his disciples in this passage of Scripture. Again, we're in Luke chapter 22 and we'll pick up reading in verse 23. Here's what it says. And there was also a strife among them, which of them should be accounted the greatest. And he said unto them, the kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them. But they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors. But ye shall not be so. But he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger, and he that is chief as he that does serve. And I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my father hath appointed unto me, that ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel And the Lord said Satan, our Satan, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan doth desire to have you, that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. What an amazing math passage of Scripture. There is a comfort that is built into this text. Notice what he says in these verses 28 to 30. I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my Father hath appointed unto me. Now, Christ is going to balance things out in this passage of Scripture where he talks about both negative and positive. Obviously, we see that Satan desires to sift Peter and the rest of the disciples as wheat. We understand that they're going to stumble. And this passage is going to need to give not just the warning, but also the encouragement. And so notice the way he does it. The first thing he does in verse 28 is he states, you are true Christians, you're believers. He says, You are they which have continued with me in my temptations. Now what he means by that Is that when others have left Christ, these disciples have continued with him because they're convinced of who he is. This is another way of saying you have an enduring faith. You're a true believer In John 6, we see it this way, in verse 66. From that time many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him. Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will you also go away? Simon Peter answered, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life. We believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God Now what's the point here? Well the point is that Peter said we don't have anywhere else to go. You are the true Messiah, and we're going to keep following you because we know, even when we don't understand everything, we know that you are the way, the truth, and the life, and no one comes to the Father except through you. We also see in verse 29 that he states, you will inherit the kingdom Not just you're a believer, but your believer is going to taste eternal life. You have it, you possess it, you'll experience it in its fullness in the kingdom. He says in verse 29, I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my father hath appointed unto me. Though they would stumble in their practice, their position was entirely settled and secure. For instance, in John 5. 24 he says, Verily, verily, or truly, truly I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life. Not he's going to have it, or he hopes to have it, or he might have it, or hopefully he doesn't lose it. It's he has it. And he shall not come into condemnation. But he has passed from death unto life. That's comfort. That's security. He also emphasizes that their experience in the kingdom will be rich. And he states it that way in verse 30. That you will eat and drink at my table in the kingdom and sit on the thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. There are two components to what Jesus is saying here. He said, you endure, you're real Christians. Number two, you're going to enter the kingdom. Number three, that is going to be a rich experience. Communion. Eating and drinking at the table in the kingdom is a reference to how these people are going to have fellowship with him forever. Reminds me of uh Psalm 16 where he says, In your presence is fullness of joy, and at your right hand there are pleasures forevermore. Or in 1 John 1 He says, we want you to have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and His Son Jesus Christ. And we've written these things to you. so that you might have fullness of joy. Communion, a rich experience of eternal life. But then the second is authority. That means you're going to do something. You actually have responsibilities in the kingdom. He says in verse 30 that they will sit on thrones and that they will judge the twelve tribes of Israel. You say, well, why does that matter? Well that matters because though Jesus is going to give them some very hard news, some very discouraging and settling news He wants that unsettling news to be set right along the side that he is communicating to them. I know that you're believers. Your position is secure, and you will experience a rich and full eternal life in my kingdom Now why does that matter for them? It's because they would stumble and they needed to hear of God's comfort. Why do you need to hear it? Why do I need to hear it? Because we're made of the same stuff that they are. It might be that today's a day that you feel very weak and troubled and discouraged as a Christian. Your position hasn't changed at all. The absolute security of that position and the guarantee of that future inheritance hasn't changed at all. You will experience it, you will taste it, and you should thank God for it. So may God help us to be comforted by this text of Scripture and these precious truths. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to reach out to me. I'd love to be a help any way that I can. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through the scripture and hope you'll join us for that. Have a blessed day. Bye now.