Good morning and welcome to our Wednesday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. What I'd like to do this morning is take what we've talked about. In this issue of the second coming of Christ and the day of the Lord and the destruction of Jerusalem and all those various components I'd like to expand this a little more so that we understand a fuller picture of what the scripture has to say about this issue. And so if you have your Bibles, take them. We're going to read this text again together. And then we're going to push into this concept a little bit further so that we can get a fuller understanding of it. It says, And when you shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that the desolation thereof is nigh. Then let them which are in Judea flee to the mountains, and let them which are in the midst of it depart out, and let not them that are in the countries enter thereunto For these be the days of vengeance, that all things which are written to be fulfilled, but woe unto them that are with child, who give suck in those days. There shall be great distress in the land and wrath upon this people They shall fall by the edge of the sword, and shall be led away captive into all nations, and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles, until the time of the Gentiles be fulfilled Now, as we look at a fuller understanding of Christ's teaching, it's important to address a topic that is an important part of biblical prophecy or even theological concepts And that is what it means when the Bible refers to something as a mystery. The first thing I want to mention about this is that it's not necessary. for a person to have an absolute understanding of concepts in Scripture in order to trust God and obey him in a way that honors him. What I mean by that is that it's possible for us to overly complicate a basic truth. And if we do that, it can lead to crippling introspective uh struggles in our hearts. So someone may take a very basic principle and rather than just accepting the simple statement of scripture, They're going to ask 15 questions about it. They're going to take this into all kinds of areas of assumption, and they're going to build ideas that are completely off of their own head. It's nothing more than conjecture. But when God gives information, he gives us enough. He gives us what we need. And sometimes our understanding of a concept is limited, but it is sound to the extent that we understand it. And it's enough information for us to obey God and enough information for us to rest in Him. So we talk about a person who is young. or a person who has a very limited amount of foundational information, a brand new Christian, or somebody whose understanding of basic doctrine and concepts is very simple. That person, if the information they have is accurate and they're truly resting in it, and they're walking in the light of it, they can live a very vibrant and godly life. The truth is somebody like Abraham didn't have nearly as much information as you and I have, yet he obeyed God and he walked by faith And when we look at all the Old Testament saints, they didn't have nearly as much information when it came to the theology that we look at, but these are people who had a basic understanding of God's character. Who they were and how they needed to be reconciled to him and they look to him by faith to send a deliverer. Well, what does that show us? Basic obedience and basic trust and simple truth And so it's important that we recognize we don't have to have an all-expansive understanding of a concept. And so we even look at this issue of mystery and we recognize that when we talk about biblical doctrines, biblical concepts, These are things that have always been true, but God hasn't necessarily communicated them fully in Scripture. He reveals them progressively in Scripture. And so the details that Christ chose to include here are significant. But the ones that he chose not to meant to those people they were necessary. They didn't need them. But when we look at what we have today, it's helpful sometimes to go beyond what Christ gave and see what maybe was revealed in the epistles or in other portions of Scripture. And as we take all of those things, all of that scripture is profitable to us. So let me give you some basic framework information. The passage I want to mention is Daniel chapter 9, where God gives a specific timetable And then he gives the purpose for why he has this timetable. It says, seventy weeks are determined on this people and upon the holy city to finish the transgression, to make an end of sins. to make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy Now, when we think about what he is saying, he gives several specific details. The first thing he says is this is to finish transgression. The greatest injustice in human history was the cross. Where humanity takes an innocent man, a just man, a righteous man, and delivers him to be crucified. This is one of the greatest injustices you could ever imagine Yet God had a purpose in permitting this injustice. God permitted it because it was through this action that he would ultimately bring about redemption. We see the statement to make an end of sin. It was to reverse the terrible effects of sin upon the creation. We see another statement. It was to make reconciliation for iniquity. God and man have been separated and God makes takes action so that he can reconcile and redeem mankind to himself To bring in everlasting righteousness, this is to establish everlasting glory and righteousness. And it was to seal up the vision, to accomplish everything that God had promised. Lastly, to anoint the Most Holy, to establish Christ as the in the rightful place as King over His creation. That is the purpose behind why these things were going to unfold, exactly how they were going to unfold, or Perhaps in some cases, how they're going to unfold in the future because they're not yet fully fulfilled. We know first century Christians wrestled with these things just like we do. Many of them believed they were living through these events and they were afraid of that. And so what does God do? He gives them instruction to say, in fact, no, you are not He says, We beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you be not soon shaken in mind or be troubled by spirit or word or letter as from us. as that the day of Christ is at hand. Let no man deceive you. There must first be a falling away, and that man of sin must be revealed, that son of perdition who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped, so that he, as God, sitteth on the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. Remember ye not that when I was yet with you I told you these things. God also promises to preserve his people through trouble and to preserve them from the specific trouble of those days. He says it like this in 1 Thessalonians 5. Of the times and seasons, you have no need that I write unto you You yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. For when they shall say peace and safety, and sudden and destruction, cometh upon them as travail upon a woman with child. And they shall not escape. But ye brethren are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief. What a great statement. God had not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ. And so as we've expanded this concept, I want to remind you. That though we are living in the last days, we are not living in the day of the Lord. And since we are not living in the day of the Lord, the signs of the second coming of Christ are still coming in the future. God is going to preserve us from the terrible things that will be experienced during the day of the Lord because He's not appointed us to wrath. And he makes that very clear in the passage that we're looking at. Hope that gives you some things to think about, some encouragements and some comforts as we think about all the troubles that are around us. God will preserve us from these terrible things in the end. Have a blessed rest of your morning and Lord willing will meet again tomorrow for some additional thoughts on this passage of scripture by now