Good morning and welcome to another Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a really good day and hope that Wednesday is treating you well already. This week we've been looking at two very important concepts and that's the concept of forgiveness and reconciliation and their connection to one another. And we've been talking about it from both the horizontal and also the vertical. And so we think about our need to be reconciled to God and also the need to be reconciled to one another. So as we dig into this passage and we look at this text this morning, I hope that you'll really spend some time thinking about it, not just for these few minutes, but really throughout the day. So if you have your Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Ephesians chapter 2. And we're looking at the price that establishes this reconciliation between God and man, and also the basis for our reconciliation with other people. Here's what the scripture says, Ephesians chapter 2, verse 11. Wherefore, remember, ye being in times past Gentiles in the flesh. who are called uncircumcision, by that which is called the circumcision, in the flesh, made by hands, that at that time you were without Christ being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel And strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, ye he sometime were far off or made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. Who hath made both one and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us, having abolished in his flesh the enity As we look at this passage today and consider the price, I want us to consider how high this price is that establishes this reconciliation. And we see this in verses 13 through 16. It says that it is by the blood of Christ, he is our peace, he has abolished in his own flesh, and he also talks about the cross So as we think about these verses, the first question is, well, what exactly did he do? And so let's notice the details. First, he took two people who were completely different from one another, separated from one another. And he united them. We see this in verses 14 through 16. He's made both one. He's made one new man. He's made one body. He is the ultimate reconciler of peoples. Second, he addressed the offense that was between them. And notice the way he puts it in verses 14 and 15. It says, he has broken down the middle wall of partition between us, and he has abolished the enmity. Now, what does he mean by a middle wall of partition? Now, if you read different commentaries, you're not going to get absolute consensus on what Paul is talking about here, but obviously there is something that separates these two people. And what is separating them is a wall that ultimately is a stigmatization. It is a big separator. And so I think if we go into the history of what Paul has experienced and what he's doing right now as he writes this, I think it gives us a little bit of insight into what Paul might be talking about. So first of all, where is Paul? And what kind of an epistle are we talking about? Well this is often called a prison epistle, and the reason for that is because Paul is writing it from prison. And when Paul is writing from prison, the question is, how did he actually get there? The answer is he got there because he was falsely accused. of bringing a Gentile from Ephesus into a part of the temple that the Gentiles were forbidden of. You say, well what's that? Well this is probably a reference to the same thing that Paul is talking about here. There was a wall that was built in the temple during the time of Herod the Great that was ultimately a reaction against one of the most infamous days in Israel's history. There was a revolt led by the Maccabees, and during that time the Greeks came and they crushed the revolt. And just to kind of demonstrate their disdain for the Jews Jewish people. , They broke into the temple, and when they went into the temple, they desecrated the inner sanctuary of the temple. They actually offered pigs. and sacrifice there to their gods in the temple, and you can just imagine how infuriated the Jewish people would have been. Well, that was something that lived in infamy for them. So here, when Herod is building the extensions to the temple, which is the same temple that was rebuilt when the exiles came back from Persia. When he did that, the Jews wanted him to build a wall that separated Jews and Gentiles. And on that wall, there was a sign that said that no Gentiles were permitted beyond this point. So when Paul was arrested, the reason he was arrested is because he was accused of bringing a Gentile past that point, and he was actually arrested really to preserve his life. The people would have killed him if it hadn't been for Roman intervention. And so more than likely this is what's going on as Paul is writing this. He is referencing something that was a big part of his life. He'd experienced it. It's still standing. And it really demonstrates that separation between the Jew and the Gentile. It's torn down by Christ. A third thing that we see is he addresses the greatest problem between them. The greatest problem is the removal of an offense between God and man. And we see that in verse 14. He, Christ, is our peace. Without him, we're not at peace with God. Secondly, he satisfies the demands of the law for full justice. Verse 15, he has abolished in his flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments. Contained in ordinances, and what is this? This is ultimately against us. And so he's addressing this great problem. Thirdly, he does it in a way that makes the gospel available to anyone. Verses 15 and 16. He made peace that he might reconcile both unto God. And so what is Paul doing? He's removing these barriers. He's addressing man's greatest problem. He's bringing two people together. Second question we want to ask is, well, how did he do it? And the answer is also in the text. The first thing that he did is that he shed his blood. Verse 13, it was by the blood of Christ that the Son of was established. Christ. His blood washed away our sin. Colossians 1. 14, we have redemption through his blood. the forgiveness of our sins. Hebrews 9. 22. Almost all things are by the law purged with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sins. Well, what does Christ do? Once and for all, in the end of the world, he's appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. Christ offered himself to bear the sins of many. And so the first thing that he did To remove this is he addresses this issue of sin by shedding his blood on the cross. Secondly, we see that he offers his body to bear our guilt and the punishment we deserve. Verse 15 it says, it is in his flesh that he abolished this enmity. Reminds me of 1 Peter 2. 24. It says, his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree. He hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, so that we could be made the righteousness of God in him. Christ's body bore our guilt and was punished in our place. But there's a third piece that's very important, and that is he did it on the cross. And we see that in verse number 16. It was by the cross, which demonstrated that he literally became a curse for us. Philippians 2. 8. Being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Why does he say that? Because the cross was a scandalous way for someone to be executed. Hebrews 12, 2, Jesus is the author and the finisher of our faith who for the joy set before him endured the cross and despised the shame. But the text that really captures this most clearly is Galatians 3. 13. Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law by being made a curse for us. Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. And so what do we see? We see what he did, we see how he did it. By offering himself, by shedding his blood, by going to the cross, Christ has established the basis for reconciliation. And so when you think about this this morning, the reason you and I are forgiven is because what Christ did for us. He shed his blood, he bore our guilt, he took our punishment, he bore the curse of sin in our place. May we never get over the greatness of our salvation and what Christ has done for us. Well, I hope that gives you some things to think about this morning. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through this text and ultimately lead to some final thoughts on Friday. Have a blessed day by now