Good morning. Welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we're at the midpoint in the week. Hope that you're having a good Wednesday. And if you're listening to this in the morning, hope that your morning's starting out well. If it's later in the day, I hope you had a good day. The text that we're dealing with this week is Luke chapter 12, verses 24 to 59, and we are looking at the need for discernment in the last days. Today's focus will be on the importance of doctrinal precision and the exclusive nature of the gospel. The text in front of us, Luke chapter 12, we'll read not the entire section, but we'll read kind of the highlights. So, Luke chapter 12, verse 49. I am come to send fire on the earth. And what will I, if it be already kindled? But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how am I straightened till it be accomplished? Suppose ye that I have come to bring peace on the earth, I tell you nay, but rather division. He said also to the people, When you see a cloud rise out of the west, straightway you say, There cometh a shower. And so it is. And when you see the south wind blow, you say, There will be heat, and it cometh to pass. Ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky and of the earth, but how is it that ye do not discern Now as I mentioned at the beginning of this video , discernment is the main focus, but this discernment is going to take on a certain face. And that is one that recognizes that there is this exclusive claim or series of claims found in the gospel. And these exclusive claims about the person and work of Christ are going to establish a division in the world. And so we see this in verses 51 to 53. He says, Suppose ye that I'm come to give peace on earth. I tell you, nay, but rather division. Now, we know that Jesus is one day going to establish himself as the Prince of Peace. And his government will have no end. And he will have no rival who is going to overthrow him in that reign. So he is going to establish an eternal peace. But the point of this text of Scripture is not what will ultimately occur, but what will happen in the days leading up to the return of Christ. I think of Psalm 2 where it says, why do the heathen rage? The nations assemble themselves against the Lord and against his anointed. The idea is that when Jesus comes, there's going to be great division about who he is. And he gets very personal in these verses. He says, From henceforth there will be five in one house divided, three against two and two against three, father against son, son against father, mother against daughter, daughter against mother, mother-in-law against daughter-in-law, Self for. The point is that the Christian teachings about Christ and how we are saved are exclusive. For instance, Christ's nature, who is Jesus? Well in John chapter 8, verse 24 it says, if ye believe not that I am he, you shall die in your sins. Jesus says, you have to believe that I'm caught in the flesh in order to be saved. Well, we talk about God's redemptive purpose in Acts chapter 4, verse 12. He says, There is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. You can't go and find salvation in any person outside of Christ. We think about his authority and the claims of his authority. In Acts chapter 17, it says the times of this ignorance God winked at. But he now commandeth every man everywhere to repent, because he hath appointed a day in the which he will judge the world in righteousness. By that man, Jesus, whom Jesus, whom God has ordained, whereof he gives assurance of him unto all men that he raised him from the dead. He says Jesus is going to judge the world. The world needs to be ready to submit to his authority. And then we think about the future. In Revelation 20, verse 15, it says, Whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. The Bible talks about the last days as being tumultuous times, perilous times. He says, in the last days perilous times will come. All that will live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution, and evil men and seducers will will wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. per Continue in the things which thou hast learned. If you suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye, for and be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled In the last days of Matthew twenty four he tells us to take heed that no man deceive you. Many will come to me in that day, saying, I am Christ, and shall deceive many, and you shall hear of wars and rumors of wars. And you shall s and see that ye be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, and the end is not yet. Nation will rise against nation, kingdom against kingdom, and there will be famines and pestilence and earthquakes Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted and shall be killed, and shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake, and then shall many be offended His point is that we need to prepare for the fact that this is an exclusive message. That's going to establish an intense division. And we have to be ready to stand on that day if indeed we live through this time. And so here are some final thoughts. Every one of us will one day be forced to choose a side by conviction. And that decision may set us at odds with people that we love dearly. The contention might be so deep and so personal. and so painful that we will be tempted to compromise and trim our message and not stand on the side of truth. Discernment chooses Truth over family, and truth over peace at any cost, when there's an irres - irreconcilable conflict between what is true and what people demand And so I want to challenge you. We need, by the strength of God, to stand firm on what is true. May God help us today do that. Hope that you have a great rest of your day and Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again as we continue working our way through this text. Have a great day. Bye now.