Good morning and welcome back to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. Hope that you've had a good weekend and we're looking forward to digging into this passage together. We're in the 47th Psalm today. And this will be an introduction to the passage that we're going to deal with. So if you have your Bibles, let's turn there together and we'll read this psalm and then look at a couple of introductory thoughts. It says, O clap your hands, all ye people, shout unto God, with a voice of triumph, for the Lord Most High is terrible. He is great. He is a great king over all the earth. He shall subdue the people under us and the nations under our feet. He shall choose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob, whom he loved, Selah. God has gone up with a shout, the Lord with a sound of a trumpet, sing praise to God, sing praises, sing praises to our King, sing praises For God is the king of all the earth. Sing ye praises with understanding. God reigneth over the heaven, the heathen. God sitteth upon the throne of his holiness. The princes of the people are gathered together, even the people of the God of Abraham. For the shields of the earth belong unto God. He is greatly exalted. Now, as we break down this psalm throughout the week, I wanted to start with a couple of introductory thoughts that I think are very important for us to reflect on as we prepare to look at this passage. The first thing I'd like to talk about is an attitude of us versus them. And what I mean by that is that sometimes God's people begin to have a little bit of an elitist or self-righteous attitude towards the people around them, and that is very dangerous. We know that we're supposed to be distinct from the world. We are separated from the world and unto God. But we should never get an attitude of arrogance or self-righteousness. uh or pride toward the world around us. And I want to give you an example in the Old Testament that I think is very prominent when it when it comes to demonstrating this us versus them mentality. And that is the story of Jonah. God tells Jonathan to go to Nineveh, which was a great city, powerful city. It was the cap uh the capital of the Assyrian Empire. And the Assyrians were enemies to Israel. And Jonah loved his people, he hated Assyria. And you see this coming out in the way that he responds when God tells him to do this. In verse one or chapter one, verse three it says, Jonah rose to flee unto Tarsus from the presence of the Lord. He goes the exact opposite direction of the direction he is supposed to go. And then later on in the same chapter, verse 12, it says Take me up, cast me forth into the sea, so shall the sea be calm. I know, for my sake this great tempest has come upon you. Well what is the context of that statement by Jonah? The context is that God sends a mighty tempest and the ship is in huge trouble and the people believe they're going to die, and so they all cry out to their gods. They wake up Jonah, who is sleeping in the boat. And they say, Crouch, your gods. And he says, Well, I serve one God, the God of heaven and earth, and he's not happy with me right now. I'm disobeying him. Just throw me into the sea, let me drown in the sea, and then everything will be okay. That shows you that he would rather die than obey God in this issue. And then we see that God uh provides a a great fish, a whale, that swallows Jonah. Jonah's in the belly of this fish for three days. And then Jonah repents and he humbles himself, and God sends him back to Nineveh. He spares his life. And when Jonah goes to Nineveh and cries out against the city, he does it very reluctantly, but in obedience to God. In chapter 4, verse 1, it shows you how Jonah responded when the people repented rather than resisted. It says it displeased Jonah exceedingly. He was very angry. And then he goes on to say this: I fled before into Tarshish. I knew that thou art a gracious God, and merciful, slow to anger and of great kindness, and repentest thee of the evil. Therefore now, O Lord, take, I beseech thee, my life from me. It is better for me to die than to live. Now what does this show you? Jonah's attitude throughout the entire story is never entirely right. And this is sometimes the attitude of the believer toward the world. The dynamics of their time were very significant. They were the only at the time that these things were written. They are probably the only monotheistic group of people in the entire region. Everyone worshipped idols. And so it would be very easy for them to have this attitude. It would also be very interesting for them to think that there's absolutely no way that the nations around us will ever embrace the God of heaven and earth. They're all polytheists. We see this come out with the clash between David and Goliath. Goliath says, Am I a dog that thou comest to me with staves? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. Or we see another example in 2 Kings 9. 12, where Sennacherib comes against Jerusalem and he says to Hezekiah, Have the gods of the nations delivered them which my fathers have destroyed? The answer is no. And so the mentality of the people is that their God, Zh, not the one true God, is going to give them power and and and all the different things that they want, protection, the ability to triumph in battle. And so it was very easy for them to have this mentality. There's a third issue I want to address in the introduction, and that is the danger of bypassing the mind in worship. And we're going to get into this a little bit more, Lord willing, tomorrow. But when we talk about the order of worship, I think this is a very important thing. Worship should be passionate, heartfelt, emotional, involving the entire person. But worship should not be exclusively passionate and exclusively emotional. It should start with the mind, and the mind should start with Scripture. As a person meditates on the scriptures and they understand the truth of Scripture, the Spirit of God who indwells the believer is going to take the truth that is being reflected on and press it into the heart. And what will this do? This will ultimately result in and heartfelt worship. As truth grips the heart, the response is heartfelt praise. And so I want to remind you of two very simple thoughts as we close out today that will set the tone for the week. When we read Psalm 47, it is all about God's people being commanded to praise Him and being commanded to praise Him with passion. A worship that is filled with reflection, a worship that begins with understanding, and that understanding is built on who God is. How God has worked and how God has personally been kind to these people. So as we dig into the 47th Psalm, those will be the things that are laid before us. And I think by the end of the week and throughout the week we'll see, what does God want? He wants us to worship him with understanding compassion. And so may God help us to do that this week. And may he help us to understand this concept a little more thoroughly because of the study we do this week. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.