Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And the topic that we're addressing this week is being committed to God's work of making disciples. This morning what we're going to do is we're going to take the things that we talked about yesterday and we're going to build on them a little bit. Yesterday we talked about the the reality that every single person's ministry is ultimately going to come to a conclusion. There's going to be generational transition. And so today what we're going to do is dig into this topic a little bit more we're going to ask the question how does that transition go in a healthy way and so this morning I'd like to take encourage you take your Bibles again turn to 2 Timothy chapter 2 we're going to read the text again and then dig into this topic of how do we see a healthy transition from one generation to the next generation. The text says this, Now therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Jesus. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also. Thou therefore endure hardness, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that worth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. If a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned except he strive lawfully. The husbandman that laboreth must be first partaker of the fruit. Consider what I say, and the Lord give thee understanding in all things. The second thing we're going to look at this week is that is the reality that there are two sides to a healthy generational transition. And I want you to think of the illustration of a race that is being run with a relay team. Before we get into that illustration, notice what he says in these words. verses, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus and the things which thou hast heard of me among many witnesses The same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. As I said, Christian ministry is like running a relay race. And when we think about this illustration, there are several components that make the race go smoothly. First of all, we receive the baton from the runner who has run before us. And so when we think about the store, we have Paul, he is running and he is passing the baton on to Timothy. We run our leg of the race, and we've got to do it to the best of our ability. And it is true that the generation that is following the preceding generation is going to be on some level affected affected by the effectiveness or the lack of effectiveness of the people that went before them. So when a person goes into ministry, if they're going into a church that is healthy and vibrant, it's going to give them something that they can stand on and they can go forward with. If a person comes into ministry and they go into a church context where the church is depleted and uh it is dying or perhaps it's a revitalization because the church has essentially died. Well the the lack of effectiveness of the generations before them are going to affect them in a negative way. The same thing will be true when we talk about a relay race. We pass the baton on to the next runner and the how smooth that transition goes is going to affect the runner's ability to run well. Success is more than the running. Success involves passing the baton receiving the baton, running the race, the next person running their race, every single component of that race matters. And the same thing is true when it comes to this issue of a healthy generational transition. In this passage we see that there is an established generation. Technically They're actually established generations. He says, the things thou hast heard of me among many witnesses. So Paul is a part of this established generation. There are other people that are peers to Timothy. Timothy himself would be kind of in this middle ground. And then we see the same commit to faithful men. So we see that the established generation is doing something. and they're supposed to do some things. This is a generation that needs to be well grounded. You cannot pass on what you don't already have It's also a generation that needs to be faithful and his example to the ones who are coming behind. It's not just what we tell people, it's what we demonstrate to them. If I tell someone do this but I don't do it, then they're not going to take me seriously. Seriously, or they're not going to think that it's possible. Or they're going to believe that the standard of expectation is far lower than what it actually should be So it's not just about what's being taught, it's about what's being demonstrated. Thirdly, they've got to teach what they have learned, and they need to teach what they've learned and what they are listening to. And so this is what the established generations must do. Now when I think about myself as a pastor, if I go to a pastor's conference, there are pastors who are in their 60s. and their 70s, some of them are even in their 80s. These are people that are either the age of my parents or in some cases almost the age of my grandparents. And so I am up here with these people and some some way and I'm learning from them, but I'm also doing the work with them. There are some pastors that would be my age and there are some that are a little bit younger than me and some that are a little bit older than me. The fact is that the established generation of those who are teaching and preaching the Word of God, those who are pastors and those who are deacons and those who are Sunday school teachers and those who are fathers and those who are grandfathers, this is the generation that has to be well grounded, be a faithful example. and teach what they are what they have learned and to teach what they are hopefully living. The second side of this coin are the future generations coming behind them. And the future generations that are coming behind us, these are people that might be in their 20s. Some of them might be in their 30s. Some of them might be in their junior high or early high school or college age. These are even kids that are that are coming up through elementary school. These are the generations that are coming behind us. And so he says, teach these things to faithful men who shall be able to teach them So the established generation has to be keyed in on teaching those who are just a little bit behind them in the process. Those who are not yet the teachers and the pastors and the fathers, but these are the people who are coming of age. They're coming into this. season of life. They've got to invest in these people. And they also need to think beyond those who are immediately about to come into this role. but those who aren't really going to be there for another 5, 10, or 15 years, but they need that good foundation being established. Those future generations have responsibility to purpose to be faithful men. So I encourage our eight, nine, and ten-year-old boys' purpose to be faithful men. I encourage our 14, 16 16, 18-year-old young men, be faithful men. I encourage our college guys, don't be like the rest of the guys in the culture. Be a faithful man. This is something that we've got to ingrain in the next generation coming up behind us. And this generation needs to absorb the things that they're hearing. They need to observe what's in front of them. The good examples they should learn from. The poor examples they should also learn from. The generations coming behind us need to recognize that they're in a season of life where they need to learn and they need to to absorb and they need to develop the skills and the tools that are going to help them to be effective when their time comes to step into those roles. They need to look for others who they will be able to invest in as well as they mature into areas of leadership and influence. So I think especially of those who are in the high school, college, and young adult groups. These are young men who need to be really focusing their attention. on learning and developing and growing and they need to be developing the mindset that the people who are coming behind them as they learn they want to take them under wing and and they want to invest in them. This is what has to be going on in the church regularly, day in and day out, if there's going to be a healthy generational transition. Both sides. The established generations and the future generations have to be engaged in this process. And a lot of people listening to this might say, well, Pastor, I could just check out because I'm not a pastor. I'm not a deacon. I'm a mom. I'm a I'm a just a dad. I'm I I'm not even married yet. So why does this even matter? I'm never going to be a pastor or a mission missionary or one of these roles. And I say every single Christian has a duty to be involved in this process, either transmitting information and demonstrating through a godly example. or instructing and instructing or receiving the information and absorbing the information and developing the skill sets so that that they can step into roles. If you are a father, you need to be involved in this work. If you are a mother, you need to take very seriously the teaching of your children while they are young in those formative years because when What you put into them matters for their future. If you're a Sunday school teacher or you could become a Sunday school teacher down the road, everyone has to be involved. in this process. And so I want to leave you with that encouragement. We need to prepare the next generation effectively to replace us when the time is right. This is something that has to be going on in the church or within a generation or two the church will essentially die. Well, I hope that gives you some things to think about this morning. I do hope you have a wonderful rest of your day. And I pray that you will ask the Lord to help you to re-engage in this process, to stay engaged in this process, or to really become more effective in whatever role you are playing. and what he is doing in this issue. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we continue working our way through this very important text of scripture. Bye now.