Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a good week and uh looking forward to our midweek Bible study, Lord willing tonight. And hope that you can join us for that. The text that we've been working our way through this week is 1 Chronicles 29, and this was the first message uh kind of like the link between the end of 2024 and the beginning of 2025 and this passage is focusing in on David as he is preparing his son to build a temple And it's a time of tremendous celebration as David talks about God, his greatness, his kindness, his goodness, his power, uh, his sovereign rule. Um it's a it's a great text of scripture that talks about the character of God. And this morning what I'd like us to do is focus in on a little bit of the backstory behind what is it that really enabled David to be in the position To say and to do the things that he did later on in life when he is now a very old man, uh, he is near the end of his life, he's ruled for many many years and he's passing the baton on to his son years. who is now going to rule in his stead and do something that David had desired to do and that is to build a temple. So 1 Chronicles 29 will begin in verse 10. It says, Wherefore David blessed the Lord before all the congregation. And David said, Blessed be thou, Lord God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty. For all that is in the heaven and the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all Both riches and honor come of thee, and thou reignest over all. And in thine hand is power and might, and in thine hand it is to make great, and to give strength unto all. Now Therefore, our God, we thank thee and praise thy glorious name. But who am I? What is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? For all things come of thee, and of thine own have we given thee. Let's listen to a little section here, and then we'll talk about it. And there are times in our lives where we have experienced great heartaches, and we need somebody to look at us in the eye and say, God's not done with you. Yes, it's true this has happened. Yes, it's true you've been through these valleys. Yes, it's true. You can't make sense of all these situations. Yes, it's true. There's a lot of drama and a lot of heartache in your life, but God's not done with you. I think that that principle that I just mentioned there in the sermon is a really important one. And this is at the heart of the story of David's life. And if you think about David's life, what what what's great about the text that we we're that we're we're dealing with this week and are anchored in the word is that we've been looking at the backstory, which is David's life, and as we've looked at the backstory, we've seen a lot of high points and low points. And we talk about David, um, we know that he was a mighty warrior. He was A fierce soldier. He was a person who uh cared very deeply for the things of the Lord. He was passionate about the Lord. When we read the Psalms, we see that David was a man who, when he was uh excited about the things of the Lord, he was passionate. What he said was very heartfelt. When he was at a at a high point, the the way that David expressed his affection for God. In fact, he's very powerful. But then David was also a man who was prone to other extremes. And he was a man who would find himself in very dark and low places. And there are some seasons in David's life that are they're tragic, they're dark. Um, they're sad as we read them. They're uh they're very discouraging to think about. And what does this show you about David? Well he was a real person. He he was prone to the same kinds of struggles that you and I are um are are prone to. And one of the things that is great about studying the Bible and we look at David's life is that we see the whole picture. We see his low points, but then we also see how God in his mercy brought him out of those low points. And here is the point that really stands out to me about David's life. David was a man that though he fell, he got back up. And so when we talk about David's life, it really is very similar to what the Proverbs says, where it says that the righteous man falls seven times, but what does he do? He gets back up. But the wicked fall, and they don't get back up. And perhaps one of the great differences between Saul and David is that Saul just never got back up. And David did. And so by the end of David's life, though he he carried the tremendous scars, of sin, of being sinned against, of of just difficulties in life, though he carried those scars with him. And his life was very complicated as a result. of his sin. And and we learn a lot about the entanglements of sin and the heartaches of sin and how destructive sin is from David's life. But we also look at the story of David at the end of his life being a man who loved God, a man who was grateful, a man who expressed that, a man who was able to worship God, the way that is expressed here in 1 Chronicles 29 And he's a man with deep joy as he thinks about not how it's not right. He didn't get to build the temple. I'm the king. Instead, it's God, thank you for letting me have anything to do with this. Thank you for giving me the strength and the ability to give to my son so he can do in my absence. what I had desired to do when I was a young man. And so this passage of scripture encourages us, comes alongside of us and says, get up. when you've fallen down. Maybe. This past year has been a tougher year for you. It could be because of deep struggles with sin. It could be because of a very dark situation that you've dealt with. And emotionally you feel very broken. You feel like you have failed so many times, you can't get back up. And I just want to come alongside of you and encourage you this morning. Don't lay there and stay there. Get up and let God continue to work in your life. Until the day that He takes you to glory, He's got more things to teach you. you more opportunities for you to be involved in and he wants to mature you and grow you a little bit more today and so trust him in that get up rely on his grace And let God continue his work in you that he has started. And I remind you of the text that says, Faithful is he who calleth you, who also will do it. God is going to work in your life if you're willing. Stand up and move forward. Have a blessed rest of your morning. I hope that encourages you on this Wednesday. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we continue talking about this text. Bye now.