Good morning, welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope that you were able to join us yesterday. And if not, we did some introduction dealing with 2 Timothy 1, verses 2 to 5. And this is the passage that we dealt with on Mother's Day, and we're focusing in on the role that uh Timothy's mother and grandmother had. in the shaping of his faith at a young age, and then ultimately uh being very profitable to the Apostle Paul when it came to uh his future ministry. And so this morning what we're going to do is focus in on Paul's confidence with Timothy. And he is feeling the weight of a ministry transition coming on. He recognizes that Timothy is going to carry a massive burden in his absence, yet he's projecting confidence. And I want us to notice that from the text of Scripture And uh kind of focus in on why exactly he feels that way. So again at 2 Timothy chapter 1, and we'll read verses 2 to 5. It says to Timothy, my dearly beloved son, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. I thank God whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day. greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy. When a call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which first dwelt in thy grandmother Lois and thy mother Eunice. And I am persuaded that is in thee also. Now we see that there is confidence being projected in the text in front of us. And we see that in verses three to five. He says, Without ceasing, I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day, greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I might be filled with joy when I call to remembrance thee. Here's the the phrase that we need to fix ourselves on the unfeigned faith that is in thee. Paul is feeling the weight of this transition, and you can see the emotional language that is being described. He talks about not ceasing to remember him. He's praying for him night and day. He recognizes the tears of Timothy. Timothy is a person with apparently a very gentle disposition, um someone who was very emotional. I mean he was obviously close to his mother and his grandmother and influenced him a lot. So it appears that he's a very tenderhearted person And Paul recognizes that Timothy is sincere. He is principled. He's the kind of person that you want working with you. And he's the kind of person that you want to leave your labors to when you can't continue doing what you're doing. We see that in the phrase unfeigned faith. This is is genuine, it is real. It is without hypocrisy, it's without guile, it's unfeigned. And Paul has worked with Timothy for a pretty long time. probably twelve or thirteen years. And the reason I say that is we know when Timothy was converted. We can kind of nail that down. When Paul planted the church where he's from. And we can also look at the basic timing of when Paul was martyred. And so the difference between those two is essentially the amount of time that Paul has known Timothy and has worked with him. And Paul knows what Timothy responds, how Timothy responds in difficult situations. Paul saw trouble in Ephesus. And he sent Timothy there, and he believed that Timothy could rise to the occasion and deal with those issues. And in fact, when he's writing 2 Timothy, he's writing to Timothy as someone who has been faithful. and what he has done there at Ephesus. And so when we go back to his first epistle, 1 Timothy chapter 1, we can see that Paul trusts Timothy. And we can see that that's something that hasn't been diminished by what Timothy did with that entrustment of time and energy and resources and those details he was supposed to dig into. He says, I besought you to abide still at Ephesus and Macedonia, that thou when I went to Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some that teet they teach no other doctrine. Well obviously, if that's what Paul told Timothy to do Then and he still has confidence in Timothy, and Timothy did what he was supposed to do. He also believed that Timothy's approach to ministry was one that would have mirrored his own Paul does have come across as a pretty tough and rugged guy. But the truth is that Paul loved the people deeply. And Paul believed that Timothy had the exact same heartbeat that he did. And we see that in Philippians chapter 2 He says, I have no man like-minded who will naturally care for your state. All seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ, but give proof of him that as a son with his father, he has served me in the gospel. And so Paul says, there's nobody that I've ever sent to work with you that has the character that Timothy has, has the same heartbeat that I have I have absolute confidence in what he will do. We also see uh statements like he is like-minded and there's no one that is as like-minded as he is. He will naturally care for your for your state. I I see that statement naturally. It's It's something that goes uh along along the lines of his nature. He's a v a very uh gracious and godly and gentle person. That's what he's saying. He is like a son to me and like I am his father. He has served with me in the gospel. So what does this all tell you? Well what it tells you is that when Paul talks about Timothy, he talks about a man that he has confidence in. He has confidence in his character, he has confidence in his disposition, he has confidence in his alignment with truth, he has confidence that he will fulfill his duties. And the question is why? Well, obviously part of this is because he knew him personally. But what we're going to see as we get into this text is that he drives at something that's even deeper than his own experience with Timothy. And that's what I want us to focus our attention on by the end of the week. So I hope that you'll continue to join us as we look at this passage of scripture. I hope that you and I um would have the heartbeat of a Timothy that whoever God has placed into our life to mentor, to teach us We would grab a hold of what is good and we would follow in those good pursuits. And I hope that you have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow as we continue working through this passage. Bye now