Good morning. Welcome back to our third, or excuse me, our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the week. And I hope that you're having a good Thursday morning or whenever you're uh watching this video. And the text in front of us is Psalm 37. So we're going to read that again. And then what we're going to do is we're going to go back to verses 1 through 8 and we're going to kind of break them down a little bit at a time. as we deal with several principles that should shape what it means to walk in godly wisdom. So, Psalm 37, verse number one. Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass and wither as the green herb. Trust in the Lord, and do good So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord, and trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. Cease from anger and forsake wrath. Fret not thyself in any wise to do evil. Now in those eight verses we're going to break it down to look at several key principles that are ultimately walking in wisdom. And throughout this week we've talked about the fact that God wants us to be active And we we talked about this uh parable that Jesus taught about the parable of the talents, and one person had five, and one had two, and one had one, and that being watchful is not about being idle. but it's about being diligent and walking in wisdom. So this is what this wisdom looks like. The first principle is that we need to walk in wisdom in a way that does not worry. And we see the words, threat not. Now folks, worry is a sin. Because God wants us to live a life that is calm and centered on Him. That is concerned not about uh the cares of life and the deceitfulness of riches, but cares about the kingdom of God and what is most important. Worry is not a problem of circumstance. It's actually a problem in the way that we think and what's going on internally in our hearts. And worry is something that can lead to a lot of missed opportunities. and a lot of wasted opportunities. The second principle is that walking in wisdom does not envy. He says, be not envious against the workers of iniquity. Coveting the possessions, positions, and opportunities of others is sin. And the reason it's a sin is because God wants us to be contented. Now, it it's interesting this past Sunday When we were looking at the teachings of Christ in in Luke chapter 12, I made a point that there's a word therefore between Jesus addressing the issue of covetousness and Jesus addressing the issue of anxiety. And isn't it fascinating that we see the connection even here in Psalm 37? Walk in wisdom by not worrying. Walk in wisdom by not being envious. Don't be covetous. Don't want the positions and the possessions. of other people. That's the point. You see that connection between the two. And we see principle three. Walking in wisdom involves trusting God. He doesn't just say fret not and be not envious. He also says trust in the Lord. That is a positive thing Don't be envious, don't fret, negative things. Positive, trust God. Failing to trust God is both sinful and And it is illogical. It's not consistent with looking at the facts as they are, processing them in an appropriate way, and then living in the light of the truth. It's not logical. Our knowledge of God is something that that is going to drive us to trusting Him. If we know Him as He is. And we understand ourselves as we are, and we understand how he works in the world. It will drive us to trust him. Principle number four. Walking in wisdom is industrious. It's not lazy. It's not idle. It's not passive. It's not just sitting back. It's doing good. Wasting what God has committed to our trust through inaction is something that is sinful. God wants us to live an industrious life. that is rich and blesses others and ultimately brings glory to him. He has entrusted every single one of us with an immense number of resources. And we're supposed to take those resources, things like time and our energy, the season of life that we're in, our physical strength, our gifts, our opportunities, our education, how much access we have to the Bible, all of those things are elements that God has entrusted us with, and He wants us to take those tools and use them for good. The fifth principle, walking in wisdom, can see the goodness of God and can enjoy him. One of the things that God created us to do was to delight in him. Why? Well, because he's good. And if we know him as he is, we we can't help but delight in him because he is such a good God. And so in these verses he says, delight thyself also in the Lord. And interestingly it says, as you delight in the Lord, he'll give you the desires of your heart. Not to say, okay, if I want a bunch of stuff, well I gotta learn how to delight in the Lord, and then he'll give me all those things I wanted. That's not what he's saying. He's saying if you delight in the Lord, he will shape what you want. And you know what you'll want? You'll want what matters. You'll want what has eternal significance. You'll want what is truly good and noble and right. And that's what he's saying there. Principle six. Walking in wisdom holds expectations loosely. He says, commit thy way unto the Lord. The idea is take that burden. and place it on his shoulders and let him carry it. And so as you purpose to do what is right and you purpose to be industrious, to be a good steward of what God has given you, There are certain aspects to uh success, if you want to call it that, in those situations that you and I can't control. We cannot make a thing turn to good. We have to simply put it in the shoulders of God and let him carry it and bring it to pass. And that's what he's saying. Hold your expectations loosely. Let God handle the burden. Don't be presumptuous. Roll your plans onto his shoulders. I have two more and I'll mention them briefly. Principle seven, walking in wisdom is not restless. He says, rest in the Lord. What a great statement. You know, think about the fact that God created the week to be seven days, six days of labor, and a seventh day of rest. Why did God create that day of rest? Was it because he was worn out and tired? The answer is no. It's because he tells his creation, and out of all of his creation, he tells humanity, those who are made in his image, to come to him and to rest from their labors, to delight in him, to enjoy him, and to enjoy his creation. And the ability to rest is something that is really a gift from God. The restlessness of sin is something that robs us from this rich blessing. And so God calls us to rest in him. The last principle I'll mention is that walking wisdom is restrained in its responses. And so at the end of this text, he says, cease from anger. That word anger is implying an unjustifiable anger, an anger that finds its root in us being upset because somehow our honor is being violated or Our desires are not coming to fruition. It's not talking about a righteous anger over evil and against sin. But we're talking about an anger that doesn't like that our life has been disrupted and frustrated by the the the evil people around us, the people who are making poor choices that are affecting us in a very negative way. And so we have to learn to stop allowing sin to draw us into these angry responses, but rather we should respond in a measured way that learns to roll those issues onto the Lord. Well, that's what I have for you this morning. It's a lot to to think about, to chew on, to meditate on. And so I pray that you and I will be able this week, as we go into the weekend, uh in just a few days to take these principles and put them to work, to apply them the way that we should. Have a blessed rest of your morning and Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again for our concluding thoughts. Bye now.