Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good Wednesday morning and we're at the midpoint of the week and we're digging into now the heart of this story. And that's not just what happened, but why it happened, what was the significance of what Jesus was doing on the cross. And so This morning our focus will be on the need to glory in the cross because of the provision of the cross. And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles and we'll turn together to Luke chapter 23. We'll read this passage together and then we'll dig into the details as we consider the cross's provision. It says, and when they were come to the place which is called Calvary. There they crucified him. The malefactors, one on the right hand and the other on the left. They said, Jesus , they said then said Jesus, excuse me, Father forgive them. They know not what they do. And they parted as ramen in cast lots, and the people stood beholding. The rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others, let him save himself, if he be Christ, the chosen of God And the soldiers also mocking him, coming to him and offering him vinegar, and saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself. This morning I want us to focus in on the second reason we need to glory in the cross, and that is because of its provision. What I mean by the provision is what is the theological significance of the cross? And I'd like us to highlight these because this is so very important. This is at the heart of the gospel. In verse 34, it says, Father, forgive them. They know not what they do. Jesus isn't just saying they don't understand that they're crucifying a criminal. He's saying they don't understand that there's a lot more to this than crucifying a criminal. This darkness for three hours, the tearing of the veil, there was a significance far beyond just a man dying on a hillside here. We're talking about a theologically significant moment in history. And so let's dig into them one by one. What are the central components of this message? And second, in Acts chapter 2, verse 23 it says, Him, Jesus being delivered by the determinant counsel and foreknowledge of God, you have taken and by wicked hands crucified him. Christ had to die. This is the central component of our redemption. So here's what it accomplished. The first word we want to remember is the word substitution. He took our sin on himself and was punished in our place. First Peter 224, who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree. You see that word For that's substitution. Galatians 3. 13. Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. There's that word again. It is written, Cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. Christ took our sin on himself and was punished in our place. Substitution. Second Corinthians five twenty-one He hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Again you see the word for us. What is that telling us? Substitution Second word I want you to remember is the word propitiation. This means that he offered his life to remove the Father's wrath against our sin. Isaiah 53, 10 says, Thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin. Interestingly, that word propitiation that is used in the New Testament, if we were looking at the Septuagint, the same word that's used for the mercy seat You say, well, what happened on the mercy seat? Well, the blood of a lamb was sprinkled on that altar. And that was symbolizing that, in fact, there was a death for a substitute, and God accepted that sacrifice. And it allowed there to be peace between God and man because of the substitution and death of that sacrifice. That sacrifice was a picture of the once and for all sacrifice of the Lamb of God who would take away the sins of the world. Romans 5. 1. Being justified by faith we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Ephesians 2. 12 You are without strength, aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers from the covenant promises, having no hope without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, Ye sometimes who are far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. He has abolished enmity by his flesh. And so we see propitiation. The removal of that wrath. Third word is the word justification. He declared us not guilty, righteous in him. Romans 320. By the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight. By the law is the knowledge of sin. But now The righteousness of God without law is manifest, being even the righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe. Romans 5. 9, being justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. A third word is the word justification. means to be declared holy through his death. Hebrews 1010, we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. The last word I want to emphasize is the word access. We have been given access to the Father through his mediation, the Son's mediation. First Timothy 2. 5. There is one God and there is one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus To say that salvation can come any way except through the work of Christ on the cross diminishes the value of the cross. And as Paul puts it in Galatians chapter 2, verse 21, I do not frustrate the grace of God. If righteousness comes by the law, then Christ is dead in vain. I don't think anyone wants to say that Christ's death was a waste. But when we say that we can be saved any other way, in fact, that is what we are saying. May God help us to understand The reality of the cross as an historic event, but also the reality of the significance of the cross our justification, our sanctification, the removal of guilt, the satisfaction of wrath, a substitutionary death. Christ's death is the one and only means through which we can be reconciled to the Father. Have a blessed rest of your morning. If you've never trusted Christ and you need to reach out, please do that. I'd love to talk to you about how you can know for sure. When you die, you're going to heaven. And for those who are believers, may we glory in this cross. Have a blessed day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.