Good morning and welcome to our Wednesday anchored in the word morning reflection. I do want to remind you that after today I'm going to be traveling and so I don't know exactly when these videos are going to get up, but I am pre-recording these. and hopefully uh I'll be able to get them up in the morning so that you can uh think about them throughout the day and if not uh I will do the best I can. But what I want us to do is I want us to go back to this text And I want us to consider this building tension that's going on. Yesterday we talked about the fact that when we look at Christ, because of the exclusivity of his claims, There's going to be a division. It's impossible for there not to be a division. You cannot be neutral about Christ. And so today we're going to see where that inability to be neutral, where it's really going to come to a head What is the height of the tension? Well we're gonna see it as Jesus comes into Jerusalem and the people are crying out, Hosanna Blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn together to John chapter 12. And we're going to read these verses and then dig into that concept. Here's what it says. On the next day, much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took branches of palm trees. They went forth to meet him and cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus went when he when he when he and Jesus when he had found a young ass sat thereupon. As it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, thy king cometh sitting on an ass 's colt. These things understood not his disciples at the first. But when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they those things which were written of him that had been done, that these things had been done unto him. Now as we think about the building tension, we come to sort of the culmination of all these things. And that's what we read in verses 12 through 19. It says the next day, as the people were coming to the feast, they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. Now, how did they know who he was? Well, there's a huge stir because everybody's passing through Bethany. And as they're passing through Bethany, what do they hear? This guy raised the dead man to life. And you can talk to the guy that it happened to. I mean, it's a pretty amazing thing. So as Jesus is coming down from the Mount of Olives, and the people realize he's coming, it says they took up palm branches, and they went forth and they cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. The people therefore that were with him when he called Lazarus out of the grave, raised him from the dead, bear record. For this cause the people also met him. When they heard that he had done this miracle, and the Pharisees therefore said amongst themselves, Percease you perceive you how you prevail nothing. Behold, the world is gone after him. I mean you can see the tension in these verses. And so what exactly is going on? Well, Jerusalem is packed. It's packed with worshipers who are gathering for the Passover. And I want to put this into perspective. As Josephus records these details about Jerusalem during the time of the Passover, he records that in one of those Passover years, over 250,000 lambs were sacrificed. Now, if each family is setting aside a lamb, you're talking about the potential for one and a half to even two and a half million people being in the city. Now that's not including those people that are not practicing Judaism in the first century. These are the Romans and and others. So this was a time where there was a lot of commotion in the city. So we're easily talking about over a million, even over two million people potentially. And as they're preparing to celebrate the Passover They don't understand what's going on. , I mean, what I mean by that is they don't understand the significance of what's going on on this particular Passover. The Lamb of God who is coming to take away the sins of the world is coming to complete the picture. He is there, and they don't get it. And we're going to see how each of these pieces are coming together. In fact, every piece ordained by God was falling into place exactly how God had planned it. This event was an event that was taking place to the day in perfect sequence with a prophecy recorded in Daniel 9. Now, if you go to the Daniel 9 passage, it's interesting that Daniel actually gives us a time frame for the coming of Christ. And there are some that have sat down and tried to work through the details very carefully of Daniel's prophecy. And even to the day. It is believed that Jesus is coming down that mountain to the day in fulfillment with that prophecy. Pretty amazing thing to consider. And as he's coming down, the people are crying, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, or literally, save us now. But what they don't realize is the great irony in their words. Because what they are crying is a direct quote from a psalm, Psalm 118. You say, well, why does Psalm 118 matter so much? It matters because this was a psalm that was on the minds of the people during the Passover season. It reminded them that Passover was meant to look forward to something. In fact, when people would gather for that Passover meal, There were psalms that they would read at the beginning and at the end of the meal. The psalms that they read at the beginning of the meal directed their attention backwards. to look at the Passover and what was accomplished thousands of years before when God delivered the nation out of enslavement in Egypt. But the second section that they read at the end of the meal pointed forward to something different. Psalm 118 was the last psalm that was read. And you should notice the details. It shows them that they need a savior. It talks about the Savior, and they did not understand the nature of that salvation. For instance, when we talk about Psalm 118, it shows you that salvation comes through a sacrifice. And that sacrifice involves the rejection of the Messiah. Let me just walk through it. Psalm 118, verse 22. The stone which the builders refused or rejected is become the headstone of the corner. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day which the Lord has made. Let us rejoice. and be glad in it. Save now. Now let's break down the details so we don't miss it. The first component to this is that the savior would be rejected. That's what he means when he says the stone, which the builders refused is become the headstone of the corner. That is a direct talk, prophecy related to Christ. He's going to be rejected by the Sanhedrin, rejected by the leaders, yet he is going to be the chief cornerstone We also see that this rejection will ultimately accomplish God's will. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. Now that's not to diminish the fact that these people chose of their own will to do what they did. But what they were doing was not only something they wanted to do, but God used it to accomplish his purpose of bringing redemption. Third thing, this is the greatest event in history. This is the day which the Lord has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. This is not just some generic day that God has made. This is the day of redemption. And so he's emphasizing that. And then the last thing is that now that salvation has been accomplished Salvation can be given or granted. And so we see the statement, save now. So we see that salvation comes through a sacrifice. And even the disciples of Jesus didn't get it. They did not understand the psalm. They did not understand this moment. In verse 16, it says, these Things did they not understand at the first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered these things that were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him. This is a statement that's made several times in the book of John. They didn't understand in the moment what was happening. They understood after these things were accomplished And so it reminds me of a very simple fact that God's ways are far bigger than we understand sometimes. He is an awesome God. He's accomplishing his purposes. He did it in this text. And we can rest in him. We can trust him. We can delight in him. And we're confronted with truth like this. We have to do something with it. Either we accept it and we submit to it and we embrace him, or we reject it in our pride, in our arrogance. And so the question is, which side will you line up on when it comes to our relationship to these truths. May God help us to think deeply about these things. Lord willing tomorrow I'll be continuing this study. as we work our way to the end of the passage and then ultimately on Friday to uh to giving you some application thoughts. Have a good day by now