Good morning. Welcome back to a new week, another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And the text that we're dealing with this week is Luke chapter 18, verses 18 through 27. And it's the story of a ruler who came to Jesus and said, What good thing can I do to inherit eternal life? And so what we're going to do is we're going to read the text together, and then we'll listen to a short little excerpt from the sermon, and then we'll dig into the topic. from that sermon that we're going to address during the day. So let's go ahead and read the text together. Again, that's Luke chapter 18, verses 18 through 27, and then we'll reflect together on a portion of the sermon. It says a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? None is good save one, that is God. Thou knowest the commandments. Do not commit adultery, do not kill, do not steal, do not bear false witness. Honor thy father and thy mother. He said, All these I have kept from my youth up. And when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet lackest thou one thing Sell all that thou hast, distribute unto the poor, thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come follow me. When he heard this, he was very sorrowful, for he was very rich. When Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, he said, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God? It is easier for a camel to go through the needle's eye than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God They heard it said, who then can be saved? And he said, The things which are impossible with men are possible with God. Let's listen to a little section of the sermon and then dig into that content. You have a lot of access to truth and not get it. You know, there's a lot of kids that grow up in church. And they they play the part, do good, be good, look good, but it never registers in their mind. It's me. And God, I'm unworthy, I'm a sinner, I'm broken, it's Christ alone. They never get it Now, this is a very interesting concept for us to think about. Here is this man who comes to Jesus, and it says he's a ruler Now, when the term ruler is used, it's the same term that's used of Nicodemus and then Jairus, who was a ruler of the synagogue. And so this is a person that's had a lot of access to information. They read the scriptures, they study the scriptures, they teach the scriptures, they are respected for their understanding of the scriptures. So they have a tremendous amount of access to the information that we find in Scripture. But the problem that they have is that the access to scripture does not translate into a proper understanding of the scripture and then a proper heart response to the scriptures. And that illustration that I give of a child growing up in church who has had the privilege of growing up in a Christian home, being taught the Word of God from a young age. um hopefully seeing a good pattern in their home uh from their mom and dad, interacting with folks in the church, hearing the preaching of God's word, being in Sunday school, going to uh sometimes Christian school or sometimes being homeschooled, most certainly having access to the information. It is possible for a young person growing up in such an environment, rather than understanding the heart of the gospel, and embracing the gospel, placing their faith in Christ, to begin to trust in their ability to conform to the standards and the culture that's around them. And that's extremely dangerous in an environment where it is not so much an emphasis on the gospel as much as strict standards and rules. And so sometimes in a very conservative context, young people equate Christianity not with the doctrines of the faith. but rather the standards that the Christians in the culture that they are in hold fast to or the standards that they are um resisting. Okay? And so it's important for us to make sure that when we're raising up our kids, when we think about the culture and the teaching of the church that we're in, that the gospel and the law properly understood, and faith alone in Christ are the emphases that are being presented in those contexts. In our homes, we've got to make sure that the gospel is being emphasized in our church context, in our Sunday school context. when we're teaching the Word of God, even when we're disciplining our children, we need to make sure that they are constantly being connected back to the gospel because this self-righteousness that we see in the text in front of us is something that can easily begin to to well up in the heart of a child who's in a context that's very conservative and very strict. And very rule conscious, very moralistic, but not very gospel focused. And so I want to give us that warning today as we think about this, how we raise our kids. the culture of our church, we need to make sure that it is a gospel-centered focus as opposed to a moralistic type of context. May God help us to have the eyes to discern when, in fact, we are falling into that moralistic attitude that's going to breed a self-righteousness as opposed to a gospel-centered um orientation in the church that's going to drive people to a humility and a dependence on the death, resurrection, and righteousness of Christ. Have a blessed morning and Lord willing we will meet again tomorrow as we dig into this text of Scripture by now