Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to a new week and a new series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And I know this is uh going out a bit later today with having traveled uh recently, I'm still trying to get caught up on everything, but Lord willing the rest of the week. I'll get the episodes out at the uh typical time in the morning that we do that. And um just very thankful to be back, thankful for the safety that the Lord gave our family. and uh just a really good time. And I'm really looking forward to digging into this passage of scripture with you this week because uh this text is something that is very, very helpful to us as we think about Some of the very difficult things that we will encounter in life and things that we may uh we we might live through them and we may experience them or watch other people go through them. And and trying to process that can be extremely challenging. So I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this text of scripture We're in Psalm 52, and we're talking about how God both preserves and he delivers his children. And so if you have your Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Psalm 52. And we're going to begin reading this psalm. And as we read the psalm, I'm also going to read the little superscript that comes at the beginning of the psalm because it's a significant part. of particularly today and tomorrow's discussion as we look at background information. Here's what the text says. It is to the chief musician. It's a Mashal, a psalm of David. When Doeg the Edomite came and told Saul and said unto him, David is come to the house of Ahimelech. Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty men? The goodness of God endureth continually. Thy tongue deviseth mischiefs, like a sharp razor working deceitfully Thou lovest evil more than good, and lying rather than to speak righteousness. Sila. Thou lovest all devouring words, O thou deceitful tongue. God shall likewise destroy thee forever. He shall take thee away and pluck thee out of thy dwelling place, and root thee out of the land of the living, Selah. Now, as we dig into this psalm this week, it's important for us to kind of step back and look at some background information. And so that will be kind of the focus this morning. But before we do that, I want to give you a simple summary for what we are going to talk about this week. The summary of the psalm goes this way. Unrestrained evil. And what I mean by unrestrained evil is I mean high-handed evil. People doing things that it appears they're getting away with it. It's as if they're shaking their fists in God's face and saying, I don't care that you're there, you can't stop me, I'm going to do whatever I want. That's the kind of thing we're talking about. An unrestrained evil, or apparently unrestrained evil, is very difficult to process. Yet there are comforts for those who reflect on how God does two things. One, he preserves his people, and two, he delivers his people. And really there's kind of a third aspect that we're going to look at, and that is that God ultimately judges evil. All three of those things are part of what we will talk about this week. And just as we look at this psalm and as we work through the details, what we're going to see that is that the simple desire that God has for us is to find comfort. And that comfort is going to be rooted in the fact that He's a righteous God. So that's where we're going this week. I hope you'll join us as we dig into that. So the question you should ask yourself is, well, how do you find that comfort? Because if it's a difficult thing to process It doesn't seem like comfort is available. Let's begin by looking at some background information with this psalm. First thing I want to say about it is that the superscript is an important part. of understanding why David writes what he does. And this is what it says. It's to the chief musician, so it's meant to be sung by a group of people. It's a mashal, we'll talk about what that means. It's a psalm of David And then he talks about what David experienced and what he was reflecting on when he wrote this psalm. It says, this was when Doeg the Edomite came and told Saul and said unto him, David has come to the house of Ahimelech. So let's break this down bit by bit. Psalm 52 is a mashol. That means it is a song of reflection. As you sing it. You're supposed to be pondering, thinking on what is going on, what is being talked about. And that's why we see the word sila several times in the Psalm. That word sila has the idea of pause, stop, reflect. Think about what's just been stated. It's a mashal. Secondly, it's written by David, and we have a lot of information about David's life because we read about it in Kings and Samuel and Chronicles. And this information is important for us to appreciate the depth of what is being written. Second thing is that this is a psalm that is meant to reflect on something really bad that took place. And that was an atrocity during David's life at Nob. And we're going to talk about this tomorrow, and I'm going to tell you where to look so that you can read ahead if that's something that you'd like to do. But David is reflecting on what took place in Nob as he was running for up for his running for his life from Saul who wanted to kill him. And so go to these verses in 1 Samuel 21 and 1 Samuel 22. Read through them. Think about the details because Lord willing we'll talk about that tomorrow. I want to give you something practical to think about before we close. This psalm is one of many psalms that are written about tragic events in people's lives. I wish the Bible didn't have to have these kinds of psalms, but they do, and that's because this is a part of our human experience And so one of the reasons that the Bible is so practical and so helpful is that God gives us insight in how we are to think and how we're to process things in all kinds of circumstances. And this would be one of those. So I hope you'll join us this week as we dig into the Word of God. I hope it gives you some things to ponder. I hope that these truths We'll give you comfort. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow as we dig into this text. Bye now