Good morning and welcome to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we are looking at practical wisdom for 2026 from Psalm 37. And today we're going to look at the need for us to flee to the Lord and to find protection in Him. And yesterday we talked about resolve and how to relate. to wicked people when we encounter them in life, which we most certainly will. There's a second aspect to that resolution, and that is to flee to Christ. Flee to God for protection. And so if you have a Bible, take it. Let's turn together to Psalm 37. We're reading the first portion of this Psalm together each day. It says, Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb. Trust in the Lord, and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in the way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. Now, as I mentioned earlier, we're going to talk about the need to run to God, to flee to Him when life is dangerous. And we see this in the text in verses 3 to 6. He says, Trust in the Lord. Do good, dwell in the land, freely thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord. He shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord. Trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. Well, let's break down these verses and kind of pull out the individual pieces. The first response that's mentioned is the need to run to him with confidence. And we see this statement, trust in the Lord. Verse 3. Verse 6, trust also in him. What do we see between these two verses? We've got to run to the Lord and we've got to rely on him. Reminds me in the New Testament of Philippians 4, where it says, be careful for nothing, or be anxious about nothing. But in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. And the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds to Christ Jesus. We can be free from anxiety and worry and care when we run to him and we rest in him. And that's the first response that we're called to. So don't be full of worry Let the peace of God keep your heart. Second response. Do what he tells you to do. Be obedient. Walk in faithfulness before the Lord. And we see this in verse 6. He says, Do good. He that knows to do good and doesn't do it, to him it is sin. We need to make sure that we focus in on our duties. There are lots of people that say to me, hey, I want to know what God's will is. Well God's will is for you to do what's right today. Simple things. Get up, brush your teeth, eat a healthy meal, make your bed, go to work. Be a good husband, be a good father, be a good wife, be a good mother, be faithful to your be obedient to your parents. These are the kinds of things that we're talking about. Do your schoolwork Do what is right. Treat people with respect and honor. Be a godly person in your day-to-day tasks. And so the big picture is something that will come together as we do what's right in our daily lives Reminds me of Psalm 19. He says, God, cleanse me from secret faults and keep me back from presumptuous things. Let those not have dominion over me. Then will I be upright and innocent from the great transgression? Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. What is the psalmist expressing in these verses? Very basically, help me to do right from the heart consistently, help me to do good. Third response, enjoy the Lord. And what do we see in this text? We see it says, verse number four, delight thyself also in the Lord. Let him be the object of your joy. And affection. Reminds me of Psalm 16. I love this text. It says, I've set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. Therefore, my heart is glad. My glory rejoiceth, my flesh shall rest in hope. For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. That will show me the path of life. And here's where I really like it. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand are pleasures forevermore. We need to be in a position of enjoyment of the Lord. Response 4, be willing to entrust your plans to him. And we see this in verse 5. Commit thy way to the Lord. Think of Matthew 11, where it says, Come to me, all you that labor and are heavy laden, I'll give you rest. Take my yoke on you. Learn of me, I'm meek and lowly in heart. You shall find rest under your soul. My yoke is easy. My burden is light. One of the things that is a burden we can't handle is the burden of trying to take care of what is unknown. the burden of trying to make everything work out when we can't control everything. And so is it okay to plan? Of course it's okay to plan. But our plans need to be laid before the Lord and entrusted to Him. And we need to let Him be the one who sets in order the different things in our lives. Well that's how we're to respond to God. We talked about how to respond to the wicked. Now we talk about how we respond to God. Trust Him. Delight in Him. And trust your plans to Him. Do what is right. These are the ways that we should relate to our great God. Well, gives us some things to think about this morning. Have a blessed rest of your morning and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Keep working our way through this text. Bye now.