Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. We've been talking about the importance of walking by faith when we are getting tested and we're going through trouble. And we have we've been focusing in on the balance and perspective, understanding our responsibility, but also the providence of God and how he works, even despite our uh our strengths and the things that we've done. Sometimes he is able to accomplish things outside of that, but he also sometimes works through those things. And we don't know what God's going to do. So we need to make sure that we do what we're called to do and then trust him with what's outside of our control. Well today what we're going to do is lean in a little bit into that concept of trust, and we want to focus on the word rest. This reminds me a lot of Psalm 37, where it talks about us uh casting our burdens on the Lord and rolling our plans on his shoulders and then resting in him and waiting patiently for him. That's the way we need to live the Christian life when we walk by faith. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to 2 Chronicles 32. I'll read it, and then we'll dig into this concept a little bit. After these things and the establishment thereof, Sennacherib, king of Assyria, came. He entered into Jerusalem and encamped against the fenced cities. and thought to win them to himself. When Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come, and that he was purposed to fight against Jerusalem, he took counsel with his princes and his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains which were in the city. And they did help him. So there was gathered much people together, and so there was gathered much people together who stopped all the fountains and the brook that ran through the midst of land. Now as we look at this passage, we see the importance of resting. And what is resting? Resting is is putting something on the shoulders of God and then actually leaving it there. Not continually mowing over whether or not this is going to work out, but actually trusting God to do what He's going to do. So when we walk by faith, we need to learn to rest even when life is tumultuous. And we can, we actually can do this because we recognize God's power. Notice what he says in verse 8. The scripture says, and the people rested themselves on the words of Hezekiah, the king of Judah. Now, what was their confidence in? Was it in his persuasiveness? Was it in his power? Was it in their preparation? The answer is no It was in the simple word that he gave about God being in charge and there being more with us than there are with them. When we think about this, what we're seeing is a people who are resting in Hezekiah's word, which ultimately was pointing them to the Lord. If we were to take this into a modern-day equivalent, as a leader, let's say that you're in a situation and you're under tremendous pressure And you know it's right, but it's not going to be easy. So you point people to the scripture. You open up your Bible, you read it to them, and you say, This is true. Do you believe this? I believe this. I'm going to trust it. Will you trust it with me? And people rest not in my ability or my strength or my conviction, but in the Word of God The character of God, the promises of God, the way that he has worked in the past, all of that, his testimonies are a part of that. So these people were resting on Hezekiah's word. which were ultimately pointing them to rest in the words of the Lord. This is true about leadership under high play under high pressure. We are going to find ourselves in tough places And God is going to call on us to be the ones that point people to the truth. The question is, are you willing to do that? Are you ready to do that? Are you growing on your own so that when those times come, you actually have the uh the heart and the perspectives and the attitude to go about doing that? Walking by faith is going to point people to the Lord. And so I'm reminded of verses 21 and 22 because they show us the rest of the story. And they show us that this is not uh an irrational resting, but actually it was a resting in someone who is able. God mightily delivers the people, and he does this in a way that's not really through their preparation, but it's despite their limitations. It's outside of that. And God has the prerogative, the right to do that. It says, the Lord sent an angel, which cut off all the mighty men of valor, and the leaders and the captains in the camp of Assyria. So he returned with shame effaced to his own land. When he was come into the house of his God, they came forth, those of his own bow, slew him with the sword, and thus the Lord saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. from the hand of Sennacherib, the King of Assyria, and from the hand of all others, and guided them on every side In this particular situation, God intervened and he can do that. And so may we learn to trust God and rest in him. When life is getting challenging and things seem out of control, Go to the Word of God, dig into it, rest in it, trust in it, and see what God will do. Well, that's what I have for you this morning. If you have any questions. Maybe you need somebody to pray for you. Maybe you need to talk through an issue. Please don't hesitate to reach out. And I'd be glad to be an encouragement any way that I can. Have a blessed rest of your day. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts. Bye now.