Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. If you've been joining us as we've been digging into the Book of Luke, you'll see that yesterday we we kind of laid out the flow of the entire book. We saw that there are four basic sections to the book. There was the part that deals with just presenting Christ as a real individual in history. The second part is dealing with these witnesses to who he is. The third part, the largest portion of the four, is dedicated to just a short portion of his of his ministry, probably a couple of weeks at the most, as he's going from Galilee up into Jerusalem for the final Passover. And it's the testimony of how he was rejected. The final thing we talked about was the crucifixion, the resurrection, and three witnesses. to the the rely the reliability of this record. And so today what I'd like us to do is dig into those three final witnesses because these present a compelling case. for why we should believe, beyond all the other things that he said, why we should believe that Jesus is the Christ and we should place our faith in him as our Savior. And Theophilus should have a strengthened, fortified faith Well let's go to Luke chapter 1 again. We'll read it and then look at those three witnesses. Luke chapter 1, verse number 1. For as much as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which most surely are believed among us. even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word. It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, that thou mightest know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. Now there are three compelling cases that cannot be ignored. Again, I mentioned that the entire book is written to be a compelling case to belief on Christ. But he closes out with three very interesting witnesses. to the ministry of Christ. The first ministry that he talks about to help us to know the certainty of the things that we've been instructed in, or Theophilus, the first case is two skeptics on the road to Emmaus. Now, this story is very interesting because after the cross and after the resurrection These ladies who are the first witnesses to the empty tomb go to the empty tomb hoping to anoint the body of Christ. They're expecting to see it there. In fact, by Jewish tradition, three days after a person is deceased. uh they would actually open up the tomb where they were and they would examine the body to make sure that it was clear the person was dead. I mean that was one of the things that uh by Jewish custom they would do. And also it's important to note that Jesus would not have been properly anointed because they had to take him down from the cross quickly and put him in the tomb. So it kind of makes sense that these ladies would be going to the tomb. Now what they did not anticipate was that when they went, it would be empty because he wouldn't be there And so, when they go back and they tell the disciples that in fact the tomb is empty and that they believe that Christ is risen, the disciples don't believe. They are hiding. They are afraid. And so these two individuals that are traveling from where the other disciples were to Emmaus are on the road and they're discussing things that have happened. And as they're discussing these things that have happened, a man comes up alongside of them. And this man is Christ. And basically, as Christ is listening to them, He hears them complaining and arguing and trying to figure out what's gone on and he says, hey, what are you talking about? And they said, you don't know what's going on. Let's pick it up in verse 20. It says the chief priests and our rulers delivered him, Jesus, to be condemned to death, and have crucified him. But we trusted that it had been he which would have redeemed Israel. Beside all this, today is the third day since the These things were done. Yea, and certain women also of our company made and made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre. When they found not his body, they came saying that they had seen a vision of angels. which said that he was alive. And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre and found it even as the women had said. But him they saw not. Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart, to believe all that God had promised. Now, what is the point here? These men did not believe that in fact Christ was risen And so what does Jesus do? He confronts them. He lays out a case for the fact that the scriptures were explicitly clear. That Jesus would die and he would rise from the dead. Even Christ Himself taught this during his ministry. And when these men realize that they have been walking with Christ, They have eaten a meal with him, and in fact he's alive. What do they do? Immediately they run back in the direction that they had come from, back to Jerusalem, to tell the disciples that in fact they have seen the risen Lord. Witness number one. Witness number two, the terrified disciples. When they come, the disciples do not believe that in fact what they're saying is true. In fact, John gives us a little bit more information about this, but basically one of the disciples, Thomas, says, I'm not going to believe unless I can take my hands and place them in the nail prints in his hand and see where they pierced his side. It was his way of saying there is no way in the world I'm going to believe that this has actually taken place. And witness number two is the disciples. In verse 39, we pick it up where it says, Jesus is standing before them and he says, Behold my hands and my feet. He said, These are the words which I spoke unto you while I was yet with you. All the things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and the prophets, and in the Psalms concerning me. Then opened he their understanding that they might understand the Scriptures, and said unto them, Thus it is written, And thus it behooved Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day. And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. You are witnesses of these things Now these people do not seem like they are good candidates to spread a lie. They're afraid They don't believe, and by the way, nearly all of the apostles by the end of their lives are going to die as martyrs. Why would they have gone and preached a lie that they completely understood when they had been so terrified and they're hiding for their lives? The answer is it wasn't a lie. They really met Christ, and these things are true. But the most compelling witness is the one he closes with. And that is the witness of the Apostle Paul. And you say, well, I don't think that the book of Luke talks about the Apostle Paul. And you'd be correct at that. But what we don't sometimes think about is that Luke and Acts were written as two parts to the same story. The second part of the story focuses in on the spread of the gospel from Jerusalem to Judea to Samaria and to the uttermost parts of the earth. And a key figure in the spread of the gospel is a man named Paul or Saul of Tarsus. This is probably the strongest of these three witnesses to compel us to believe that Jesus is the Christ. The church's fiercest opponent in Jerusalem. chooses to reject who Christ is and on the road to Damascus he is radically changed because he sees the risen Lord. And I want you to notice what it says for us. In this passage of scripture beginning in Acts chapter 8. Says, Saul, or this is Paul Tarsus, was consenting unto the death of Stephen. At that time there was great persecution against the church, which was at Jerusalem. They were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. As for Saul, he made havoc on the church, entering into every house, hauling men and women, and committed them to prison. Therefore they were scattered abroad everywhere, and they went preaching the word The next thing we see about the Apostle Paul is in Acts 9. It says, Paul yet breathing out threatening and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord went to the high priest and desired him letters to Damascus. and to the synagogues, that if he found any of this way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. Does not seem like a guy who's going to be preaching the gospel. Yet what do we see by the end of the book of Acts? This same man, Saul of Tarsus, the Apostle Paul. is sitting there. And this is what it says in verse 22. We desire to hear of thee what thou thinkest, for as concerning this sect, the same one that Paul was trying to destroy We know that everywhere it is spoken against. , And when they had appointed him, that is Paul, a day, they came many to him into his lodging, and he expounded and testified the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning Jesus. both out of the law of Moses, out of the prophets, from morning until evening. And Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house. and received all that came to him, preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching those things which were concerning the Lord Jesus, with all confidence, no man forbidding. What changed? Paul met Christ. And so out of all of the witnesses, this one is perhaps the most stunning, the most convincing. con convincing of all, the most compelling, because here is the Apostle Paul who was a skeptic, a hater of the church, who was pros prospering in first century Judaism, and he rejects all that to follow Christ when the die is a martyr. Why? because it is true. These things are written so that we will be convinced of the reliability of the truthfulness of this account. May God help us to hear what the word says and to take action on it and believe it. Well tomorrow, Lord willing, we'll meet one more time as we get some applications and I hope that they'll be a help to you. Have a blessed rest of your morning. Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow by now.