Good morning. Welcome to our second Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And hope you are enjoying this study as we dig into four witnesses of the resurrection and how they interacted with that information. as Jesus has risen from the dead. And so yesterday what we did is we talked about those individuals, we talked a little bit about their lives. I know it's a very brief overview, but it gives us a little bit of insight into the kinds of people we're talking about. And so today what we're going to do is we're going to start working our way through the various scenes of the story as John narrates these people interacting with the reality, the miracle of the resurrection. So the first scene that we're going to look at is a scene of confusion. And there are three individuals that are part of the story. The first one is Mary Magdalene, and then from Mary we're going to talk about John and Peter and how all of them interacted with the empty tomb. So take your Bibles, please, and let's turn together to John chapter 20. And we're going to begin reading in verse 26. It says, After eight days again, his disciples were within. Then said he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger and behold my hands. and reach hither thy hand and thrust it into my side. Be not faithless, but believing. Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God. Many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing ye might have life through his name. Now as we come into this text, we see our first scene was one of Mary going down to the empty tomb, and she doesn't know it's going to be empty, and when she gets there, basically she is very simple towards this information. Now we're going to move into her response more deeply. And this response is one of complete bewilderment. and confusion, going from an ignorance of what God is going to do and has done, to confusion because there's a lack of understanding. So let's look at what it says in verses 2 to 9. The key statement that I think really gives us a picture of what we find is she says, they 've taken away my Lord. out of the sepulchre. We do not know where they have laid him. Now notice she does not know who this is. But her assumption is that someone has stolen the body. And when she says, we do not know where they have laid him, it's an indication that though John is pointing to Mary's testimony, There are other women who are aware of this fact as well. He doesn't talk about them coming to the temple or to the to the empty tomb, but they were there. And so there are a couple things we have to consider. The first thing is that we know from this statement that Mary knows the body is gone. But she's not assuming the best. She's assuming the worst. That tells you that Mary is not prepared and she's not anticipating that there's going to be a resurrection. When she says, they've taken my Lord out of the sepulchre, we don't know where they've laid him. She's telling us that her first impulse was not to assume that Christ was alive. It was also not to assume that the disciples are the ones that have secretly stolen the body. She goes to them. And she says someone else has taken away the body of the Lord. So what it shows you is that she's not a prime candidate to be testifying to the resurrection. She's not anticipating it. She's not assuming it. Her first response is not, oh, he's alive. Her first response is, oh, the disciples have stolen it. She is assuming someone else is involved. And so this is her being very confused. She doesn't know what to think. Second thing I want to mention here is how Peter and John respond. Now when Peter and John hear this information, they run to this sepulchre. And when they get there, John gets there first, but he doesn't go inside. Then Peter gets there and he goes straight in, and they're going to be looking into this tomb, and they're going to see several things that are in fact very confusing In verses 5 through 6 it says, he stooping down, looking in, saw the linen clothes lying. Now that's very strange. If you're going to steal a body, why would you take off all of those wrappings and steal it in such a way? First of all, it would have taken a lot of time. And secondly, now you just have this exposed body. Like what is the point of that? And then it says that Simon Peter followed him, goes into the sepulchre, and he sees the linen clothes lying. And then it says, and the napkin that was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself. And by the way, in one of the other gospel accounts, it's clear that it's folded neatly. And so again, this does not seem to be a situation where someone has stolen the body. Why would they take off all of these linens? Why would they take the time to separate out the linens from the napkin and fold it? It just doesn't make sense. And you know, think about a situation where someone is trying to do something quickly. They want to get in, get their work done, and get out. This is not what you would expect to see. And so the people who have the highest probability of motive to steal the body, in fact the ones that the Sanhedrin believes he'll steal the body, these people are confused. They find an empty tomb and they don't have an explanation. And I think that's very significant. We also see as we look at this passage that they did not really understand a lot of things that had been stated formally by Christ. Now, if we look at the gospel accounts, one of the things that we'll notice is that Jesus regularly made statements like, I'm going up to Jerusalem to die. If you tear this body down and three at this temple down in three days, I'll build it back again. He spoke of both the death and the resurrection. And the disciples didn't understand this. It's also true that there are many Old Testament prophecies. that as they would have read these, as they would have heard them read in the synagogue, as they would have been expounded, it never occurred to the disciples that these were testimonies, prophecies, promises, predictions. that the Messiah would be crucified and rise from the dead. And so we see in verse number 8, then when in the alt - also the other disciples, speaking of John, he came first to the sepulchre, he saw, and here's the statement, he believed. He didn't believe because he saw the Lord. He believed because for the first time, John recognized their statements that have been made in the past that now I get. There are things that I've read in the scriptures that now I understand. There are things that have been expounded by Christ and by John the Baptist and by those rabbis in the temple and in the town or in the synagogues, and you know what? I get it now. It says, as yet they had not known the scriptures. that they must rise from the dead. So while it is true that this second scene is one of confusion, it's also one that gives a glimmer of hope. There's faith. And so I hope that you'll join us the rest of the week as we continue working our way through this passage. that I hope will give you great confidence in the testimonies of the resurrection, great comfort, great encouragement. and ultimately that God will get the glory as we reflect on these things. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll meet again for further development of the story. Bye now.