Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope that you're having a great week. It's Wednesday, it's the middle of the week, and uh I hope that you'll be able to join us this evening as we continue our Bible study through the Sermon on the Mount. And we're getting close to the end of that sermon and the passages that we'll be dealing with at the end of the sermon I think are really practical and helpful. So That you'll join us for that and uh hope that you're enjoying our study in the Psalms as we're working our way through Psalm 41 this week. Uh this morning we're looking at the concept of how we are to glory in the mercy of God. Of God and how a part of that is prayer. And so we move to the third part of this Psalm, and that is the part where David prays. And let's go ahead and read the text together so that we can kind of remember what has been covered, and then we will look at how David responds to the Lord in prayer. As he is reflecting on God's mercy and also his harsh and kind providence. So, Psalm 41, verse number one: Blessed is he that considereth the poor. The Lord will deliver. The Lord will preserve him and keep him alive, and he shall be blessed upon the earth. And that will not deliver him under the will of his enemies. Languish. Thou make all his bed in his sickness. I said, Lord, be merciful unto me, heal my soul. For I have sinned against thee. Mine enemies speak evil of me. When shall he die? And if and if he come to see me, he speaketh vanity. His heart gathereth iniquity to itself. An evil disease say they cleaveth fast unto him, and now that he lieth he shall rise up no more. Yea, mine own familiar friend, in him I t in whom I trusted, which I didn't eat bread. With he lifted up his heel against me. But thou, Lord, be merciful unto me, raise me up that I may requit them. triumph over me. As for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity and setteth me before the fate thy face forever. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from everlasting and to everlasting Amen and Amen. Well, this morning we're going to focus in on the fact that we should flee to God when we experience his harsh hand of prophet. And someone might say, well, if God is permitting harsh circumstances, why would I run to him? Why wouldn't I run away from him? And it's important for us to recognize that if God permits heartache and difficulty and suffering, He has a reason for that. And that reason Is ultimately good. And we have to recognize this. This is a faith-based position. And it's rooted in promises like Romans 8. 28, that God works all things together for good. to them who love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. And so I'd like to break down this concept a little bit this morning with you, and I hope that it'll be helpful to you. And really by the end of this morning's reflection, I think you will find it to be extremely encouraging and very practical. So first of all, let's look at the verses, verses 10 through thirteen that show us how David is responding in his heartache. He says, but thou, O Lord, be merciful unto me. That's prayer. Raise me up that I may requit them. Strengthen me. These people that want to see my device, let them see that you have lifted me up. By this I know that thou favorest me, because mine enemies doth do not triumph over me. As for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity. So let's talk about this statement a little bit. First of all, that statement is made with this understanding of a principle that David has already revealed. Verse number one, the Lord will deliver him in time of trouble. He will preserve him and keep him alive. And he shall shall be blessed upon the earth. That principle is going to be one of the motivating factors for turning to God when we suffer. Secondly, we are able to look back at our life with a clear perspective. Which informs us in the present. I said, Lord, be merciful unto me. Why? Well, because of his past experience. In the present, he's able to say this. Because of what he has learned in life. Thirdly, David is speaking as someone who knows God is compassionate. In verse 12, he says, Thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and thou settest me in my Before thy face forever. David is saying this as someone who believes, yes, God is compassionate even when I suffer. And this leads us to some interesting questions. When is this going to happen? Not only when, but does he literally mean that it will happen forever? And thirdly, how is it possible? Keep those questions in your mind as we Continue working our way through the Psalm, and we think about it in the light of some other scriptures. The fourth thing we see is that David would come to God because he was comforted in the prediction and the fulfillment of the Psalm. You say, prediction and fulfillment, what is he talking about? Now this is where we have to look outside of Psalm 41 to appreciate what David is actually saying. David is being moved by the Spirit to record events that are a part of his personal experience. So as David is writing, David is writing, guided by the Holy Spirit. This is inspired scripture. It's not David being inspired, it's the scripture being inspired. God is moving him to right from his own experience. But there's a second piece. He's also moving David to write to Predict a future event that would be significant for him. And it was going to be significant for him in two ways. The first way is that it would provide comfort that God understood. understands what David is experiencing as he physically suffers. And the second thing it's going to do is it's going to provide a basis that establishes an everlasting fulfillment of this principle. If you look back up at what we what the questions we asked we was, does David literally mean forever? Because we know that people die. And when people die, what happens to them? Well in David His mind, the scriptures say that when a person dies, they are absent from the body, but they're present with the Lord. And so he's literally going to be before his face Forever. David means that literally. And so what David writes in these verses is going to point him to the fact that God is compassionate when we suffer. And two He's going to provide a basis to establish an everlasting fulfillment of the principle. So it leads us to the question, well, how is this possible? And the answer is we look at how David is quoted by the by John in John when when Jesus is about to be betrayed. And so we'll talk a little bit more about this a little bit later, but I want you to see how this is actually applied in the New Testament. The fifth thing is we have this application of the principle that Jesus suffered in the flesh, was actually betrayed like David was. In this passage of scripture, quoted by John, and he can sympathize with us and invites us to him so that he can do that. In Hebrews chapter 4, verse 15, he says, it we We have not an high priest, which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. But he was tempted in all points, like we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly before the throne. Now what's he saying? Jesus knows by experience. So as David is writing these words and he's experiencing suffering, he is also Predicting that Jesus is going to experience the same suffering. He's talking about when Jesus was portrayed by Judas. And so Jesus understands by experience these kinds of heartaches. That brings comfort to David. Jesus is also, through that suffering, going to establish redemption, which gives us the ability to stand in God's presence forever. And so David is predicting this as he describes his personal experience. And so when the writer of Hebrews says he knows by experience, he means it literally. He knows it by experience. And what he knows causes him to have compassion toward us in our misery. Thirdly, he invites us into his presence to receive his So the reason that this passage is so comforting is because it reminds us that God knows and God cares and God invites. And so Psalm 41 teaches us to pray when we suffer, because this is the God that we're praying to. Well, I hope that gives you some things to think about. about this morning. Have a wonderful rest of your day. Share this with someone who could be encouraged by it if you think that it would. And Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow. Talk to you all later. Bye now.