Good morning and welcome to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you've had a really good week and that this study has been a challenge and encouragement to you, maybe given you a little bit deeper understanding of this text in front of us. And this morning we're going to look at the concept of how the gifts that we talked about yesterday that God has given the church, how those gifts are used by Him to edify the body. And so if you have your Bible, let's take it, let's turn to Ephesians chapter 4. We're reading uh beginning in verse number 7, and then we're going to work our way through that concept together. Here's what the text says. But unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ. Wherefore he saith, When he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive. and gave gifts unto men. Now that he ascended, what is it but that he also descended first into the lower part of the earth? He that descended is the same also that ascended as far above all heavens, that he might fill all things. And he gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. That last little statement is the one we're really going to notice this morning, and that is for the edifying of the body of Christ. How does God use the gifts that are given, purchased by the cross triumph? How were those gifts used to edify the church? Well, first of all, when we talk about the building up of the church, we're talking about this in several different ways. So in verses 12 through 13, he talks about it perfecting the saints. He talks about it being something that is for a purpose, of work, of ministry. He talks about how we are all coming together into the unity of the faith. And he talks about the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. There are four things I want us to highlight from these verses. First of all, when we talk about edification, we're talking about people becoming spiritually mature. And that's what he means when he says in verse 12 is for the perfecting of the saints. Not to say that we become sinlessly perfect. When we talk about our position, we are entirely righteous and holy in Christ. We are justified. We are declared saints. But when we talk about the actual maturity, when we talk about what we know and how we've grown, well that's something that we grow in over time. And so that's what he's getting at in verse number 12 when he says, for the perfection of the saints. Now last week, when we were looking, the last week that we were looking at the Ephesians text, We actually looked at four marks of spiritual maturity. We talked about theological depth. We talked about affections that are godly. We talked about service where we're actually serving the body and the importance of being a part of a body engaged. Those four things or things he's already developed. But when we look back into this passage earlier in the book, we're going to see a lot of other things that he has to say that are right along the same lines. For instance, in verse 10 he says that we are God's workmanship. And we're created in Christ Jesus unto good works. Verse 17 of chapter 3, that he's praying that Christ would dwell in our hearts by faith, that we would be rooted and grounded in love. Again, he's praying that God will mature the believer. Or verse 19 of chapter 3, that you might be filled with all the fullness of God, that godliness would flow out of us because that is the character that's being shaped in us. These are all different ways of saying that a person comes to spiritual maturity. The second thing that we're going to notice here is that the spiritual maturity is something that's supposed to actually channel us into some form of ministry. And so in verse 12 he says that this is for the work of ministry. So we're not just matured to be say, wow, that's a mature person We're being matured so that we can channel that that maturity into effective ministry. And so We see examples of this in other scriptures, like Galatians chapter 6. He says, if a man is overtaken in a fault, you who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of meekness. Considering yourself, lest you also be tempted, bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. That passage is talking about active service. You see a need And you meet it, but you're able to meet it because you are spiritually mature. You are able to do it in a spirit of meekness. You are able to bear others' burdens, so fulfilling the law of Christ. Why? Because that edification to spiritual maturity is also causing you to have tools that you can use to serve others in the body. Third thing we're going to mention is that as you serve, the body will grow. And so when he says that edifying the body of Christ, he's indicating that we're part of a community. a body. We are a part of the church. And so we see examples of this in Hebrews chapter 10, where he says that we are to consider one another, to provoke unto love and to good works. and to not forsake the assembling of ourselves together. Notice that we have growth that is coming through community. And this is what he wants us to do. The fourth thing. And this is the one that I think is is kind of like the capstone, is that this would be an endurance that actually goes until the end of our life. Endurance till faith meets sight. Glorification. And so in verse 13 he says, until we all come into the unity of the faith. of the knowledge of the Son of God. He's talking about the day that we're going to die, enter into a glory, and see Christ face to face. The Christian life is a race It's described as a wrestling match. It's described as a battle. That means that there's a need to endure. Hebrews 12, 1. Let us lay aside every weight. And the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. So we are to endure until the end of that race. Or 2 Timothy 4. 6, he says, I am now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course, and I have kept the faith. What's he saying? I know that my race is finished. I've come to the end. And so the idea is that this maturity that builds us up to serve that's going to cause us to grow within a body is going to give us a strength to endure until the end of our race. And so that's what I have for you this morning May God help us to experience this edification through the service of the body as God has gifted it to help us to grow into Christ's likeness. Don't neglect the body. Make sure that you stay detached to the other are attached to the other believers that are in your life. And be involved in your local church as much as possible So that God can use you and you can grow and others can grow through the ministry that He gives you. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts of application. Take care. Bye now.