Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good Tuesday morning. And the passage that we're dealing with is Luke chapter 21. The concept we're going to deal with this morning is in fact a very important one. It's important when we look at the general concept or principle and especially the specific application that's in this text. So if you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's turn together to Luke chapter 21. And we'll dig into this passage again and dig into this concept. Here's what the text says, Luke 21, verse number 12. Before all these , They shall lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and into the prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my namesake, and shall turn to you for a testimony Settle it therefore in your hearts not to meditate before what ye shall answer. For I will give you a mouth of wisdom, which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist. Ye shall be betrayed both by parents and brethren and kinsfolk and friends. Some of you shall they cause to be put to death. Ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake, but there shall not a hair of your head perish. Now the word that I want us to focus on today is the word opportunity. And when we think about suffering, we don't think of that as an opportunity, but this passage is presenting it as not just a hardship. but also an opportunity. Realize that God will bring good out of the evil of those days. Again, not saying that it is good, it's saying that the evil can be used to accomplish good And this is a principle that is very important for us to understand. In verse 13 it says, it shall turn to you for a testimony. you will have an opportunity to give a testimony of the power of the gospel. That is the sense of what he's saying. So there's a very important biblical principle here, and that is the principle that God uses everything, even evil, to accomplish what is good. We see verses like James 1, Count it all joy when ye fall into diverse temptation, knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh patience Now why are we counting it all joy? It's not because we like pain and suffering. It's because we know that the trying of our faith produces patience. That's the idea. that God uses it to accomplish good in our lives. Or another example would be Romans chapter 8. All things work together for good, to them who are the called according to his purpose. So God takes all these little pieces of our lives, the good and the bad, and he weaves them together to accomplish something that is good in our lives. And so we have that purpose of being conformed to the image of Christ, and God does it through hardship. Or 2 Corinthians 4, our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us. a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. Affliction works for our good. God uses it to accomplish good. So this principle is important. It's not an easy principle for us to think about. It's hard to go through it and practice, but in fact it is true. And we have a great example of this in Genesis 50, where Joseph says, you thought it evil against me, God meant it for good, to bring to pass as it is this day to save much people. This is what God does. But notice the specific application of this. It shall turn to you for a testimony. Well, what does he mean by that? I'll give you a couple of suggestions of what I think is kind of the sense of this and how this concept is applied in the book of 1 Peter. 1 Peter 1. 7 it says, The trying of your faith, being more precious than gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found into praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. And what Peter is saying here is that the opportunity is provided to demonstrate that faith in fact is real. It's genuine. The trying of faith produces or uh demonstrates the genuineness of the substance. And so that is one of the ways that God uses it. Or a second, 1 Peter 3. 15, be ready always to give an answer to everyone that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. It's opportunity to proclaim the gospel to the skeptic. And so as people see that you're squeezed, not only will they recognize that your faith is real and genuine. But it will provide opportunity for you to talk about how your faith in Christ and who he is and what he's done for you, how that is the rock that you stand on in life. Testimony. The third opportunity is to demonstrate the power of genuine faith in Christ. 2 Corinthians 1. 5. The suffering of Christ abounds in us, so also our consolation aboundeth by Christ. And so he uses these difficulties to demonstrate the power of life in Christ. Why do we look at this? Because difficulties are absolutely going to take place in our lives. And when they do, these hardships break us down and discourage us, cause us to be weary, feel like quitting. What does God do? He takes those things and he uses them to accomplish good. And God can do that even in your life right now and some of the things that you're dealing with. May God help you to have a biblical perspective. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out if you need. Some encouragement. If you need someone to pray for you, don't hesitate to reach out. We want to be an encouragement and help any way we can. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing, meet again tomorrow. Bye now.