Good morning and welcome to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good Tuesday. And as we dig into this passage, we have to start if we're going to look at the basis of forgiveness on the vertical as well as the horizontal. We've got to begin by looking at this great contrast that the text is going to present to us. And so let's turn our Bibles to Ephesians chapter 2. We're going to start reading in verse number 11. And we're going to see how Paul lays out who they were and who they are now. And just helping them to appreciate how there is a basis for their forgiveness before God and their need to forgive one another. Here's what the text says, Ephesians chapter 2, verse 11. Wherefore, remember, good word, remember that ye being in times past, Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision by that which is called the circumcision in the flesh made by hands. That's very wordy. But at that time ye were without Christ. Being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenant of promise, having no hope, without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off, are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace, who hath made both one and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us having abolished in his flesh the enity. Now, what is the contrast that Paul is laying out? Well, the contrast is going to show you the need that we are all born with to be reconciled to God, and then how we were reconciled to God, and the position that we now have. And so here's how he puts it in verses eleven and twelve. Remember, in times past, you were Gentiles, you were called uncircumcision, you were without Christ, you were estranged from the commonwealth of Israel and the covenants. and you had no hope. That's what he's saying. So let's break down those little pieces. First of all, when he talks about his audience, he says physically they were separated from God's people. Now he's speaking in terms of Old Testament Israel, a covenant relationship with God. We think about the Abrahamic covenant, we think about the Mosaic covenant, and so you have Jews, you have Gentiles, and those who were outside of those covenants the Gentiles, those are the predominant number, those are primarily the people that he's talking to at Ephesus. Many of these believers were Gentiles by physical origin. And so he says you were separated from the people of God because of your physical background. The second thing he emphasizes is not just that there was a physical decision. distinction, but there was a disdain on the part of the Jewish people towards the Gentiles. Verse 11, you were called uncircumcision by that which is called the circumcision. Now The sense of the language is that you were viewed with disdain. They said, you're not a part of our group. You are uncircumcised. You are Gentiles. You are excluded. There was this arrogance. of the Jews toward the Gentiles. And he draws it out. The third thing, you were outside of those blessings that came as a result of the covenant promises that God made to these people So he states it like this in verse 12. You were aliens from the commonwealth of Israel. You were not a part of the people. You were outside. You were strangers from the covenants of promise. Now, it is interesting to note that when the Old Testament talks about Gentiles, it doesn't talk about Gentiles as always outside The fact is that God's desire isn't just for the Jews to become his people, but the reality is he desires people from all peoples to be a part of his people. We see that in Psalm 96. He says, declare his glory among the nations, so that all the earth will worship before him. We think about people like Rahab She was a Gentile. We think about Ruth. She was a Gentile. We think about Elijah going and sustaining a woman who was a widow at Zarephath. She was a Gentile. The Old Testament is filled. with examples of God's mercy toward the Gentiles. But it is true that these people are outside of the covenant promises. And so Paul highlights that. But the fourth thing he emphasizes is probably the most significant. You had no hope in this world to reverse that because you did not have God. You are unable to reverse the condition, having no hope without God in the world. Unless God does something for you, and in his grace he pursues you, you have no hope. And so he draws this very dark contrast between who they were and this very encouraging contrast to who they are now. And that's where he goes next. He says, but you've been reconciled to God. Don't forget who you were. Remember, though, who you are now. And here's how he puts it in Verse 13. But now in Christ Jesus, you who sometimes are far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. And so what is the basis for forgiveness and reconciliation? It's what Christ did for us. We were made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. And so we're going to break this down and really dig into this because Paul is going to focus on that reality. as the heart of forgiveness and reconciliation. You don't have it apart from the cross. And Christ shedding his blood and Christ being punished in our place and ultimately becoming a curse for us. You do not have forgiveness and reconciliation. outside of that. But we do. And so the heart of this passage is that God's grace made all the difference. But now You are in Christ, united with him, and you've been reconciled to God, united in Christ because of the blood of Christ. That is the heart of the passage. And so, Lord willing, tomorrow, we're going to break this down a little bit further because what Paul does is. He leans into this because . . this is the heart of what causes a person to say, I forgive you. I desire to be reconciled. We need to work this out, build the bridge, and have a basis for us to have true relationship. And so I hope you'll join us tomorrow as we dig into this passage a little bit further. We lean into what Paul is saying. And hopefully we are really blessed by it. But what's the point of this passage that we looked at this morning? Here's who you were. Here's who you are. Because of the grace of God. May we never get over that. May we remember that. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.