Good morning. Welcome to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. I'm very excited about the text that we're going to deal with this week and the topic that is a part of this text. And we're going to be talking about the Passover. the cross and the new covenant. And so this morning as we dig into this passage, we're going to look at the entire section. In fact, the rest of the week we're just going to read the second portion. of this passage of scripture because that will be kind of the focal point of what we'll look at. But we're going to look at some introductory material and just kind of talk about the basic storyline of what we're looking at here. So if you have a Bible, please take it. And let's turn together to Luke chapter 22. And today we're going to read 7 all the way to verse 20. Here's what the text says. Then came the day of unleavened bread, when the Passover must be killed. And he sent Peter and John saying, Go, prepare us the Passover, that we may eat it. And they said unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare? And he said unto them, Behold, when you enter into the city, there shall a man meet you bearing a pitcher of water. Follow him into the house where he is entered in. And you shall say to the good man of the house, Master, the master saith, Where is the guest chamber where I shall eat the Passover with my disciples? He shall show you a large room furnished, there make ready. And they went and found as he had said unto them, and they made ready the Passover. And when the hour was come, he sat down and the twelve apostles with him. And he said unto them, With desire, I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. For I say unto you, I will not any more eat thereof, until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. And he took the cup and gave thanks and said, Take this, divide it amongst yourselves. For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God shall come. And he took bread and gave thanks and broke it, and gave it unto them, saying, This is my body, which is broken for you. This do ye in remembrance of me. Likewise also the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood, which is shed for you. As we look at this passage, I want to just give you a basic overview of the story. We're not going to dig into the specific details of this story. We're actually going to focus in on what is the heart of the narrative and that is um the Lord's table and how Christ is going to take the Passover and He's going to use that moment to not just look back at what the Passover represented, but to look forward at what the Passover was also pointing to, and that was the cross of Christ. And so we'll really focus all over all of the rest of the week on that second part. But just so that we have a good sense of the storyline, let's walk through it piece by piece. In verses 7 and 8, we see that Christ sends Peter and John on a mission. That mission is there to prepare the way for the Passover. They're supposed to find a location. And he gives very specific instructions about this. He tells them to go into the city. You're going to meet a man, then the man's going to lead you to a house, then ask the owner of the house where the room is that they can have the Passover. And when they follow through and do what Jesus told them to do, verses 9 through 13. they find success. They find the location where they're going to basically spend time doing the Passover meal. And then the third part, verses 14 through 16, is where Jesus sits down to eat with them and he begins to talk about the significance of this particular Passover. We're going to break that down. a bit later in the week. But there are four Passovers that Christ has celebrated with his disciples. And this one is unique and significant for some very particular reasons. And we're going to talk about that later this week. And then fourthly, in verses 17 through 20, we see that as he breaks bread and he passes the cup, he highlights the purpose of the Passover And this is something that the disciples have missed. And we're going to break that down a bit as well. So that kind of gives you a sense of the storyline. After, he gives them the significance. He gives them a prediction of what's going to take place after. And he basically talks about how the disciples are going to fail. One is going to betray him, some are going to uh deny that they know him, they're going to fall away. And so he's highlighting the fact that that they are not going to remain faithful in the moment. Now that doesn't mean that that will be the end of the story for the disciples. It will be for Judas. but not the rest. But that kind of gives you an outline of where things are going. He sends on a mission, Peter and John, they're successful. He sits down to meal. He talks about the specifics of this one, why it's particularly important He gives the symbolic nature of the bread and the juice, and then he talks about their future failure as a group of disciples during the crucifixion time period. So the point is, you know, or the question should be, well, what's the main point of the section? I would summarize it like this. The Passover provides a perfect link between the physical deliverance in Egypt, something they were looking back to, and the spiritual deliverance from eternal destruction at the cross, what they were looking forward to. Now, for us today, both of these are in the past, both Passover and the Cross. But this is the key moment that connects the two. And so that's what the passage is all about. As we look at this passage, we're going to see the need to delight in the second part, what it pointed forward to, and that is the cross and the nature of redemption. And so that's where we're going to park this week So we're going to answer the question, how do we do this all throughout the week? I hope that you'll join us as we dig into this passage. We talk about some foundational truths. We look at this passage within its historic context, and hopefully we are encouraged and challenged by it. If this is something that you think might be a help to others, please share that If you have any questions or would like to provide any feedback, please don't hesitate to do that. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we dig into this passage a little bit more. Bye now.