Good morning. Welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And as we prepare to go into the weekend, I want to leave you with some final thoughts. with with what is probably the height of the focus of the text in front of us. And if you remember throughout the week we've looked back at the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies. We've looked forward to the purpose that God has to reach the nations. We looked at our responsibility, and for the apostles, their responsibility was to be eyewitnesses. to proclaim the gospel amongst the nations, our responsibility at this time is to take the message that they have delivered to us, the scriptures that God used them to write And to preach them and proclaim them during the time that God gives us before it's time for a new generation to replace us. Well, this morning what I want us to do is look at the power. Look at what ultimately makes the ministry that we will engage in effective. And so if you have your Bibles, let's turn to Luke chapter 24. We're going to read verses 44 through 53 together, and then we're going to look at some final thoughts. It says And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the Psalms concerning me Then opened he their understanding that they might understand the Scriptures. And he said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoove Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day But repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem, and ye are witnesses of these things. Behold, here's the key. I send the promise of my Father upon you. Tarry in Jerusalem until you be endued with power from on high. He led them out as far as to Bethany, lifted up his hands, and blessed them, and it came to pass while he blessed them. And he parted from them and carried that was carried up into heaven. And they worshipped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy, and were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen. Now, I want us to focus on the importance of looking up. Where does the power, the empowerment to do the ministry work come from? The answer is it comes from God. Verse 49. Behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you. There is no lasting success unless the Spirit of God graciously empowers his servants. He will do this work by his power for his glory. We get to participate in it. But we're channels, we're instruments that he uses, that he works through. Whenever we talk about spiritual awakenings in the scriptures, we always see that those awakenings are a result of the work of the Spirit. That was true at Pentecost. That was true all the way back in the Old Testament. For instance, Acts chapter one, verse eight, you will receive power after the Holy Ghost has come on you, and you'll be witnesses in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria , the uttermost parts of the earth. Now, when they preached at Pentecost, what happened? Thousands of people were converted. The question is why? By whose power? And the answer is by God's power through the working of the Spirit Or Acts 16, 14, a certain woman named Lydia, a cellar of purple in the city of Thyatira, who worshipped God, heard us, whose heart the Lord opened that she attended unto the things that were spoken of by Paul. So how did she begin to believe? It's because God opened her heart. Faith comes by hearing, hearing by the Word of God. The sword of the Spirit is the Word of God. And so God uses His work to open the hearts of people. And so whenever we see movements of of God and the and or whenever we see uh miraculous spiritual awakenings throughout the book of Acts or at other portions of Scripture, we see that it's the Spirit of God who does the work. I have a look at some Old Testament examples. For instance, the building of the tabernacle, Exodus 35. They came everyone whose heart stirred him up, and everyone in whom his spirit made him willing. The question is, who stirred the heart? Who made the Spirit willing? Answer. God did. God did it by the work of his spirit. Or Zechariah 4. It's not by might. Nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts. Who art thou, great man, before Zerubbabel? Thou shalt become a plane. And he shall bring forth the headstone with shouting, crying, Grace, Grace! The hands of Zerubabel have laid the foundation of this house, and the hands shall also finish it. And you will know That the Lord of hosts has sent me. God builds by his spirit. So the question is, how do we apply all the things we've talked about this week? Looking back, looking forward, looking in, and looking up. The answer is that we need to be engaged in this work. You can't be engaged in this work if you don't understand the gospel. Might be that there's someone who's listened this week that you hear the importance of the gospel, but it's never clicked in your mind You've got to embrace it. The things that God has promised, He has fulfilled them entirely. And there's no other way. That God could have addressed our sin. He had to do it in a just, righteous way, and he did it through the cross. Christ died for your sins. Christ rose from the dead. It is through his death and through his resurrection that you can be saved from your sins And so the first application is, if you never trusted Christ, you've got to do that. The second application is that you've got to personally embrace that. It's not just knowing about it. But you've got to embrace it. You have to personalize it. In other words, that word repent, there has to be a radical thinking change in your life. It's not just, oh, I know about this. But in fact, my thinking has changed. I'm turning to Christ from my sin of rebellion and pride, self-righteousness, and rejection of Christ, and I'm embracing him as the one and only way of salvation. On the opposite side of repentance is faith. I've got to personally trust the death and resurrection of Christ. So that's the first part. I've got to know the truth. I've got to personalize and respond to the truth. But then there's the application to the Christian. Every believer, as you read through the scripture, as you think about these truths, should be overwhelmed. We should be overwhelmed by the greatness of God's plan. It is it is it is uh there's continuity there, there is a purpose, there is powering, empowerment, there is raising up people. He does it all. Overwhelmed. Secondly, be grateful. You and I should be thankful for the ministry of the apostles that took the gospel to the nations in the first century. You and I should be thankful for the ministry of the apostles that gave us the scriptures. You and I should be grateful to God. That in his mercy and grace he brought the truth to us so that we could embrace it. Thirdly, we should be humbled You and I should have a high view of the great need to be empowered by the Spirit. If we try to do the work of ministry with the arm of the flesh, we will fail. We need his empowerment. And then we need to be motivated. We should recognize every generation of Christians has had to step up. and embrace the need of that generation. You and I are no different. The generation behind us is no different. If God gives us time, we've got to be engaged in the work. Have a blessed weekend. I hope that we'll see many of you this coming Sunday as we gather for worship. I hope that you have a really good weekend, and Lord willing, we'll see you next time. Bye now.