Morning, welcome back to a new week, another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And we're looking at episodes fifty-one through fifty-five this week and the text of scripture that we're dealing with. is the passage that we've dealt with in the second week of March. And so if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. And the text we'll look at this week is Luke 12, verses 22 to 34. And the topic that we're going to deal with is a very, very practical topic. I think it will be tremendously helpful as we reflect on the things that we find in these verses. So Luke chapter 12, verse 22, I'm going to begin reading the text. We'll summarize what this text is talking about. Look at a couple of statistics that I think will sort of set in perspective. um the discussion for this week and then um we'll just answer one simple question what does God want us to do with the text in front of us so Luke 1222 And he said unto his disciples, Therefore, I say unto you, take no thought for your life what ye shall eat, neither for the body what ye shall put on. The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment. Consider the ravens they neither sow nor reap, neither have they storehouses nor barns, and God feedeth them. How much more are ye better than the fowls? And which of you taking thought can add to his stature one cubit? If ye then be not able to do that which is the least, why take ye thought for the rest? Consider the lilies, how they grow, they toil not, they spin not, and yet I say unto you that Solomon in all his glory is not arrayed like one of these. If then God so clothe the grass, which is to-day in the field and to-morrow cast in the oven, how much more will he clothe you, or ye have little faith? Seek ye not what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind. All these things do the nations of the world seek after, and your father knoweth that ye have need of these things. But rather, seek ye the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you. Fear not, little flock. For it is your father's good pleasure to give to you the kingdom. Sell that ye have, give alms, provide yourself bags, wax not that wax not old, and treasure in heaven that faileth not, where neither thief approacheth, nor moth corrupteth. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Now I'm not going to read that entire section each day this week because it's a lengthy section, and I know that most of us are probably more familiar with the Matthew reading than the Luke reading and when we read the Sermon on the Mount. And there are some distinctions between the two of them, but they're basically establishing the same basic principle. And I think it's important too to recognize that when we look at what is being taught in Matthew versus what is taught in Luke, Christ would have taught these teachings in lots and lots of different contexts. And so His teaching would have had some different nuances depending on the setting in which he's in. The passage that we are dealing with here is really a continuation of several thoughts. that begin when Jesus is in the house of a Pharisee. And there are a lot of confrontations and it's really moving towards what what we will discuss this week, dealing with anxious doubts in a godly way. So first of all, let me give you a summary of the text in front of us. Christ called his disciples to reflect on their faithful Father and how he cares for his creation. He did this so that they would learn to process their anxious doubts in a way that is reminding themselves of the evidence of God's goodness and tender care. That's what he's doing. So I'll read it again. Christ called his disciples to reflect on their Father's faithful care over his creation. So they would learn to process their anxious doubts through the abundant evidence of God's goodness and tender care. Basically what Jesus is saying is don't be an anxious person. Instead, take that energy to reflect on the kind of father that you have, how he cares for you. is is going to be consistent with the way he cares for all of his creation. And really you can make the argument it's even more so than the rest of his creation because of his very particular affection for you. as his children. Now, when I preached this passage of scripture, this was fascinating because it was the anniversary of four years ago when we entered into um the COVID lockdown period um in our country. And so the second Sunday in March of 2020 was the last Sunday that we met in person. for several months, I believe it was about three months. And when we locked down, uh the entire country basically We had no idea what was lying before us. It was a time where there was a lot of anxiety in people's hearts. And that's something that has really not gone away. There was a Pew Research poll that I read recently that said nearly 90% of Americans believe that we are experiencing a mental health crisis. And as I read through the article, they broke this down into several different categories of struggle. For instance, they they did research on high school students. And Forty-two percent of those high school students that were that were um asked questions, that were part of this poll, basically said that they experienced persistent feelings of sadness and here's the word that really should get us hopeless now. That's not just, I'm a little worried about this, but I I regularly experience this sense of hopelessness, and I'm way down. That's nearly half of our young people who are in high school. That's a large percentage of people. In fact, this past year and the year before, the last two years, we've had over a hundred thousand Americans who have died from drug-related overdoses. That's $100,000 a year. That's a lot of people. In fact, if you were to take that statistic and you were to expand it a little bit, and look at things like alcohol abuse related deaths or suicides, that number they call them deaths of despair. is 260,000 people. That is an unbelievable number of Americans. 260,000 Americans. A quarter of a million Americans. died last year in this category of what they call deaths of despair. Well you know what that tells us? That tells us that in this country we have a problem. And that problem is that people feel hopeless. And they feel so hopeless that they're literally willing to take their lives or take risks with chemical substances that could potentially take their lives. They're willing to do that. And the question is why? What is going on in our society? Well, it's a complex question. There are a lot of different factors that are playing and contributing into this. We could talk about social media, we could talk about political tensions. We could talk about a lot of different factors. But there is no question that if you were to pull this apart and go down to the root cause of what's going on. There is a worldview crisis in this country. And that worldview crisis, believe it or not, is something that the Lord Jesus Christ is addressing in these verses. And he compares the way that the disciples should process their anxious doubts and the way that the world around them processes their anxious doubts. The fact is a lot of people are in despair because they don't have a worldview that says there's a God who made me, and this God who made me actually says that I have value to him. And he is actually providentially at work in his creation, and he has ordered things by design to function in a certain way. And I will be able to thrive as a person in the best way, though this is a fallen world, in the best way, when I recognize I'm created by him. I have a purpose in this world, and to the best of my ability, I'm trying to function within that purpose, in accordance with the the the way that he has designed things. When people do that It gives them the ability to be able to thrive to the best of their ability. , And at the heart of that is the gospel. And the fact that God redeems sinners to himself and he plants them in this position of redeemed, forgiven, and righteous in Christ. And so we're going to get into that as we go through the rest of this week. But at the heart of this crisis, in my view, is that there is a worldview problem. And it shouldn't surprise us when we consider the worldview alternative that is so prevalent in our culture. I want to remind you again of a statement that was made by John Owen hundreds and hundreds of years ago at a very tumultuous time in England. He said, ignorance of God and ourselves is the great principle and cause of all disquietitude. And the word disquietitude means anxiety or uneasiness. Or maybe another way to put it is the noise in our souls. It's ignorance of God and of ourselves. That is the primary cause of that internal struggle. That's what John Owen said. And he said this arises mostly not from want of light. and instruction, but from want of consideration and application. He's saying it's not that people don't have access to the truth, it's that they don't reflect on the truth. They don't apply the truth. Now, John Owen lived in a time where there was a lot more biblical awareness in his culture than than there is today in the United States of America. There's access to all this information through the internet and through churches. Obviously those things are true. People have access to God's word. But the simple fact is We're becoming a more secular culture. And what he's saying is probably mostly pertinent to the Christian living in this modern era here in the United States. And so this week, what I'd like to do is I'd like to talk about this issue of how we deal with anxious doubts in a godly way from Luke chapter 12. So let me summarize it this way. Here's what God wants us to do this week. He wants us to invest our lives in the kingdom of God instead of being crippled by the anxious doubts that are so common amongst us. That's the encouragement this week. That we'll be able to take the Word of God, understand it, rightly divide it, apply it, and then invest our lives in what really matters. Eternal pursuits. Have a blessed morning and Lord willing tomorrow will meet again by now.