Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And thank you for joining us this week as we've been working our way through Luke chapter 18 and we're dealing with an important passage of scripture. And that's the story of Christ healing a blind man. And we know from one of the parallel passages that this is a man named Bartimaeus who is outside of Jericho. And when Christ comes, he hears all this commotion. He says, Who is this? And eventually by the end of the story, we see that this man is not only healed from his blindness, but God, the Lord Jesus Christ, declares that in fact his sins have been forgiven. He has been saved. And that's an indication of the fact that he has faith in the Messiah. And so, throughout this passage of scripture, there are there are certain details that I want to draw out that I think are sometimes helpful when we're analyzing a passage. To give us a little bit of a deeper appreciation. And it's not that we can't understand what's being talked about there, but there are certain details that will hit us harder if we understand the concept of context. So This morning what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to focus in on some details regarding the context of this particular story and where it fits in the narration of Christ going up to Jerusalem, about to be crucified, and then rise from the dead. So let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to Luke chapter 18. We're going to read the verses together. Listen to a short excerpt from the sermon at the beginning, the introductory part, and then we're going to jump into this concept. It says, and it came to pass that as he was come nigh into Jericho, A certain blind man sat by the wayside begging, and hearing the multitude pass by, he asked what it meant. They told him that Jesus of Nazareth passed by. He cried, saying, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me They which went before rebuked him that he should hold his peace. But he cried so much the more, Thou son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus stood and commanded him to be brought unto him. When he was come near, he asked him, saying, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? He said, Lord, that I may receive my sight. And Jesus said unto him, Receive thy sight. Thy faith hath saved thee. And immediately he received his sight and followed him, glorifying God, and all the people, when they saw it, gave praise unto God. Let's listen to the section. First of all, I want to begin by kind of helping you to understand how this passage of Scripture sort of fits in what's going on in the book of Luke. I mentioned this earlier in our Sunday school class. uh here in the auditorium. But when we talk about a book like the book of Luke, you need to realize that Luke sat down with eyewitnesses first -hand accounts, and he literally wrote down all kinds of information, all kinds of data that would have been presented to him by those eyewitnesses. Now this is an important concept that I think sometimes people misunderstand when it comes to Scripture. We can err on one of two sides when we talk about the nature of divine inspiration. We could err on the one side where we take what we would call a mechanical dictation kind of approach to Scripture where we know that the Scripture is the Word of God, and we would almost give the impression that when Paul is writing or Peter or James or Matthew or Moses, that they're basically just mechanically writing down as someone is dictating to them what they're supposed to write down. And so you would not expect to see the personality of the Apostle Paul or the thought processes of a person like Luke or like Mark or like Matthew. And um and so there's that attitude that that it's just somebody writing like a scribe. Well a scribe was copying something that was already written. We talk about the scriptures given by inspiration of God. We're not talking about that kind of an approach. Not to say that there weren't places where God would say things like, Write this down, thus saith the Lord. But when the Apostle Paul is writing or Peter is writing, their mind is engaged in what they're doing. You can see their personalities coming out. You could see their thought processes come out. And that is in no way negating the fact that this is the Word of God. So when 2 Timothy 3. 16 says that every word of God is given by the the mouth of God, um, passa grafe theatnistas, every word of scriptures God breathed. It's saying that this is God's word. It's perfect. It's an error. It is exactly what God wanted. But then when we go to 2 Peter 1, verse 20, And following, we see that it says that holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. And the idea is that Peter actually highlights the fact that these people were eyewitnesses and that they actually heard things and witnessed things. And they are reflecting on things, but what they're writing down is more than just the reflection. So what we're seeing is this combination. We're seeing that God is speaking through instruments. In the same way, if somebody was playing trumpet and they're blowing through the trumpet, it gives a distinct trumpet sound, or somebody's blowing through a flute, it gives a distinct flute sound. uh clarinet or saxophone or whatever the instrument, the musician is using the particular instrument that they want to give the sound that they want. And so this is how God gave us his word. And so as Luke uh is preparing to write to Theophilus. And we we don't have this all written down to tell us exactly how it happened, but it would appear that he listened carefully to the accounts of other people, took records of those things And then sat down and looked at how he would put together the accounting of the life and ministry of Christ. And there would have been some material that He chose not to include, and there would be material that he chose to include, and the way that he ordered it would have been something that was carefully thought out. Ultimately, it's not just Luke's mind that's determining this, but it is the Spirit of God moving through Luke that is that is causing him to put it in in the way that he did it. But when we come to this portion of Scripture leading up to the cross, we see that there are four miracles highlighted And each of those miracles gives a different sense of something that Luke's trying to communicate about who Christ is and how he worked. I would say that Jesus would have performed more than four miracles during that time that he was going up to Jerusalem. But these are the four that were important to Luke, and ultimately the Spirit of God, when he's writing these things down. And the order is important too. The first two are examples of Christ going to someone who did not cry out to him for help, and he simply, in mercy, he heals these people. And he does it to make a point to the religious leaders on the Sabbath day nonetheless, in the synagogue nonetheless, that he has the right as the Lord of Sabbath to perform such miracles. And so he brings to a head through this miracle a sign to teach something about who he is. But the second two miracles that we see. are a little bit different. These people come to Christ. So we have the lepers coming to Christ, and we have this man, the blind Bartimaeus, crying out to Christ, have mercy. In both situations , They are crying out to him for mercy. And what's also highlighted in those two other examples is that when Christ heals them, he says, your faith hath saved you. Or your faith hath made you whole, not just well, but whole. And he's emphasizing the fact that what is causing these people to cry out to him, have mercy on us. is the fact that they believe he's the Messiah and so they're already Old Testament believers, trusting in Messiah What we see in this section is that as as he's building and giving these miracles, there's going to be a capstone miracle, which Some people wouldn't even think to be a miracle, the fact that Zacchaeus invites Christ into his home and salvation has come to his home, but that's actually the crowning jewel of all the miracles. That's the capstan of all the miracles. Because what is Jesus doing? He's saving a man who with man it's impossible. With God all things are possible So the reason that I comment on all this is to kind of give you a little bit of a better understanding of what's going on in the context. It's not just that this happened. But this was selected for a particular purpose that Luke is trying to demonstrate about Christ in this portion of the book of Luke. And so my encouragement to you this morning is let's be careful students of the word. Let's not miss the obvious things, but let's also go deeply and look at some of the things that may not be so obvious. but are also very impactful and can help us appreciate and love the Word of God even more. Hope that you have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working through some concept concepts in this passage of scripture. Sure, by now