Good morning, and I'd like to welcome you back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope you're having a great Friday morning and I hope that you have a wonderful Weekend. The text that we've been dealing with is 2 Timothy chapter 3, and we're looking at the perilous days that we live in and the church's mission, which is consistent no matter the circumstances, that we will encounter in our culture and in the times that we're living. And so if you have your Bibles, I want to invite you to take them. Let's turn together one more time to 2 Timothy chapter 3, verses 1 through 7, and we're going to get some final Thoughts as we think about what we've talked about this week. Here's what God's Word says. This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boast sisters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, truth breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that Are good. Traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof As we look at this passage of Scripture, we see that it's going to end in a very practical way. And what it's going to show us is that God's servants in every generation have been called to a very very simple task of rising to the occasion and he puts it in very practical detail. So first thing we see, let's look at verse Verses 1 and 2. He says, I charge thee before God and the Lord Jesus, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing in kingdom, to preach the word. Be instant, in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. Now notice those practical statements. First thing he says to do is to preach the word. This is what we're to do. We're not just to tell people about it. We're supposed to present it in such a way that as we expound it, we compel them to respond. He also tells them when to do this. He says do it in season and out of season. So there'll be times that people will want to hear this. There'll be times that they don't want to hear this. There'll be times that They're a bit uh dull to it, and it doesn't change our duty. Our duty is to preach the word, to compel people to believe. Thirdly, his exhortation covers the full scope of ministry. And we see a parallel between what then what the word does and how we are to use the word. For instance, he says, preach in such a way that brings conviction. That's what the word reprove means. Or preach in such a way that it calls people to change. That's the sense of rebuke. Or preach in a way that you are coming alongside someone and encouraging That's what he means by exhort. What I love about that word exhort is that the Greek term that's used is not just tell people what to do, but it's literally come alongside of them and encourage them. and strengthen and build them up. That's the idea of exhort there. And then fourthly, teach the basics of sound doctrine. Teach in such a way that their worldview is shaped according to what is true and what's consistent. Consistent with reality, not just people's assumptions or the sentiments of people of the day. Next we see that he tells them how to do it. He says, do it with all long sighting. suffering. There needs to be a patience, an endurance, a consistency that we just continue to do the same thing week in and week out, even when people maybe don't initially respond. well. We stay at it. We look for opportunity and we engage every single time we have opportunity. He says despite all the opposition, despite all the difficulties, the instruction is simple, it is direct. Preach the word. And so we see that in this text of scripture. He not only calls them to do this, he would say the same thing to you and to me. He says, are you living in the last days? The answer is, of course we are Are they tumultuous and perilous times? Well of course they are. Okay, do you remember what I told Timothy? Preach the word. He calls us to follow the same pattern, with the same convictions, and the same commitment to be an enduring people in ministry. So the question is how do we apply what's in front of us? Well let me give you some final simple thoughts that I hope will encourage you as you think about what we've talked about the This week. First is this don't allow your feet, or excuse me, your eyes to drift away from your duty. Keep your focus on what God wants you to do. Secondly, allow the tensions that you experience in perilous life times not to drag you down, but rather to press you forward, to drive you into stepping up and seizing your duties. And you say, well, what's the difference? How will I be pressed forward rather than dragged backward? Well, it comes down to what do you believe about the word? What do you believe about the power of the gospel? Thirdly, have an unwavering conviction. That the gospel saves and that scripture transforms. And this is such an important thing for us to remember. If we believe that this is true, it will inevitably press us. forward. Fourthly, make sure that your priorities and your practices flow out of a high view of Scripture. We can say we have a high view of Scripture. But our practice says more than our words. May it be something that we prioritize. May it be something that we regularly submit to and obey. Fifthly, Remember that in the practical situation we find ourselves today, this is why we need missions. This is why we need missionaries. This is why we send missionaries. This is why we support missionaries in our communities. church. This is why we're very selective in the missionaries that we partner with. There are lots of people that are doing the best they can, but we want to be faithful that we partner with those who are going to do an excellent job, who are going to be faithful in the work they've been. called to do. It will have confidence in the way that they go about it. Let's remember this is why we anticipate God will build his kingdom when we are faithful in what we been called to do. Well, it's a lot to think about as we go into the weekend. I hope that you have a wonderful weekend. Hope to see many of you on Sunday. And uh Lord willing, if we don't see on Sunday, um you'll be able to see our next anchored in the Word. on Monday morning. Have a blessed day and we will Lord willing talk to you soon. Bye now.