Good morning. Hope you've had a great week and hope you have a wonderful weekend. And I hope that the passage of scripture that we've looked at and the truths that we've examined and worked through this week. I hope they've been a challenge to you and encouragement. And when we come to our final thoughts this morning, what I want to do is leave you with some great encouragement from God's Word. So the topic that we've been addressing this week is the topic of the mysterious growth of God's kingdom. Here are our final thoughts, but before we look at them, I'd like us to read the text one more time so that we can be reminded again of what we are looking at, and then we'll look at the final thoughts. Again it's Luke chapter 13 verses 18 through 21. It says the following Then said he, Unto what is the kingdom of God like? And whereunto shall I resemble it? It is like a grain of mustard, which a man took and cast into his garden. and it grew and waxed a great tree, and the fowls of the year lodged in the branches of it. And again he said, Whereunto then shall I liken the kingdom of God? It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal. Now, as we've worked our way through this passage of scripture, we've examined three doctrinal concepts that were associated with with it. We've talked about principles that are illustrated by the two parables that are given. We've looked at the two extremes of if if we are proud or if we are disillusioned and discouraged. We need a biblical worldview when it comes to this issue of how God builds his kingdom. And so here are our thoughts to take into the weekend as we prepare ourselves for the Lord's Day. And some of you maybe are out of town this week, because I know a lot of people travel this time of the year. But I hope that these will be things that we reflect on throughout the weekend. into the next week. We need to understand how he builds the kingdom. Not by our power, not by our wisdom, and not by our diligence Now that's not to say that he doesn't use our strength and our wisdom and our diligence that he has given us. God gifts people uniquely for unique tasks, for unique season. But all of us are going to have a very short time on this planet that we are investing in the kingdom of God. And we're going to be replaced by a new generation. And God's going to continue his work through us, despite us, and with us no longer being here. We need to remember it's not by power or might, it's by the spirit of God's work that the kingdom has built. Secondly, while he uses us, we need to see it as a privilege. And we only play a small part, a brief work in this great picture of what God is accomplishing. So let's not think of ourselves too highly. Let's not get discouraged when we stumble. Let's get back up and let's give it our all in the time that God gives us. We also need to see his work through his eyes, not what we see on the surface. His work may appear to be very unassuming and slow, but it is steady and it is moving toward a very very definite end. We need to understand the nature of the work. It's organic, not a program or a formula. It's not something we manufacture. It's something that God does through the giving of life. It says you were not redeemed with corruptible things as the silver and gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. He says he has begotten us unto a lively hope by the resurrection of the Jesus Christ. You he has quickened who were dead in trespasses and in sins. The gospel gives life to people who are spiritually Spiritually dead and separated from God. This isn't something we can manufacture. We need to keep ourselves from distractions or from compromises that hinder our effectiveness in the involvement of this work. If we choose not to make wise choices, God will keep working. If we choose to be lazy or not to take up the responsibilities He's given to us, God will keep working. But we will not get to play a part in it like we could have potentially. We will not be as uh effective in service If we compromise or we get distracted or we get wearied. We need to live with a confident expectation of the steady progress of God building his kingdom until I want to leave you with this final passage of scripture. We've been dealing with this on Sunday mornings and Sunday school, and I I really love Romans chapter 8, and especially this portion. of Romans 8. I'm not going to read the whole section, but I want to read to you a little bit to just kind of give you something to think about going into the weekend. Paul writes, I reckon. that the sufferings of this present world are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us not might be revealed in us or I hope it's going to be revealed revealed in us, it shall be revealed in us. The earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of of the sons of God. We know that all things work together for good. To them that love God, to them who are all the called according to His purpose, whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son, so that we might be the firstborn. among many brethren. I want to remind you, no matter what's going on in your life today, no matter how difficult, painful, frustrating, discouraging. Fearful it may be, God can use it to accomplish good. And the reason is because there is a sure and purpose-filled end. And you and I can take great comfort in this This promise from the scriptures. Hope you have a great rest of your day. Hope you have a good weekend, and we really do hope to see many of you this Lis Lord's Day coming. Have a great time, and we'll talk to you all soon by now