Good morning and welcome to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I know yesterday was a really a brief introduction. Today we're going to get into the meat, the heart of this text. And when we come to Ephesians chapter 2, this passage is all about the grace of God. And really it's not just chapter 2, verses 8 through 10, but we can go all the way back to chapter 1. We just work our way through this passage and what do we see? Paul coming back over and over and over again, the different elements of this grace of God that's been demonstrated toward us. And so when we talk about the nature of our salvation Our salvation rests entirely on the foundation of the grace of God. It's not our faith that is the basis of our salvation. It's not a work that we do that's the basis of our salvation. It 's the work of Christ, which was a demonstration of God's grace toward us. We are connected to the benefits of the gospel, the salvation that is secured. through our faith. And so we're going to talk about that distinction, Lord willing, throughout the week. But let's get into this concept of salvation is by grace alone. Let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to verse Number 4 of chapter 10. We're going to read all the way, or chapter 2, verses 4 through 10, and then we're going to work into this discussion today about salvation being all of God's grace. It says, but God, who is rich in mercy, for his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath he quickened us together with Christ. By grace are ye saved and hath raised us up together, and has made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are ye safe through faith, of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, unto good works. which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. Now let's look at this little statement, by grace you're saved through faith. Notice that phrase, by grace you're saved. Our salvation is all a result of the grace of God. And the grace of God alone. And that's why he says in verse number 8, and by the way, it's not just verse 8. He actually says a couple times in the text, it is by grace that you are saved. Now what does he mean by that? When we use the term grace, we're talking about favor from God that is unmerited or undeserved. In other words, God's not giving this to us because of something in us or something done by us. He is giving it to us purely out of his kindness. purely out of his own goodness. It is not our goodness that earns it, it's his goodness that freely gives it. And so grace is undeserved favor. It doesn't start with us. And we see that in verse number 8. He says that this is not of ourselves. And so when we talk about salvation, the basis of our salvation, it doesn't start with us. He is both the author and he is the finisher of our faith. It starts with him. We talk about the concept of reconciliation. Reconciliation starts with the one who has been injured, who has been wounded, who has been wronged. extending grace to the one who has done the the wrongdoing. And so reconciliation is about the one who has been wronged pursuing the one who has done the wrong. And we see that here in this in this passage of scripture. It doesn't start with us. It's not of ourselves. It's also, secondly, free to us. That's why he uses the term a gift. Salvation is a gift from God. A gift isn't something that I pay for. It's not something that I deserve. It's not something that I earn. You know, during Christmas or a birthday, I don't receive a gift and then tell the person that gave it to me, okay. Here, here, what do I owe you? Let me pay you for this. That then it then it is no longer a gift. What makes it a gift is that it's free to you, the receiv the the recipient. But it pay it costs something to the one who's giving it. So it's free to us. Thirdly, it's not through our works that we've done. Verse number nine, it says, it is not of works. Again, this should make sense. If it's unmerited, if it doesn't start with us, if it's free to us, then we should understand that it's not by our works, it's not by works of righteousness that we've done. It's according to his mercy that he saved us And then fourthly, and this is a very important statement as well, it confronts our pride. He says that it is in this way so that no one can boast about it. So we talk about salvation being all of God's grace. It means He is the initiator. We don't pay anything for it. It's not through work that we've done. And it really goes after our pride. It undermines that confidence that we might have in the flesh or in our obedience or something else. It's all about what he did for us. So let me state it like this. The basis of our salvation is not in the following things that people often go to. It's not in our traditions. Or our money that we give to the church or to the poor. 1 Peter 1. 18. You were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver and gold. He's talking about money. from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers. It's not through some religious tradition that's been passed on from one generation to the next generation. Rather it is through the precious blood of Christ. as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. Salvation's basis is not found in our traditions or in our money. Secondly, it's not found in our ability to keep the law. And this is something that a lot of people don't understand. Romans 3. 20. By the deeds of the law, no flesh is justified in God's sight. By the law is the knowledge of sin. God didn't give us the law so that we could earn our way to Him God gave us the law to demonstrate that we fall short so we would recognize we have no hope in ourselves to enter into God's kingdom. We need something from outside of us. We need God to act on our behalf. That's why salvation starts with a clear understanding that we're unable to come to God through our obedience to law. Thirdly, Doesn't come through our righteousness. Titus 3. 5. It's not by works of righteousness that we have done. It's according to his mercy he saved us Because in Isaiah 64, 6 it says, all of our righteousness is like a filthy rag. So our salvation's basis is not in tradition, money, keeping of law. Righteousness, let me add another one. It's not through what we do for God, it's rather through what he did for us. And so we see kind of the opposite of this. We talk about salvation, it's not through our obedience. In our tradition, it's through Christ's obedience Romans 5. 19, it is by one man's disobedience that many were made sinners. It's by one man's disobedience that sin came into the world and death by sin. So by one man's obedience, many are made righteous. Well, who's the one man? Is it you? Is it me? No, it's Christ. Not RB, it's Christ's obedience. It's through Christ's sacrifice, not our sacrifice. Hebrews 10. 10. You were sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Not through our sacrifice, through his sacrifice. Thirdly, through his triumph over death, the resurrection, 1 Corinthians 15, 58. Thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. And all of 1 Corinthians 15 is about the resurrection of Christ. So we could say that salvation is all of grace because it's It's a gift. It's free. It doesn't start with us. It's not through our righteousness, not through our obedience, not through our keeping the law. Rather, it's through Christ's obedience, Christ's sacrifice, Christ's death, Christ's resurrection. and his righteousness. Philippians 3. 9. Paul writes that he was found in him not having his own righteousness, which comes through the law, but the righteousness which is through faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. So what is the point of all this? It's to simply say this. Salvation is all of grace. It's a gift. It's free. If in your mind you believe that you're earning your way to God, you don't understand this concept of grace. I'd encourage you to reach out. Send me an email. Send a note through Facebook Messenger. However you uh send it send it through YouTube, whatever, whatever means you have available to reach out. And let's get into the Word of God and let's look at how salvation is all the result of God's work, not our work. It's all of grace. That's where it starts. So, if you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. Love to answer them to the best of my ability. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll keep working our way through. And look at the second component. It's by grace alone, but it's through faith alone and Christ alone. If you have any questions, again, don't hesitate to reach out. Talk to you, Lord willing, tomorrow. Bye now.