Good morning and welcome to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. Yesterday we talked a little bit about introduction and today we're going to get into the meat of this text by talking about our position in Christ. And I mentioned this yesterday, but our position in Christ is where Paul starts. And the reason he starts there is because practice flows out of who we are. And if it wasn't for our position, then it would mean absolutely nothing to tell people to do the things that they're supposed to do, because our empowerment for it starts with who we are in Christ. And so if you have a Bible, let's take it. Let's turn together to do 2 Corinthians chapter 5. We're going to read this text and then start working through what Paul says about position. 2 Corinthians 5 17 If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And all things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. and hath given unto us the ministry of reconciliation, to wit that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now, then we are ambassadors for Christ. As though God did beseech you, by us we pray you in Christ's stead be reconciled to God. For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. We then, as workers together with him, beseech you also that you receive not the grace of God in vain. Now as we think about this passage, the first thing mentioned is position. And notice that statement, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Now let's break down what he's saying so that we really appreciate the importance of position. The thing that Paul is talking about is the miracle of regeneration. When a person places their faith in Christ, they are, at the moment of conversion, regenerated. They are made spiritually alive. In the Old Testament, he talks about, the prophet Ezekiel talks about the concept of regeneration. He says, I will give to them a new heart. And I will put within them a new spirit. And I will take the stony heart out of their flesh. I will give them a heart of flesh. Now what is Ezekiel talking about? He's talking about God taking a person who's spiritually dead. And he makes him alive. And there are three facts that are true of every believer. The first fact is that once a person places their faith in Christ, They are united to him. We are united in Christ, and this is why we are alive. Secondly, as those who are united to Christ, we are also new creatures in Christ. And we are not the person that we were before. The old man is dead. We are not that person anymore. And thirdly, our lives are entirely reoriented toward God. We are not the same person we were. We were alive and we were once dead. Now we have a new disposition and a new focus in life. And if we look back at the things that Paul says before this passage of Scripture, we can see in the context several things that are highlighted that have changed in how we are oriented toward God. The first thing is motive, and that motive is the judgment seat of Christ. Verse number 9 and 10 of chapter 5 says, we labor that whether present or absent we may be accepted of him. We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or whether it be bad. When Paul talks about the judgment seat, he's not talking about heaven and hell. He's talking about how God will evaluate our service and how we have stewarded the resources that he has given to us. Second thing that we that we see in the passage leading up in verse 11 is that it is the terror of the Lord and his justice and righteousness that is also going to motivate us. He says, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. I need to make a point about this. When we talk about God's terror, we're not suggesting that the believer is afraid that he's going to face God's wrath. We know that there is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. We are new creatures, we have been saved from God's eternal wrath against our sin, and we are now reconciled to God. So he's not talking about fear of wrath, but rather a concern for those who are under his wrath. When the Bible talks about unbelievers, he says that they are by nature the children of wrath even as others. What we mean by that is that we are sobered by the future that the lost is going to face if they don't turn to Christ and place their faith in him. And so we are motivated to labor diligently to call people to repent and believe because we want them to escape the wrath of God. Then there's a third motive that is mentioned, and this motive is mentioned in 13-15. He says that the love of Christ constraineth us. If one die for all, then we're all dead. and that he died for all, so that they which live should no longer henceforth live for themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again. Now, when he talks about the love of God, it's showing us that Christians are not just motivated in one sense. There are multi-layers to the motivation of the believer, and there are even some built intentions. What I mean is that the ministry is motivated by both a sense of weight, I'm going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ, a sense of soberness, those who I'm appealing to are under God's wrath and need to be safe from it. And thirdly, there's a warmth, a love, an affection. As God has loved me, and I'm to channel his love towards others, I am motivated to tell people about him. And so you can see the multiple layers of motivation. And the more deeply we understand God's love for us, what's it going to do? It's going to stir up our affections. It's going to give us the love for Him. So the more I love God. is a reflection of the more I understand his love for me and the more I'm going to love others. And so we can see how there's this radical dispositional change that takes place because a person is in a new position. And so position starts the text and the flow of this passage. So I want to remind you this morning that as you hear this lesson, as you read these verses, what they're saying in fact is true about you. you if you've placed your faith in Christ or a new creature in him. And because you're a new creature in him, there's been a dispositional change within you. There's a motivation of the judgment seat. There's a motivation of the soberness of God's wrath against sinners. Thirdly, there's a love for God. May we be a people who have been properly motivated in these three ways. Well, that gives you some things to think about this morning. Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to dig a little bit further into this as we start unpackaging more of the text. So I hope you'll join us for that. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.