Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, more reflection. And I hope your week's going well and looking forward to digging into this a third time today. And I kind of like to present to you what we're doing. Um la the last two days we've looked at both the negative and the positive side with more or less an evangelistic focus. And so on Monday we talked about the danger of self-righteousness, how to identify it, the Apostle Paul being the classic example of someone who was a Pharisee. who 's trying to build up his own credentials. And then how on the negative or on the on the positive we turn from that to trust in Christ. and his righteousness and how we can be forgiven and cleansed and declared righteous when we turn to Christ humbly in repentance and faith. Well this morning what I'd like us to do is kind of look at the third piece to that, and that would be the downstream effect of a worldview that is shaped by the gospel, and the downstream effect of a heart that is humbled by the Spirit that turns to Christ and is regenerate. So let's look at Luke chapter 18 again, verses 9 through 14. We'll read it and then after that we'll listen to a short clip It says, and he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves, that they were righteous, and despised others. That's the point we're going to focus in on today. Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee, the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. The publican standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes toward heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For every one that exalteth himself shall be abased. And he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Let's listen to the little section, and then we'll dig into it. We are sinners saved by grace alone. We're unworthy and unrighteous outside of him. We've done nothing to earn this position. We should kneel humbly in it. This humility should permeate every facet of our lives. One of the reasons it's so practical and so good for us as Christians to hear the gospel preached is because it freshly reminds us of the most basic core values of what it means to be a child of God. His grace, his mercy, his work, it's a gift. It's free. We don't deserve it. Well, there are so many things that I could say about that little clip and uh about this concept in the parable. One of the things that I want to start with is that it is critically important that we remind ourselves continually of the nature of the gospel. Because when we remind ourselves continually of the nature of the gospel, we are also reminding ourselves continually of how God has dealt with us. And we are being reminded freshly of how great the weight of God's grace toward us is. And so when we begin to really reflect on the incredible grace and mercy that God has poured out toward us, it is going to put our heart in a position to live out of that position by the power of the Spirit with a newness of perspective. And so one of the things that is drawn out in this parable is the contrast downstream of a repentant heart versus an unrepentant heart. the downstream effect of the difference between one who is a genuine believer, who has experienced the mercies of God, and one who is not and doesn't think that they need the mercies of God. And so when a person has been gripped by the gospel, their life has been transformed by the power of the gospel, they understand correctly that the immensity of God's grace and mercy. It's going to soften their disposition toward other people. And it's going to change the way that they relate to God and to others. And so this passage of Scripture reminds us that the person who is proud is proud because they are comparing themselves to the wrong standard. And the person that is humbled And the person that is gracious is gracious and humbled because they have seen themselves in light of the true standard, being God in his righteousness. They've seen how far far they fall short of it. They have humbled themselves, and they have turned to Christ, and they have been what? Lifted up. And that is not just an issue that gives them salvation, but it is also an issue that transforms how they relate to other people. And so I want to remind you this morning that if you are a child of God , Your great duty is to continually remind yourself of who you were, who you are, what he's done for you, and how great his grace is toward you. And you need to daily remind yourself of that and allow those truths to shape your perspective. to literally transform every aspect of your life. When I think about Romans 12, it says, I beseech you Brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your body a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed through the renewing of your mind. And so the idea is that because of God's amazing mercy toward us, We can be transformed through the renewing of the mind. And the more that we are gripped by what the gospel has given us, And how the gospel has accomplished that for us and who we are in Christ, the more our lives will be transformed through the renewing of our mind. Well, I want to encourage you this morning, spend time reflecting on that grace and that mercy, and let it change how you relate to other people. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing we will meet again tomorrow as we go into another concept dealing with this parable. Have a blessed day. Bye now.