Good morning, welcome back to our third Wednesday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we're going to really dig into the details of the text. In fact, I'm going to just kind of walk through the entire passage. so that you get a sense of what's going on. There are basically four parts to this psalm, and so let's go ahead and first of all read through the first portion of the psalm and then I'd like to kind of break it down so that you can see exactly where we're going. Lord willing, tomorrow what we're going to do is kind of hit the highlights and then Friday we're going to go to the application side. So Psalm 50 and we'll begin in verse number one. It says, The mighty God, even the Lord, hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof. Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined. Our God shall come, shall not keep silence, and a fire a fire shall devour before him. And it shall be very tempestuous round about him. He shall call the heavens from above to the earth, that he may judge his people Gather my saints together unto me, those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice, and the heavens shall declare his righteousness. For God is judge himself, Selah. As we dig through this passage, there are basically four subsections of this the psalm. The first part is a courtroom analogy, and we see that in verses one through six. And what we see is several pieces. First of all, we're introduced to the judge. Verse number one. Who is he? He is the mighty God. even the Lord, and he has spoken. So what that's telling us is who the judge is and what the basis of his judgment will be. His judgment will be based on what he has spoken. Well, who is his audience? The answer is also found in verse 1. He calls the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof. Another way to put that is he calls all creation. From east to west, north to south, all of the creation is to listen to what he has said. Then he has the witnesses. And the witnesses in verse number four are the heavens from above to the earth, that he may judge the people. Now you say, what exactly is he alluding to? Well, the the the the illusion that he's going to is that the heavens are going to declare that he is righteous. He is the just God. And he's talking about something that we witness in the book of Exodus. When God establishes his covenant with Israel, he calls all of heaven and earth to witness these things. What is his point? His point is, you are answerable to me. And so this is the first section of the psalm. We have the judge, we have what he has spoken, we have his audience, we have the witnesses, and then his intention. to call all of creation to attend to him. The second piece to this psalm is this expression of acceptable worship. We find that in verses 7 through 15. And when we talk about acceptable worship, what we see is that his audience here is a believing audience. He says, hear, O my people. I am God even thy God. So what it's showing you is that these are people who are believers. And so the question we should ask next is, well, well, what is his contention with these people? If they're believers, aren't they okay? And the answer is, well, in one sense, yes. They are okay, they're not under condemnation, but in another sense, they're not. There is a problem. They are not living consistent with the position they've been given. He says, I testify against you. In other words, the problem is in something more than what they are doing. He says in verse 8, I do not reprove you because of your sacrifices. In other words, they were going through the motions of a proper religious practice. They were worshiping God appropriately when it came to the actual actions. It was also not a problem because he needed something from them. Verse 10, every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle in the thousand hills. Verse 12, if I were hungry, I would not tell thee. The world is mine and the fullness thereof. So his contention is not in the fact that he needs something from them or they're not doing the right thing. His contention is deeper than that. And it's on the issue of motive. They had a motivation problem. They were not worshiping from the mind. They were not worshiping from the heart. They were going through the motions. And he's going to basically lay out an Explanation of what he actually wants and all of these things come down to heart issues. He says offer thanksgiving Thanksgiving isn't money. It's a disposition of the heart. And thanksgiving comes from a heart that recognizes that it is the recipient of grace. It's not entitled. He says, pay your vows. This is showing you that these are people who actually believe their commitments matter, and they believe their commitments matter because they're made to God who is there. Or thirdly, call on me. These are people who recognize that they're in desperation and he's the only one that can help them. So these are actually getting two heart issues. And so we see the second part is that these people who are his people are to worship from the heart genuinely. Then we see a third group that he mentioned, or a third section, and that is a duplicitous worship in verses 16 through 21. These people are not his people. He says, but to the wicked. But this is interesting. His contention with these people is not that they're Gentiles outside of the covenant community. But rather these are people professing faith, expressing themselves as believers, as members of a covenant community, but in fact they are not genuinely a part of that covenant community He says, What hast thou to do to declare my statutes? Or shouldst take my covenant in thy mouth? In other words, he's not talking to the Gentiles. He's not talking to people who are ignorant of God's ways. He's talking to members of the covenant community, going through the motions of true worship, but unregenerate. This is an important detail for us to get. Then we move to this fourth piece. And that is the danger that we see in every generation. There is evidence of their true condition based in how they are living. He says in verse 17, you hate instruction. You cast your words behind me. What is he talking about? He's talking about pride. Verse 18, he says, when you saw a thief, you consented. He's talking about theft. Or you've been partakers with adulterers. Verse 18. Or you sit and you speak against your brother. He talks about slander in verse 20 in verse 21. He says, I kept silent and you thought that I was altogether such as thyself. Presumption. Presumption. What is all this? It's the danger. of a person professing to be something that they're in fact not. And we see a New Testament parallel of this in Romans chapter 2. He says, Thou art inexcusable, O man, who judges another, wherein thou judgest thyself, you condemn yourself. For thou that judgest doest the same things, and we are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth who commit such things. Now in this passage, he gives a whole bunch of examples that are parallel to what we see in the 50th Psalm. And in Romans 2, he's talking to the unregenerate Jew who says, I'm a righteous person, but in fact they do not keep the law. We also see similar statement in 1 Peter 4. He says, The time has come for judgment to begin at the house of God, and if it begin first at the house of God, what will be the end of those who do not obey the gospel? What is his point? His point is that knowing the truth and paying lip service to it is not enough. Our actions expose the true intents of our heart. If the righteous are rebuked for their mixed motives, How much more will the wicked who have access to the same information be condemned when they reject the truth And so that's the sense. And so that moves fifthly to a warning. And the warning is this, you've forgotten God. Consider this. He says you're in great danger, lest I tear you in pieces. And none are there to deliver you. His warning is that if you profess faith in Christ and you are unregenerate, but but you are living a religious life, you are in great danger But then he closes with comfort, an invitation. We see this in verse 23. He says, you need to consider now. The word means repent. Turn to God, turn from your unbelief, and turn from the hypocrisy, turn to Him He says, Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me. You can turn to him. You can offer praise. Amazing statement. To him who orders his conversation aright, if you correct your ways in your approach to him, there is something that comes as a result. And by the way, When he says to him that word this conversation are right, he's not considering that, he's not presenting some view that you become a Christian or you become a believer in the Old Testament sense by doing good things. He's saying don't be a hypocrite. Be a genuine believer who's a part of the covenant community. Not someone who's professing to be, but in fact you're not. And then what does he say? The one who does order his salvation or conversation aright, he will show that person the salvation of God. He can be saved from terrible judgment. His point is even though you're in great danger, you can still turn to God while there's time. And so that's the general flow of Psalm 50. It's a lot of information for us to process. In fact, what I hope to do tomorrow is kind of break down some of the highlights of what is being presented here. But what we see is ultimately an appeal to people to live in the light of their position or two, to not be hypocrites who present themselves as those who are believers, but in fact are not. And so as we dig into those details tomorrow, I hope that you'll join us again as we think about the timeless truths that are in this text of Scripture. Well if you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. If this has been an encouragement to you, then please share that. The Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.