Good morning and welcome back to our fourth anchored in the word, morning reflection. And thanks for joining us this week. I hope that the things that we're talking about are very informative and also have given you some things to think about and minister to your soul. This morning we're going to focus in on the root of unbelief. And when we use the word unbelief, I make a distinction between unbelief and doubt. When we use the word doubt, we are talking about someone who has chosen to believe something. They're convinced of it, but now they're beginning to waver a little bit and they're having questions in their mind. Maybe it's because of their own natural tendency to be very introspective and to overly analyze things. Could be something that a person has told them. Maybe it could be some kind of external pressure. But unbelief is different than doubt. Unbelief starts with rejection. Doubt starts with acceptance. I believe it, but now I'm shaking. Unbelief says no. And we're going to see how this plays out in this text because it very powerfully illustrates the concept of what unbelief actually is. It is a rebellion against what God has revealed. In verse 1, it says the following. It came to pass that on one of those days, as he taught the people in the temple and preached the gospel, The chief priests and the scribes came upon him with the elders, and spake unto him, saying, Tell us, by what authority doest thou these things? Or who is he that gave thee this authority? He answered and said unto them, I will also ask you one thing, answer mate, the baptism of John, was it from heaven or man They reasoned within themselves, saying, If we shall say from heaven, he will say, Why then believed ye not him? But if we say of men All the people will stone us, for they are persuaded that John was a prophet. Jesus said unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things. Alright, so let's dig into this concept of how their unbelief is ultimately rebellion, not ignorance. We see this in verse 5. When Jesus asked the question, instead of them saying, well, what does the scripture say? Here's what they did. It says they reasoned with themselves. And they answered that they could not tell. The question is, as they reasoned with themselves, what did they go to to come to the consideration? Did they go to the scripture and ask, what does the scripture say? What do the words mean? What did the prophets foretell? Or did they take a different approach to answering this question? Well, the text tells us these men were not ignorant of what the scriptures actually said They knew the scriptures very well. These are people who were rabbis. They were scribes. They were part of the priesthood. They had to memorize massive chunks of scripture. They had to read the scripture in the synagogues. They were very familiar with everything. Their life was entirely built around what the scriptures said They were not ignorant of it. Second thing I would mention here is that not only were they not ignorant of the scripture, they know all the details of Christ's ministry They knew that he was preaching with authority and he could back it. They knew about the back and forth between him and others. They knew about all the miracles. They knew the claims that he was making. They knew the things that were going on around them. And so it wasn't a secret. They know what the scriptures say. They know what they are going to predict. And they can see with their own eyes that Christ in fact appears At least appears on the most basic level to be fulfilling these things. They knew their own claims to the priesthood were not correct. They knew they had no right to be in the positions that they were in. These are not godly people. These are not people who were uh very detailed about honoring and serving the Lord and they loved him. No. They were in this position because the Romans put them there. They were maintaining that position through force and power and manipulation. And so they know scripture, they know what Christ has done. They even know they don't have the right to be doing what they're doing, and they have these massive internal divisions amongst themselves. Pharisees and Sadducees did not believe the same thing. When we talk about the different groups, their emphases were different, their core doctrines were different, there was a power struggle between them many times, and so they were not on the same page. They argued amongst themselves all the time Yet they had something in common. You know what it was? It wasn't what they believed. It's who they hated. They hated Christ. They had a common enemy. And so we can see this come out in their response. The response is that they reasoned within themselves, and there were two potential responses that they contemplated. The first option was this. If we say from heaven, then he will say, why then did you not believe on him? Now what are they saying here? If we say it's from God, he's going to ask us, why are you rejecting the witness of the law and the prophets? So they know they're trapped And so it's not about, is his question pointing us to the truthfulness of his claims and the consistency between prophets in the Old Testament, what we see him doing, and what he says he's going to do. That's not what they're doing. They're saying, what's ultimately going to happen if we answer this way? We then see the second option. They say, if we say of men , All the people will stone us, for they are persuaded John was a prophet. Now what are they saying here? Well, if we say for men, we're going to lose our influence with the people. In fact, they're going to be so angry they're going to kill us. They're going to be an out-of-control mob, and we're going to get caught in the middle of it. So either way, we have a problem. Guess what they did not do? They didn't ask what is true. They asked what works for us so that we don't lose our position. The answer that they give is we can't tell you. We don't know. And that's a lie. They did know. In fact, when we think about it, they shouldn't have said, we don't know. They should have said, we don't want to know. They do understand what's going on. They have eyes that are open to the truth. And they are actively, rebelliously rejecting Christ in unbelief. That's what they're doing. So what is at the heart of their response? Well, their response is not aligned with truth. It's not connected to a love and affection for God and a treasuring of his word at all. Their understanding of Scripture had nothing to do with their response. They never once discussed amongst themselves scriptures and say, well what do these things mean? No, no, no, no. That's not what they're doing. They're asking how do we preserve our power? How do we not get in this position where we're embarrassed by him by the way that we answer the question What it's telling you is that they're they're refusing to actually look at the facts in an objective manner. Their heart is hardened to the truth, their mind is already made up. What they see to be the most important is not the most important thing, and it's shaping their unwillingness to analyze the scriptures for themselves. They're literally refusing to face themselves honestly. And I will tell you that when people reject the gospel, especially when it's been presented very clearly very lovingly, very consistently and persistently to them. When they reject it, they're doing the exact same thing. Their unbelief is about hypocrisy and rebellion. Not fidelity to the truth, not misunderstanding, miscalculation, as much as a willfulness to say, no, I don't accept that. That's what these people were doing. I want to make this comment here. There may be people in our lives that we love very much, and they are very hardened to the truth. You cannot convince them to believe it. You can't force them into the kingdom. You can't make them see the truth as it actually is. But what you can do is remain patient and faithful as God works with them. I'm reminded of what it says in 2 Timothy. It says that we are to Lovingly confront those we need to be apt to teach the truth to people who are actively opposing themselves. And we're to do it in meekness and with an with a skillfulness to teach. Lest God will grant them repentance through the acknowledging of the truth. That's what we're supposed to do. We're supposed to be patient. We're supposed to be faithful. Don't get angry at people like that Don't fight them and get argumentative with them. Pray for them. When you have an opportunity to engage, certainly do it. But do it very carefully. As God begins opening the heart, take every opportunity that you can. This may be true with a believer who is drifting away from the truth. This may be true with someone who has uh has has never heard the gospel and as they're coming in cost contact with the gospel, they're resistant to it. This may be someone who's grown up hearing the truth their whole lives and they've turned away from it in anger towards God because of something that has happened in their life, whatever it might be. Be patient with them. Pray for them. Engage them in the limited ways that you have opportunity. Plant seeds, water seeds. God's the one who ultimately get the increase. May God help us to be patient and skillful as we work with people who may very well frustrate us in the way that they approach the truth. Have a blessed day, and Lord willing, we'll speak again tomorrow. Bye now.