Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for this week. I hope that the passage has been a challenge to you. The simple emphasis all week has been celebrating the grace of God. It's been celebrating the grace of God when we think about the Father's role in establishing a plan of redemption and sending his son. It's establishing uh the need to praise God for his grace. And we think about the Son's role in our salvation, he takes on human flesh, Emmanuel, God with us, goes to the cross, dies. and takes our sin debt upon himself and is nailed to that cross to wash away our sins, to remove our guilt, ultimately to reconcile us to the Father. And then he rises triumphant from the grave, and so God's grace is demonstrated in that as well. And then we think about God's grace being demonstrated in the Spirit's role. What does the Spirit do? He is the one who gave us the word that prophesied who would come and what he would do. He is the one who convicts the world of sin and righteousness and judgment He's the one that draws us to himself, convincing us of our sinfulness and our brokenness and our inability to come to God through our own righteousness. and our need to repent and believe on Christ and to take God at His Word and to trust in what He has done for us. So God's grace is demonstrated in that as well. The the question we should really ask ourselves is, well, how do you practically apply this? How do you uh how do you take the truths that we have discussed all week And how do you live in the light of them? And so that's what I'd like us to do this morning. So if you have your Bibles, let's turn together to Luke chapter 18. We're going to read verses 31 through 34. And I want you to notice uh that the end of this passage of scripture and um and reflect on some of the things around it. So here's what it says. Then he took upon unto him the twelve and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem and all things that are written of the prophets concerning the Son of Man. shall be accomplished, for he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated, and spit on. They shall scourge him and put him to death, and the third day he shall rise again. They understood none of these things The same was hid from them. Neither knew they the things which were spoken. Let's go ahead and listen to the section. We as God's people do hear the gospel all the time. Because what does it do? It reminds us to ponder God's grace despite our sinfulness and our brokenness. Christians shouldn't be condescending, nasty, rude people. Christians shouldn't be proud people. Christians should be humble people. Why? Because it's the grace of God that gives us this position. We need to ponder this grace. I love that word ponder. Another word sometimes we use is the word reflect or meditate. The idea is that we want to take what we know to be true, what God has revealed in His Word, and we want to think deeply on it. We want to consider the implications of it. We want to consider what we have gained and what was what the actual cost of that was and the weight of that sacrifice and the weight of those blessings that we now enjoy because of Christ. That word ponder, reflect, meditate, those words are very, very important. And we need to think about the gospel very deeply and regularly. The right way to respond to all these things as we consider God's grace is to celebrate his grace. And I know it's not emphasized in the verses that we're looking at here, but within the overall context. We see in the next passage of Scripture that there's a man who is blind. And this man who is blind cries out to Christ. He says, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus stops and he brings the man to himself and he says, what do you want me to do? And the man said, I want to see. And what does Jesus do? He immediately heals him. He says, your faith has saved you. And the Bible says that as soon as this man had the ability to see, he immediately followed Christ and he glorified him. And the people glorified him as well. What is that saying? He followed Christ out of gratitude. He celebrated Christ because of his gratitude. And this is where we should be as God's people. We should be humble. We should be thankful. We should celebrate God's goodness. We should be a joyful people. We should be a people whose hearts are full. Why? Because we are the recipients of grace. And we have the capacity to understand that. And the extent to which we reflect on that is going to impress upon us the greatness of our need to celebrate it. And so I want to encourage you to do that this weekend. Spend time reflecting on the grace of God, the grace that established a plan, the Father's work. The grace that established a basis for salvation, the Son's work. The grace that drew us to himself and caused us to repent and believe, the Spirit's work. The grace that seals us until the day of redemption, the Spirit's work. Let's celebrate the grace of God this weekend. Let's be a people whose hearts are full with joy and who are overflowing with the desire to tell others how they can have such joy. Have a blessed weekend, Lord willing. We'll see many of you on Sunday. And if not, I hope that you'll join us next week as we continue working our way through the Word of God. Have a blessed weekend. Bye now.