Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope you're having a good Thursday morning. And the text that we've been working our way through is Luke chapter 15, verses 1 through 10. And today we're going to consider some of the implications. And before we get to the application, which will be, Lord willing, tomorrow on Friday, we will be looking at the practical implications that we're direct Directed towards the audience at the time that Jesus gave this instruction. And I know this is just a side note, but it's important whenever we are interpreting the Bible that we begin by asking Asking the question within the context and within that moment when Jesus is teaching, He has an audience, uh, there were circumstances leading up to this conversation. What was his intent in that moment? to those people. Because if we can understand that, then what it will do is it will help us to understand as we unpackage his original intent, the principles, the timeless truth. the things that are being emphasized in that moment so that we can take that and then properly apply it in a current context. And what I love about scripture is that we're reading uh we're we're reading examples of things. Things that happened 2,000 years ago, in some cases, you know, three and four thousand years ago, when we're talking about Old Testament passages, and the the the same kinds of problems that people dealt with. in the ancient world and and the same kinds of things that people dealt with at the time of Christ in the first century, you know, human nature hasn't changed any. And so we see that the character of God is consistent. It's the same. God's expectations for people have not changed. But when we're interpreting the Bible, it's important to start with that moment in history. What is Jesus saying to those people? So that's what we're going to do this morning. Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to Luke chapter 15. We're reading verses 1 through 10 together, and then we're going To reflect on what Jesus is saying to his audience. to Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him. And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth And he spake this parable unto them, saying, What man of you having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that And when he hath found it he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. When he cometh home he calleth together his friends and neighbours, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost. I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety And nine just persons which need no repentance. Then he gives a second parable. Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle and sweep the house? and seek diligently till she find it. And when she hath found it she calleth her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the peace which I had lost. Likewise I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. Now, as we break down this passage and we talk about the implications, I want to To break it down into two categories. Jesus, first of all, is speaking to the publicans and the sinners. These are the people who the Pharisees and the scribes were absolutely Absolutely shocked that Jesus would actually sit down with them and eat a meal and commune with them. They were completely shocked by him receiving sinners and eating with them Them. And so the question is, what was Jesus saying to those people? Well, here are the thoughts that come to mind as I reflect on the text. The first is Is this? He's telling them God cares about your soul, even when other people do not care about it. What an amazing and comforting statement! God cares about your soul even when others do not. The second, you have access to the truth because God has sought you out. I think about what it what uh Newton writes in in amazing grace he says twas grace that taught my heart to fear and grace my fears relieved how precious did that Now what is Newton saying? He's saying I was I was a repulsive sinner. I lived this morally Bankrupt life. I was ruining people's lives by my sinful choices. And God, in His mercy and His grace, pursued me and took the gospel to me. And this is what Jesus is saying to these people. He's saying the fact that you have access to the truth, the fact that you can sit down with me and come to me, it's because I've sought you first. Thirdly, we see if you will repent and believe, he will receive you to himself. There's a reason that these people were coming to Christ. They heard the message and And they could have walked away from it. But when they heard the message, they recognized something. I have a problem. He has the solution. I'm the sinner he's talking about. He's the savior. That he claims to be. I want to come to him. All who repent and believe will be received by God's grace alone. By grace we are saved through faith, not of ourselves. The gift of God. I love Ephesians 2, where he says that we were once dead in trespasses and sins, walking according to the course of this world. And he says, but God in his grace hath quickened us together with Christ. It is by grace that we are saved. And so this is part of what he is saying to them. And he's rejoicing in their salvation because it It is a celebration of his immense grace. And it's because he values their soul that he does this. He's also saying that the people who are failing to celebrate this with him don't know him. So these are all meant to bring comfort to the publican and the sinner. This is a very gospel warming, heartwarming kind of instruction. But there's implication on the other side as well, and that is to the Pharisee and to the scribe. These are people who believed they were righteous. They didn't think they needed a savior. system was good enough and that they were doing a good enough job in that system that they could earn God's favor. What is what is he saying to them? He's saying, You don't know me. You do not know God. You don't know his righteousness. You don't know his j Justice, you don't know his holiness, you don't know his mercy, you don't know his grace, you don't know his love, you don't know God. And that is being revealed by the way that you are responding to Christ and the gospel and to people who are responding Responding properly to the gospel. to You don't know his love. Your heart's never been warmed by it. Your unwillingness to celebrate the lavish displays of his grace reveal the deadness of your soul. That's what he's saying to these people. And that is a really stinging, not comforting, a very stinging and rebuking Kind of instruction. He's saying, He's been seeking your soul just like he's been seeking their souls. Now this is where the comfort comes in. Jesus is rebuking them not just because he's cruel and mean and he wants to confront them and he's confrontational. No, he's confronting them because he wants them to be saved. They have to see that they need to repent and believe They're in the same category. They're in Adam, not in Christ. That's the whole point. And so in his mercy, he's confronting them, not just leaving them. Them alone. He's saying, even though you can be saved from spiritual brokenness, even you, he's saying, even you can be saved from spiritual brokenness as they They've been safe from spiritual brokenness. We go back to what we said the other day. The gospel 's for everybody. Anybody can become a disciple of Christ. Whether this is a person who's lived a life that has been just morally bankrupt and offensive to God, or a moral bankruptness that is a self-righteousness that is also offensive to God, no matter what category Of sinner, you are, gospel's available to you. You can receive it. You can be saved by it. If you will repent and believe, he will receive you to himself. Just like he received them to himself. The problem with this second group is that this group has a blind spot. They don't have the ability to see that they need this salvation just like the others do. And so the question is, what do you take away from this? I think what we take away from this is we're one of these two people. Either we are the one who understands the grace of God and And we've responded to the grace of God by trusting in the work of Christ. We're the one who doesn't understand the grace of God and doesn't understand the character of God and is resting in the rags, the filthy rags of our own Righteousness and looking down our noses at other people who, why in the world would God accept them? And we need to recognize everybody who's saved is a sinner saved by grace. Hopefully gives you some things to think about this morning. Take a moment to share this or share some thoughts if it would be a help to others. And Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow. Bye now.