Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection for the Week. And I think this is a great place for us to end this week because uh tonight we will be remembering the death of Christ and celebrating The fact that our Savior died for our sins, and it is through his sacrifice, his death on the cross, that we are able to have forgiveness and cleansing of sin. And so if you can join us tonight for our Good Friday service with Calvary Baptist Church Westminster, I hope that you will. It'll be a great time of fellowship, either if you go up with us in the van or just meet us up there. And as we dig into the Word of God, I think you'll find it to be very encouraging. Let's read this passage one more time together, and then I would like us to look at some final thoughts of application. Here's what it says. Luke chapter 23, verses 33 and following. It says, And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the malefactors one on the right hand and the other on the left. Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them, for they knew not what they do. And they parted his raiment and cast lots, and the people stood beholding, and the rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others, let him save himself. If he be the Christ, the chosen of God. And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him and offering him vinegar, and saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself. Now, how can we apply the text in front of us? Well, there's really two possible ways that we could find ourselves relating to this passage. One could be we are a skeptic. And the other is that we're a believer. And so I want to begin first of all with the application for the skeptic. If you are not a believer in the gospel. I want to challenge you this week to think about some things. It's impossible for you to glory in the cross if you do not believe in it. Unbelief is this great hindrance from being able to glory in the cross. And unbelief is not just an issue of, well, I got some doubts, and I'm not sure about this. It's a rejection. It's a calculated disobedience to the call to repent and believe in the gospel. And so there are many reasons that you should believe in the cross. There are many reasons you should believe that Christ came and died for your sins. And we've kind of laid them out this week, but this is a real historic event. It's recorded for us not just in the Bible, but also in history. And this is the one and only means through which a person can be reconciled to God through the death of Christ, the substitutionary death. Thirdly, there still is hope for you. Like the thief on the cross who said, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. Till the day you die, there's opportunity to embrace the gospel. Even if you have pushed it away and pushed it away and pushed it away, you can still turn to Christ and be saved. May God help you to turn to Him. and experience his forgiveness that comes through the work of Christ and the transformation that takes place in the life of the believer whose heart has been made a new creature in Christ. So that's possibility one. But possibility two is where probably most of us find ourselves. And that is we believe. But we need a renewal of focus on the cross. And so let's focus in on that. First thing I want to mention is this. It's easy to become distracted. It's easy for us to take our eyes off the cross, to get our eyes focused on other things. And during this season where we focus on what Christ did for us, his death and his resurrection, let's refocus our attention back on the cross and not get distracted. A second word is the word complacency. It's easy to become so familiar with the facts of the gospel and the facts of the cross that we forget about it on a daily basis. We don't live in the light of it. We don't consider the weight of this great sacrifice. It's something that we think little of, and we don't think very very often of it. And so I want to challenge you, do not allow yourself to become complacent as it relates to the gospel. Preach the gospel to yourself every day And allow the Spirit of God to warmly, uh, freshly remind you of the weight of Christ's sacrifice. Thirdly , Rekindle a right view of sin. It's easy for us to forget how much God hates sin, how destructive, how evil, how high-handed, how rebellious sin is. We need a correct view of sin. And by looking at the cross, we are reminded of the holiness of God, his intense hatred for sin, and what it cost him and his son, so that we could be redeemed to him. Fourthly, we need a rekindled view of God's grace. We need our eyes to be opened again. We need to see how forbearing God is. How merciful he is, how compassionate, how deep his love is, the immensity of his grace. We need to get back to a high view of God. And if we want such a view of God, we've got to see it in the face of the cross. And lastly, we need to have a rekindled view of his love. We need this renewed sense that God's love is so great that I will never fully grasp the depth and the breadth and the height of it. God's love is something that I will never fully comprehend, but I can enjoy it and I can delight in what little I do understand of it. God's love for us is not the love for the lovely, but the love for the unworthy and the unlovely. The extent to which Christ was willing to sacrifice so that we could be redeemed to the Father should give us a rekindled view of God's great love. May God help us as we go into this weekend to not get our eyes off of the cross and the empty tomb. May the Lord take his word and use it in your heart this week. Have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll see many of you tonight, and then also many of you on Sunday as we celebrate the resurrection of our Savior. Have a blessed day. Bye now.