Good morning and welcome back to our Wednesday anchored in the word morning reflection. And we've been talking about Elijah and we've been talking about God's character and how he related to Elijah when he was burned out. And so this morning what I want us to do is I want us to focus in on the weakness of Elijah and what we can learn from that. And so if you have your Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to 1 Kings chapter 19. We're going to read the passage and then start breaking down this concept as we look at what it tells us about Elijah and then ultimately about people and their weakness. It says, And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and withal how he had slain all the prophets with the sword. Then Jezebel sent a messenger unto Elijah, saying, So let the gods do to me amor also. If I make not thy life as the life of one of them by to-morrow, about this time. And when he saw that he arose and went for his life, and came to Beersheba, which belongeth to Judah and left his servant there. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, and came and sat down under a juniper tree. And he requested for himself that he might die. And said, It is enough now, O Lord, take my life, for I am not better than my father's. As we look at this passage, we should ask, what does it say about people? What does it say about Elijah? We mentioned yesterday that Elijah was a strong, vibrant, faithful servant of the Lord. But in this moment, we don't see a strong, vibrant individual. And so what it reminds us is that even the strongest people are not invincible. It's true that some people are very physically strong. They are spiritually strong. They have a strong faith. They are resilient. They are emotionally resilient. They are mentally focused. But there's no such thing as an invincible person. All people, even the strongest, most noble, the wisest, are people, if they're pushed to their limits, then they can get to a place of complete physical and emotional breakdown. And the end result of that breakdown, physically and emotionally, is despair. A person who believes they can't get back up. And so that's really where we find Elijah. What we see is that the ministry in this particular situation took a tremendous toll on this person. And ministry does that to people. If a person's going to go into ministry, sometimes they don't realize the commitment level that is is going to be required of them, and once they get into it, they're going to have to make a decision. Am I going to persevere? And am I going to keep pushing? Or am I going to step away from this? Or a person may go through a season where they realize that they have an unsustainable pattern of ministry. And so they have to back down, they have to start establishing better patterns of life, and they start living in a way that they actually can manage or sustain. But there's also another side to it where the ministry, no matter what kinds of protections we put in, there are times when it's going to stretch us and press us and crush us. And that's what we see with Elijah. There was really no way that Elijah could have completely avoided the tremendous pressures that he experienced. He was living in a time of great darkness. There were very few prophets of the Lord, and the king and the queen were in fact very evil people. And so we see that ministry takes a toll on people. Even believers who are strong can end up like Elijah. You know, the Bible is filled with examples of people getting in places like this. Some of the greatest men in the Old Testament, in fact, are like this. We think of the two most prominent prophets. We think of Moses and Elijah, but Moses found himself in a similar situation. Here's what it says in Numbers 11. He says, I'm not able to bear all this people alone. This burden is too heavy for me. If thou deal thus with me, kill me. I pray thee, out of thy hand, if I found favor in thy sight, and let me not see my wretchedness. What an amazing statement Moses can't handle the pressure. And God in his mercy raises up seventy elders who are going to balance the load with Moses. But we see that he came to this crisis moment. Or we see the same thing with David. Think about the story at Ziklaq in 1 Samuel 30. It says, David was greatly distressed, and the people spoke of stoning him. And he said, My soul is grieved. They were grieved, and he was grieved. And so what does David do? He he cries out to the Lord and says that he encouraged himself in the Lord. Or Psalm 42 The psalmist writes, Why art thou cast down, O my soul, and why art thou disquieted within me, hoping God I should yet praise him for the help of his countenance? What is this telling us? David was in a dark and lowly place. Or Jonah. We we see the story of Jonah, and it says it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was angry, and he said, God, take my life from me. It is better for me to die than to live. So here are people like Moses and Elijah and David and Jonah, and what do they all have in common? God used them. They were prophets. But these prophets wanted to die because they had gotten to such a low place. And so what does it remind us of? It reminds us of the weakness of people. God uses us despite our weakness. I think about what it says in 2 Corinthians, where it says, we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power might be of God and not of us. And so when God works through us, he works through flawed and feeble instruments. And we also need to recognize that there's no way that we can actually serve God effectively if we don't continually draw upon his sustaining grace. And so may we do that. That's the encouragement from this text. That's the encouragement from this reflection this morning. We would recognize our weakness and flee to God and draw upon his grace. Well, I hope that you'll do that this morning Have a blessed rest of your morning if you need to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now