Good morning and welcome to our Wednesday edition of our Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. And we've been looking at God's providence and the cross. Yesterday we talked about the storyline. We kind of looked at the story on several different levels, what was the timing of it, what actually took place during Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread. What about Christ's uh ministry and the the various times that he celebrated the Passover with his disciples? And then what was going on during the week of the Passover? Well this morning what I want to do is kind of step back again. And I want us to look at how there's a big picture story here. And that is the parallel between what took place during Passover and what was being commemorated in the Passover. and what the Passover is pushing forward to, and that is the fulfillment of it in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so let's go ahead, take our Bibles, turn together to Luke chapter 22, and we'll begin reading in verse verses 1 all the way through 7. And then dig into that concept together this morning. It says, Now the feast of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called Passover, and the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him, for they feared the people. Then entered Satan into Judas Iscariot, being numbered of the twelve of the number of the twelve, and he went his way and communed with the chief priests and captains, how he might betray him unto them And they were glad and covenanted to give him money, and he promised and sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence of the multitude. Then came the day of unleavened bread, when the Passover must be killed Now, like I said earlier, we want to talk about the big picture. And so when we talk about the big picture, we need to think about what the Passover represented for the people who are looking back at that event in their history as a nation. Passover was a judgment and a deliverance. And so when we go to Exodus chapter 12, we see the story being laid out. God says that he will smite and execute judgment on the nation of Egypt. And so what you see is judgment, deliverance. God is judging the nation of Egypt. He is delivering the nation of Israel Or then we see in verse 13 that there was the death of a substitute and the shedding of blood of that substitute. So as the lamb is set aside, the lamb is killed. The lamb's blood is shed. The lamb's blood is applied to the doorpost of the house. And when the death angel passed over, it says, When I see the blood, I will pass over you. And so that blood was there to indicate that in fact a substitute had died, and so the firstborn did not need to. The substitute died in its place. Thirdly, we see that this deliverance came by grace and through faith. In verse 13, he says, I will pass over you, and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you. Now when we use the words grace and faith, we need to recognize that the people didn't come up with the idea. God provided the substitute for them. And when the people obeyed, that was an indication that they believed the message. What God said to do, they took him at his word They said, it's true God's going to judge the land. It's true the firstborn is going to die. It's true that there is a provision that is made for us. It's true that it has to be a lamb. of the first year without spot, its blood has to be shed, it has to die, and the blood has to be applied applied to the doorposts. All of those things are true. I believe it, I will do it because I believe it. And that's why we say by grace through faith. And then fourthly, this deliverance provided an annual reminder for the people that God had delivered He says in verse 14, this day shall be to you a memorial. And so this is the big picture on the side of what the Jewish people were looking back at. They were looking back at the fact that judgment and deliverance came on that night. It was through the substitute that was killed and shed its blood that the firstborn was spared. This was God's gracious provision. Those who believed it took action on it. And ultimately, they needed to constantly remind themselves from one generation to the next on an annual basis to open up the year, they needed to remind themselves of these things. But then there's a side that pushes forward to something that is coming. And we see that it's looking forward to another lamb, not the lamb that died at that time, but a lamb that was to come. And in fact, John talks about this lamb. He says, Behold, Jesus is the Lamb of God which taketh away the sins of the world. And so when they have the net the Lamb analogy, they're not just looking back, but they're also looking forward. We see that the cross established a judgment and a deliverance. Colossians 2 really talks about this. We can look at it in lots of other passages, but this one really hammers it out. It says that he blotted out the handwriting of ordinances that were against us. He nailed it to his cross And through this he spoiled principalities and powers and made a show of them openly, triumphing over them in it. So what is the cross? The cross is not just the weakness of Christ being nailed there. But it's the triumph of God over evil. And so on the cross we see that our sin was nailed to that cross. Jesus bore our guilt. He was punished in our place. And now Satan's power is broken. And now we can be delivered from evil because of Christ's death. And so the cross is both a judgment and a deliverance. We see the concept of substitution. Christ is the substitute who was killed and shed his blood for us on the cross Galatians 3. 13 says that Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law. How? By being made a curse for us. In 1 Peter 2. It says, who his own self bore our sins in his own body on the tree. It is the just for the unjust to bring us to God. And so the concept of substitution is all over the gospel. We do not have the gospel without Christ being our substitute Who bears our sin, who takes our punishment, he died for us in our behalf. It was for us so we could be redeemed to God And then lastly, salvation comes by grace through faith. We see it stated in Ephesians 2, by grace you're safe through faith, not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. But I also think of John 5. 24. It says that he that hears my word and believes on him who sent me hath everlasting life. Not will have, but has it now. He has everlasting life. and he shall not come into condemnation, but rather has passed from death to life. And so you can see the parallels. The Passover looks back, and the Passover looks forward. This is a major part of the story. But there's also another piece that's very important, and that is the prophetic timeline. This is a little bit of a complicated thing for us to work our way through, but if you go to Daniel chapter 9, verses 24 through 26 Daniel talks about a 70-week , period that is going to be on God's prophetic time table. And out of those 70 weeks, he zeroes in on 69 weeks. Now the question is, when he uses the word week, what does he mean by that? Well what he's talking about is 69 units of time And those units of time are not exactly a year in length. And the reason that I say that is because when you look at the passage of Scripture and we play out the full prophecy that Daniel reveals If you see the number of days and the number of weeks that make up those days, what it tells you is the length of what a week is. And a week is seven units of 360 days. And so if you want to understand the time frame that Daniel is talking about, he's not talking about Julian calendar years. or Jewish lunar years or Gregorian calendar years as we use today, he's talking about seven units of 360 days, and we see that within the context But then we see that he gives us information about two events that are connected by 69 units of 360 days. You say, what are those two events? The first one is the command to restore and to rebuild Jerusalem. Now that command to restore, rebuild Jerusalem is something that happened after the time of Daniel. during the Persian rule of King Artaxerxes. And this moment in history when it took place is actually something that we can look at and find on the calendar. And it's March the 4th, 444 BC. Now I do understand that there are some people that probably s uh they argue a little bit about the timing and then they say, well There was a decree and then there was uh different aspects to this, but that's the date that I think we should zero in on. The day when King Artaxerxes, the Persian king, commissioned the rebuilding of Jerusalem. And then you can see the statement, from the rebuilding, the commander of store rebuild, unto the Messiah the priest, is the second. And that would be the timing of Christ's death. There's a second date that we need to look at that's very important here, and that is the day of Christ's entrance into Jerusalem on the Passover week, March 30th, 33 A. D. Now, if you were to do the math between March the 4th, 444, and March the 30th, 33 AD, what you would see? is that you can multiply 360 days times 69 units, and what you will discover is the amount of time that took place between those days. You say, well why is March 30th such a significant day? The reason it's so significant is because that is the time that Christ began the fulfillment of this second peace. And so when I say 483 years Understand I'm talking about those units of 360 as defined by Daniel in the text. And so what you see is that there is a providential fulfillment. of the timing of Christ's death. The day that he walked into Jerusalem to fulfill this prophecy was all a part of God's ordained plan. predicted hundreds of years before by Daniel, given the specific timing, and fulfilled, accomplished exactly as God said it would be. And so in Galatians 4 it says, When the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. And so when we see phrases like fulfillment and fullness of time, they go together. Because what it tells you is God promised or predicted, and then he accomplished his work. Now I'm going to go a little bit deeper into that concept more, Lord willing, in the next session that we have. But keep in your mind those details and remind yourself that we serve a God who is sovereign, who rules, who orchestrates events, who works through circumstances. He did not overrule these people, force them to do something that they didn't want to. It was with their own free will they did what they wanted to do. But God was working to orchestrate those details. And Lord willing tomorrow we'll break this down even more. Hope you'll join us for that Anyway, have a blessed rest of your day. If you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out. If you think this would be an encouragement to someone, share it with them. Have a blessed day. Bye now.