Good morning, welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And today we're going to look at the preparation of this text and how it talks about how we are to prepare ourselves for worship. We're going to focus in on some of the content. of this passage that's really driving toward a worship-filled response. So let's go ahead and turn our Bibles again to Psalm 47. We'll read the text. And then we're going to look at some of those preparations of the heart to worship God the way that we should. Here's what it says. Oh clap your hands, all ye people. Shout unto God with a voice of triumph. For the Lord most high high is terrible. He is a great king over all the earth. He shall subdue the people under us and the nations under our feet. He shall choose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob, whom he loved. Selah. God has gone up with a shout, the Lord with the sound of a trumpet. Sing praise to God, sing praises. Sing praises to our God. Sing praises. For God is the King of all the earth. Sing ye praises with understanding. God reigneth over the heathen. God sitteth on the throne of his holiness. The princes of the people are gathered together, even the people of the God of Abraham. For the shields of the earth belong unto God. He is greatly exalted. Now, as we look at this passage, there's a word that is very important to this next discussion, and that is the word for. We are called to worship God for a reason. There is a purpose. There is a preparation that is emphasized in these verses. And I want us to notice the things that support a proper worship-filled response. The first thing that's mentioned is a need to reflect on who he is. In verse 2 it says, the Lord Most High is. And we can focus on a lot of aspects of the character of God, but in this particular passage, he's focusing in on the fact that he is above all gods. There are no gods, the gods of the nations are nothing. before the ultimate God and creator of all things. And so we we see the example of this from the life of Hezekiah. And I mentioned this the other day. that I think that this is probably the ultimate uh situation that is going on when a psalm is written. It's what is being reflected on in the psalm. In 2 Kings chapter 18 it says, Thus saith the great king of Assyria, What confidence is this wherein thou trustest? On whom dost thou trust that thou hast rebelled against me? He said, Hath any of the gods of the nations delivered at all the lands from the hands of the king of Assyria? And the answer is, no, they haven't But notice how Hezekiah responds when he receives this letter and this challenge. He takes this letter and he rolls it open, he lays it before the Lord, and this is what he says. Thou art God, even thou alone. Of all the kingdoms of the earth, thou hast made heaven and earth. Lord, bow down thine ear and hear. Open, Lord, thine eyes and see. and hear the words of Sennacherib, which hath sent him to reproach the living God. Of a truth, Lord, the king of Assyria has destroyed the nations of the lands. and has cast down their gods into the fire. They were no gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stone. Therefore they have destroyed them. Now, therefore, our Lord, our God, I beseech thee Save thou us out of thy hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art the Lord God, even thou only. Now what is he doing? He is appealing to God as the one who is above all gods to do a work to preserve his name and to demonstrate his greatness amongst all the peoples. And so this is one of the reasons we worship God, because of who he is. But there's a second thing that's emphasized, and that is reflecting on what he has promised We see this in verse 3. He says, he shall, future tense, subdue the people under us, and the nations under our feet. There are lots and lots of things that God has promised, and specifically to the nation of Israel at this time. Now I'm going to highlight things that Isaiah writes because Isaiah is the active prophet in Israel at the time that this was written. The greatest of all the promises would be the promise of the Messiah, 9. The government will be on his shoulders. His name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end. Future tenants. We see another example in Isaiah nineteen. He says, Blessed be Egypt, my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel mine inheritance. It's hard to imagine at a time when Egypt and Assyria were adversaries to Israel, that there would be a day that God would call all of these people his people, yet he promises it's going to happen. And then we see the ultimate fulfillment of these things in Revelation 4. He says, Thou hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and tribe and nation, and hast made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. And so it's not just about reflecting on who he is, it's what he has promised. Then there's a third support. That's to reflect on the stunning choice of God setting his love on you, his people. And we see this reflected in verse 4. He shall choose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob, whom he loved. Wonderful word there. Well, what do we see in these verses? That God chose the nation of Israel because of his love. Thou art a holy nation unto the Lord thy God. The Lord thy God hath chosen thee to be a special people above all the peoples that are on the face of the earth. The Lord did not set his love on you or choose you because you are more numbered than any people You were the fewest of all the people, but because the Lord loved you. Why did he choose you? Because he's a good God. Or we see another example of this in Romans 5, where we talk about the New Testament Christian. When we were without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. It says when we were his enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Love is of God. Everyone who loves God is born of God and knows God. Hear in his love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. So what you can see in all three of these passages, whether you're talking about Old Testament Israel or whether you're talking about us today, the reason we are God's people is because He has in His grace and mercy set His love upon us. But there is a fourth piece that is emphasized, and that is the fact that he has the ability to reverse what seems impossible. Now think about it this way, in verses seven through nine. God is king of all the earth. God reigns over the heathen. The princes of the people are gathered, even the people of the God of Abraham. Think about how practically improbable This would have been for the people to think that Assyria, Egypt, and Judah would all be at peace, would all be worshiping God in Jerusalem. Highly unlikely, but God promises it will do it Think about some of the verses that we read. The Egyptians are going to be called his people. They're going to be humbled. The Assyrians are going to be his people. They're going to be humbled. How does God do this? It's because he rules and reigns over all. And in Daniel chapter 4 it says that all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing, he doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth. None can stay his hand or say to him, What doest thou? God is in control. He rules. He reigns And in Isaiah 2, he talks about this. Zechariah 8, he talks about this. Zechariah 14, he talks about this. God is going to demonstrate his rule. So when we look at all of these things, what we are seeing are the reasons that we are to worship God. And so I want to challenge you this morning. Go back and reflect on who He is. Go back and reflect on what he has promised. Go back and reflect on his great love and mercy and grace. Go back and reflect on his power to do what seems impossible. And as you think about these things, may God use it to stir up your heart to worship Him in spirit and in truth. Have a blessed rest of your morning, Lord willing. We'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.