Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. I hope that the studies that we've done this week have been a challenge to you. They've encouraged you. maybe helped fill out some areas where you may have not fully understood certain concepts. So my my prayer is that this has been an encouragement. But what I want to leave you with is some final thoughts of application, as we always do going into the weekend. How should you respond to this message if you're not a Christian? How should you respond to this message if you are a Christian? What are the practical ramifications? What do I need to do? How do I need to respond to this scripture? So, this is the day that we're going to dig into that. Let's turn in our Bibles again to Ephesians chapter 2. We're going to read it and then we're going to break it down a little bit as we go into the weekend. Here's what it says. And you hath he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins, wherein in times past you walked according to the course of this world. according to the prince and the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience, among whom also we all had our conversation in times past, fulfilling the lust of the flesh, and fulfilling desires of the flesh and of the mind. And were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead in sins. hath quickened us together with Christ, by grace ye are saved. Now, how do we respond to this passage? Well, if you're not a Christian, an unbeliever, this is how I want to encourage you. The first thing I want to say is this. Do not accept the lie that you don't need salvation. Don't allow yourself to believe that somehow God's going to accept you because you're a really good person and you've done your best to try to please him. That's not how salvation works. All of us have the same problem. We are sinners who need to be saved by grace alone. On the other side, don't accept the lie that you're beyond God's salvation. There might be someone who's listening to these messages and they say, I you know, you don't know who I am, you don't know where I've been, you don't know what I said to God, you don't know how I've totally disregarded his laws and I could care less what he thinks. And there's no way that God would save me. I am beyond salvation. That's not true. Salvation is available to you as well. And so don't accept that lie. Third thing I want to do is ask you the question, do you feel the weight of your sin? Do you feel that you are absolutely incapable of coming to God through your righteousness? Because Your righteousness is a filthy rack. You can't do it. We've all sinned and we come short of his glory. Are you gripped by the seriousness of God's justice? Do you realize that there is nothing you can do to escape death and standing at the judgment and standing before God, your creator, who's going to hold you accountable for an entire life of rebellion against him? Are you gripped by that? Can you see the mercy of God and the grace of God that was extended in the gospel? Even though you see the weight of sin, you see the mercy of God. He loves you. And he sent his son to die on the cross for your sins. Can you see that? If you can see that, if you feel that way, this is a direct result of God's gracious call for you to repent and believe. He's working in your heart. He's convicting you of sin and righteousness and judgment. He's calling you to repent and believe. Why won't you do it? Why would you reject it? What's holding you back? What lie are you standing on? Turn to him. Place your faith in his finished work. Humble your heart. Confess that you're a sinner. Look to Christ in faith and ask him to save you from your sins. You can do that right here, right now. You can be born again. And if you have trusted Christ, rest in this promise. Romans 10. 19, with the heart, man believes into righteousness. And with the mouth confession is made of salvation. If you believe this in your heart and you call on the Lord to save you, the moment you believe, the moment your faith turned to Him. God saves you. John 6, all that the Father hath given me shall come to me, and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. If you've called on the Lord and you've turned to him, you are saved. He will not cast you to the side. He accepts you. He's forgiven you, cleansed you, made you his child. That's the encouragement to the unbeliever. But then I think of all those who are Christians. They've placed their faith in Christ. Maybe many years ago. Maybe you've been a Christian for decades. How do you apply this passage? First thing I want to say is this. Don't ever forget who you were. Don't forget that you're a sinner and that your life was completely bankrupt of righteousness, and that you were spiritually dead and estranged from God. But don't linger there too long. Don't allow who you were to define who you are because you're not that person anymore. You're a new creature in Christ. But don't forget the grace of God that has saved you from who you were. Realize who you are in Christ and reckon it to be true. Act like you believe it because it's true. Marvel at God's grace Don't ever get over how kind he's been, how compassionate that he would give you this favor and you don't deserve it at all. Marvel in his grace. Marvel in his love. Realize that he loved the unlovely. That's us. Thank him that he saved you. Thank him for what he saves you from. Thank him for what he saved you to, an eternal inheritance. Live like the person that you are this week. Think of Romans chapter 6. Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound, God forbid, how shall we who are dead to sins live any longer therein? May God help us to live like the people we are. Well, that's a lot for us to process from this week. I hope that each of these lessons has been a challenge and a blessing to you. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll see many of you this coming Sunday. Bye now.