Good morning, and I hope you're having a good Tuesday morning. As we dig into this passage together, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter 1, looking at verses 18 through 23, and we are celebrating the greatness of Christ. Today we're going to look at the incarnation. And so if you have your Bible, let's take it and let's turn together and then read through the section. Then we're going to start working our way through some thoughts related to the greatness of Christ and how that is demonstrated through his incarnation. Ephesians 1 verse 18. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance and his saints. What is the exceeding greatness of his power to usward who believe, according to the working of his mighty power which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead? and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places, far above all principalities and power and might and dominion, in every name that is named, not only in this world. but also in that which is to come, and hath put all things under his feet, and gave him to be the head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all Now, as we look at this passage, I want to draw your attention to the section that deals with the humiliation of Christ. And when we when we first read this this statement, you may not notice that, and so I want to draw your attention to some of the implications of the statement that's here. He says in verse 19 that he would know the exceeding greatness of his power to us who believe. According to the working of his mighty power, and here's the phrase, which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead. We say, well, how does that demonstrate the greatness of Christ in his humiliation? Obviously, the resurrection is a triumph and a demonstration of power, not weakness. So why the humiliation? Well the reason is you don't have a resurrection without death. And you don't have death without the incarnation. So let's just kind of break this down and think about it for a little bit this morning. Who is Jesus? Well the Bible says that, first of all, he's creator. In first 1, verse 1, it says, In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, the Word was God, the same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by Him, without Him was not anything made that was made. Notice that word was. That means in the beginning, when time began, Christ was already there. He is eternal. And then it emphasizes that everything that was made was made by him. Another passage that says something very similar is Colossians 1. 16. By him were all things created in heaven and earth, visible and invisible, whether there be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. He's creator. Second thing we see is that he is the sustainer. So it's not just that he made it, but he literally cares for it. And so we see this reflected in Hebrews 1. 3. He is the brightness of his glory, the express image of his person, and he upholds all things by the word of his power. Or in Colossians 1. 17, He is before all things, and by Him all things consist. He is sustaining. He is the creator who takes care of his creation. And then in Acts 17 it says, in him we live and move and have our being. So when we're talking about Christ, we're talking about God, who is creator, he's eternal, he's sustainer, but he also took on flesh. And so that's the miracle of the incarnation. He took on flesh in his humiliation. And the scripture says a lot about that too. John 1. 14, the word was made flesh and dwelt among us. So the eternal son takes on human flesh at a point in time. Or Romans 5. 13. If through the offense of one many are dead, much more by the grace of God and the gift of grace. which is by one man, Jesus Christ, hath abounded unto many. So Jesus took on flesh so that he could rescue us from what was lost in Adam. And so the incarnation is an absolute essential part of the gospel. Or Philippians 2. 17. He made himself of no reputation. He took upon himself the form of a servant, and he was made in the likeness of man. Now, all of these scriptures that we just read, they're not saying Jesus stopped being God and then he became a man. It's saying he's always been God, he continues to be God, but at a point in time He takes on the limitations and the humiliations of humanity. And so now he is a person who is both God and human. He is God in flesh, the miracle of the incarnation. Third thing I want to mention is that not only is the eternal and sustaining creating God taking on flesh, but he also died. And he died for us. And the scripture says in Hebrews 2 that we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, for the suffering of death. crowned with glory and honor, that by the grace of God he should taste death for every man. Or Philippians 2. 8, being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, became obedient unto death, even The death of the cross. So we have Jesus who has entered into the holy place once and for all to obtain a return eternal redemption for us through the shedding of his own blood. This person is the one who triumphed over death. And so we see that Jesus Takes on flesh, goes to the cross, dies for our sins, sheds his blood, offers himself as the once and for all sacrifice for death, or for sin, And what does he do? He conquers death in the flesh. And the Bible talks about this in 1 Corinthians 15. If, in this life only, we have hope in Christ, we're of all men most miserable, but Now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the first fruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, even so by man came the resurrection from the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. And so I want to leave you with that. Why do we see Jesus as being this great and amazing Savior? Well, part of it Is he is humil his humiliation. God, who created everything, who's outside of time and space, who's eternal, he takes on the limitations of humanity so that he can taste death. so that we can be redeemed to God. May we never get over that and may we be so thankful for that. Well if it's been an encouragement to you, take a moment to share that. Perhaps ask any questions if you have any, share it with some someone else who can be blessed by it. And Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow to keep working our way through the Anchored in the Word studies by now.