Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word for the week and our Friday edition, which is uh traditionally our application side. And the application this week has been Focused primarily as an evangelistic application. Obviously, as believers, every time we hear the gospel and we're reminded of these truths, we're challenged by them. But the question I want to answer this this morning is what did we learn from the conversation? And so let's read again from this passage, and as we read from it, we will dig into a couple of thoughts. Here's what it says. This is kind of at the end. When Jesus begins to respond, he says, then he said to them, O fools, slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, to have entered into his glory. And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Three facts I want you to walk away from this study with this week. The first fact is this. The death and resurrection of Christ are facts of history. These are not just something that we have this emotional warm fuzzy feeling about this really happened. Jesus of Nazareth is God in flesh. He really went to the cross, he really died for our sins, there was really darkness for three hours, the veil really rent in two, and he really rose from the dead bodily. And so those are facts of history. Second fact that we want to mention Is that these are facts that were predicted in the Old Testament. They were fulfilled exactly as they were predicted. And then these are facts that have, we could say, religious or spiritual significance. They need to be expounded. What is the reason behind the death of Christ? What is the reason behind the resurrection of Christ. How does that actually impact me today, living 2,000 years from these events? And so it needs to be expounded. And that's exactly what Christ did in this text. The third thing is that the truth is readily available. It's not hidden from us. We have access to it. We have access to it because we're listening to messages like this, because of churches, because we get online, we have access to the Bible This is not a hidden thing. We can go back and we can actually read original sources on these issues. Second thing I want to do is I want to answer or I want to pose three questions that I think are very appropriate based on what we've talked about this week. The first question is, are you in any way like these two men? Is it possible that you know who Jesus is, the person, but you do not understand what he did? Or maybe why? The why is the bigger part. Why did he die? Why did he rise from the dead? Trusting in the gospel is not just about facts. It's about the implication of those facts. It's about the personalization of those facts. So When we talk about faith in Christ, faith in Christ isn't just, oh yeah, that really happened. I know it did. I believe that there was a Jesus. It's that I believe that Jesus died for my sins. I trust in him alone for salvation. So is it possible that you can be in any way like these two men? Is it possible that you have been blinded to understanding these things despite your access to the truth? The truth is there. Maybe you've been in church many, many times. You grew up in Sunday school. You've read portions of the Bible at various times. You've listened to podcasts and sermons, but you've never really grasped these truths. Is it possible? Thirdly, has your spirit been troubled and unable to process the misery you might be feeling internally? Truth is, if you try to live this life without God, that's a miserable existence. I've been reading through the book of Ecclesiastes, just finished it this morning. And when I finished reading through the book of Ecclesiastes , It emphasizes the fact that if there's no creator and if there's no eternity, then this is a really miserable, pointless life. But there is a creator, and there is an eternity, and we should remember now the Creator in the days of our youth, before the evil day draws nigh, and we say, I have no pleasure in these things. So three questions to ponder. And then I want to propose a solution. The first thing is this. We talk about solution. Christ is the only way for you to find real peace in your soul. That conscience that troubles you? Guess what? The only answer to a troubled conscience is not to bury the conscience and not to distract yourself. Not to convince yourself that that you don't have a problem. It's to address the problem biblically through the cross and resurrection, the gospel. This world is created and it declares the order of the Creator, and you can't escape that. Your conscience continually reminds you That sin is a big deal. You are made in the image of God. You're answerable to Him. That's a part of our existence because that's a part of what makes us human, is that we have this moral sense And there is hope for us. But this is the only place we can find it, and that is Christ. And that is God's grace that points us to Christ. He pursues us, he confronts us, he shows us what's right in front of us. The question is, is he doing that right now in your life Is it possible that he has been drawing you and convicting you and pointing you to the truth and you've been resisting? Do not allow yourself to do this. What will you do with these truths? That's what I want to leave you with this week. I hope you have a wonderful weekend. Hope to see many of you on Sunday. And Lord willing, we'll have a great time together. Whether or not we meet on Sunday, Lord willing we'll see you on Monday as we keep working our way through our Anchored in the Word studies. Have a blessed weekend by now.