Good morning and welcome to a new week in another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. Uh this week I've had issues with my laptop and so I'm hoping that I'll be able to do all of my uh anchored in the words this week. Uh but basically the fan died, had to get uh a situation resolved with the laptop and so hopefully today Um the video works and I really do want to get through these um studies this week because they are very practical and I think that they really get to h to the heart of some very helpful issues for us. So if you have a Bible, take it and let's turn together to Psalm 55. And today we're going to talk about the importance of casting our burden on the Lord, our unchanging God. And we're going to talk about the concept of a lament. And Psalm 55, in fact, is a lament psalm. So let's go ahead and read this section. We're not reading the entire psalm because it's lengthy, but we're going to pick up in verse number 9. He says, destroy, O Lord, divide their tongues. I have seen violence and strife in the city Evening and morning and at noon will I pray and cry aloud, He shall hear my voice. He hath delivered my soul in peace from the battle that was against me. There were many with me. Cast thy burden on the Lord, and he shall sustain thee. He shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. But thou, O God, shall bring them down into the pit of destruction Bloody and deceitful men shall live not, shall not live out half of their days, but I will trust in thee Now as we look at this passage of scripture, it's important for us to understand what a lament psalm is. In fact, Psalm 55, Psalm 54 And Psalm 52 are all lament Psalms. They're very similar. And lament Psalms have five distinct elements. In fact, sometimes These elements are actually laid out sequentially. In this particular psalm, there's some back and forth between some of these elements. But the first thing that we see in a lament psalm is that the psalm is always directed toward God. And it's not some irrational venting session. There's actually some order to what's going on. There is deliberate yet deeply transparent information that's being approached to God, that's getting being presented to God. And so a lament is is a prayer, it's a complaint, but there's order to it. And so the first thing that is a part of this is that it's it's a prayer to God. It's not just a complaint before other people. It's always directed to God. It's a prayer. Secondly, we see that this complaint is very passionate and it is pouring out the heart, for lack of a better way to put it Also, there's an explanation as to why the complaint is there. The position has a root, it has a cause. And this complaint is going to be laid out in this crying out to God. And there's going to be a basis. He's going to appeal to God's character. He's going to appeal to God's justice, his righteousness, his holiness. There be something that will be a basis of pouring out the heart and saying, on the basis of this, this is what you need to do, God. And then by the end of the Psalm, there's some kind of resolution. Now there are a few examples where the resolution doesn't come at the end of that psalm. In fact, the second psalm, the one that comes after it, will be almost a continuation of that thought. And then it'll spill into that second psalm. But in each example, this lament will eventually have a resolution. And it teaches us how people process their pain and their suffering. So let's look a little bit at the details of this particular lament psalm. First of all, verses 1 through 8 are the lament portion of this, or the complaint portion. And in verses 1 and 2, it is David crying out to God. He says, God, give ear. Do not hide yourself. Attend to me. Hear me. I mourn in my complaint and I make a noise. You can see that the direction of his prayer is to God. Secondly, he describes himself as being completely overwhelmed. In verses 3, 4, and 5, he talks about how he felt as if he was smothered. He says, it's because of the oppression of the wicked that I'm crying out to you. He feels as if he's been trapped or captured. He says that they have cast iniquity upon me. He's been trapped. He can't get out. He talks about their anger being boiling against them. It says, in wrath they hate me. So as David describes how he feels, these are the words of a man who's overwhelmed. We even go a little bit further in verses 4, 5, and 6 to see that he feels as if he can't escape these emotions. They're hounding him, they're troubling him constantly. He talks about the pain being crippling. My heart is sore pained within me. He talks about how he's afraid of death and how he might die. He says the terrors of death have fallen on me, fearl fearfulness and trembling, they are come upon me. He feels as if there's no hope. It's as if he's in great despair. He says horror has overwhelmed me. Now when we read these verses, what do we see? A man who is completely overcome by emotion. In fact, if we can even say it gets worse, where it says, I wish I could just run away. I wish I could hide. Verses six, seven, and eight. I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove, then would I fly away and be at rest. Lo, then would I wander far off and remain in the wilderness. David's lament, in fact, is very dark. And it's important for us to put this into perspective. This is the same man who went out and killed Goliath when he was a young man. It's shocking to see that he could fall to such a low and pitiful state. You say, how does he get this way? I mean think about what he says in 1 Samuel 17, where he goes out to kill Goliath. He says, You come to me with a sword and a spear and a shield. I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. This day will the Lord deliver you into my hands. I will smite thee, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. Same guy. Well, he's quite a bit older now. He's been worn down by life. And as we get into this psalm a little bit more this week, we're going to see that there's a very personal dynamic to what David is experiencing. His emotions are driving him. And emotions are powerful motivators. When we think about our emotions, we need to realize they come and go, they're transitory. They can be manipulated, they can be twisted. They're often misguided, they're not always consistent with reality. But David was being driven by these emotions These waves of fear and these waves of feeling helpless, these waves of feeling trapped and wanting to run away, they were there. He couldn't escape them. These emotions were not baseless. There were reasons, real, objective reasons that he was experiencing what he was experiencing You say, well, what was it? Well as we read through this, we're going to see that he is responding to some really dark situations. And so this psalm can be really helpful to us. Because one of the things it will do is show us that when we are in a low place, we're not the only Christians who have ever been in such a place. When we feel some of the things that we feel, when we say some of the things that we say We realize that there are people in Scripture that went through those same things. What's really helpful about this is it shows us how David A man after God's own heart, who was made of the same stuff that you and I are made out of, how he processed his pain and ultimately found strength and hope in the Lord. And so as we dig into this passage this week, I hope you'll join us. because it has a lot to teach us. My prayer is that this will be a help to each of us. Have a blessed rest of your day, Lord willing. Tomorrow we'll get our anchored in the word out earlier. Of course it's all dependent on my computer and how that works. But I hope you have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow by now