Good morning and welcome to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. We are almost done with our week and this passage that we've been dealing with is really the heart of the gospel. I can't think of a more important text of Scripture for us to address. at the closing of our Anchored in the Word series than the one in front of us. And what I'd like to do today is I'd like us to focus in on the ultimate end of Christ's sacrificial death. When he goes to the cross, he dies in our place, he dies on our behalf, he sheds his blood. What is the result of this great sacrifice that Christ gave for us? And the answer is what we're going to talk about this morning. So Ephesians chapter 1, we're going to pick up in verse number 3, and we're going to work our way into some very important topics connected to this issue. Here's what it says. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. according as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him. And love having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ himself according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. according to the riches of his grace, wherein he hath abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence. So the question is, what is the end of our salvation? Or what is accomplished by the work of Christ? We're going to break this down into a couple of parts. The first one is going to start with verse number 10. It says, in the dispensation of the fullness of the time he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth even in him. We talk about this statement. The first end is that we are redeemed to God. And redemption is a very rich and intensely relational concept. One of the passages that comes to mind, really it's actually a book, and that's the book of Ruth. But when we talk about Boaz taking the part of being a kinsman redeemer to Ruth, what it's basically saying is this, here's this person, Ruth. who is a widow, she has uh she's extremely vulnerable, she has no children, and when her husband died, there was no heir to take the land that was supposed to be passed down in his name And so Boaz is willing to marry Ruth, and through that union, if God were to bless it with a child, a son. then that son would take the land that had been his mother's first husband's. And so it is a relational concept. There's actually a commitment, a covenantal nature to it of this redemption, and the paying of a price. Boaz would actually have to pay a dowry so that he could redeem Ruth out of her widowhood to be his wife. And there's some other passages that I think are very fascinating, and that is Verses that talk about God redeeming his people out of misery and captivity. Isaiah 43. Listen to some of these verses. Let's say it's the Lord that created thee, O Jacob, that formed thee, O Israel. Fear not, I have redeemed thee I have called thee by name, thou art mine. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee, and through the rivers they shall not overflow thee. When thou walkest through the fire. Thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. I am the Lord thy God. Thou wast precious in my sight. I have loved thee. Fear not, I am with thee Now he uses that word, I've redeemed you. But you can see these verses, it's a very personal concept, not just some transaction, but there's a deep love and affection and a commitment. on the part of God for these people. Or another passage of scripture that we could talk about is how we are redeemed out of enmity between us and God. Colossians chapter 1 verse 20. It says, he has made peace through the blood of his cross, reconciling all things to himself. You that were sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet Now hath he reconciled in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and unblameable and unreprovable in his sight. Again. You see the cost of redemption, but it's a relational, covenantal commitment that is there. Or another passage, Romans 5. 8, God commendeth. His love toward us while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. When we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son. So the first aspect of this is one of reconciliation. We are redeemed and reconciled to God. The second is we are justified before God. And so the first one's dealing with more of the relational aspect. This is dealing more with the judicial aspect. We are guilty before the law court of God. We are condemned. And through Christ's sacrifice, we can be justified before God. I want to talk about this because there's really two aspects to this that are very, very important. The first is the negative side. What I mean by that is that the cross did something to remove our guilt. And a lot of scripture talks about this. Isaiah 53, 11. He will see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. My wisest servant will justify many. Why? Because he will bear their iniquities. So the cross and the bearing of iniquity on the cross and the shedding of blood This is what removes our guilt so that God can justify us. Romans 3. 24. We are justified freely by his grace through the redemption in Christ Jesus. Again, Romans 5. 9. We are justified by his blood and saved from wrath through him. Notice all three of these passages emphasize how the cross removes our guilt. And now we can be justified before God. But it's not just a negative aspect. There's also a positive aspect that the scripture talks about And that is that we are justified through righteousness that is not ours. We've been justified in Christ's righteousness. When we were united to him, we were united with his death. and also with his life. And so his death removes our guilt. His life gives us a righteous standing. And this is a wonderful concept. We use the term imputed righteousness, a righteousness outside of us, a righteousness that we don't earn, a righteousness that we don't deserve. It's a righteousness from God. Notice some of these scriptures. Romans 3. 20. By the deeds of the law no flesh shall be justified in his sight. By the law is the knowledge of sin. Now, when we read that, we'd go, well, then is there any hope? The answer is of course. Why? Because of this next statement. But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets Even the righteousness which uh uh righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ, it's unto all, and here's the statement, upon all them that believe. Imputed righteousness, that's what it is. a righteousness from God. Or another passage, Romans 4. 2. Abraham believed God and it was accounted for him as righteousness. Now, to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace but of debt, but to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly his faith is counted for righteousness. Even as David also describes the blessedness of the man unto whom God imputeth righteousness without works. Very important statement. We are justified on the basis of a righteousness outside of us. Christ's righteousness. Romans 5. 19 By one man's disobedience, many were made sinners. That's Adam. By one man's obedience, many are made righteous. Not your obedience, not my obedience, Christ's obedience. Very, very important concept. And then I love the testimony of the Apostle Paul in Philippians 3. 9. He says All these things that I counted gain, I counted them loss, rubbish, dung, that I might win Christ, and be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is of the law But that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. Now what's the point? We are redeemed to God through the death of Christ and the shedding of his blood. We are justified before God through the removal of our guilt at the cross. And by Christ's righteousness being imputed to us. In him, we are justified before God. That's the gospel. It's all those aspects coming together. Forgiveness, cleansing, justification, reconciliation, redemption, they're all there. We praise God for His wonderful work on our behalf. If you don't know the gospel, if you don't know Christ as your Savior, and you've come across this lesson, please don't hesitate to reach out. Send me an email. I would love to take the time to take a Bible and show you how you can be saved. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow, one more time, as we dig into some final thoughts and we think about the new year and Christmas. Have a blessed day. Bye now.