Good morning. Welcome to our Thursday anchored in the word morning reflection. And as we dig into what we talked about yesterday, the relationship between objective truth and our experience today I'd like us to focus in on that security and I'd like us to uh to to reflect on it in a way that I hope will warm your soul. And so that would, I hope, be the sense of what we'll talk about this morning. So if you have a Bible, please take it, turn together with me to Romans chapter 8. We'll pick up in verse 14, we'll read the section and then reflect on what it says here, and then a few additional passages of scripture that reinforce and really give us a fuller understanding of this concept and how we should respond to it Says the following, As many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For you have not received the Spirit of adoption, excuse me, bondage again to fear. But you have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry Abba Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, joint heirs with Christ, if so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified together For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. So as we reflect on this passage, I want to remind you again of the security of the position that is referred to in this passage. And as we think about it, I want to challenge you to rest in it. Here's what it says in verse 17. If we are children, then we are heirs. If we are heirs of God, then we are joint heirs with Christ. That's security. If I'm a child, I'm an heir. If I'm an heir, I'm a joint heir with Christ He then goes on to say, if we suffer with him, we will also be glorified together with him. What is this emphasizing? This is emphasizing security, comfort, rest in it. I think of another passage of Scripture that comes to mind, how we should delight in his grace. Ephesians chapter 2 says, We all were by nature children of wrath. But God, who is rich in mercy for his great love forwith he loved us even when we were dead, hath quickened us together with Christ. that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. In other words, we need to reflect on this fact that we were by nature children of wrath. But now God, who is rich in mercy, hath given us this new position. Delight in His grace. Glory in who he is. Glory in what he has done. I want to remind you of another passage, Romans chapter 5, verse 6. He says, when we were without strength, Christ died for the ungodly. That was you. That was me. That was all of us. He says that God commends his love toward us, that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And that word commend has the idea if he presents it to us, he wants us to glory in it, to delight in it. to reflect on the goodness of his love, the depths of his love, the greatness of his love. And then I'd like to direct you to another one. And that is here in Romans chapter 8, verses 31 through 39. This is the capstone of the whole section. It says, if God is for us, then who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? He says there is nothing that can separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord Now, why do I give you these passages of Scripture? I give them to you so that you'll reflect on them and you'll rest in them and you'll delight in them and you'll glory in them. If you are God's child, then you are his heir. If you suffer with him, you will also be glorified together with him. And so the sense of all this is to give us comfort, to give us hope, to give us encouragement, to give us strength. And if you're struggling today, you're dealing with some great challenge, go back to what you know to be fundamentally, objectively true. And rest in those objective truths. Let the Spirit of God use the Word of God to strengthen you in the inner man Have a blessed rest of your morning. I hope that you'll be able to join us tomorrow for some final thoughts. If there's anything that you need, if there's a struggle that you need to talk through, if there's a question that you have, feel free to reach out. Love to speak with you about those issues. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow by now