Good morning, welcome to our fourth anchored in the word, more reflection. Today we're going to focus in on the triumph aspect of the cross, and as Christ is there in the garden, saying, Father, if it is possible, remove this cup, yet not my will but thine. What is the triumph of the cross that ultimately is the cause for Christ to be willing to do this and God permitting his son to suffer so much? The answer is it was our redemption and what is involved in that. So we're going to Reflect a little bit on that this morning and so I hope that you'll join us as we do that. So first of all, let's take our Bibles, turn to Luke 22. We'll pick up in verse 39, work our way through these verses, and then focus in on some of the triumphs that are a part of this story Here's what God's word says. And when he was in that place, he said unto them, Pray that you enter not into temptation. And he was withdrawn from them of Betestan's cast and kneeled down and prayed, saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done. There appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him. And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down on the ground When he arose up from prayer and was come unto his disciples, he found them sleeping for sorrow. And he said unto them, Why sleep ye? Rise, pray, lest you enter into temptation. Now, as we talk about the triumph of the cross, I'm going to focus on Isaiah 53, because I think this is one of the greatest texts in all of the Bible. Focusing in on what was accomplished by the cross. It talks about the nature of the cross, why it went down the way that it did, but ultimately what it accomplished. And so we're going to look at that this morning together. In Isaiah 53. 10 it says that it pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, and the pleasure of the Lord will prosper in his hand, he will see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, he shall divide the spoil with the strong. Because he hath poured out his soul unto death, he was numbered with the transgressors, and he bare the sins of many, and made intercession for the transgressors. So if you'll notice, these verses show you who is acting on whom, okay? It pleased the Lord to bruise him He put his soul as an offering for sin. It is the pleasure of the Lord that prospers in his hand. He will see the travail of his soul. And be satisfied. So we see that this is something that is being done to Christ, and ultimately it is God's will. And so the question is: what did his death accomplish? Well, the foremost thing it did is it provided a satisfaction. And we see this in verse 10. It pleased. That word pleased means it was pleasing to him. It was something he desired to happen. It satisfied him. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. Verse 11, he will see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. That means he's going to look at what's going to take place, and it's not going to be something that's looked at as a tragedy, but rather as a triumph. We also see that this is the ultimate sacrifice, the final sacrifice, the culmination of all of the sacrifices we see in the Old Testament. He says, thou wilt make his soul an offering for sin. And so it's not just a physical death of the cross, it is an offering for sin that we are witnessing. We also see that this is the greatest triumph in history. And it's hard to think of a death being a triumph, but in fact it's what it is. And it's a triumph because of what it accomplished or what it purchased. For instance, in verse eleven he talks about justification. He says, My righteous servant will justify many. Why? He will bear their iniquities. Justification means that when we stand in God's courtroom God declares us not guilty, not because we are sinless, but because we have been united with Christ in his death and resurrection And so what has happened to Christ has now been applied to us. Christ died for our sins, he rose from the dead, and we actively participate in that death and resurrection. Is righteous, and we are righteous in him. We call it imputed righteousness. And so when God looks at us, he declares us not guilty, righteous in Christ, because of his death. The second word is the word inheritance, verse 12. I will divide him a portion with the great, divide a spoil with the strong. Why? Because he poured out his soul unto death. And so we have a portion that is great, spoils that are strong. Why? Only because Christ poured out his soul unto death So those benefits and those blessings come directly through him. A third thing mentioned is reconciliation. We have two parties that are at odds. God is holy and righteous. We are sinners. We cannot be reconciled to God unless we are brought to him through a mediator, a substitute. And that substitute, that mediator is Christ. Because he bare the sins of many, and he made intercession for the transgressors. And so why is the cross such a great triumph? It's because we're justified. We have an inheritance. We have been reconciled to God, and God is fully satisfied with that sacrifice. There's no other way. It's the only way. Aren't you glad that God has done this for you? If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. If you think this would be a help to somebody, take a moment to share that. Lord willing, we'll come back together one more time tomorrow as we look at some final thoughts. Have a blessed day. Bye now.