Good morning and welcome to our Wednesday anchored in the word morning reflection. And we've talked about the focus of our prayer being to the Father or the object of our prayer. We've talked about the confidence of our prayer. We believe that the Spirit is going to work through the Word of God, that the Father is going to shape our lives by the Spirit's power. Well, today what we're going to do is look at the third person of the Trinity and our relationship to Him and this issue of spiritual growth and maturity. And so the focus of our prayer is the Lord Jesus Christ. He will be the one that we ultimately will begin to reflect as we grow into spiritual maturity. So take your Bibles and let's turn together to Ephesians chapter 3, and we're looking at verses 14 through 21 together. It says, For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the whole world in heaven and earth is named. that he would grant unto you, according to the riches of the glory, to be strengthened with might in the Spirit by the inner man. that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye being rooted and grounded in love may be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height, and to know the love of Christ. which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. So let's let's focus in on this third person of the Trinity. By the way What I think is wonderful about the book of Ephesians is how many times in this book we have Trinitarian concepts being presented. This is one of many examples. So He talks about a relationship to the Father. He talks about a relationship to the Son. He talks about a relationship to the Spirit. It's important that we talk, that we recognize that each member of the Godhead works in perfect harmony to accomplish their purpose. God's purpose of saving us and maturing us, growing us in the image of Christ, and then ultimately giving us all the things that have been purchased for us in Christ. And so let's talk about the focus for a few minutes. We're shaped into the image of Christ. We see this in the statement that's made in verses 17 through 19. That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith. Ye being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height, and to know the love of Christ which passeth knowledge that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. There are several different pieces to this passage And so we look, first of all, at the fact that God's love is something that nourishes and stabilizes our soul so we can grow. Now initially, when you read these verses, you might think, well he's praying that we would be rooted and praying that we would be grounded in love. But in fact that's not the case. He's referring to being rooted and grounded in love as something that's already taken place. So when he says being rooted and grounded in love, he's saying, first of all, you are a nourished person because you are rooted in the love of God. And secondly, you are stabilized, you have a firm footing, you have a foundation that will never crumble and shake. It's sure, because you're grounded in love. So this is true because it's already happened. So because this has already happened, this becomes a motivator for Paul to pray. And the question is, how does he pray that we will be shaped in the image of Christ? Well, he talks about four different components. The first of those components is that we will be shaped in character Every aspect of who we are is going to be radically reshaped. That Christ would dwell in your heart by faith. His character needs to be formed in us. The Spirit's influence should touch every single component of our lives. It should touch our affections. It should touch our thinking. It should touch our wills. It should touch our character. The Spirit of God is going to shape us internally as the Father shapes us from the outside and we become more and more like Christ because the Spirit is touching every area of our lives. The second component, a dynamic comprehension of God's love, that you may be able to comprehend. That is an understanding element. comprehending with all the saints the breadth and the length and the depth and the height. God's love for us. is something that is not fully grasped. We understand it to limited degrees. And so he's praying that we will have a deeper understanding, a deeper appreciation, a deeper comprehension. So it's not just about character change and development, but it's about depth of understanding. He wants us to think and understand the greatness of that love. And as we grow in our knowledge of the Lord, and as we spend time in his word, and as we we go through our lives, and he works in our lives, our understanding of his love is going to expand. We're never even going to fully grasp it, but it'll grow deeper for all of eternity. There's a third component that I want to mention here, and that is a vibrant experience. of the love of God. Now there's a difference between I know it intellectually and I've experienced it personally. I sense the love of God. It's like the difference between reading a letter from someone who loves you and they express that love to you, well, that's really good. I'm glad to know that versus saying I feel the warmth of that affection as I read that letter. Boy, I just feel moved in my heart to say, I am so grateful for this person's love. They do something very kind for you or very sacrificial for you. And what does it do? It gives you a deeper experiential sense of the love they have for you. Well, the same thing is true with God. He wants them to know the love of Christ which passeth knowledge. And so this is deeper than just head knowledge. It's experiential. The fourth component is not just on the knowledge side. and the convictional side, but now it's on the transformational of a a transformational side. He wants our identity to be lost in Christ, that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. What does he mean by that? Well he means that who we were is not who we now are. There's been a radical change. We're not the same person. We have been transformed in our identity by God Himself. Our old identity is lost in him. That man is dead. And there's a new man that's being shaped into the image of Christ day after day. And so that's what this is all about, spiritual maturity having these four components that ultimately cause us to reflect the image of Christ in our lives. Here's my question for you. Does your life bear the marks, the resemblance to your Savior, the Lord Jesus? It should more and more every single day Your identity should be lost in him more and more each day. Your knowledge of his love and the sense in which you experience that love should be richer and deeper every single day And so I pray that that's what it will be for you. Have a blessed rest of your day, and the Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through the text to the end. Have a great day. Bye now.