Good morning. Welcome back to a new week and another edition of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And today we are going to start a series through uh Psalm 45 and I know that I have verses one through seventeen on there but this morning uh we won't read the entire psalm because it is fairly lengthy but we will be working our way through the entirety of the Psalm throughout this week. So the section we're to focus in on this morning is more of an introduction and then kind of the first couple of verses, but I think it will really set the tone for what we will be talking about throughout the week. As we dig into this passage, we're going to start out with this concept that when we look at the rich truths of Scripture, specifically the ones that we find in Psalm 45, 1, we need to have a heart that is filled with praise and gratitude to God. And so that'll be the extent of our focus today. So if you have your Bible, let's turn there and we'll read the section together. and then dig into these contents. It says, My heart is indicting a good matter. I speak of things which I have made touching the king. My tongue is a pen of a ready writer Thou art fairer than the children of men. Grace is poured into thy lips. Therefore God hath blessed thee forever. Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O most mighty. with the glory in thy majesty, and in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness and righteousness. And thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things. Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies, whereby the people fall under thee. Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever. A scepter of thy kingdom is a right sceptre. Thou lovest righteousness and hatest wickedness. Therefore, God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. First of all, we want to talk about some introductory thoughts. As we dig into Psalm 45, it's sometimes helpful to kind of understand the kind of psalm we're talking about. We're talking about a psalm that was written for a wedding And it's it's directed primarily towards the groom in the beginning and then towards the bride in the end. And as we work our way through the psalm, there'll be times that those who are part of the wedding party are going to be addressed. In fact, when we read this psalm, it was set to a tune called lilies. That's what one of the words in the beginning portion introduction to the psalm means. It means lilies. And so it was meant to be a beautiful song to express some beautiful concepts. As I mentioned, the first half focuses on the groom, and the groom is the son of David, not simply a son in the generic sense, but the son of David, speaking of Christ. And so there is a prophetic element to this psalm. The second half, which focuses on the bride of the groom, is focusing on God's people, or we could say the church, when we think of it in the New Testament sense. And so again, it's speaking of prophecy related to those who are redeemed, who are part of the bride of Christ. As I mentioned, it's a prophetic a prophetic psalm. And one of the reasons we know that is if we just read the Psalm and didn't consider the rest of Scripture and how maybe there are other passages that really back to this passage, we would get the sense by the wording in certain places and the tone and the themes that are presented. This is talking about something that's not just an immediate event, but in fact it's something prophetic But but Hebrews 1 and how the writer of Hebrews uses this Psalm removes all doubt. It gives us a clear understanding that Psalm 45 is referring to Christ, the Son of David, the Messiah, and it refers to him as God. So as we work our way through the Psalm, we're going to encounter a lot of wonderful truth. Truths that we are going to find in the New Testament, and we're going to highlight those at the end of the week. And we're going to see how those truths are pointing to fulfillment of prophecies that we find here. And as we work our way through this passage, I think that the sense should be that our hearts are filled and they're warmed and they're encouraged and we are grateful we want to thank God for what we've seen here. So I'd summarize Psalm 45 in the following way. Psalm 45 is about the son of David, who is the perfect king Who has set his love on his bride. And his bride should worship and adore him because of who he is. He is the Messiah. He's God in flesh. As we dig into this passage, we see that God's will for us is that we'll glory in the beauty of Christ and the eternal purposes he has for his people. And when we say as people, I mean us, we who are a part of the Church of God. So the first section that we dig into is dealing with how the beautiful truths that are going to be expressed in this psalm are on the heart of the psalmist as he's writing. And I love the way that he expresses it. He expresses it as one whose heart is constantly filled with praise and glory toward God. So we see it like this in verse 1. He says, My heart is indicting a good matter. I speak of the things which I have made touching the king. My heart is the pen of a ready rider. There are two statements here that we need to understand. And because of the Old English, they're actually a little bit difficult to understand what he's saying We see that statement, my heart is indicting a good matter. That word indicting has the idea of it is overflowing. And so we could put it like this My heart is overflowing or overwhelmed by the goodness of the topics that are addressed in this psalm. As I think about it, it's like my heart is boiling over. And that second phrase, my tongue is the pen of a ready writer, he's saying as I'm as I'm speaking these words, My heart just overflows with praise. The more that I talk about this, the more that I think about this, the more it just pours out of me. If I were to use the illustration of someone at church, there are some times that we listen to others think There are times that we sing but our heart's not engaged. And then there are times that as we really reflect on the truths of the songs that we're singing, in fact our heart is just filled with gratitude, filled with joy. We are overflowing with praise to God. And that is the way the psalmist is writing here. He is thinking in those terms, and that's where our hearts should always be. So I ask you a couple questions to consider here as we kind of line this down. When you think about this psalm and the content of the psalm that we're going to get into, how do you respond to it? How does your heart respond to these truths? Are you gripped by them? As you think about them, does it really overwhelm your heart? Are you warmed and filled with joy as you think about them? Are you filled with gratitude, deep gratitude? And you just want to express that to God. You say, well I don't know because I don't know what the rest of the psalm says. Well I hope you'll join us the rest of the week as we dig into the psalm. And then I'd like you to reflect back on those questions that we asked and ask yourself, is that where my heart is? That's where it should be. Well, that's a good place for us to start this week. I hope that you'll join us as we move our way through this passage of Scripture throughout the week. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll be able to meet again tomorrow as we dig into this passage a little bit more. Take care. Bye now.