Good morning, welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And what we're going to do this morning is we're going to dig into the contrast between a right way to look at giving and a wrong way to look at giving. And it's important to remember that we're looking at an Old Testament example, so this is not necessarily explaining the concept of New Testament giving in the local church. But rather this is how people were expected to give in the Old Covenant, Old Testament period of time. And so it is important on the front side just to make a distinction about that. But what we do see is that the principles that were being used in the Old Testament In fact, they do have bearing on New Testament giving. So what I'd like you to do is I'd like you to take your Bibles out, we'll turn to this text again, we'll read it, and then we'll jump into understanding this contrast that is being drawn in the text. Says the following, Beware of the scribes which desire to walk in long robes, and love greetings in the markets, and in the highest seats of the synagogues, in the chief rooms at feast. which devour widows' houses, and for a show make long prayers. The same shall receive greater damnation. He looked up and he saw rich men casting in their gifts into the treasury He also saw a certain poor widow casting in hitherto mites. He said, Of a truth I say unto you that this poor widow has cast in more than they all. For all these, out of their abundance, have cast into the offering of God, but she of her penury has cast in all the living that she had. And as some speak of the temple, how it was adorned, and some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts Now, as we look at this passage of Scripture, we're going to have to look at as a contrast. We have God 's instruction on how the people were supposed to give, and then we look at what we're actually examining in this passage. And so we first of all need to understand what is being talked about here when he says giving to the temple treasury. So giving to the temple treasury would have been something that was outside of the Levitical instruction. This is a gift that was given as a free will offering, and it was given to the Sadducees, who were the sect that was administering the temple, administrating the temple. Now this temple is the temple that Herod was rebuilding. It's essentially Zerobel 's temple, which had been built about 500 years earlier. With Persian money, this is a rebuild of Solomon's temple, but what Herod is doing is he's actually transforming this temple to be something that would have been one of those wonders of the world at that time. This rebuild would have taken close to 80 years, and obviously it went past the time of Herod the Great. It was a first-century marvel. It was a source of naturalistic pride for the Jewish people And the Sadducees were a group of people who really functioned like aristocrats who worked with the Romans to maintain control over the people and the rebuild of this temple. What I think is also interesting is that this alliance between the Sadducees and the Romans was something that was filled with corruption, and Jesus pushed back against this. In fact, when Jesus is throwing out the money changers In many ways what he's doing is he is pushing back against the system that was oppressing the people and abusing them. I think what's also ironic about this is six years after the completion of this massive rebuild the the temple was completely destroyed by the Romans. Now what was Old Testament or Old Covenant giving like? Well I would summarize it with the following statement The people were supposed to live with the conviction that God is their king. This is a theocracy. Everything that they have belongs to him. And the relationship to him is the center of everything. And so this mindset is going to work itself out in every single area of life. In other words, giving in the Old Testament was something that was supposed to cover all of life. Now there were three basic tithes that the people were required to give, and a tithe is a tenth. So when people talk about, oh, I give I tithe to my local church, well what they need to realize is What they're actually saying is, I give ten percent of my income, but they're not talking about a Levitical tithe in the sense that we're talking about in these verses, because a Levitical tithe was more than just a tenth of the income. It was actually probably closer to 25 or 30% of the income once we break down everything. And then outside of the Levitical tithe were other types of giving or requirements of giving. And I think it's helpful just for the sake of perspective to understand what's going on here. So the first tithe is the Levitical tithe. And this is talked about in Leviticus 27 and Numbers 18. The basic purpose of Levitical tithe was to support those who were Levites, who did not have a portion of land that had been given to them. Their entire life was centered on teaching God's word. on organizing um the the sacrificial system, the the priesthood, all of that is connected to the Levitical system. The second tithe is a festive tithe, and this is talked about in Deuteronomy 14. This is basically setting aside 10% of what came into the family. And it was put into a storehouse and this would be used for the community when they had festive occasions. And so rather than the people having to tap into their resources in the moment, they were going to set aside as a community uh goods that were going to be used during that time. And then the third was a charitable tithe. And so every third year the people were to set aside an additional tenth to the original 20% that they put in And this would be talked about in Deuteronomy twenty-six, it was to take care of the fatherless and the widows and people who were absolutely destitute. And so what you can see is that the basic tithe was similar to a tax Obviously, we're talking about a theocracy, and so some of it is going to the Levites, some of it is going to festive occasions, and some of it is going to those who are truly destitute. There are additions that are beyond the tithes. For instance, when a person was indebted, every seven years that debt would be canceled And so if you were the one owing the debt, you got to restart uh with a with a blank slate. And if you were the one that was giving to someone who owed you a debt, you would have to forgive them of that debt. You would release them of that debt. You would have to bear uh that loss to yourself, which would have probably frustrated a lot of people. In fact the Levitical um system actually addresses The fact that when someone comes to you in need and they want to they want to get uh they want to be indebted to you, and it's kind of at the end of that seven-year period, you need to make sure you don't harden your heart towards them. You're willing to actually help them out And then there was an additional fifth thing that we mentioned, and that is that they were to leave sections of their field and harvest it This practice was meant to provide a noble way to meet the needs of those who were truly destitute. So what you can see is that the system involved a lot of giving. There are also additional offerings that we could talk about. We could talk about the giving of offering for the firstborn, reminding them that they were a redeemed people out of Egypt, or the first fruits, which reminded them that the land was ultimately God's and the harvest was from him. Or we can say free will offerings, expressing gratitude and love for God, or sin offerings, where they're provided a constant reminder that God is holy. He cannot dwell amongst a sinful people without sacrifice. And also that sin offering points forward to the Lord Jesus Christ, who would be the ultimate Lamb of God, who would take away the sins of the world. And then there were peace offerings which symbolized communion with God as ordained people. The reason I present all this is to help you to realize that if a person was actually practicing their faith the way that they should have They would have been giving a lot of their income. They would have been giving 25 % uh to the community, to the Levites, to the poor and the destitute. Their firstborn they would give sacrifices. Their first fruits, they would give sacrifices, they would offer sacrifices when they had sinned. And then they would also have offerings that were just a reflection of how thankful they were for their communion and fellowship with God. All of these things show you that the people were people who had to give a lot. And so the question is, well, what was the basic purpose of these offerings? Well, we could put it like this. Everything is God's, and everything comes from Him. The Levites who serve the people are to be supported by their offerings. Everyone needs a pattern of rest and work, and they need to corporately celebrate God's goodness, and that was the purpose of these festivations. The communicat the community needed to look out for the vulnerable and the destitute, but they needed to do it in a way that didn't diminish their dignity and it didn't incentivize laziness. They were to live humble, dependent lives on God, and they needed to continually see pictures that pointed them to Christ. All of this is important in background. Because it shows you what proper giving is supposed to look like in the Old Testament. The question we should ask is, is that what we see here? And the answer is no. False doctrine, false teaching starting at the top, trickles its way down into practice that corrupts what is good. And so what we see is the Sadducees reject the resurrection and what are they living for? Temporal things. They spake of the temple and how it is adorned with beautiful stones and gifts. Well, there's a reason that this is their focus. It's because they think that all they have is the immediate. Or we see that people are giving, but they're giving in a way to promote themselves. He sees the rich casting in their gifts into the treasury. Or we see someone who's too totally destitute, and they're basically willing to give everything to contribute to a dead system because they believe that that's somehow what gives them access to God. He sees a certain poor widow casting in two mites, and she out of her penury cast in all the living that she had So what we see is the practice of giving being done in a wrong way. And the reason it's being done in a wrong way is because at the source, the doctrine, the teaching, the view of self The view of God, the view of religious practice. It's upside down on every single way. And so that's what I have for you this morning. We've got to be very cautious that at the foundation We do things the right way, that we think the right way, because that will ultimately impact everything that we do Well, have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we dig into this text a little bit further and we start breaking this down, ultimately pointing to how we are to do things the right way. Have a blessed day. Talk to you later. Bye now