Good morning and welcome to our fourth anchored in the word, morning reflection. Today the topic we're going to deal with is a very personal one, and I know that this entire week has been talking about the struggle and the difficulty of religious persecution. And how God gives wisdom and he gives strength and all of those things that we need in those times of need. Well today what we're going to talk about is what happens if we get in a position, which can happen. where our allegiance to Christ is tested by family which wants us to not obey Christ. And I'm not talking about a situation where someone uh basically has conflict with the family member and then they say, Well, I'm gonna obey God rather than you. I'm not suggesting that kind of a situation. We're talking about a a position where it's unquestionable that If we're going to obey the Lord and honor Him, it puts us at enmity or variance or in conflict with the person within our family. And this is something that's especially common when a person lives in a culture where there's a predominant religious viewpoint and they embrace the gospel and it's in it's contrary to that. And we see how a person may find themselves in this situation. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn together Luke chapter 21. We're going to look at verses 12 through 19 and see what the text has to say about this issue. It says, But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues and into prisons, being before kings and rulers for my namesake. And it shall turn to you for a testimony. Settle it therefore in your hearts, not to meditate before what ye shall answer. For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist. And ye shall be betrayed both by parents and brethren and kinfolk and friends, and some of you shall they cause to be put to death Ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake, but there shall not an hair of your head perish. In your patience possess ye your souls So as we look at this passage, we want to focus in on what happens when a person is abandoned or mistreated or troubled. or betrayed and hated by family or dear close friends because of their allegiance to Christ. This abandon abandonment is something that people can experience. So we see in verses 16 and 17, you will be betrayed by parents and brethren and kinsfolk and friends. Some of you shall they cause to be put to death. You will be hated of all men for my name's sake. Think about being in such a terrible situation, as if the burden of persecution is not enough. Christ adds another layer of information Now he doesn't do this again to burden people, but to really emphasize that this can happen. A person could find themselves in such a difficult situation. He has the potential for division. on the personal level, the most personal level that you could think of, your family. And this is not the only place in scripture that this issue is described. It's something that is talked about in lots of passages of Scripture. For instance, Luke chapter 12. Suppose ye that I've come to give peace on the earth. I tell you no. But rather division. For from henceforth there shall be five in one house divided, three against two, two against three, the father against the son, the son against the daughter. The mother against the daughter, the daughter against the mother, the mother-in-law against the daughter-in-law, the daughter-in-law against the mother-in-law. Now Now in this situation he's emphasizing that our allegiance has to be to Christ above all else And that can potentially put us at odds with our family. Or another passage of Scripture that comes to mind, Luke 14 If any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sister, yes, his own life he cannot be my disciple. So he's telling us that our higher allegiance to Christ could be something that creates such an offense that in the mind of the people that we are withdrawing from in our allegiance to Christ, they say, you hate me. It's not that we despise an individual, it's that we have a much higher allegiance to God than to them. And that is the sense of what he's saying. Or another passage of Scripture would be Matthew chapter 12. He says, Who is my mother? Who are my brethren? He stretched forth his hands toward the disciples and said, My mother and brethren, whatsoever, whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same as my brother, my sister, and mother. Now this passage of scripture can be looked at in two ways. One would be it shows you who your true family is. Secondly, on the positive side, when you are in such a situation, it shows you that Your family's not just your biological family. In fact, God gave us the body of Christ to be a family to us in time of great hardship And so if a person finds himself in a tough position where they're isolated from family because of the cause of Christ, they have the body of Christ as a comfort that God gives us to give us strength and stability. A second is a reminder of God's presence. Psalm 27, when my father and my mother forsake me, then the Lord will take me up. He comes alongside his children. And he lifts us up when we're down. Psalm 68, a father to the fatherless and a judge of the widows is God in his holy habitation. God setteth the solitary in families, and he bringeth out those which are bound with chains. And so we see that when a person is abandoned, he is a father to them. When a person loses their father, he is a father to them. And so even though there is the negative side that we could potentially fall out with family, or we could face persecution beginning with family We realize that he gives us the body of Christ, so we have a family outside of that biological family. He comes alongside of us and strengthens us. He will never leave us nor forsake us. And when we are forsaken by family on this earth, we can flee to him for comfort and strength. And then lastly, that he is a father to those who are abandoned, a father to the fatherless and a judge of the widows. May God comfort us through these things. We have a sure foundation. We have a God who is always with us as his children. May God help you to see these truths and then to rejoice, delight, and rest in them. Have a blessed rest of your morning. Lord willing, we'll see many of you tomorrow. Bye now.