Good morning and welcome to our Friday edition of our Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. Hope that you've had a really good week and I hope that this final series of thoughts will be a challenge and a help to you and that it'll kind of pull everything together that we've talked about this week. If you have your Bibles, I'd like to ask you to turn with me to the book of Luke. And we're in chapter 19, and we're going to read through the beginning of this passage, and then we're going to go back and we're going to review those questions that I asked on day one. and then sort of work our way through the answer to those questions, which are going to drive us to application. So let's read the text together, please. Luke chapter 19, verse 11. As they heard these things, excuse me, he added and spake a parable because he was knight of Jerusalem, because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear. And he said, Therefore a certain nobleman went into a far country and received for himself a kingdom, and to return And he called his ten servants and delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, Occupy till I come. But his citizens hated him, and sent a message after him, saying, We will not have this man to reign over us. And it came to pass that when he was returned, having received the kingdom, then he commanded these servants to be called unto him, to whom he had given the money, that he might know how much every man had gained by trading. Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained ten pounds. He said unto him, Well done, good servant, because thou hast been faithful with very little, have authority over ten cities. The second came, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained five pounds. He said likewise to him, Be thou also over five cities. Another came saying, Lord, here is thy pound, which I have kept up laid in a napkin. I feared thee, because thou art an austere man So as we look back over this passage of Scripture, there were four questions that I asked you at the beginning of the week. Let's go back to those questions and let's answer them. and hopefully by the end of that find some very practical applications for us to follow. So the first question is why did Christ teach the parable? If you remember back over the details this week, we saw in the passage it was highlighting the fact that some of the people that were traveling with Jesus or about to receive him into Jerusalem misunderstood the difference between the first and the second coming. The first coming was Christ's coming as the Lamb who would take away the sins of the world. When he comes the second time, he's going to come as the king who's going to triumph over sin, death, and evil. And so there's a big difference between those two, but most of the people who are traveling with Christ did not understand this. Secondly, some of these people needed to be exhorted to remain faithful. Now, there were really two categories of people that would have been listening Some who are believers who need to be faithful, and some who are unbelievers who need to repent and believe. And so that leads us to the third group. who needed to be called to trust Christ. And that was the focus of Christ saying that those who did not want him to reign over them And when he comes, rejected him, they will face his wrath and his justice. Second question we asked was, well, who is his audience? And I kind of already answered that or alluded to that, but Part of his audience is confused and complacent believers. They didn't understand what was going on, they needed to be instructed, and they needed to be challenged to stand up and not sit back and be lazy and relax. The second group would be those who are unbelievers who have rebelled against Christ. That rebellion is called unbelief, a refusal. to accept what the Bible says about Christ, what it says about us, and our need to be saved. Third question. What does he want them to do? And it's important when we're doing Bible interpretation that we start with them and then move from them to us. Because we will not uh accurately or we won't correctly interpret a passage if we neglect this correct order. So what does he want them to do? Well first of all he wants them to faithfully manage what has been entrusted to them. All ten of those servants received a pound And the indication is that their job was to take that pound and to invest it and to multiply it and to be faithful with what had been given to them by their master. A second focus is that these individuals who are doing the work needed to be focused as they work to perform their duties faithfully He didn't want them to get distracted. He didn't want them to compare themselves to others. He didn't want them to hold back in bitterness. He wanted them to be focused and to do their work well. Thirdly, He didn't want them to be bitter or ungrateful toward him. And this is really drawn out when we talk about the third of the stewards the one who took the money and buried it in the ground and presented it as it had been. Why did he do this? Well it's because he did not trust the master. He said, You're an austere man, and I believe that you get stuff that you did not labor for. And so he's he's essentially indicating that he does not believe that the master is a good man. that he's righteous, that he is uh the kind of person that he should follow and serve. And so that was a motivation, bitterness, ungrati ingratitude that was causing him to be unfaithful. Fourthly Realize one day you are going to present your work to God. No matter what, there's going to be a day that you stand before Him, and the quality of your labors are going to be demonstrated on that day Lastly, don't think that you can rebel against God without there being real-life eternal consequences. How should we respond to this teaching? Understand, salvation comes only through the cross. If we neglect to humble ourselves and trust in the cross of Christ and his sacrifice on our behalf, we will face eternal judgment. If we're saved, we need to be faithful. Whatever he has put into our care, we need to the very best of our ability to take those things and use them for his glory. And we cannot allow ourselves to become distracted by the failures, the triumphs, or the bitterness of those around us. So I encourage you, stay focused. Invest your life wisely in his service. Remember 1 Corinthians 3, verse 9. We are laborers together with God. According to the grace which is given to me as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon. Let every man take heed how he builds thereon. If any man builds upon this foundation gold and silver and precious stone, wood, hay, and stubble, every man's work shall be made manifest. The day will declare it. because it shall be revealed by fire. If a man's work abide, which he hath built thereon, he will suffer los he will receive a reward. If the man's work shall be burned, he will suffer loss But he himself shall be saved yet so as by fire. This passage of Scripture, 1 Corinthians 3, is really laying out in very specific terms what Jesus is teaching in his parable of stewardship. That's what I have for you this week. Hope that you have a wonderful weekend. Hope that as these truths settle into your heart, you will live in the light of them If you need anything, if you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. And Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday. Have a blessed rest of your day. Bye now.