Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope that you're having a great Tuesday. Whether you're watching this in the morning, afternoon, evening, whenever you're getting this. I hope that you've had a great day or that you are going to have a great day. And if you have your Bible, let's all turn together to Luke chapter 12 and We are reading verses 35 through 48. Again, we're not reading the entire section just for sake of time on these videos, but we will deal with the entire passage of scripture. throughout the week. So Luke chapter 12 verses 35 through 48. Let's all turn together please and let's read the scriptures. Here's what God's Word says. Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning, and ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their Lord, when he when he will return from the wedding. that when he cometh and knocketh, they may open unto him immediately. Blessed are those servants whom the Lord when he cometh shall find watching. Verily I say unto you, that they that he shall gird himself, make them to sit down at meet, and he will come forth and serve them Now, yesterday we introduced a topic that was predominant in this book, the book of Luke, and it's part of the context that drives us toward the need to be ready. And the word that we introduced yesterday was the word kingdom. We saw that the kingdom of God was a heavy emphasis in the book of of Luke. I mean 45 times it's it's it's referenced and we showed you a couple of examples so that you could get a sense of this topic of the kingdom of God. And what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to kind of develop this a little bit more. There are several promises in Scripture that I would say are a foretaste of this future kingdom. We're going to work our way through those. Each of these passages is very important in helping us understand the significance. Of this moment in history. And so the first of these four tastes that I'll talk about are what we call the rapture of the church. The Bible teaches that there's going to be a time that Christ is going to take his church and snatch them up to be with him. We see this in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, where it says, that the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout. with the voice of the archangel and the trump of God. And the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then they which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. Now this verse is telling us that there's a point in time where those who are dead in Christ and those who are living and alive in Christ, okay? These people are all going to be caught up to be with the Lord. Another passage that talks about this is 1 Corinthians 15. He says, we will not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible. and we shall be changed. Then shall be brought to pass the saying, death is swallowed up in victory. Now we do not know when this is going to occur. We believe that this is going to happen before the events that are talked about in the book of Revelation during the tribulation time period where God is going to focus his attention on the nation of Israel and that tribulation is going to be a seven-year period of tremendous difficulty on this planet. But the point is this. Christ is going to come at a moment when people are not ready and he's going to snatch up his church to be with them. But there's a second foretaste that is promised in the script. scripture. And this is distinct from the rapture. And that's called the second coming of Christ. This is something that's going to take place at the end of the tribulation. before the inauguration of the thousand-year reign of Christ, commonly called the Millennial Kingdom. And the second coming of Christ is different from the rapture of the church. in the sense that the rapture of the church is an imminent event. There's nothing that precedes it. There's no sign that has to take place in order for the rapture to occur. It's going to happen at a moment when people are not ready. But the second coming of Christ is slightly different. There will be many people not ready, obviously. But the second coming of Christ is something that is preceded by many signs. that are talked about. And Jesus talks about these signs. In the Old Testament, there are come there their prophecies about these signs, and especially in the book of Revelation. There's a lot of instruction about this. And in Revelation chapter 19, this is what the scripture says. I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse, and he that sat on him called faithful and true. This is Jesus. And in righteousness he doth judge and make war. Now there's a difference between the rapture and the second coming, in the sense that the rapture is not Jesus coming on a horse, with his people. He's taking his people to be with him. But in Revelation 19, at the end of the tribulation, before the inauguration of this kingdom, Jesus is coming with his people. to establish a new kingdom that is going to be him ruling and reigning as predicted in the Old Testament. And he says this, the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed with fine linen, white and clean. Out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he shall smite the nations. The next statement is fascinating. It says, he shall rule them with a rod of iron. He hath on his vesture and on his side a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Then we see what the Bible has to say about this kingdom, the next chapter, Revelation 20. It says he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the devil, Satan, and bound him a thousand years. that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years should be fulfilled. After that he must be loosed a little season. And I saw thrones in him that sat on them and judged them, and judgment was given unto them. You say, well, who are those people? Well, those are people who are redeemed. Those are the people that are coming with him. That's people like you and me if we've placed our faith in Christ. He says, I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Christ and for the word of God, and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. The rest of the dead live not again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. They shall be priests of God and of Christ. and shall reign with him a thousand years. This passage is describing a period of time after the rapture, after the tribulation, after the second coming of Christ. that is a foretaste of the ultimate kingdom, which will not just be a thousand years, but will be forever. And then we come to Revelation chapter 20, where we read about the eternal kingdom. In order for people to enter the kingdom, they have to be redeemed. And if God is going to One is he's going to rescue and establish, and he's going to judge. And so Revelation 20, 11 opens up with a statement. I saw the dead, small and great stand before God, and the books rope it. Another book was opened, which is the Book of Life. The dead were judged out of those things which are written in the books according to their works. Whoever was now found written in the book of life was cast in the lake of fire. I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away. And then we come to the final statement that is so very important. And this is the kingdom. I, John, saw the holy city new Jerusalem. We often talk about heaven. When people use the term heaven, this is probably what they're referring to. The New Jerusalem. And this is this the city is described in the book of Revelation as a beautiful, massive city, streets of gold. But this is the part that I want you to focus in on He says it's coming down, prepared as a bride for her husband. And he says, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. He will dwell with them. They shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. There will be no more death, no more sorrow, neither crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. Behold, I make all things new. And so when the Bible talks about the kingdom, this is the ultimate fulfillment of those kingdom promises. There are precursors to this kingdom, foretastes of this kingdom, but this is the point in history which goes into the eternal state that we are anticipating. And so the simple summary of this would be this. This is God's world, but it's not yet what it's going to be one day. It's fallen, it's filled with pain, struggle between good and evil, and these verses talk about this. And God is mercifully preserving this world and bringing it to his ultimate purpose of triumph. He's promised he's going to one day restore it to eternal glory, and that's what's going to happen. And so we are living in this tension between the already and the not yet. And so I give you these final applications to consider. We're living in the midst of conflict. It shouldn't surprise us. We're redeemed with redemption fully secured, but we're not enjoying all the benefits, the full benefits of that redemption. The way we live today actually matters. And so we need to feel the weight of the duty that we've been called to as Christians. So my encouragement is simple. Let's live with the anticipation of this future kingdom that the scriptures talk about. I hope that as we continue this study , And we work through this passage of Scripture that these truths will encourage you and challenge you and help equip you, and ultimately it'll give you something to thank God is coming in the future. May the Lord help us with this. Well, hope you have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow and we will sign off until then. Bye now.