Good morning. I'd like to welcome you welcome you back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And the text that we're going to deal with this week is one that I I really hope will be an encouragement to you. And so if you're watching this video this morning, please take some time to share this with other people who will be benefited by it. And I think that as we reflect on this text and what is being communicated by Christ, it will be a tremendous encouragement. And whether you know someone who's a believer or not a believer, this passage has uh some practical things for everyone to hear. And so the text that we're looking at is Luke chapter 15. We're reading verses 1 through 10 together. And the topic we're addressing is God's immense. Grace. And so let's all take our Bibles and please turn there to that text. I'll read it and then we will reflect on a couple of summary statements for the passage and uh Just one introductory thought. So here's what the scripture says. Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners, for to hear him. And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them. And he spake this parable unto them, saying, What man of you having an hundred sheep, if you lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wind And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbours, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep, which was lost. I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine judges Persons which need no repentance. Either what woman, having ten pieces of silver, if she loses one piece, doth not light a candle and sweep the house and seek diligently to find it? And when she hath found it, she calleth her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the peace which I had lost. Likewise I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the Now, as you can see from this text of Scripture, there are two parables that Jesus taught. And this is actually two of three parables. parables that we'll kind of talk about throughout the week and then Lord willing next week uh we will be getting into that third parable which is uh a very uh practical parable and it's kind of like The culmination of everything that Jesus is saying. But I want to lay out this introduction with, first of all, a summary statement for what we're looking at. Christ taught three parables. to a diverse audience to celebrate God's immense grace towards sinners, warning the self-righteous and comforting the spiritually broken. As we read this, we're going to see that he wants us to respond properly to his immense grace. And if we're going to respond properly to this grace, we have to understand it. We have to feel the weight of it. We have to be Moved by it. And that is the intent of the text in front of us. And so I want to start with this introductory thought under that summary statement. Anybody has The potential to become a disciple. Now, what I'm stating could be misunderstood. Don't say more than I'm saying, or please don't say less than I'm saying. Anyone has the potential to become a disciple. It doesn't matter how a person has lived their life, it doesn't matter what culture they're from, it doesn't matter how much money they make. education. You could take all kinds of different demographic type categories, or we could talk about sin struggles that people deal with. It does not matter. There is potential for a person to become a disciple of Christ. Now, the potential does not mean the realization of such a thing. It's Simply means that it is possible they can become a disciple. And we see that in verse number one when it says, then drew near unto him all the publicans and the sinners. hear him. Now what is the significance of that statement? There are three things that I want to draw your attention to that really hit home. This point That anyone can become a disciple of Christ. The first is consider the people who came. In verse 1 it says, then drew near unto him, publicans and sinners. Now, Jesus' audience is going to be diverse. It's diverse in the sense that you're going to have people who were publicans. These are people who collected taxes for the Roman government. There are people who were Sinners, and when we use that word sinner, um, it's not saying that well, some people are not sinners and some people are sinners. That's not the purpose of that. It's to say that these are people who were known for their sin. This was their reputation. And if you want to consider the kinds of things they would have been known for, you will get a sense of that in the parable that Jesus gives of these three parables where he talks about this uh this boy. Who disrespected his father, took his inheritance share, and then he there wasted his substance on riotous living. And when his brother talks about the riotous living, he basically describes Certain kinds of sinful behavior that were completely abominable both to God and to the Father and to the family and to society. And so when he talks about publicans and sinners, he's talking about people who were known to be Very sinful, very promiscuous, drunkards, people that were stealing money, extortioners, that's what the publicans were, abusing authority. And so these were people who were ostracized. criticized in the society. These are people who were who were not viewed positively at all. This was not a society like ours that celebrates evil. This is a society that would have had great disdain for this The second thing I want to make mention of is the way that Christ responds to these people. In verse 2, it says, This man receiveth sinners, and he Now the point is that Jesus did not make a discrimination of these people because of their behavior and because of their Of what they were known for. That's not to say that these people can come to God without having their sin dealt with. That is not at all the sense. It's not to say that Jesus doesn't call out their sin. He absolutely will Do that. But the fact that they had been guilty of violating God's law on very serious matters did not change the fact that they could come to Christ and He could receive them. Them and eat with them, and ultimately it would be through redemption. It's because of the gospel that a person can come into God's presence. And so we say that he receives these people, he eats with them. It's because he desired Desires to save them. And this is going to come out in the parable this week. The third thing I want to mention is the flow of Christ's teaching. And this is what's kind of stunning about it. Christ in no way was watering down the message that he was proclaiming. He preached a message that made even the religious and the righteous people, and I use the term righteous in the sense of they appear righteous. They believed they were righteous. He preached a message that made those people uncomfortable because of how high the priority of allegiance to Christ would be. Notice what it says. First twenty-six of chapter fourteen. If any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters, yea in his own life he cannot be my disciple I mean you want to talk about he has to be the highest priority even above family and friends and even over your own life that's no Simple, easy, smooth message that's just drawing people to make them feel good. Be my disciple. This call to discipleship is a serious matter. It could even cost a person their life. Or in verse 33 he says, Whosoever he be that forsaketh not all So when we think about this, we're recognizing that these are notorious sinners, people that were hated and despised. And then we see the things that Jesus taught, and it's stunning that this kind of a person would come to Jesus, and then Jesus receives them and he eats with them. So what do we take away from Well, here's what we take away from this. What we take away from this is that though these people had lived notoriously sinful lives, they came to him and they desired to follow him. The second thing is, even though they had lived these notoriously sinful lives, he accepted them. And the last thing is though they heard these hard teachings, They came and they wanted to follow him. What is the point? The point is that anyone can become a disciple of Christ. And you may be a person who hears this message maybe because you just stumbled on it online or maybe because somebody shared it and you happened to see it and in your heart you say you know what I could never become a Christian I can never be a church going kind of person. because those are the good people in society. Those are the people who are very righteous. And the fact is that the church is made up of sinners who have been saved by Grace, people who are redeemed to God, people from all kinds of different backgrounds and all kinds of different struggles. And the fact is, God has rescued them from their sin. They didn't start out being sinless people. So the gospel's for you. You may have a person you've been praying for for a very long time, and in your mind you say there's no way this person could ever become a Christian. They will never become a Christian. Christian and what we see in these verses is that some of the most unlikely people are the ones who came to Christ. So there's a lot for us to process as we think about this. And I hope that as you reflect on it throughout the day It will make you think about how you view people, how you view yourself. What do I want to leave you with? Have a wonderful rest of your day. If this has been a blessing, to you take a moment to share it perhaps write a comment that would be an encouragement to others and Lord willing we'll meet we'll meet again tomorrow have a blessed day bye now