Good morning and welcome to our fourth Anchored in the Word Study This Week. And out of all the studies we've done this week, this one will be probably the most important. So I hope that you'll join us I hope you'll consider sharing this. This topic is very, very important. What is it that takes a person from being dead to God, dead in trespasses and sins? and being made alive in Christ. What is the difference between those two positions? The one word is the word grace. And I want us to talk about that this morning, and I want us to understand by the working of God what it means to be born again. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles, turn together to Ephesians chapter 2. We're going to read this text, and then we're really going to focus in on that word grace. Here's what it says. And you at the quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins, wherein in times past you walked according to the course of this world according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience, among whom we all had our conversation in times past, fulfilling the lust of the flesh. and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. But God who is rich in mercy For his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, he hath quickened us together with Christ, by grace ye are saved. That last statement is the key. By grace you are saved. What does it mean to be saved by grace? Why is it that grace is what makes all the difference? It's because the only way that you and I can be reconciled to a holy God is if He provides 100% the means. for us to be reconciled to him. He's got to do all the work. We get to receive it as a gift. Notice the way he puts it in verse 4. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead, he has quickened us together with Christ. Notice the words, but God. God made all the difference as he provides a plan of redemption. There are four powerful statements that are made in these verses that we need to understand. The first one is the phrase, but God. God did not leave us alone. He didn't abandon us. He didn't leave us to our own devices. He had every right to do that. He could have just left us to decide to die in our misery, but he didn't do that because he's a God who is rich in mercy, because he's a God who loves us. The second phrase, rich in mercy, is important for us to really understand. That means he had compassion on us in our spiritually deadened state When he looked down at us, he saw us as someone who had great need. And he knows that he can meet the need. And he was moved with compassion in his heart to meet that need. He loves us. Third phrase, his great love, wherewith he loved us. When we were not lovely, God loved us. The truth is every person in this world lives their life in rebellion against God. We don't all do it in the exact same way. Our sin doesn't all look the exact same. Some people their sins are very visible. Others their sins are very much in the heart. And they look great on the outside. What's going on inside, in fact, is very dark, it's very dirty, it's it's very, very opposed to God and his ways. But whether people can see it or whether people would grade it as high or low, that doesn't matter. We are all sinners and we've all broken God's law and we are estranged from him. We're separate from him. We are spiritually dead. But God loved us even when we were unlovely. The fourth statement, this salvation is 100% the work of God. It is all of his grace. It is by grace ye are saved. And so as we think about these phrases, that God pursues us, He has mercy, compassion on us, He loves us, and He saves us by His grace, the question is, well, how does that all work out? This change of position only takes place one way. And the answer to that is it is by the work of God in the new birth. John chapter 3 verse 3, we must be born again. The Bible says except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus was shocked when he heard this. Nicodemus was a very religious man. He was very moral. He was a teacher. He was a rabbi. He was one of the most respected people of his day. And Jesus tells him, you gotta be born again. Well, what that tells you that salvation isn't in a religious system. Salvation isn't through religious ritual. Salvation isn't through what people think of us. Salvation is through new life that comes from God, being born again, spiritual birth. This birth comes through the word of God. God's word has to meet us in order for us to be born again. You say, well, how does that work? Well, here's the answer. Romans chapter 10. He says, how can we believe, how can they call on him whom they've not believed? And how can they believe on him whom they've not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach except they be sent? It is written how beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace, and bring glad tidings of good things. So faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. The way that a person is born again. is they believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. They turn to him and they place their faith in his finished work alone. But that faith is a result Of God sending someone to preach, that person obeying that preaching of the word, and they present the gospel, and through the hearing of the word, a person responds in faith. New birth comes through God working through his word to draw us to himself. There are a lot of other scriptures that talk about this. James 1. It's of his own will he begat us by the word of truth that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creature. The scriptures are what God uses, the preaching of the law and the gospel is what he uses to bring us to faith. Second Corinthians four six God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness hath shined into our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. 1 Peter 1, we are born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the Word of God. So this new birth comes as a person hears the gospel. And they respond to the gospel by faith alone. To put it in the simplest way I can, all those who receive him by faith alone, they are born again. Notice what it says in John 5. He that heareth my word and believeth on him who sent me hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. John 1. 12, as many as received him, to them he gave the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And so when a person hears the word, believes on him, calls on him for salvation, he is born again. And so that leads me to a very simple question. Have you passed from death to life? Have you called on the Lord for salvation? Have you responded to the gospel? As a repentant sinner who believes that Christ is the one and only way of salvation, have you called on the Lord to save you? If you haven't, then may today be that day. May today be the day that you turn to God and place your faith in Christ. What's keeping you from that? Don't let pride do it. Don't let unbelief do it Turn to Christ and trust him today. Well, that gives you some things to think about. If you were a Christian, praise God there was a day that you turned to Christ and you placed your faith in him Thank God for his grace and mercy in your life. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. And Lord willing, we'll meet again one more time tomorrow to break down some final thoughts. Bye now.