Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And this week we are dealing with a very well-known passage of Scripture, and that is dealing with the parable of the prodigal son. And if you notice in our uh what we're we're going to have as our title, it's going to be the Parable of the Lost Sons. And the reason for that is something that's going to become more apparent as we dig into the text. each day throughout the week. So the passage that we're in again is Luke chapter 15. We're reading verses 11 through 32 and then we will dig into a couple of introductory thoughts to prepare us as we work our way through the text Luke 15, 11 says the following. And he said, A certain man had two sons. The younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. Not many days after the younger son gathered together all that he had, took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. When he had spent all, there arose a famine in the land, and he began to be in want, and he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. And he would have feigned it filled his belly with the husk that the swine did eat, and no man gave them to him. When he came to himself, he said, How many of my the hired servants of my father have bread enough to spare and I perished un with hunger. I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of the hired servants And he rose and came to his father, but when he was a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. Now this passage of Scripture is a very comforting text, and it's going to talk about the grace of God, but I want to give you a summary statement and then dig into the introductory matters dealing with this text First of all, summary. Christ taught three parables to celebrate God's immense grace, extended towards sinners, warning the self-righteous. and comforting the spiritually broken. He simply wants us to be humble and to properly rejoice in the grace that he has given to us. A few details as we think about that concept of the self-righteous being humbled and those who understand their sin and their misery being comforted. The verse is this, we want to consider the audience, and we see this in verses 1 to 3, where he talks about publicans and sinners and Pharisees and scribes. Well, who were these different groups of people? Well, first of all, the publicans were people that were known to be traitors to their nation, and they were extortioners. They were thieves. They stole from the people. They abused their authority so that they could become wealthy. The second group, sinners, is talking about people who were noteworthy sinners, notoriously sinful people. Their identity was rooted in the kinds of sins that were known to be scandalous in their culture. The third would be the Pharisees. This would have been the strictest religious sect at the time of Christ. These were people who were known for the letter of the law and the details, and they even built rules around the laws to make sure that people would not accidentally or incidentally break those laws. They cleared up the gaps where the scripture maybe didn't articulate with the kind of clarity they wanted. They followed the traditions of the elders. Then the scribes, these would have been the religious scholars, the people who studied the Word of God, they copied it down, and they transmitted it. And so these are the people that Jesus is speaking to in these verses Well, what are the circumstances that lead up to this parable that Jesus teaches? Well, first of all, there were very difficult teachings. He commanded them that they had to be willing to forsake everything if they were going to follow him. Think about the humbling response of the publicans and the sinners. When they heard this teaching, instead of running the other direction, they came to Christ. They wanted to hear what he had to say. And then we look at how the scribes and the Pharisees responded when they observed Christ receiving these people. They complained. And don't miss the progression of the teaching that we have in the text. First of all, the parable of the lost sheep. It's natural to search for lost things. It's natural to rejoice when you find those things that have been lost. And since it's natural to rejoice over things and animals that are found, how much more should we rejoice over people who are lost and have been found? God's grace is celebrated in this parable. When we come to the second parable, the parable of the lost coin, we see the exact same focus And then when we come to this third parable, the one that we're going to develop throughout the week, what we're looking at is an expansion of what Jesus is teaching. But it's more than an expansion. It's also a personalization of those first two parables. There is no personal dynamic to an animal or a personal dynamic to a lost coin. But when you talk about your son, your child, someone who has shamed you. And someone who has destroyed uh everything that you have you have you have raised up for your entire life, you have prepared to give to them. Well, if that's what you're looking at, you're talking about something that's a lot more personal And so as we think about that final of the three parables, the one that we're going to develop this week, we're going to see that God's grace is good. In fact, it's not just good, but it's incomprehensibly good. It's more than we can even fully wrap our minds around. And it defies some of our most noble inclinations. It's natural to love your children, but it's not natural to love them the way that this man loved his son when your child has wronged you and has really harms you in a very difficult way. Thirdly, it's far more than just a lavish expression of kindness. It's a lavish expression that makes us uncomfortable because we think about what's there. And so the question is, what's this passage going to be about this week? It's going to be about celebrating this grace of God, this incomprehensibly good grace of God. This grace of God that's far better than our kindest and and noblest interactions with other people. One is even going to make us uncomfortable when we consider the full implications of it. So I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage of Scripture. And I hope that you have a great rest of your day. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow to start digging into this passage of Scripture. Talk to you all later. Bye now.