Good morning, welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection for the Week. And as we've been looking at this passage of Scripture, what I'd like to do is kind of push beyond the details of this text and ask ask the question, how was this period in church history impactful on the rest of church history? And the answer is the significance is found in the various churches that Paul planted during this period. So if you have your Bible, let's take it. Let's turn together to Luke, or excuse me, Acts chapter 18. We're going to begin reading in verse 1 and then we're going to spend a little time thinking about some of the church plants that took place during this period that are a direct result. of God forbidding Paul at that period in his ministry to go down to Ephesus, but rather to go over to Macedonia in Achai. So here's what the text says. After these things Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth, and found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius, lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla, because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome He came unto them, and because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, and wrought, for by their occupation they were tent makers. And he reasoned in the synagogue every day, and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks When Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the Spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. Now to appreciate the significance of this period of church history, it's important to see how much of our New Testament actually links back directly to this time period. And so I want to give you kind of a grocery list of what we mean by that. The first city that Paul goes to when he crosses over into Macedonia and Achai. is the city of Philippi. Now Philippi was a place that didn't have much of a Jewish community. They weren't meeting in a synagogue. They were meeting by the riverside. And there Paul is able to give the gospel, and a very small church is started, and eventually the Philippian church becomes an influential church in the New Testament. And so we have a book, the book of Philippians, which is a letter written to them. The second place that Paul goes is Thessalonica, and he's only there a couple of weeks But two of our epistles, 1 and 2 Thessalonians, are written to the church that Paul established there in just a short time in Thessalonica. Then after Paul works his way through Berea and then Athens, he ends up at Corinth. And we know that Paul wrote several epistles to the Corinthians, but two of them are scripture, 1 and 2 Corinthians. It is also there at Corinth that Paul meets Aquila and Priscilla. And Aquila and Priscilla are influential in the rest of Paul's ministry journeys The next place that he goes is Ephesus. And when he goes to Ephesus, he drops off of Quulli and Priscilla. Later after going to Jerusalem and returning back to Ephesus. He's going to continue to minister with them. But what you can see by this point is that one decision to obey God, go over into those regions of Macedonia and Achai, as opposed to Asia at that time. led Paul into Philip Philippi, Thessalonica, Corinth, and then back to Ephesus. All of these things are testimony to how God worked in those circumstances. And then from the church at Ephesus, we see that seven letters are written to seven churches in the book of Revelation. That is probably a cyclical letter that would have been distributed to all of these places. that would have connected back to Ephes uh to Ephesus, which was probably the founding church of those other churches. Then we moved to 1 and 2 Thessalonians, or 1 and 2 Timothy, and 1 and 2 Timothy, the pastoral epistles. They are written to Timothy, who is where? At Ephesus. We then go to the epistles of 1, 2nd, and 3 John Or we can go to the Gospel of John. All of these books are directly influenced by Paul's decision to obey God and do the work in the sequence that he did. And so what it shows you is that whether you're talking about Philippi or Ephesus or Thessalonica or Romans, the book of Romans, which was written to the church at Rome. which is where Aquila and Priscilla Ministering, all of these places have a direct link back to the timing of this missionary journey. And so that leads us to a question, what's the point of the significance of that timing? Answer, God providentially guided these people. He guided them away from certain areas and then eventually back to those certain areas. The timing was significant. Each city he went in, the way he was received or not, driven out, all of those things. fall under the providential working of God. It reminds me of Proverbs 20, verse 24. Man's goings are of the Lord. How can a man understand his own way? When Paul was doing the things he was doing, he had no idea how it was going to unfold. And that's the way it works in all of our lives. As we obey God, as we take on the circumstances that we are encountering, as we try to seek to be consistent and faithful in the places that God plants us. During those times, what does God do? He works through ordinary means to accomplish his purposes. And so this working of God demonstrates several things about his care and his power. And let me share them with you in the closing here. The first is this: the movement of events was significant. Nearly every movement was directly connected to a disappointment or something that was outside of pulse control. Whether it was to say, don't go to Ephesus, Asia right now, rather go over to Macedonia, whether it was to get driven out of a city. Or be chased by people from another city, whatever the situation, those movements were a direct result of disappointment. And those disappointments were outside of their control. The second word is timing. Paul wanted to go to Ephesus, and he would eventually get to go to Ephesus, but the timing wasn't right. And the reason it wasn't right is because God was assembling a team. And there were certain churches that needed to be established first. And so God's working on the timing was exactly according to his purposes. And then the third word is protection. In each situation that Paul encountered, they experienced persecution, injustice, and God's intervention. But many times this intervention was through very ordinary things, like a mob being dispersed by a Roman ruler. Or maybe circumstances unfolding a certain way that if you didn't think about God's hand, you wouldn't recognize that's what it was. Yet that's exactly what God was doing. The movement of events, the timing of those events. God's hand of protection, all of that is a part of God's purposes. And so I want to remind you that in the little things going on in your life right now, the things that you don't understand, The things that have frustrated you, the things that are sometimes driving you to a point of discouragement, realize that while you can't see it now, God is using those things to accomplish his purposes both in your life and through your life. And so don't get upset at him. Don't get discouraged. Don't get weary in well-doing. Trust God. Be faithful, and see what he does. Well, it gives us some things to think about this morning. I hope that you'll join us again tomorrow as we look at some final thoughts of application. If you ever have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. If you'd like to share some productive, helpful feedback, please feel free to do that. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.