Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And as we always do on Fridays, we take some time to break down the applications from what we've looked at this week. And Psalm 50 is an interesting psalm because the focus of this psalm is really in two directions. One would be the believer, the genuine believer, truly redeemed regenerate person who's not living consistent with the position that they have. And their problem is ultimately a motive issue. And then on the other side, we have those who are part of the covenant community. And they present themselves as if they are believers, but in fact they're not. They're not genuine. And the inconsistency is because it's a demonstration of a position that's not alive in Christ. And so the question is, what would be the application of a psalm like this? Well, let's dig into that for a few minutes this morning. But let's begin first of all by reading through this portion, beginning portion of Psalm 50, and then we'll look at those applications. Here's what the text says. The mighty God, even the Lord, hath spoken, and call the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof. Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined. Our God shall come and shall not keep silence. A fire shall devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him. He shall call to the heavens from above and to the earth, that they may judge his people. Gather my saints together unto me, those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice, and the heavens shall declare his righteousness For God is judge, Himself, Selah. Now as we think about these verses, let's see the two sides of application. The first point is to those who are unregenerate cultural Christians. Now, I know that we have been dealing with an Old Testament context. And we have to remember that the way people were saved in the Old Testament and the way they're saved today is essentially the same. By grace alone, through faith alone, in the Redeemer, Christ alone. Now in the Old Testament, they were looking forward to the Redeemer, the Messiah. We look back at what he did. And so it was possible for someone in those days, as it is possible for someone in these days. to be a cultural believer, but not truly regenerate. And so the question is, what is the appeal to that person? It is possible to sit in the church, to play the part of a true Christian, to present yourself as someone who believes in the Lord, but be unregenerate. God's justice should sober everybody, but especially the person who sits in the church context as an unbeliever. If it were not for the cross, you, I, would have no hope. And so no matter what we've done, no matter how we have lived our lives, no matter how hypocritical maybe we have been There is hope. As long as you have breath, you have opportunity to repent, believe in the gospel, to place your faith in Christ alone. So if you've come to the conclusion this week as you've been watching these videos or reading through this passage of scripture, thinking about these things, that in fact that's who you are. You are an unregenerate cultural Christian. Then turn to Christ and be saved. The second group is the inconsistent Christian. Now, when I say inconsistent, I don't want to give the impression that there are any believers that are 100% consistent that don't stumble in many ways. It's clear from this passage of scripture it's possible to be a genuine believer, but to be stumbling and living inconsistent with who you are in Christ. The old man is dead. That's not who you are. That's who you were. You're now a new creature in Christ. But you need to live in the light of that position. And so this passage of scripture has some things to say to us in that situation as well. First thing is this, our practice should reflect a healthy view of God. When people see how we live, it should demonstrate that's what we believe. We should live like the people we are. Our lives should reflect the doctrines that we affirm. One of the things that hurts the Christian testimony, the witness of the gospel in the world is when Christians are inconsistent. and they don't live like the people that they are. Part of that consistency is that we need to be a grateful people. That's really hammered out in the passage of scripture we've looked at this week Because we have received his grace, because we didn't deserve it in any way, we should be very grateful. Secondly, we should follow through with the commitments that we make. Because our words matter, because we are new creatures in Christ, because of our allegiance to Him, because of our identification with Him, we should speak the truth, we should follow through with what we've said. And also we should live with a humble dependence on him, not just for the salvation of our souls, but for the daily strength to live out the Christian experience day in and day out. So that we will grow, so that we will thrive. When it comes to positions of danger, when we need protection, we should humbly depend on the Lord for all of these issues. And so a person that is truly redeemed, that understands their position, is living in the light of it, is going to be a person who's grateful, who's honest, who follows through with their commitments, and who walks in humble dependence on the Lord. My prayer is that's what all of us will do. May God help us to be faithful, consistent Christians. Well, I hope that gives you some things to think about as you go into the weekend. Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday as we gather for worship. If not, I hope you'll join us again on Monday as we keep working our way through other passages of Scripture and are anchored in the Word studies. Have a blessed rest of your day and weekend. Bye now.