Good morning. Welcome to a new week in another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And this week we're in Psalm 49. And so I hope that you will take some time to read through this passage of Scripture and join us this week as we dig into its contents. The passage that we're looking at talks about redemption and specifically how it is God's grace and his redemptive work that allows us to be right with him. And so as we work our way through the text and as we look at the wisdom of the passage, the emptiness of those who reject this wisdom, and then ultimately the heart of the gospel, all of these things I hope will be a great encouragement to you. So if you have your Bible, let's turn together to Psalm 49. We're going to read the text. I'm actually going to read not the entire thing, but I'm going to hit some of the highlights, and then we'll talk about the first portion of this passage. Here's what it says, Psalm 49. Hear this, all ye people, give ear, all ye inhabitants of the world, both low and high, rich and poor, together. My mouth shall speak of wisdom, and the meditation of my heart shall be of understanding. I will incline my ear to a parable, I will open my dark sayings upon the harp Wherefore should I fear in the day of evil, when the iniquity of my heels shall compass me about? They that trust in their wealth and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches, none of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him. For the redemption of their soul is precious, and it ceaseth for ever, that he should still live forever and not see corruption. But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave, for he shall receive me. Now as you look at this text of scripture, I'd like to first of all summarize it and then focus in on the first portion of the psalm. Here's how I'd summarize it. True wisdom rejects all misplaced objects of trust and glories in the redemptive work of Christ alone. It is God's grace through his redemptive work that becomes the sole object of our confidence. And so as we work our way through the passage, we see that there's both a positive and a negative element to it. We must resist the deceptive pull of this world's wisdom, and we need to r resist that and then glory in the gospel and in the finished work of Christ. So how do we do this? Well the first part we're going to look at is this issue of wisdom. We must be purposed to pursue true wisdom in a world that is filled with distractions. Real wisdom, not the world's wisdom, but the wisdom of the Lord. And so in verses 1 through 4, we see this statement: Hear this, all ye people, give ear, all ye inhabitants of the world. God calls us to listen. In fact, this section reads a lot like something you would see in the Proverbs. We see words like give ear , listen. All those things are the kinds of things you would see in the book of of of Proverbs. And so we see that everyone needs wisdom. Give ye all ye inhabitants of the world, both lion l low and high, rich and poor together. He's covering everybody. Whether you are a person who's wealthy or a person who's poor, wherever you come from, whatever the culture, you need wisdom. Everyone needs this wisdom. The second thing that it emphasizes that this is a wisdom that's available to whoever is willing to seek it, and to seek it genuinely. We see this in verses three to four. My mouth shall speak of wisdom. I will open my mouth in a dark saying upon the harp. Now within those verses, verses 3 to 4, we see words like meditation. That means if you want this wisdom, then you have to stop. You have to read, you have to chew on it, you have to reflect on it, and once you reflect on it, this is where the wisdom will come from. Or we see another word, incline your ear. That means that you have to humble yourself and actually lower yourself instead of being proud, and you have to listen to what God has to say in his word. And then there's a third piece, and that is the statement, a dark saying This is something you're going to have to work for. This is something you have to work through. And that's the way the Proverbs are written. You have to meditate on them You have to lower yourself and humble yourself because God resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble and he gives wisdom to those who are willing to seek it. And then you've got to be willing to take the time to work through the issue and let the issue work through you so that that wisdom is achieved Now, where do we find this wisdom? Ultimately, we find it from two sources. One, negatively, we reject the deception of all substitutes. So we find the wisdom by turning away from the wisdom that the world offers and turning positively toward the truths of Scripture So this wisdom comes with the desire to reject what is false and to embrace what is true. Reminds me of Psalm 1 where it says, Blessed is the man who who does not walk in the counsel of the ingaller, who does not stand in the way of sinners, who does not sit in the state of the scornful, but rather his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. You see both the negative, he does not do this, and the positive, rather, he does. And so as we work our way through this passage of scripture this week, My prayer is that you'll join us and that you'll find this to be a very encouraging and helpful text of Scripture. There'll be a lot of theological parts to it where we're talking about the heart of the gospel, but there's also a wisdom dynamic. embracing the true wisdom, eternal wisdom, and rejecting the wisdom that this world has to offer. Well, have a blessed rest of your morning or whenever you're watching or listening to this video and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to reach out. If this is something that you've appreciated, maybe share a note of encouragement or thanks if you've enjoyed it. uh share a like for that and uh pass it along to someone else who could be encouraged by it. Have a blessed rest of your morning and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now