Good morning. Hope you're having a great Tuesday and looking forward to digging into this topic with you this week. We've been looking at, or started looking at, God's plan for the church. It's a glorious plan. Yesterday we talked about a couple of introductory thoughts, kind of get the big picture, and today we're going to look at the theological basis. for everything else that's going to be talked about this week. And that is our union with Christ. We talk about our union with Christ, what we mean is that we have been planted into the likeness of his death. And we have been raised with him to walk in newness of life. We're going to talk about the significance of that theological reality. And this isn't something that we feel, it's not something that we see take place, it's something that we know it because the scripture tells us that, and then we see the effects that take place in our lives as a result of being new creatures in Christ. So if you have a Bible, let's take it, turn together to Colossians chapter 3. We'll read the text and then dig into this topic together. Here's what the scripture says. If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God Set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth, for you are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ who is our life shall appear, then shall you also appear with him in glory Mortify therefore your members, which are upon the earth, fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupicence, and covetousness, which is idolatry. For which things sake the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience. and the which you also walked some time when you lived in them. As I mentioned earlier, the mission of the church starts with being united to Christ And we see this in three simple statements. The passage says, if you then be risen with Christ, then seek those things which are above. The three components are first of all the word if. This tells us there's a condition. If this is not true about you, then the application really doesn't yet apply. Not to say it can't. You have to first be united to Christ. But there's a conditional element here. The second is the reality that is true of the Christian. The Christian is risen with Christ. And that is because he has been united to both his death and his resurrection. And the third thing is the logical response. If this is true, that I have been risen with Christ, then logically I should seek things that are above. And so you can see the connection between those three components. And so let's think for a few moments about why our union with Christ is so important. It's important because in verse 3 it says you are dead and your life is hid with Christ in God That means that we are both dead in a sense and alive in a sense. Now, what does he mean by you're dead? What he means is who you were before you became a Christian is no longer who you are. That man, the old man, is dead. And then secondly, you are now a new creature. You have a new life. You have a new capacity. You have new affections. You are no longer dead, but now alive. And because we are alive, we are called to walk in a distinctly different way than we did before we were Christians In verse 5, he's going to say that we are to mortify our members, literally, as those sinful passions well up within us, we are to put those passions to death. And then in verse 8 it says we are to put off these things, and then we are to put on new things. And so we are a new creature. The old man that we were is dead. And so we are to put to death. fleshly passions and where to put off the old ways and put on new ways. And we see in these verses that when we start branching out into some parallel passages, that we're going to see that we are empowered to walk in a distinctly different way than we did before our conversion. A lot of scripture talks about this. One of my favorites is Romans chapter 8, verse 3. It says, What the law could not do, and that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemns sin in the flesh. That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. Now, what are these verses telling us? In our old nature, who we were before we were converted, our old man, we did not have the capacity to please God We could strive as hard as we want and we couldn't do it. But that old man is dead. And we're now alive. And we can walk in a distinctly way. And now as new creatures in Christ. We walk after the Spirit. That means we don't have to fulfill the lusts of the flesh. We can live for Him. Another passage that gives the same concept is Galatians 2. 19. He says, through the law I became dead to the law so that I could live unto God. Now how did this happen? Well, I'm crucified with Christ. There's that union. We were buried in the likeness of his death, raised to walk in in his life. I'm crucified with him, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. The life that I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. We also see this in Romans chapter 6. He says, if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection. Knowing this that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed. Henceforth we should not serve sin, for ye are dead. He that is dead is freed from sin. And so when we talk about these verses and we talk about her union with Christ, We need to realize that this is what frees us or liberates us to be able to walk in a new way. Our lives are oriented toward Him and away from what we were before. And so this will be the basis for everything else we'll say the rest of this week. So if you have any questions about that, please don't hesitate to reach out. I'd love to work through that with you, talk through that with you. dialogue with you back and forth if that's necessary. And if it's been an encouragement, take a moment to share that. And then before I sign out, I want to remind you, you are a new creature in Christ. Old things have passed away, all things have become new. So let's reckon ourselves dead to sin and alive unto God through Christ Jesus our Lord. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.