Good morning. Welcome back to our Wednesday Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And we've been talking about the birth of the church at Cornet. And this is an interesting passage that tells us about God's power and it is being demonstrated in a very active way. And so we've talked a little bit about background, we've gotten into sort of the storyline leading up to the plant of the church at Corinth. And today what I'd like us to do is see how this actually unfolded during the period of time that Paul was ministering there. So if you have your Bible, please take it. Let's turn to Acts chapter 18. We're going to pick it up in verse number 1. And we'll look at the basic storyline of what happened there at Corinth. Here's what God's Word says. And after these things, Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth. And he found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius, lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla. Because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome, he came unto them, and because he was of the same craft, he abode with them and wrought, for by their occupation they were tent makers. And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the Spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. Now as we dig into this passage, it starts with Paul's interaction with Aquila and Priscilla. In fact, later in our missions month, we're going to focus on this story because it is a fascinating story. of God's providence in the ordinary issues of people's lives. But Paul means Aquil and Priscilla at Corinth through some unusual means. You could say in some sense unordinary, in other ways unusual. Notice what it says in verse 1 It says that he departed from Athens to Corinth and found a certain Jew named Aquila, born of Pontius. And this statement's important. He was lately come from Italy with his wife. Because Claudius commanded the Jews to depart from Rome. So the reason that Paul and this man, Aquila, and his wife Priscilla are interacting with one another is because Claudius had kicked the Jewish people out of Rome, and because he had to leave his home, he's basically living as a refugee there in Corinth. And so he's attracted to Corinth because he's making tents for the Isthvian games. Paul is is also Jewish, so they have a common cultural connection. And so they're working together. And through that working together, they become friends. And they work together. And eventually this couple is going to become part of Paul's ministry team. Now, as Paul did in each of these cities, if they had a synagogue, the first thing that he would do as far as ministry goes was to go to the synagogue. And we read this in verse four. It says he reasoned the synagogue every Sabbath and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. Paul was pressed in his spirit, and he testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. Now some might say, well, why did he go to a synagogue? Was he trying to be provocative? And the answer is, well, he's going to the place where people have the Old Testament scriptures. And this is a place where people have a background. And so Paul is going, appealing to them from the Old Testament to look for the Messiah, to recognize that the Messiah is the Lord Jesus. who was from Nazareth, and then to convince them through the preaching and teaching of Scripture that this is the Savior and they need to trust him as their Savior. And so that's why Paul reasons in the synagogue. Well, as the people hear the message, they don't all embrace it. In fact, many of these Jews reject while the Gentiles are turning to the gospel. And we see this conflict of cultures in verses six through eight. It says that Paul shook his raiment and said, Your blood be on your own heads. He's saying this to those Jews who rejected the gospel. He says, I am clean from henceforth. I will go to the Gentiles. He departed thence and entered into a certain man's house, named Justice, one that worshipped God, whose house was joined to the synagogue. And Christmas, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his house, and many of the Corinthians hearing believed and were baptized. And so we see that Paul has people who reject in the synagogue, some who embrace, and then he goes outside the synagogue and he starts preaching the gospel to the Gentiles. All of this is a testimony to God's providential hand at work. He is beginning the work of building the church And then we see that this is an unusual response compared to the other places that Paul has been. In each place that Paul's been, he's been driven out of the city, he's run to the next city, and then established to work. This one is different. He is told to stay. And the reason he's told to stay is because there are many people who are going to be converted in that city. God has people who are going to be saved. He says in it verses nine through eleven, Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision, saying, Do not be afraid, but speak. Hold not your peace, for I am with thee. No man shall set on thee to hurt thee. I have much people in this city. He continued there a year and six months teaching the word of God among them. And so what does Paul do? He obeys This instruction from God, this revelation. In the same way that he did not go to Ephesus, but rather passed over to Macedonia He obeys God, and he's going to stay in the city and preach the gospel. And so the rest of the story is God's providential intervention to protect him despite the very difficult circumstances that are going on around him. We see that God uses a Roman proconsul, Galio, to protect him. In verses 12 through 17 it says, When Galio, the deputy of Achai , that saw that the Jews made insurrection against Paul, he brought him to the judgment seat, saying, They said, This fellow persuadeth men to worship God contrary to the law. Now Galileo, oh Gallio knows that when they say the law, they don't mean the law of Corinth, the Roman law, the Jewish law. Galeo said unto the Jews, If it's a question of words and names of your law, look to it, for I will be no judge on such matters. He drove them out of the judgment seat. Then all the Greeks took Sophanes, the chief ruler of the synagogue, and beat him at the judgment seat. And Gallio cared for none of these things. Well what is this showing you? This is showing you that rather than him taking up their side and throwing them in prison, he actually defends them. He says, if you have a problem with your laws, you deal with it, but I'm not dealing with something that involves your legal system. This is God intervening, working through the ordinary means of government to protect these people. And even when they do that, the Jewish people are persecuted by those in Corinth, and Galilee doesn't care. He's just, he leaves them alone. Well, what is it showing you? This is the way that God works. Well, after after some contention, we see that Paul decides it's time to leave Corinth. And he heads to Ephesus on his way to Jerusalem. And by the way, this will be his first interaction with Ephesus In verse 18 it says, He tarried there a good while, took his leave of the brethren, and sailed into Syria with him Priscilla and Aquila. Now, what can we learn from all of this that we've talked about today? Well we can learn about it. Is that this is what ministry looks like. Church planting. I don't mean uh that you're gonna get thrown before the the uh the governor and um you're gonna get beaten in the street or something like that. Not necessarily those things. It can happen in certain places. But the point is that we see that that church planting is preaching the gospel, it's making disciples, it's seeing some people embrace it, it's seeing some people reject it, it's sometimes experiencing tensions. It's sometimes seeing our lives in danger. If there are times that God intervenes, that He uses the ordinary means uh uh to protect his people, but in spite of all the ups and the downs, what is God doing? He's building his church. And we have that providence in Matthew. Christ says, I will build my church. The gates of hell will not prevail against it. And that's exactly what he did here. That's what he does today. And that's what he will do until the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. So I want to encourage you this morning, don't be weary in well-doing. If you're in a low point, don't let that become the predominant thought in your mind. Or if you're at a high point, recognize you're going to come into some valleys and struggles. Trust God, be faithful, and see what He does. That's what I have for you. Well, Lord willing, tomorrow we'll meet again as we keep working our way through and looking at a couple more details more on the application side of this So have a blessed rest of your day, Lord Willing will meet again tomorrow by now