Good morning and welcome back to our third Wednesday edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that your week has started out well, hope that it's going well, and I hope it ends well. And as we dig into this passage, we want to move from objective truth. to now the subjective side, and that is how what we know to be true is to affect us in our spirit. And so the sense of this is that if I know that I'm secured in Christ, And I know that I belong to him, I know I'm his child, and I understand the benefits that I have in Christ, then the natural response to that should be real-life practical comfort that we experience on a daily basis. And so that's what we're going to focus on today. So let's go ahead and turn our Bibles again to Romans chapter 8. We'll pick up in verse 14, and then we'll focus in on this concept of comfort. It says, As many as are led of the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. Ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry Abba Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit that we are the children of God And if children then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ, if so be that we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified together For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. Now yesterday we we talked about the objective side. We are God's children. Today we're going to look at how I should respond to that reality. Well the answer is we can and we should experience immediate comfort in this new relationship. In verses 15 through 17 it says, you have received a spirit, not of bondage, again to fear. But you have received the Spirit of Adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our Spirit, that we are the children of God, and if children heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ. The way that he presents it is that this is an objective position. We are God's children. We have been reconciled to God. We are saved from wrath through him. These are all objective realities. But this objective reality is also going to fundamentally shape relationship. We have received the spirit not of bondage, again to fear, but instead we have received the spirit of adoption. You say, well, what does he mean by spirit of bondage, what we used to have, versus the spirit of adoption, what we now have? What he's talking about is how the Spirit's ministry to us has fundamentally changed now that we are God's children. Spirit of bondage is indicating that when we were not Christians, the Spirit of God was moving in our heart to what? Draw us to the truth, to convince us of sin and righteousness and judgment. to show us our need to turn to Christ, to repent, and believe in the gospel. In other words, the Spirit was demonstrating our guilt. how far we fall short of God's glory, and how our righteousness is all filthy rags. But once a person has trusted Christ as their Savior and they're now placed into Christ and their sin has been dealt with What does the Spirit of God do? Well He's our comforter. He He He awakens us to our position. He shows us we are forgiven and cleansed and children. And He shows us that we are secured. And He shows us the comforting truths of our position in Christ. Now he comforts us through position. And so he's emphasizing how that objective truth translates into actual experience. And so this position that is objective is going to press us to reflect and glory in the security of our position. If we are children, then we are heirs. If we are heirs, we are joint heirs with Christ. And the immediate response should be, Cry, Abba, Father. He is your father. He loves you. He cares about you. He is moved with compassion toward you. And so understanding position is going to move us to experiential warmth, affection, and comfort. And so our faith is not supposed to be cold and dead and lifeless, some strictly academic experience. No, it should be filled with passion and warmth and love. We should have a deep and abiding affection for God. And healthy Christianity is going to move us from academics to warmth and passion. It's not going to change our understanding of the facts, but it will change our attitude toward those facts. And so this morning I want to encourage you, reflect deeply on the truth, and allow the Spirit of God to take the word of God. to convince you of those truths and to warm your soul with those truths and to bring great abiding comfort. Have a blessed day, and of course, remember that you belong to Him. And because you belong to Him There are tremendous comforts that should come as a result of that. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow by now