Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And Wednesday is such an important day in our week. Hope that you'll join us as we have our midweek study And the kids have their class. I know the teens also have uh their meetings starting at 430. And um as we've been working our way through this passage of scripture, I hope that the things that are shared are really going to be an encouragement to you. Both and helping you think biblically , helping you help others who maybe don't understand the gospel, and then ultimately leading to just praising God for what we have in Christ. And so Today we're going to look at how salvation is through faith alone in Christ. And so we're going to talk about what faith is and what it looks like and how the Bible talks about this issue. So if you have a Bible, take it and let's turn together to Ephesians chapter 2. And again we're reading 4 to 10 together. Here's what it says. But God who is rich in mercy, for his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ, by grace you're saved Hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus For by grace are ye saved through faith. There's the statement. Not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works lest any man should boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. So today we're going to focus on the statement by faith alone. By faith alone. Or we could say by grace alone through. Through faith alone. Let me correct that. Through not by. Through faith alone. In fact, I'm going to make a point about that. When we talk about salvation being through faith alone, we we see that that the the instrument that God has established or pointed to be the way that The blessings and the benefits of the gospel is applied to us is through our faith in Christ Jesus and the gospel. And so when we talk about salvation, we would say that it is purchased by the work of Christ. It is by the grace of God alone. But it is through faith. We are justified through faith. We are declared righteous through faith. We are forgiven through faith. We are cleansed through faith. That is the means through which we are connected to those wonderful blessings secured for us in Christ. And so when we talk about faith alone, we recognize that faith has an object. And there are lots of scriptures that talk about this object being Christ and the instrument that connects us to the righteousness and the justified position before God. So here let me give you some scriptures. where we see this. And some of them I've kind of already talked about or alluded to earlier this week. Philippians chapter 3 verse 9 says this. The righteousness which is of God, or we could say it comes from God. It is by faith. The term we use is imputed righteousness. It is declared righteousness. It is credited righteousness. God considers us, counts us as righteous. in the righteousness of Christ as we are united to him. Well Romans chapter 4, verse 6. It says to the one who works not, but rather believes on him, who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness. So the person that quits trying to earn their way to God by trusting in their own righteousness, but rather turns in repentance toward God and places their faith in what Christ has done for them, they are counted righteous before God. Romans 3. 22. It says it's the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ, it is unto all. and upon all them that believe. I think this is talking about the availability of this imputed righteousness, but the application is only to those who believe on Christ. They place their faith in Christ. What do we see consistent in these verses? It is by faith. It is by trust. It is by believing on Christ. We are saved through faith alone. Faith is not several things. It's not something that merits salvation. When the Bible says that we're saved by grace through faith, he's not saying that we're saved By grace being infused into us and we cooperate it, we earn God's favor. That's not what he's saying. Faith isn't something that gives us credential Faith simply connects us to the gospel. It's not something that's impressive to God. It's not like he looks at your faith and he's like, well, I'll save you because your faith is so strong and so mature. No, no, no, that's not what's going on here. Faith is not a work that we do for God Faith is reliance or dependence on a work done for us. The merits are in Christ. The acceptance is in Christ. The work is done by Christ. Faith is not one of those things. It's resting in his. And so we say it positively like this. It's it's described as a call to mercy. Call for mercy, Luke chapter 18. You know the story of the publican and the Pharisee in the temple. It says the publican standing afar off would not even lift so much as his eyes toward heaven. And he smote on his breast and said, God be merciful to me a sinner. And what do we see here? We see a man who's got no confidence in his own righteousness. He knows he's a sinner. And he simply cries out to God for mercy. God be merciful to me a sinner. I believe you're a saving God, and I believe I need that salvation, so I'm crying out to you for it. That's what faith is. It's calling on the Lord. It's an appeal to salvation, like in Romans 10, 13, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. It's not just a sinner's prayer or saying some magical words. It's not what we're talking about. It's a person who with the heart believes unto righteousness. With the mouth he confesses that. It's very similar to what we see in Luke 18. Or we have the story of those thieves on the cross. And one of those thieves is deriding Christ, and all of a sudden he realizes he doesn't belong here, I do. And so he rebukes the man that he was mocking Christ with. And he says, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. What's he saying? I believe you're the Christ. I believe I'm a sinner. I believe I deserve to die for my sins. You don't. But I know you're coming for me. And so he says, remember me when you come into your kingdom. All these other people there are like, if you're the Christ, do this. He says, you are the Christ, remember me. And so what do we see? We see faith there Give you one more example here. It's accepting what is impossible. Romans 4. 3. Abraham believes God, and it was counted into him as righteousness. So to give you a very simple definition of faith, it's somebody who is humbling themselves like a child and simply taking God at his word. That's what faith is. My simple definition is taking to choosing to take God at His Word from the heart. And there's a couple elements there. There's a choice element There's a comprehension of information. There's a heart element. And so when we talk about faith, we could say the mind has to know the facts of the gospel. There has to be a real object of faith. We have to have some sort of belief about Christ. belief about what Christ did, belief about why he did it, and belief about how he rose from the dead. So there has to be content, my content of understanding, I have to actually be trusting in the real gospel message. But there's a second element. My heart has to be engaged in what's going on here. I have to humbly accept these facts. I have to humbly accept the implications, the personal implications from my heart. I need to be moved Desiring to be rescued from my sin. Desiring to be reconciled to God. Desiring to be saved from sin to God. And then there's a third element, and that's the will. I've got to choose to personally rely on God's offer of salvation. So when we talk about faith, It's not a work that we do. It's not meritorious. It's not something that impresses God. It's understanding the facts of the gospel, embracing them from the heart, and with the will choosing To take God at His Word and trust Him what He's done. That's what faith is. The question is, have you personally placed your faith in the finished work of Christ? If you've not, then that's what you need to do. What is keeping you from turning to God and placing your faith in Christ? You might say, well, what's keeping me is I need to have a conversation with somebody. I need to work through some issues. Well, that's fine. Don't hesitate to reach out. Send us an email. Reach out to Facebook. Whatever means is available. Reach out to the church office. I'd love to take the time. to open up a Bible, answer your questions, and point you to the glorious finish finished work of Christ where you can place your faith in Christ. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we look at A third aspect, and that is for the glory of God alone. What is that all about? Come tomorrow and we'll talk about that. Have a blessed day. Bye now.