Good morning. Like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I've decided to do something a little bit different today. Originally my plan was to go and read Revisit one of my Sunday morning messages. But uh thinking about the things that have gone on this week, the fact that we just had a U. S. election, which has been such a contentious season and And the first three episodes that I did this week were dealing with the Christian, their civic duty. What I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to kind of go back to what I And uh talk about that passage because I think it actually goes very well with the topic that we have been addressing earlier in the week. And so this morning we're looking at First Corinthians chapter one, verses ten through through 17. And we're going to talk about the tragedy of political infighting in the church. And when I use the term political, I'm not really necessarily using it in the way that we tend to think of politics like Democrat, Republican, Independent, a national election. But what I'm talking about about is factions in the local church and the mentality that is very divisive. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles. Let's turn there please and look at First Corinthians chapter one. And we'll begin reading in verse 10. Paul writes, Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, that there be no divisions among you. But that you be perfectly joined together, in the same mind, in the same judgment. For it hath been declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them which are of the house of Chloe, that there is a contention among you. Now this I say That every one of you saith, I am of Paul, or I'm of Apollos, I'm of Cephas, I am of Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? This is a fascinating passage of scripture, and so I want to begin with a summary statement and then talk a little bit about the background of the passage. So the text is basically talking about about how Paul is overwhelmed with a burden that the church at Corinth would reject political infighting and divisiveness, and that they would humbly embrace biblical priorities. And so as we dig into this concept this morning, I want us to think about a little bit of what was going on in Corinth and in the community that that church was planned to Corinth was a cosmopolitan city, and it had an obnoxious political system. Now, when we talked about uh the the the town of the city of Corinth on went on our first Wednesday night study and we talked about its history. I talked a good bit about the fact that this was a very prosperous, a very affluent city, and there was a lot of politician and a lot of uh maneuvering for people to have authority and power. power in the city. And the city was a Roman colony and there was a lot of wealth that went into the city and it was really like one of the cosmopolitan cities of of the United States today, like a city like a New York City or one of those kind of kinds of places. And I want to read to you what one of the historians who commented on Corinthian culture said about the city. He said this city's culture fits the model of a highly egocentric individualistic and competitive society dominated by the big man who imposes himself as a leader and who derives prestige and power from the side eyes of his following. Whoa, that almost sounds like a modern city, does it not? Or is another statement. Uh since these people were uh since we ourselves have been living through some very h uh contentious seasons We can kind of appreciate what's being said here. I mean, we've just lived through a vicious uh presidential campaign and really in all kinds of uh levels of our government, a lot of dishonesty. um a lot of attacks, a lot of demeaning, a lot of maneuvering, a lot of money pumped into campaigns. And the fact is that this is the way that the world works to get power. And ironically, uh, no matter how much people jockey for position and how they can work to try to manipulate, in the end, it's God who puts people in power. And we can see that his hands do those things. But but here are people that are really being influenced by their culture. They are like the people of the times they live in. And we are warned that we do not allow ourselves to become like that. We're war not to allow this worldly political maneuvering to affect the way we relate to each other in the church. And so when we see it in our s our society, we should say this is not the way that the Christian church is supposed to operate. The Christian church is supposed to be a place where there are genuine relationships. There is deep love of the brethren. People don't get into these divisive competitions. Instead, they relate to one another as brothers and sisters in Christ who have a common identity in Christ. And so we're reminded of several examples of how Jesus tells his disciples. This is not the way of the believer. One of the greatest examples is in Luke 22. Now here is Jesus in the upper room getting ready to be betrayed by Judas. He's going to go through these mock trials and then he's going to be crucified. And in Luke 22, here's what it says. There was a strife among them. This is in the upper room. They've just had what we call the Lord's table as they're celebrating the Passover. There's a strife among them. And which of them would be accounted the greatest in the kingdom? And he said unto them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors. But it shall not be so among you But he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger, and he that is chief as he that doth serve. In another passage he talks about we should be ministers, servants. What's he saying? He's saying in the Christian community, we do not maneuver and manipulate like the world around us. And so that leads us to the text that we're dealing with. What we're looking at is a disheartening update that Paul receives from a woman named Chloe. And here's what we see in verse 11. It hath been declared unto me of Now, I want us to look a little bit at the perspective of how Paul looks at this issue. For instance, Paul is the one who has planted the church and he knows these people. And Paul would would have often asked people, how are the Corinthians doing? Or how is the church at Ephesus doing? Or how is the church at Thessalonica doing? And we could appreciate the fact that when we hear good reports of the things that God is doing, a work that He's doing in the church. It's growing, it's thriving, it's prospering, it's seeing people converted, it's seeing disciples made, people's lives being transformed. Form. That brings a lot of blessing and encouragement to the one who's connected to that church. But the same is true on the other side. We could be burdened by that as well. So instead of Paul hearing a good report He hears a report that burdened his heart. It was a discouraging report that the Christians were drifting away from what they had been taught. They were failing to walk in the path that had been laid before them. Paul had done all this slavery and he had he had done it very sacrificially and very humbly. And the church was was being divisive and it brought a burden to his heart. I think about a parent, and we can appreciate this principle as parents as our children get older. Because one day our children are going to grow up, they're going to leave our homes, and then they're going to live their life as they choose. And really the way that our children choose to live is is either going to bring us great delight or great burden. Proverbs 10, 1. A wise son maketh a glad father. A foolish son is the heaviness of his mother. Well, here is Paul who has labored like a father or like a mother toward their children as he's worked with these young Christians. And what is the report that he gets Divisiveness, and it brings heaviness to his heart. So the question is, what was the Corinthian problem? Well the Corinthian problem is found in verse twelve. He says, Every one of you saith, I am of Paul, and I am of Apollos, and I am of Cephas, and I am of Christ. Now what he's saying is that the people have divided themselves up into the church into little factions and some are saying I'm Paul's disciple and some are saying I'm Apollos ' disciple and I'm Peter's disciple and I'm Jesus' disciple The question is, why were they dividing themselves up? It's because there was something about their mentality that had been influenced by their culture. And that influence was a very, very worldly and problematic type of influence. The Corinthian problem was that they had an issue of identity. And what I mean by that is rather than finding their greatest sense of delight in their position in Christ, they were caught up with worldly concerns. Who do I follow? Whose personality is the personality that best suits me? Oh, it's Apollos. I like his rhetoric. Oh, it's Paul. I like his logic. Oh, it's Christ. I like his humility. Well, the fact is we're all supposed to be followers of not Paul and Apollos or Peter, but of Christ. And that's what we all should see ourselves as, disciples of Christ. Well, these Corinthian believers had an identity crisis. Their identity was being shaped by worldly values rather than biblical values. And so a correct view of our identity comes in this sense. It's not about culture. It's not about ethnicity. It's not about how much money we make. It's about Christ. And in Galatians chapter 3 it says, you are all children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. As many as you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek, neither bond nor free, neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you be in Christ Christ, then you're Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promises. Now Paul's not suggesting that someone magically stops being a man because he became a Christian. Or he stopped being Jewish, or he stopped being Gentile, where he was now freed and he was no longer in servitude to a master in the Rubin world. That's not what he's saying. He's saying that's not your identity. Your identity is you're a Christian and your your your status in society and your your cultural background and how much money you make, those things are basically irrelevant. What is most important is your identity in Christ. So be most concerned about that. That's what he's saying. Or in another passage of Scripture, Colossians chapter 3, he says, put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian, Syntian, bond nor free, but Christ is all in all. Put on, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, vows of mercy. Kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long suffering, forbearing one another, forgiving one another. If any have a quarrel against any as Christ forgave you, so also do you Now what's he getting at here? He's saying that those factors that tend to create division among you, they're irrelevant. Quit focusing on the fact that you are circumcised or uncircumcised. Circumcised, that you are Greek or that you are Jew, or that you are from some other part of the Roman Empire. Your identity is in Christ. Your value comes from Him. The thing that should most motivate you in life is the position you have in Him. and let that conviction and that understanding shape how you relate to everyone in the church. That's what Paul is saying A correct view of identity is going to get at the heart of this problem that Paul is addressing in the church. And so I want to leave you with that this morning. I want to challenge you that when you think about who you are as a person, the very first thing that comes to mind isn't, oh, I'm an American. Or I'm a conservative. Or I'm this or that. I am a child of God. I am a redeemed sinner. I have been reconciled to God through the death and resurrection of Christ. Christ. I stand complete in him, righteous and forgiven in Christ. And that means more to me than anything else in the world. And because that means more to me than anything else in the world, world, that is going to drive and shape every single interaction I have with other people, especially in the church context. May God help us to be those kinds of Christians. And they, especially when we think about the times we're living in, we just had a U. S. election and it it's been a very divisive time in our country. country. We as God's people need to not think like the world around us. We need to be most focused on what actually matters most, and that is who we are as Christians. So may we have a blessed rest of the day if that's been encouragement to you to take a moment to share that. If you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out. And Lord willing, tomorrow, we will look at the second part of this, and I'll give you some concerns. Including sauce at the end of that. Have a blessed rest of your day by now