Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that your week is starting out great. And if you're watching this in the morning or listening to this in the morning, Uh, hope that the rest of your day goes extremely well. Um, hope that you enjoyed your weekend and if you were with us uh for Father's Day, I hope that uh the service was a really The passage we're going to look at this week is not the passage we dealt with on Father's Day, but it's actually the last passage we were dealing with in Luke. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and let's turn Together to Luke chapter 13, and we're going to be reading verses 22 to 30 together, and the focus of our attention this week week is going to be proclaiming the gospel like Christ. Proclaiming the gospel like Christ. How did Jesus preach the gospel both in the public setting and then in the one on one interactions. We're going to see some fascinating and important things that are in this text of scripture. So if you have a Bible, let's turn together please and we're going to look at Luke chapter 13 verses 20. 22 to 30. Here's what God's Word says. And he went to the cities and villages teaching, and journeying towards Jerusalem. Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? He said unto them, Strive to enter in at the straight gate, for many I say unto you, will seek to enter it. and shall not be able. When once the master of the house has risen up, and hath shut the door, and he begin to stand without, and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us and he shall answer, and say unto you, I know you not whence ye are. Then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets. But he shall say, I tell you, I know you not, whence ye are, depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity, there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. When ye shall see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, and ye yourselves are thrust out. And they shall come from east and from west, from the north, from the south, and sit in the kingdom of God. And behold, there are last which shall be first, and there are first which shall be last. This morning I want to introduce a couple of thoughts, giving you First of all, a summary, and then from that we're going to look at two truths that are emphasized in these verses. Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to break it down a little further. as we work our way through how we are to teach or preach as Christ taught and preached the gospel. And so the summary goes this way. Christ answered And observers lament that few are saved by stressing the tragedy of seeking the kingdom of God through self-effort, and then the ultimate triumph of the gospel amongst the nation. God wants us to proclaim his gospel like Christ. And so that will be our focus. Now, for us to do that, we've got to begin with understanding the truth. that are there. And from that, we're going to look at some marks of preaching and teaching like Christ. And then at the end of the week we're going to look at how we apply it. So first of all, truth one, the content of Christ's teaching. There is no issue that is more important than the gospel. We see that in this statement that says, strive to enter. The word strive has the sense of exerting intense effort like an athlete in a competition So I think about years ago when I was wrestling and in high school and in college, and one of the things that I had to get past and every single person Who was on the wrestling team had to get past was the fact that when you go into competition, just because you know a move or just because you've practiced a move does not mean you'll be able to execute the move. You go into the competition with a game plan and a strategy, how you're going to approach the match, but at the end of the match, it's all about agonizing, exerting intense effort. It's about training and then working through the obstacles and the challenges to accomplish the ended goal of winning, the intended goal of winning. This word strive is from the Greek term agonizomai. And we could see our English word, agonize in that word. Now the agony that that Jesus is talking about is not the striving through self-effort and self-righteousness to enter the kingdom, but it's emphasizing the fact that this is something that could should consume all of our attention and all of our energy. In other words This is something that is so important to us everything else falls by the wayside. There is nothing more important to us than making sure that we are citizens of God's God's kingdom. world. And so it reminds me of Matthew chapter 16, verse 26, where Jesus says, What is a man profited if he gains the whole world, but he loses his own soul? What shall a man give? In exchange for a soul? The answer is there's nothing you can give in exchange for your soul. If you gain everything in this world, but you do not enter into eternity with God and his kingdom, You've lost everything. And so the first truth of these verses is that the most important thing is the gospel. The second truth we're going to see in Christ Christ's teaching is that there is only one way to enter the kingdom of God. In verse 22, he says, strive to enter the straight gate. And that word straight means means a narrow point. In fact, if we are working our way through the Bible, we see this word used. in in in a lot of contexts where it talks about a narrow passage like a mountain pass or a narrow body of water. Think about the Strait of Gibraltar. It's a narrow passage from the Mediterranean Sea and Into the Atlantic Ocean, or I think about the story of the Battle of Thermopylae, and there's this massive army of Persians, hundreds of thousands of Persians. And they're trying to get through this narrow passage, and there are just a few hundred uh Greeks who Spartan Spartan soldiers and then a few thousand who are with these these these 300 men and they're able to hold off this entire army for a week because they had to s to press through this narrow passageway. And so when he talks about it being a straight gate, he means it's narrow. You pass in essentially one at a time. And it reminds me of some of the ways this is used even in the Old Testament, in the Septuagint, the word that's translated straight here. is also translated as stronghold where they could defend an area very easily because it was a narrow passage. Well what's the point of this term? Well the idea is that there is only one way to enter into the kingdom. And that one way is through Christ. In John chapter 10, verse 9, he says, I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, He shall be saved. Think of the picture of a turnstile as people are entering into a football game or into a baseball stadium and they come through one at a time. That's the way people enter the kingdom of God as individuals, not as families, not as couples, not with your parents, not as a church, not as a nation. We enter in as individuals one at a time and that person that we come through is the Lord Jesus Christ. So as we begin looking at this passage of Scripture, there are two truths that are emphasized, and that is that there's a one way, and this is something of absolute importance. So I want to leave you with this question. What do we take away from today's study? Well, what we take away is that there's nothing in life that should be more all-consuming and more concerning to us than eternity with God. If you are listening to this lesson this morning, or you're watching this video this morning, and you do not know the Lord Jesus as your Savior. There is nothing more important in all the world than that you listen to what the rest of this passage has to say about the gospel. That we are saved by grace alone, through faith alone, and the Person of Christ alone, his death on the cross, his resurrection, his righteousness. There is one and only one way, and that way is of absolute importance. And then the second thing I'll mention is it's a personal decision. It's between you and God. Your parents can't do this for you, your spouse can't do this for you, your church can't do this for you. It's you and God. And the question is this, do you You know for certain when you die you're going to heaven. You're ready to meet the Lord. Lord willing, throughout the rest of the week, we'll break this down even further, and I hope it'll It'll be a great help to you. Well, that's all I have for this morning. Hope that you have a great rest of your day. And Lord willing, tomorrow we will meet again. Bye now.