Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to a new week and a new season of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And welcome to 2026. And I'm very glad to be able to get back into getting into our Anchored in the Word studies. And what I'm going to do this week, and Lord willing, next week, is we're going to look at two challenges for us to think about going into the new year. And then from that, Lord willing, on the third week, we're going to pick up in where we're working sequentially through various part portions of the Bible in our Sunday morning services. So this week we're going to focus in on the story of Peter. and how when Peter failed, God worked in his life, extended grace to him, and reestablished him in the role that he had for him. And so this is going to be a very encouraging uh passage of scripture for us to look at. And I don't know how your how 2025 was for you. Maybe it was a great year. Maybe you feel like you grew a lot. You experienced a lot of blessings, but perhaps it was a very difficult year. And there's some things you look back at over that past year and you say, boy, I I regret this. I I stumbled in these ways and I'm disappointed. And I just don't know if God really uh is going to work in my life in 2026 because of some of the decisions I've made. And I want to encourage you to get back up. and get where God wants you. And this passage of scripture can be a great encouragement to us in that way. So John chapter 21, we're going to read through a portion of it, but we're going to refer to the entire text. It says, after these things, Jesus showed himself again to his disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. And on this wise, he showed himself. They were together Simon Peter and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathaniel of Cana of Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two other of the disciples. Simon Peter saith unto them, I go a fishing. They say unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth and entered into a ship immediately, and that night they caught nothing. But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. Then Jesus saith unto them, Children, have ye any meat? They answered him, No He said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw in for the multitude of the fishes. And this morning I want us to focus on some background information that I hope will really set the stage to understand the text in front of us. Now when we look at this passage of Scripture and we look at the other Gospels, we will recognize that there are two accounts that are mentioned in the Gospels where Jesus performed a miracle. of a massive catch of fish. If you were to compare those two passages of scripture, you're going to recognize that there are some differences. And there are two different ways that people will approach this. One would be the wrong way, and that would be to assume that somehow there's a conflict and that these are two different descriptions of the same event and they're contradictory. which would not be what it is, or to ask what is it about these two different events that are similar yet distinct, and what is so important about each of those events? And so I'm going to take the latter approach because I believe that's exactly what it is. When we look at these passages, we see that in Luke chapter 5 , Jesus performs a miracle of a massive drought of fish. It says, when Jesus left speaking, he said unto Simon, This is Peter, launch out into the deep, let down your nets for a drought. Simon answering said, Master, we've told all night We 've taken nothing. Nevertheless, at thy word, I will let down the net. When they had done this, they enclosed a great multitude of fishes, and their net broke. When Simon saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I'm a sinful man. The second passage, which is the one we're going to look at this week, is John 21. And the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. Then Jesus said unto them, Children, have ye any meat? The answering said, No. He said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and you shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it in for the multitude of the fishes. Now what is different about these events? How do we know that they're not the same event? Well first of all, the timing of these two events is very different The first passage, Luke 5, is recording something that happened at the beginning of Christ's ministry. Jesus does not yet have the twelve disciples following him. He's not yet called them. And Luke 5 records the events that took place when Jesus calls Simon Peter. We come to Luke or to John 21, we see that this event took place after the resurrection. And so this is not Jesus calling Peter, but rather recommissioning Peter when Peter believes that there is nothing more for him to do. He has failed the Lord. And so perhaps that ministry that he was called to in Luke chapter 5 is a ministry that's no longer available to him. The second thing I'll mention is the command of Christ in these two passages is different. Luke 5. He tells them to go out to let down their nets. In John 21, they're already out. He's on the shore. He says, cast your net on the right side. You will find. A third thing that I want to mention here. is Christ's calling. And I kind of alluded to this already, but in Luke 5, Peter is calling, or Jesus is calling Peter to follow him, and he's going to make him a fisher of men. Jesus says, fear not, from henceforth thou shalt catch men. John 21 is different. He says, feed my lambs, feed my sheep. feed my sheep. You can see that the emphasis is different. One is about following and one is about going back and doing what you've been called to do. The fourth thing I'm going to mention about this. is that these similarities and the distinctions between these two events actually make the second mean all the much more. And so as we work our way through this passage this week, I think that you will see, I hope you will see That the fact that there are similarities between these two events is something that really drives them to the point that Peter has a purpose, God has a purpose for Peter. And he needs to go out and do it. And so we're going to see that in all of these in both of these passages, Christ is showing his power over creation. He's showing the the the the the weight of the inadequacy of these men But in the third or in the second example, he's affirming and then reaffirming that he has a purpose for Peter. Well, as we dig into this passage this week, I hope it's a great encouragement to you. Join us. Spread the word that we're we're back online with our Anchored in the Word series, and I hope that these will be a blessing to you as we put them out each morning. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we work our way through this text. Bye now