Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good Tuesday morning. Or whenever you watch this video or listen to this uh recording, I pray that it'll be an encouragement to you. We're in John chapter 12 this week, and we're looking at the triumphal entry. And yesterday we talked about some introductory thoughts leading up to it, looking at it being a story within a story. And what I'd like to do now is I'd like to kind of bring this to the the focus of this passage of scripture, and that is that there was a great division. between who people thought Jesus was and who Jesus actually is. And people had to choose a side. And so I want us to kind of notice that this morning together. And then think about how that really impacts us on a day-by-day basis. So John chapter 12, and we'll begin reading in verse 12. On the next day, much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon, as it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion, behold, thy king cometh sitting on an ass's coal These things understood not his disciples at the first. But when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they these things which were written of him, and that they had done these things to him. And the people thereof, therefore, that was with him when he called Lazarus out of the grave and raised him from the dead, bear record. For this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this miracle And the Pharisees therefore said amongst themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing. Behold, the whole world is gone after him Yesterday when we talked about some of the introductory thoughts, I mentioned that we would go a little bit deeper into that this morning. And so when we start in chapter 9 and we move to chapter 12, we see that there is this building contention between Jesus and the religious leaders. In chapter 9, Jesus healed a blind man, and it comes to a head when he tells them, had you been born blind, you'd be able to see. But this man who was born blind, he actually sees, not just physically, but he sees spiritually. He understood who Jesus is. Chapter 10, he calls himself the Good Shepherd, and he's alluding to messianic prophecies, how God said that he would be the true shepherd, the good shepherd of Israel And he contrasts who he is with the religious leaders around him. And then in chapter 11, he calls himself the resurrection and the life. And Jesus performed the greatest miracle of his ministry leading up to his own resurrection, and that was his raising Lazarus back to life from the dead. And Jesus says, I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth on me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. Now this is an important piece to understanding what's going on in chapter twelve. Because Jesus is making his way to celebrate the Passover in Jerusalem and on his way, he stops, pr it it appears would be would have been on a Friday evening. um in his final Passover week leading up to it. And there he's in Bethany in a village near Jerusalem, a couple miles away, and they gather in the house of a man named Simon, Simon the leper. This is someone who Jesus had healed. As they're there, a person comes, a person named Mary, and she begins to anoint Jesus' feet for burial. She takes this uh very expensive, costly perfume and she breaks it open. She wipes his feet with her hair. And this display of her love for Jesus is something that created a contention there in that room. So I want that to be kind of the opening point because from that we go into the triumphal entry as John's recording these details. The people had to pick a side. And this division was ultimately coming down to who is Jesus. Jesus has claimed he is Messiah through his miracles, through the things that he stated. Through the conversations, his teaching, all of those things, they point to the fact that he's the Messiah. And people have to decide, is he or is he not. This is an exclusive claim. Well, some of the people correctly understood who he was. And we see in John 11, 45, many of the Jews came to Mary having seen these things that Jesus did because they believed on him. There are other people at the same time who saw the same miracles that said, this man is a threat. We see that also in chapter eleven, verse forty six It says, but some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what he had done. And then they said the following: if we let him alone. This man who does these miracles, and all men believe on him, the Romans shall come and take away both our place and nation. And so from that time people began to plot to kill Jesus. Do you see the division here? Chapter 11, verse 49. One of them, named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said unto him, It is expedient for us that one man should die for the people, and that for the whole nation, so they perish not. Now Caiaphas doesn't realize what he's saying. He just says, we know Jesus needs to die so that we don't lose our position. But he's actually prophesying of Jesus' death for the good of others. These people plotted, but they didn't realize that they were actually laying the foundation for Jesus to accomplish redemption. And that we see that in the next verse where he says, This spake he not of himself, but being the high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation. And not for that nation only, but also he should gather together in one the children of God which were scattered abroad. Fascinating statement that John puts in those details as he records these events. And then we see that there are some that believed on him. And this is because they understood what was going on. We mentioned Mary who takes a pound of ointment and she breaks it at his feet and she wipes her her, uses her hair to wipe his feet with this ointment. But even there in that room there were some people who were on the other side. Judas, for instance, who had been disillusioned with Christ's ministry. He did not believe him, though he followed him. In verses 4 and 5, this person, Judas, says, Why was not this ointment sold for 300 pence and given to the poor? And then we see that there were many who wanted to benefit from his kingdom. And that's what we read about in these verses of the triumphal entry. When they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. They took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him, and they cried, Hosanna. Now, we've we've talked about all of this this information. We see there's this division. And the question is What was the ultimate contention between these two positions? And this is really where it becomes practical, because this contention is not just a twenty uh two thousand years ago contention. This is something, a contention that has really been going out throughout all of human history. On the Old Testament side of the cross, there were people that were anticipating the Messiah. And they were believing that God was going to send redemption, and they understood the nature of that redemption, and there were people that did not. During the time of Christ, there were people that believed on the Messiah as their redeemer, and there were others who did not And then for the last 2,000 years of church history we've had the same kind of issue going on. What is the fundamental distinction? Well, it really comes down to three questions. How you answer these three questions decides which side of the line you fall. The first question is, who is Christ? Is he a good man and a teacher, or is he God in flesh? Now, one way is going to lead you to the fact that you are embracing him as your Savior, and one is going to Say, no, I don't embrace him as my savior. There's a dividing line. Second question. Why did he come? What was the ultimate purpose for him coming. Well some people say, well, he came to bring in material prosperity. He came to show us how to live. He came to be a good example. And others say, well, he came to redeem mankind from their sin. He came to save his people from their sins. His death on the cross bore our sin debt so that we could be forgiven and cleansed and made God's child. His resurrection from the dead really took place. He triumphed over sin and death. And he established the one and only way we can come into the presence of a holy God. How you answer that question, why did he come, ultimately is is the dividing line. And then the third third question is um am I willing to face the the reality of my sin honestly and the fact that I have no other hope outside of Christ To be reconciled to God. Where do I fall down? Some people say, well, I can use him for what I want. Some people say he stands between me and what I want. Others say, my righteousness is filthy rags. He died in my place, and I accept him as my savior. I have no other hope but through Jesus alone. And so the simple question that I have for you this morning is which side of that line do you fall? Where do you fall on the question of who is Jesus? Where do you fall on the question of why did he come? Where do you fall on the question of, are you willing to look at what it says honestly, you are a sinner who needs to be redeemed through Christ alone Or are you taking some other means as a substitute for the one and only sacrifice that can bring you into the presence of God? This morning I want to encourage you, if you've never trusted Christ, if you're on the wrong side of that dividing line, then turn to Him today. We're going to keep working our way through this passage, and I hope that the things that we share this week will be very encouraging and helpful to you. Have a blessed rest of your day. And Lord willing, tomorrow, Wednesday morning, we're going to meet again. Bye now.