Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I'd like to remind you again of the topic that we're addressing this week, and that's That is the mysterious growth of God's kingdom. And we are looking at Luke chapter 13, and we're looking at verses. Get this together. 18 through 21. And so I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles. Let's turn together to that text of Scripture and we'll read it together. Again, that's Luke chapter 13, verses 18 through 21. Here's what it says. Then said he, Unto what is the kingdom of God like? And whereunto shall I resemble it? It is like a grain of my mustard seed, which a man took and cast into his garden, and it grew and waxed a great tree, and the fowls of the air lodged in the branches of it. And again he said, Whereunto shall I like in the kingdom of God. It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened. Now, there are two illustrations that Christ uses in these verses. To give us a picture, a semblance of what the kingdom of God is like. And if we were reading through the book of Matthew, we would see that Matthew actually recorded quite a bit more of this information that Jesus taught on this issue of the kingdom and kingdom parables. So we're going to look at the two that Luke records. We're also going to allude to one of them that Matthew records as well. some point in the week. But here are the two illustrations. The first is found in verse 18 where it says, Unto what is the kingdom of God like? Whereunto shall I resemble it? The first, a mustard seed. Verses 18. It is like the grain of a mustard seed, which a man took and cast into his garden, and it grew, and waxed a great tree, and the fowls of the year lodged in its branches. Now we don't exactly know what a mustard seed was or what a mustard tree is based on our studies of this particular topic. But what we do know is that this was a Hebrew expression that was used at the time of Christ, referring to this tiny, tiny little seed that you could barely see, and how that tiny little seed could ultimately, if it material It grew and matured and survived, it wouldn't just produce a small plant, but it would actually produce a mighty tree. And so it was an expression that was used in their day to say something small has the potential to produce something very large. Jesus said that's what the kingdom of God is like. Starts out like a small seed. It's very unassuming. It doesn't look like anything that could be of great of great substance down. the road. But everything that that seed has in it has the potential to become a massive tree. And when he says that he planted it in a garden, we're not talking about out in a big field or in the forest. We're talking about someone who has a like a vegetable garden, somewhere where where they're someplace where they are growing uh herbs and those kinds of things. And then this little seed that is planted in there for something small that's transient one year after another, it's going to become a tree. A great tree that provides shelter for the birds. This is an illustration actually that is used a lot in the Old Testament where he talks about a kingdom being like a tree that the birds come to And so a mighty king was someone who people would come under the shelter of that mighty king. He's saying that's what the kingdom of God is like. And so this seeds growth. into a tree demonstrates the shocking growth of something that is small into something that is massive, something that is seemingly insignificant into something that That is profoundly significant. The second illustration that he gives is in verse 21, and that of the leaven. And leaven, he says, it is likened to leaven which A woman took and hid in three measures of meal till the whole was leavened. Now, leaven is like the yeast that we have in dough bread. The bread rises, and the reason it rises gradually and steadily through this un this unseen organic spread of yeast. is because the yeast is alive. And so this is again something that happens slowly and steadily and most assuredly through an organic process, one of growth and one of multiple. And this is what the kingdom of God is like. It is very different than the spread of human kingdoms, where people conquer through the sword and conquer by brute force. manipulation and deception and terror and fear. God's kingdom spreads through the preaching of the good news, through the preaching of the gospel that brings life to people who are spiritually dead. Regeneration. This is an organic process. So this leads us to four principles that I think we can see illustrate in these verses. The first principle is that of the fact that the kingdom of God is something that grows organically. In other words, it is living. It's not produced or manufactured through some formula or some mathematical equation or through some process that involves machines, it is an organic, life-giving, life-transforming kind of multiplication. The second principle is that the growth of God's kingdom is in fact surprising. So while it appears that everything is moving in the wrong direction, In fact, God is still accomplishing his work, moving things to their ultimate end that will bring glory to him and the salvation of an innumerable multitude of people. From every kingdom and tribe and nation. Third principle: while there is human involvement in the growth of God's kingdom, it is not accomplished by means of human involvement. might or power. And so when we see it growing, it's growing because of God's work, not because of the wisdom and the strength and the skill Now, that is not to say that God doesn't use hardworking people and not to say that God doesn't use people who He has gifted with certain skill sets. Those things are true. But that is not what causes the kingdom to grow. The fact is, every single one of us, no matter how gifted we are, how strong we are, we have limitations. And one of the greatest limitations is the fact we won't live forever on this side of eternity. We're going to have a short life and limited resources and limited energies and limited opportunities and God builds his kingdom despite us and through us. And the fourth principle is that the growth takes time. God has a preset time that He has determined that He is going to begin the eschatological movement of history. It's going to come to its end. But until that time, he is steadily moving and growing his kingdom one journey. generation to another. And so those are the four principles that we have. You say, well, what's the takeaway from what we've learned today? Well the takeaway is that we ought not to think too highly of ourselves. The fact is we're here for a limited amount of time. On the other side, we should recognize that despite our weaknesses, God's going to use us. In other words, there's both a positive side that he is going to build his church. and his kingdom. And the negative side is don't take too much thought of the part you play in it. That's what he's saying. So I hope that this has been an encouragement to you. Hope that you'll join us tomorrow as we continue this series. series and Lord willing, that's what we'll do. So I hope that you'll join us tomorrow by now.