Good morning. Welcome to a new week of Anchored in the Word Reflections and I hope that you will enjoy these as we deal with them this week. The passage that we're dealing with is an important passage of Scripture and And honestly, when I think about the discussion that we're going to have this week as we look at Luke chapter 13, it's going to get to the heart of some of the most personal and difficult things that we deal with. So I hope that you'll join us this week as we deal with this text of scripture. If you could take your Bibles, let's turn together to Luke chapter 13. We're looking at verses 1 through 9 together and I'll go ahead and read it off of the screen. that you can see that. Here's what it says. There were present at that season some that told him of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galileans were sinners above all the Galileans, because they suffered such things? I tell you, no, but except you repent, ye shall all likewise perish. For those eighteen upon whom the Tower of Siloam fell, and slew them, think ye that there were greater sinners above all that dwell in Jerusalem? I tell you, nay, but except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And then Jesus tells this parable. It says, A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came and sought fruit thereupon, and found none. Then said he unto the dresser of the vineyard, Behold, these three years I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree. I find none. Cut it down. Why cumberth it in the ground? He answering said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I dig about it and dung it, and if it bear fruit well, and if not, then thou shalt cut it down. Now this morning what I'd like us to focus our attention on is first of all a summary of what these verses are saying. And then after that I want us to dig into this confrontation that Jesus gives. So first of all the summary statement. God uses tragedy to confront our complacency and to call us to think correctly about Him and about ourselves He wants us to think correctly about him and then act obediently to him and what he has commanded. So let's notice this confrontation that's going on between Jesus and these people. There's a sobering event that has taken place. And that sobering event has caused a lot of discussion. And so as Jesus is teaching his way and having confrontations, with the religious leaders, some people came up to him and they basically say, hey Jesus, have you heard about this? What we see in these verses is that sobering events bring us to ask questions. And sometimes the questions that we ask are questions we don't want to ask because we are uncomfortable about them. But they're necessary questions. Notice what it says. There were certain present at that season that told him of the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. Here are people that went into the temple, and we don't know what they were sacrificing for, why they did this, but in the midst of their religious practice, they were mercilessly killed by Pilate's soldiers. And notice what he didn't ask them. He didn't say, well, what terrible thing do you think these people did to deserve such a tragic death? Or why do you think God allowed this? Or how can God actually be good if he allows things like this to occur? Why did he cause this to occur? These are not the questions that Jesus asked. What he instead asks is the most important, the most helpful question. And the reason for that is because there is such a thing as a question that isn't good or isn't helpful. It's not, it's not really productive. These are the kinds of questions that cannot be answered because God never has revealed the answer. Or questions that are basically a form of distraction to take us away from thinking about other things. Or questions that start with an assumption that is not warranted, or questions that begin with an expectation that really isn't appropriate. Jesus asked the right question. And he asked it about two things. He looked at a human injustice that was very obvious in front of him. Do you suppose that these Galileans were sinners above the Galileans because they suffered such things? Or a natural disaster in verse Verse 4. Those eighteen upon whom the Tower of Siloam fell and slew them, think ye that they were worse sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem? Why does Jesus ask this question? Why does he supply this answers? Because he knows the heart of people. He knows the kinds of questions that are going on in their minds. And here's the answer that Jesus gives. He says, Nay, I tell you, except ye repent. you shall all likewise perish. Again, he says it in the next couple of verses. He says, you need to repent. Why does he do this? Well, it's because people are naturally complacent about their greatest need. They notice the things that are going on around them, they think about their personal desires, but Jesus says you need to think most about eternity. We naturally start with the wrong assumptions. And these people obviously had the wrong assumptions. But somehow the reason that they experienced this hardship was because they were greater sinners than other people. And Jesus is saying that's not true. We often ask unproductive questions. So Jesus goes straight to the point. In his mercy, he confronts the complacency, he confronts the wrong assumption. He confronts the unproductive questions. He works in us for good through the difficulties that are going on around us. We need to submit to what God is doing in our lives. And these are the ways that we should respond to what's in front of us. We need to recognize our complacency. We need to recognize our assumptions that could be wrong. We need to recognize the questions that we're asking that are unproductive. And we need to thank God that in his mercy he confronts us, he rebukes us, he warns us, and he causes us to think about what is most important. I pray that this morning as you think about this, you will think about it and then respond the way that God wants you to respond. And then tomorrow you'll join us as we dig a little bit more into these questions. Have a great week. Great day. Start to your week on Monday here. A great morning. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.