Good afternoon. I'd like to welcome you back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And if you are listening to this and you missed our first episode earlier today, I hope that you'll not just watch this video, but you'll also watch the one um that I put out earlier this morning. And as I mentioned, I'm dealing with uh two parts today, and then Lord willing tomorrow we're going to deal with the third part. since that is election day. And the topic that we're addressing at the beginning of the week is the Christian and his civic duty and the importance of being engaged in the political process. that we have in our nation that we're going to go through tomorrow. And for many of you, maybe you've already voted. I voted early and If you took advantage of that, you won't have to worry about lines tomorrow. Uh maybe someone's on the fence and they say, you know, I'm just not happy with anybody that's running right now on on on the national level, on the state level, on the local level, and so I'm just sitting this one out and not going to take part in it. I hope that if that is uh the position that you've come to you will uh spend some time listening to the things that I'm going to share with you with you and uh that I will encourage you and persuade you to not be on the fence but to actually get engaged in the process to go out and vote especially in Maryland uh we have a constitutional amendment that's on the ballot and uh it's about uh abortion and I'm gonna I'm gonna address that in this video and the fact is that if you are a Maryland resident you should absolutely go out and vote on that measure because the the reality is that they are working to try to make abortion A right, if you want to put it that way. A person would have the right to take the life of their child. And we as Christians absolutely should not stand on the fence. on this issue, but we need to speak up and we need to go out and we need to vote down that measure because that is an immoral measure. And so I think it's important to state that very clearly. Now let's go ahead and take out our Bibles and let's turn to First Timothy chapter 2 verses 1 through 4 and we're going to read the uh a section of that this morning and then we'll look at Romans chapter 13. We're going to look at a section of that as well. And then we're going to talk about the second part to this. So 1 Timothy chapter 2 verse 1. I exhort therefore that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men. for kings and for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. Then Romans chapter 13, verse 1 says, Let every soul be subject unto Later on he says that he is a minister of God to them. thee for good. So with this topic of talking about the Christians' relationship to their civic duty, we talked about some objective responsibilities that we have toward our government. On the second video that we're dropping now, I'd like us to look at how we should be deeply concerned about the way that our government wields its Listen to this word, delegated authority. And I would say doubly delegated when we talk about the United States of America. Because it is delegated in the sense that it is God who established government. It is God who determines who gets into the government through his providential work. It is his hand that allows, installs, he puts people into these roles. And so he is the one who establishes, lifts up and puts down. And then we as citizens who vote or who choose not to vote. The fact is we contribute to who goes into power. So if I choose to sit on the sidelines and I don't vote, I contributed by my silence or my lack of stepping forward. and be engaged in the process, I contributed to who went into that position of power or when I vote either for because I wholeheartedly ex am excited about a candidate. Or we could say I vote against, I vote for the other side because I am so opposed to the other side, which is actually what I'm doing this year, at least on some of these measures. I am voting against the party that I think is the most damaging and detrimental and will ultimately undermine our ability to do what we've done as a nation because their views are so radical. I'm voting against the party. And so however you look at it, you are contributing to the process, either by voting for. voting against or sitting on the sidelines. You have contributed to the process. And so we should be very, very concerned about the way our government wields its delegated authority. First thing I want to say is this. God instituted human government for our good. If that's the purpose, then we should do the very best that we can to be involved in the process that brings about the best government inst uh the the best administration. possible for the citizens of our nation. I also want to say this. God can use anybody, even ungodly people. We have the example of someone like Nebuchadnezzar. God used Nebuchadnezzar, God used Cyrus. God used Ahab. God used Daniel. Okay? So the fact is God can use anyone, good or bad, to accomplish his purpose. But so much as we have a role to play in those who end up in power, we need to contribute to the good. Though God can bring good out of anything. that he chooses to permit. We should have three primary concerns based on the text that we've just read. The first of those concerns is this. We should be concerned that we have an administration that promotes the opportunity to live a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness. Now why do I say that? Well it's because when we pray for kings and all our authority We're supposed to pray that that these people will govern in such a way that it will lead to a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness. You say, well, what does that mean practically? Let me throw a couple of things out there for you to think about. One is good order in society. When you have clearly delineated laws and those laws are properly enforced. And those laws are to promote what is good and to punish what is evil. That promotes good order in society. And when you have laws that are good but they're not enforced, or laws that are bad and they are enforced, or laws that are not written, but you're trying to enforce them. Whenever you have scenarios like this, you're either leading to good order or poor order in society. We think about geopolitical peace. What goes on in the United States affects everybody in the world. It affects the rest of the world economically. It affects the rest of the world when it comes to energy prices. Wars that are going on, wars that are started, or wars that are stopped. The United States and those who are in authority in this country have a huge impact on what goes on around the world. We should think about the importance of establishing and enforcing just laws. We should desire that our government will enforce laws that are just, that they will write laws that are just. and that they'll combat laws that are unjust. That's what we should desire. We should desire that our administration respects liberty of conscience This is a really huge issue. When we think about the Bill of Rights, one of the things that we're told is we have the right to what? To have freedom of speech and the press. Why is that? Liberty of conscience, to be able to actually speak speak what you believe is true. Or we talk about the freedom of our religious conscience. Why is that so important? It's important because one of the reasons this nation was founded was to give people a place they could go where they could actually they could actually worship God according to the dictates of them conscience rather than having interference from their government. So this is a huge issue. The promoting of good and the discouragement of evil in society. These are things that we should desire to see in our government. Second concern: an environment that is conducive for the spread of the gospel. Now, the reason that we're to pray that God works through government so that we can lead a quiet and peaceful life in all godliness. It isn't so that we can be wealthy and self-centered. It's so that we can live out the Christian life before other people. without there being the hindrance of government interference, so that the gospel is able to spread rapidly and people are being able to be drawn to the truth. And so we think about it this way. When government allows disorder It permits an environment that is dangerous for the spread of the gospel. Why is that? Well, because a society that is disordered is a society that has violence. and corruption and theft and people's lives are weighed down because of evil and unjust individuals that are able to run rampant in society. And so what does that do? It hinders people's ability to live their lives openly and freely and to spread the gospel the way that it can. Secondly, when a government becomes actively hostile to the gospel and liberty of conscience, it creates an environment that is dangerous to the spread of the gospel. Now, on those first two points, I want to mention something. God can advance his kingdom no matter what's going on in the government. But Paul did tell us to pray that the government would administrate its rule and such a way that leads to a quiet and peaceable life and all godliness for the advance of the gospel. So obviously we should pray in such a way, we should desire such a thing, and we should be engaged toward that end when it comes to our civic duties. When the government become becomes too passive or too provocative, it contributes to an environment that's dangerous for the spread of the gospel. One of the reasons that the gospel was spread Spread so quickly in the Roman Empire, in the Roman world, is because though the Roman Empire had an authoritarian element to it, the Roman Empire established peace and security. And people were able to spread rapidly. They could travel on roads in safety. They could get on a ship and they could go to another part of the empire. There was a common language that was there. There were common currents. So people were able, that the environment was conducive because of the established government that God used that to get the gospel all throughout the world. Roman world. And so we should recognize that this matters quite a bit. A powerful nation that maintains good deterrence And the world promotes peace. Why? Because when someone realizes, hey, if I get out of line, I may actually awaken a very dangerous America, okay? What what does that do? It helps them to say, you know what, I'm just gonna leave my neighbors alone. I'm not gonna create disruption and trouble. I'm going to be peaceable because of the strength of another nation that is there to kind of create order and to establish that. A powerful nation that becomes unnecessarily provocative can incite unnecessary conflict. This is exactly what happened when we look at the situation in Roman, uh in Ukraine and there in Russia. What does Putin do? He becomes unnecessarily provocative and he invades Ukraine and now there's a horrible war there that is the result of that vicious attack when one nation Could have left the other nation alone. They didn't. But then the question is, why did Putin feel in emboldened to do that? Perhaps it was because of the weakness of the United States and the weakness of European allies. And so what that shows you is that what decisions are made in governments affect geopolitical situations. A weak nation that is unnecessarily provocative and cites unnecessarily conflict as well. Guess what? That's what happened when you talk about what's going on in Israel with Hamas and Hezbollah. Hamas is a terrorist organization. It attacks Israel. Hezbollah is essentially a terrorist organization funded by Iran. And what do they do? They've attacked Israel. They're obviously not as powerful as a nation, the nation of Israel. But they became provocative and they murdered Israeli citizens. And what do we have now? We have this massive conflict in the Middle East. Again, you might say Today it is possible that that Western weakness allowed these weaker powers to become provocative and to incite this conflict. My point is simply to say this. We should be concerned about the way that the government wields its authority. Concern number three. An administration that promotes good and punishes evil as God ordained it to do is a good thing, and we should be concerned about that. The purpose of government is not to promote Christianity. Rather, it is to establish protections for all citizens, including Christians, so that we can live conscientiously The more closely aligned an administration governs to biblical values, the better it will promote peace, stability, and freedom. I mean think about some of these areas. Proverbs 14, 34. Righteousness exalteth the nation. Sin is a reproach to any people. Proverbs 29, 20 uh 29, verse 2. When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice. When the wicked bear righteousness Rule the people more. And we can look at lots of issues. I look at an issue like abortion. Life begins at conception. And that life that is being carried in the womb of the mother is an image-bearer. That is a human created in the image of God and needs to be protected. We have a party platform right now. People will be voting for or against. a party platform that is aggressively promoting and celebrating a clearly immoral, irreversible, and unnatural agenda as it relates to human life And so I have voted against this platform because it's evil. It is morally reprehensible. The other party platforms sat has accepted a weak, pluralistic libertarian agenda that is unwilling to stand unassembledly on the side of truth. Now when I think about this issue, I am voting against the party, not really for a party on this particular issue. Because neither side has a truly biblical view on this issue as it relates to their party platform and what they're But one is clearly pushing aggressively, promoting and celebrating evil. The other is being too libertarian about the matter. So since we only have two options, well, I'd encourage you to choose the lesser of the two evils and work to promote a viewpoint that celebrates and defends life. We have to win this issue. when it comes to abortion, at this point, we have to win it on the personal one-on-one level, where we leave compelling arguments people realize that is a human in the womb and that womb is that human in the womb is to be celebrated. protected and should be viewed as a blessing. Or look at another issue, the male-female binary. It's crazy that you'd have to think about this, but this is a huge problem in the United States right now God created mankind in his own image, male or female. Two options. The biological assignment is from God with a distinct purpose that conforms to his design for men and women in society and the home and the church Biological distinction is a good thing, and we should submit to our creator's good design for our lives as either a man or a woman. Yet we have a side that celebrating a complete reversal of nature And we should recognize the need as Christians to vote against that kind of evil in our society. And think about the institution of marriage. And this is something that sadly is a battle that's been lost. And I can remember a time when when states were actually putting amendments in their constitutions to define marriage as between one man and one woman. We've come a long way, and there's no party in the United States State that is standing for a biblical view of marriage. But I want to remind you again that God established and defined the institution of marriage for the one flesh union of one man. And one woman. And that is to be a lifelong covenant. And God did that so that there would be a godly seed produced, and he could bless that union with children. And so we as Christians should hold this view as a sacred duty that we speak clearly about this issue. If I think about other issues, violent crimes like murder, human trafficking, sexual assault, these should be harshly punished. And the fact is that both parties don't have the same view on this issue. One party is being very soft on the issue, and the other is being less soft than the other. Or I think about damages of issues like theft and destruction to personal property property. The government should stand up to justly restore what has been stolen. And justice should be proportionate to offenses. And so we should look to align with those, support those who are going to be the closest to the biblical factors. Pattern on these issues. Even economic policies matter because they should encourage productivity, not incentivize poor moral choices by insulating people from the natural consequences. of their decisions. When I think about what's in front of us, we need to be concerned about what's going on in front of us. in our nation. And so as we pray for our government, we should pray that the kinds of things that we discussed in this video or the things that we see done, we should align ourselves as closely as possible with those who follow biblical patterns in their administration. And the fact is there are people that in their personal lives, I'm not going to be happy about what they do, but They say, but I'm looking for an administration that is standing as closely as possible to these issues. And I want to encourage you to not just pray, but to go out and vote and to actually be engaged in this process. We as God's people need to think clearly about this issue. Lord willing, tomorrow I'll give you a third video that I hope will be a help to you. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow. By now