Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our fourth Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And if you've been joining us this week, we are working our way through the book. 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 1 through 12, lengthy passage of scripture. We've been reading about half of it as we've been focusing in on it, and we've been looking at the role of the church to show forth the praises of the Lord amongst the nations. So we've worked through several different concepts. First of all, we talked about the darkness that we were once a part of and the darkness of the world around us. We talked about how we have seen Christ because of God's grace and his mercy, and we see Christ as a glorious Savior, a beautiful Savior, a wonderful treasure to us. And then yesterday we looked at the concept that we as God's church serve a very particular function. But we're going to build on that concept this morning and we're going to talk about how the church functions when it is healthy and vibrant and how God uses that. And so let's go ahead and turn again to 1 Peter chapter 2, looking at verses 6 through 12 is what we'll read today. Behold, I lay in Zion a cornerstone, elect, precious. He that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe he is precious, but unto them which be disobedient , The stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head cornerstone, a stumbling stone of stumbling of rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient whereunto they were also appointed But ye are chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that you should show forth the praises of him that called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. which in times past were not a people, but are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which were against the soul. having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may, by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. Well this morning, what we're going to focus in on is the concept of when the church is present and vibrant, it is a powerful tool in God's hands. There is no such thing as a perfect church. The church, positionally in Christ, is perfect and righteous and holy. But when we talk about the practice of the church in a fallen world, the church always falls short of what it ought to be in practice But when the church is healthy and the church is vibrant, it functions in a very powerful way. God's hand of providence works through the church. I want you to notice some of the things that are stated in here. In verses 11 and 12, he says I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts, which were against the soul, having your conversation honest among the Gentiles. That whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may, by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. Now if you notice the beginning part, he talks about what we are to do. At the end, he talks about what we will experience if in fact we do what we are called to do. And so the question is, what is the duty of the church? What is our collective responsibility? First is that it is our duty to maintain a distinctiveness. In verse 11, he says that we are strangers and pilgrims. We are different than the world around us. Now that that that distinction really comes in a lot of different forms, but I think in this first issue it's it's the idea that we recognize that this is a world that is not our our our full time, our we could say eternal home. We are looking forward to eternity to be with the Lord. And so we see that we are different than the people here. This is not our the ultimate kingdom. And we are here for a short period of time. And that's the way that we live our lives. We don't live our lives as if this is the only world we have and this is the only time we have. We live in the here and now in preparation for our eternal state. Secondly, we see that we must maintain purity as a church. He says in verse 11, Abstain from fleshly lusts which were against the soul. There are certain things that we are to put off, certain things we are to put on, we are to walk as children of the light because we are children of the light. And so we are to maintain purity. Thirdly, we must engage in the culture in which we've been planted. In verse 12, he says, having your conversation honest among the Gentiles. This is one of the great struggles I think that we face as Christians sometimes. There is the struggle of the of the church being worldly, and there is the struggle of the church being so detached from the world that we have no influence in the world. And so we are not to be of the world, but we are to work in the world. We're to come in contact with lost people. Jesus went and had dinner with people who were notoriously sinful. Why did he do that? Is it because he wanted to engage in their sinful, lustful behavior? The answer is of course not. He is the perfect holy son of God. He engaged in interaction with these people because he wanted to reach them. He wanted to give them the gospel. And so we are to follow in his example, having our conversation honest amongst the Gentiles. It's also true that the church is going to have to endure in this world. And the endurance that is talked about in these verses is endurance in front of baseless criticisms that are going to come from the culture. And verse 12 he says that these people speak evil of you as of evildoers. Now it's not true, but it's still being put out there. So he goes from the duty of the Christian to the future glory of the Christian if in fact they function in the way that they're supposed to. And so I want to remind you what he says here. He says that they, the same ones who maligned you, are going to one day glorify God on the day of visitation. They're going to behold your good works, and they will glorify him. Literally, it will witness the life-transforming power of the gospel. And it's going to experience eternal fruitfulness. So when the believer is functioning faithfully, even as the the world mocks the believer They're leaving a testimony. They're leaving a witness. They're leaving light and salt, pointing people to the gospel. And as people see how the gospel transforms other people, God uses that to draw people to Himself. And ultimately, that labor in the gospel and that faithful endurance. is going to lead to eternal fruitfulness. God's people will reach the people in their sphere. And so I asked this question. Are you functioning in such a way? You are salt. You are light. But are you salt with distinctiveness? Are you light that is shining in the darkness? May we be faithful as we live in the world to point people back to Jesus. Have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll look at some final thoughts as we head into the weekend. Talk to you all later. Bye now.