Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection and hope that your Wednesday morning is going well. And whenever you hear this episode, I pray that the Lord will use it to be an encouragement and help to you and perhaps pass this along to someone who uh can benefit by it. Uh the text that we're reading is Luke chapter 16. We're going to begin reading in verse number 19 and this morning we're going to look at The startling difference that the people experience in our story forever. And I want to remind you that as we read this story, this is not just what happened then. Here we are 2,000 years later. And Lazarus is still with the Lord, and the rich man is still separated from the Lord in tor in torments. And so we read the text. Here's what it says. There was a certain rich man which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day. And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate full of sores. and desired to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. Moreover the dogs came and licked his sores. And it came to pass that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died, and was buried. And in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have Mercy on me. Now, as I mentioned, these two men with radically different experiences in life and the similarity that they both experienced death are again experiencing two radically different eternal experiences. In verses 23 and 26 it says of the rich man in hell he lifted up his eyes being in In torment. And he seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. Lazarus immediately went to be with God's people. Verse 22 it says he was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. If we were to talk about this in the New Testament sense, it says that absent from the body is present from with the Lord. And so as soon as a believer dies, he goes to be with the Lord. In the Old Testament, when a believer died, he went to be with those who were believers, waiting for Waiting for that day that redemption would be accomplished by the Lord Jesus Christ. the Lord The rich man, on the other side, immediately is separated from God and God's people. He also died and was buried, and in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torment. Now you can immediately see the great difference between these two people. One is with Abraham and God's people, and the other is in torment separated from God's people. As we think about this, we see that Elizabeth is immediately Comforted. And this is a point that I'd really like to draw out later in our studies. But Lazarus had lived a horrible life, and now he is with Abraham. And With God's people, and he's anticipating all the blessings that he's going to experience in eternity. So he goes from being a beggar who is starving to being with God's people, one who was excluded and now one who is included. It says that he died and was carried by the angels. The rich man who had everything in life is now In a position where he is crying. And he's saying, Have mercy on me, send Lazarus, the man that begged at my gate, that he would dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue. I am tormented. In this flame. We see the struggle that this man is experiencing, and it's an experience that's not going to go away. We see that there's a definite finality emphasized in this passage as well. Verses 25 and 26 he says, remember in your lifetime you received the good things and likewise Lazarus evil things, but now he is And thou art tormented, and beside all this, between us there is a great gulf fixed, and they which would pass from hence to you cannot, neither they that want to pass to us from thence they cannot. And so the point is, it's over. You can't make any difference. You had opportunity before death. Now think Are sealed. You are now in a position you cannot reverse. And this is the stunning reality of the situation. The man who was Poor is now rich. And the man who is rich is now poor. The man who had nothing now has effort Everything and he has the everything that really matters. And the one who had everything now has nothing. And it's the nothing that really matters. And there's a finality to this. rich man and an inclusion of Lazarus. One of the things that it's important to make note of here is that Christ often, often warned about eternal And he talked a lot about hell and God's judgment. And he didn't do this because he gloated over it. He didn't do this because it's a good idea. Because he took delight in people's destruction. He warned them while they were living so they could flee from it and they could be safe from it. Ultimately, they could spend eternity with God through the redemptive work of the Messiah. For instance, in Matthew chapter 8, he says, many will come from east and west and sit with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven, but the children of the kingdom will be cast out into outer darkness. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Who are going to be saved from all over the world, from the Gentile nations. And the reality is that people who had access to the truth, those who lived with Christ and saw him and had the Old Testament, had the Old Testament, the prophets, many of those people will be excluded from God's kingdom because they've rejected the Messiah. Matthew 10, 28, he says, Fear not those who kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul, but rather Fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. And so he warns people, don't be afraid of what you can lose in this life. Be afraid of what you will lose forever because you missed the kingdom of God by rejecting the gospel. Again in Matthew chapter 11, he says, Thou Capernaum, which art exalted, Unto heaven shall be brought down to hell. If the mighty works which had been done in thee had been done in Sodom, it would have remained unto this day. He says, You You've had so much opportunity, and you look at Sodom, the most wicked city in the Old Testament, one that God destroyed. He couldn't even find ten righteous people in that city And yet, what does he say? They would have done better than you had they had opportunity as much as you have. And so the the warning is there's an eternity of separation from God in judgment. Matthew chapter 23 verse 15, woe unto you scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites, you come to sea and land to make proselytes. And when he is made, he is made twofold more a child of hell than you yourselves. Matthew twenty-five, cast the unprofitable servant out into outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth When the Son of Man will come in his glory with his holy angels, with them that shall sit on the throne of his glory, and before him shall be gathered of all nations, and he shall separate from them one of them. another as a shepherd divides the sheep from the goats. He shall set the sheep on his right hand and the goats on his left. And then shall the the the king say unto them that are on the right side, Come, bless them my father, inherit the kingdom Prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Now, why do I take time to show you all these texts, which are just barely scratching the surface of the things that Jesus said on this topic? It's very simple. It is to warn you. It is to encourage you to turn to Christ. The fact is, there is no person who will experience eternal destruction without having had a Opportunity. We all have opportunity access to the truth. If you're listening to this message this morning, you have opportunity to respond to the truth. And God has made The way of salvation is very simple. It's repent and believe. It's trust in the work of Christ. It's not give a million dollars or go to church this many number of times or do these many times. And so while we think about the sting of this passage of script Scripture, eternal destruction. , Don't forget, there's also eternal delight. And Lazarus, who had nothing in this world, has everything. And it's not because he earned it, it's not because he He deserved it, but it's because he embraced the finished work of the coming Messiah. And so I want to leave you with that encouragement. There is a Savior who is available to all. Whosoever will may come, turn to him. Trust in his finished work and rest in the fact that your eternity is secured through his redemptive work. Have a blessed rest of your day. As you reflect on the fact that God has saved you from wrath through Christ. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Have a blessed day. Bye now.