Good morning and welcome to a new week and a new series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. Hope you had a great weekend and I'm looking forward to digging into this passage with you. We're back in our Luke series and if you remember we finished the book of Luke during um the month of April and we did that because we wanted to focus in on the cross and the resurrection and the end of the book, but we skipped over a section that's very important and that's Christ's interaction primarily with the religious leaders during the time between the triumphal entry of him coming down from the Mount of Olives and then the crucifixion. And so this week we're going to focus in on a confrontation that Christ had with the religious leaders. It was not initiated by him But we're we're going to see a lot of things about the question of Christ's authority and the gospel. So let's dig into this passage together and I hope that you'll join us throughout the week. Luke chapter 20 is where we'll be this week. Here's what it says in verse number one. It came to pass that on one of those days, as he taught the people in the temple and preached the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes came unto him with the elders. They spake unto him, saying, Tell us, by what authority doest thou these things? Or who is he that gave thee this authority? He answered and said unto them, I will also ask you one thing, and answer me. The baptism of John, was it from heaven or of men? They reason with themselves, saying, If we shall say from heaven, he will say, then why would you not believe on him? And if we say of men, all the people will stone us, for they are persuaded that John was a prophet. And they answered that they could not tell him whence it was. And Jesus said unto them, Neither tell I you, by what authority I do these things. I want to introduce this by reminding us a little bit of background information leading into this. This is the final week of Christ's pre-passion ministry. What I mean is before he goes to the cross. He has repeatedly emphasized throughout the book of Luke, and it's also recorded some of the other gospels, that the cross is an absolute necessity. This is the purpose for which Christ came. He didn't just come to teach and to heal. He came to die. And he came to die on the cross. And we see this in several passages. For instance, in Matthew 16. It says, From that time forward began Jesus to show his disciples how that he must go up to Jerusalem and suffer many things of the elders of the chief priests and the scribes. and be killed and be raised the third day. In Luke 9, the Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be slain, and be raised the third day CHAPTER seventeen FIRST MUST He suffer many things, and be rejected of this generation So what you can see is that there's this consistent thing that the cross is a necessity. It's a part of God's redemptive plan. And Christ understands that and he's embraced that, and ultimately that's where it's going to end. The third thing I want to mention is that the Triumphal Entry is something that had just taken place. There's been maybe a day or two between the Triumphal Entry and this event, probably three days. And there are several reasons why the triumphal entry is is very important. There's a prophetic element to it. For instance, in John 12, verse 15, he says Thy king cometh sitting on an ass 's colt, these things they understood not at the first, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered these things. that were written of him and what they had done in these things unto him. So we can see there's a prophetic element. There's something that's predicted, there's something that has happened, and then after the fact they reflect back on it and they understand it. We also see there's a very symbolic aspect to this. We talked about Solomon in 1 Kings 1. 33 when he is established as the king. He comes down from the Mount of Olives, the same way that Jesus does on the triumphal entry. And interestingly, he's riding on a mule as he goes down to the Gihon Springs where he's going to be coronated by the people. We also see a similar example in the reign of Jehu in 2 Kings 9, where the Lord has clearly anointed him to be the king over Israel. And when this takes place, the people take their garments and they put them under him, and he goes across them and they say, Hail, this is Jehu the king. And so that symbolism in the history of Israel is a part of the story. There's also another element, and that is the explosiveness of this interaction. In Luke 19, we see that some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke your disciples. He said unto them, I tell you If they hold their peace, the stones will immediately cry out. This is actually the beginning of what is going to culminate in Christ's death. All of these confrontations with the religious leaders are going to come to a head. And so we see this in verse 1, when it says that he's teaching the people in the temple, and the scribes come upon him, and they demand an answer from him. And then in chapter 22, verses 2 to 6, we see that the scribes and the chief priest decide they're going to kill him And they want to figure out how they're going to kill him, but they're afraid of the people. And so what do they do? They go to Judas and they connect with him and he ultimately is going to portray betray Christ. So I'd summarize all these introductory thoughts in the following way. This passage of Scripture is primarily about Christ's contention with the religious leader leaders. And that contention is centered on his right to teach and to act as if he is God in flesh. It's about authority. That's the primary contention between Christ and the religious leaders. And so as we break this down and work into this passage a little bit this week, I think what we're going to see is that God's will for us in this passage is to see who Christ is and then to embrace what He's done for us. He's redeemed us to the Father. I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage. And I hope that you'll take the time to share it with others so you think may be encouraged and benefited from it. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.