Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And hope you're having a good Tuesday morning or whenever you're watching this video or listening to this. This episode. And um the passage we're dealing with is a heavy passage, as I mentioned yesterday. We're going to read the section that uh we're going to focus in on this morning. Yesterday we looked at the differences between these two people, a startling difference between the way that they live their lives and a life experience. This morning I'd like us to focus in on what they had in common and the Definitely draws out something that was the same between these two people. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles together. Let's turn and we'll read Luke chapter 16 and we'll start in verse Number nineteen. Here's what it says. There was a certain rich man which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day. And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at the gate for Of sores, and desired to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the man's table. Moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores. It came to pass that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's Bosom. The rich man also died, and was buried. And in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and seeeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy. Now, as I mentioned yesterday, we talked about the difference between these two people. One was very wealthy, one had a very easy life. He lived in security. able to um to to enjoy the good of life. The other man on the other hand had a very different experience. He was sick. He was Weak. He was a beggar, did not live in a home. He begged at a man's gate and he literally fought the dogs for the table scraps. But here's what we see in this text. Not only did they have this great difference, but they had something in common. In what way were these two people similar? Here's the answer in verse 22. It came to pass that the beggar died. The rich man also died and was buried. Now, when we think about these two people Although they had lived such different lives, they both died. , In verse 22, it came to pass the beggar died. In verse 22, it came to pass the rich men also die. Died. This reminds us of something that we all are going to have to face. That is the fact that you can choose lots and lots of different paths in life, you can enjoy lots and lots of different things. You can experience lots and lots of different heartaches. But at the end of all of those things, you will one day enter into eternity. There are no exceptions. And the Bible has a lot to say about this. This is the most universal experience to humanity that we will have. Lots and lots of different people from lots of Lots and lots of different cultures from lots and lots of different times. All these differences, but this is the same. Ecclesiastes 3 1 it says, to everything there is a Psalm ninety verse ten. He says, The days of our Our years are three score years and ten. And if by reason of strength they are four score years, yet is their strength, labor, and sorrow. For it is soon cut off, and we fly away. So Teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. Then another passage that really stands out is Ecclesiastes 11. He says, Rejoice Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth. Let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth. Walk in the ways of thine heart, and in the sight of thine eyes. But know thou that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them, because men goeth To his long home, and the mourners go about in the streets, then shall the dust return to the earth as it was, and the spirit shall return unto God who gave it. Now when we think about these passages, the last scripture I'll mention is in Hebrews, where it says, it is appointed unto man once to die And after this, the judgment. Now, generally, when I give these anchored in the word morning reflections, my encouragement or my my focus is to be very uplifting and very encouraging. And This morning is a little bit different. It is to warn people, to remember the fact that your life is a vapor. It appears for a little while, it vanishes away. How you live your life matters. choices that you make matter because there's going to be a day that you're going to meet God. And when we think about these two people, though they live such very different lives, they all experience The same reality. They entered into eternity. I hope that this morning, as you listen to this video or watch it, or whatever you're doing, that you will stop and reflect in the fact that one day you will meet the Lord. And I hope you're ready for that day. The fact is you don't have to face that reality with fear. And with terror. You can face that reality with confidence, knowing that you are right with God and one day you will enter into eternity to be with him forever. And so I hope that you have that confidence. confidence. I hope that you'll reach out to to me either through the church website or through email or however you however you need. There's up there's options available even if you're watching this on Facebook or YouTube. You you can personally message the church and we will get back with you. If you do not know for sure that when you die you're going to spend eternity with the Lord, please reach out So we can be an encouragement to you and show you, point you to the gospel and what Christ has done for you. This passage of scripture reward reminds us that all of us are one day going to meet the Lord And we need to be ready for that day. Well, I know that that's not necessarily a positive thing to end on, but I do hope that you have a good day. And I do hope that if you're uncertain of eternal Eternity, you will reach out so that we can help you to see from the Bible what you need to do to respond to the gospel in order to be saved. Have a blessed day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.