Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection for the Week. And the text that we're looking at is 1 Corinthians chapter 1. And we're looking at verses 18 to 31, though. because of the length of the passage, I'm not going to read the whole section uh for the rest of the week each day, but we're developing a theme and what we're focusing in on is what Paul believes is the heart of how he needs to address the problems that are going on at the Church of Corinth. And what we see is that Paul begins this letter by preaching the cross of Christ. He ends the letter by preaching the resurrection of Christ. And it is his firm conviction that the antidote for every problem that the church was dealing with was rooted in a correct understanding of the cross and the resurrection. and ultimately taking the truths of the gospel that they had embraced and that they were trusting in and that they had salvation as a result of. And that they would focus in on how those truths were to impact their day-to-day lives as Christians in a position of righteous, forgiven, and cleansed. And so this morning what we're going to focus in on is how the cross is the watershed issue for the world. On one side of the cross are those who embrace it and on the other side are those who reject it. And so this morning we're going to focus in on how the world is lost because they do not value the cross. And by the end of this lesson, I hope that we will have a much greater appreciation for the significance and the weight of the cross and why people ultimately reject it. So again, 1 Corinthians chapter 1, we'll begin reading in verse 18. It says, For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and I will bring to naught the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For after that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. For the Jews required a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified Unto the Jews a stumbling block, unto the Greeks foolishness, but unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. Because the the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than man. Now, this passage is a rich passage because it's going to lay out some very important truths. And here at the beginning, where Paul is talking about the importance of the cross, its power, and its wisdom. He's going to emphasize the fact that the cross and what we do with it ultimately determines whether we are lost or whether we are saved. And whoever's listening to this uh episode this morning, I want to remind you that what you do with the cross, how you look at it, and whether or not you have embraced it. as your one and only hope of forgiveness of sins before God is going to determine whether you're lost or saved. And so in this passage we want to zero in on a statement that's made in verse 18. He says the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. Later on, he's going to talk about how God saves people through the foolishness of preaching. And in the context He's not just talking about the mechanism or the mode of preaching compelling people to response, but he's talking about the nature of their preaching. It is the preaching of the cross. It is the preaching of the cross and the resurrection. That is what the world views as foolishness. And so he's going to give us several different ways that the foolishness, the attitude of seeing the cross as foolishness is expressed. And these four basic expressions are really just different ways of saying unbelief. A person says, I don't believe in the gospel. I don't believe in the cross. I don't believe in its necessity. I don't believe in its wisdom. I don't believe that it is the power and wisdom of God. And so I want you to notice the way he states it. In verse 22, we see the phrase, the Jews require a sign Another way of putting it is there are people that demand a very particular kind of confirmation of the message. Now, God has confirmed that in fact the cross is the wisdom and power of God. He's done it through a lot of different means. He's done it through the Old Testament prophecies pointing to the cross. He's done it through the statements of Christ that are recorded for us in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. He did it through the signs, the miracles that Jesus performed, even the voice of God the Father saying, This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. hear him. We see that repeated throughout the Gospels. But there were people that said, we want more. This is not enough. And what does Jesus ultimately say to those people? You are requiring a sign because you don't believe. And what does Paul say? You require a sign because you do not believe. Another statement in verse 23, also referring to the Jewish people, is that he says that to the Jews the cross was a stumbling block. When they heard about the death of the cross, and immediately in people's minds they said, the cross, cursed is anyone who hangs on a tree. There's no way that our Messiah could save us by becoming a curse and being nailed to a cross. There's no way that this this this terror mechanism of the Romans where the crucified people who are common criminals, there's no way that someone could be saved through that mechanism And so the nature of the cross, the bloodiness of the cross, the the the the graphic nature of the cross, the the fact that the cross was a place where people were tortured. and where people were cursed was something that the Jews said, there's no way that salvation could come through such a mechanism. And so what is it? The cross was an offense to them. But what is it ultimately? Well, it's unbelief. It's rejecting the cross by saying it's too offensive. A third way of expressing this is through the Gentiles. He says that the Greeks seek after wisdom. Basically it's saying that when the the the Greek person who is philosophical in his approach to life looks at this story of the cross and Christ's death on the cross, being the means through which God redeems people to Himself, they say That's not wisdom. It doesn't follow human logic. And so some people reject an unbelief because they want more confirmation. Some people reject an unbelief because to them the cross is too barbaric, it's too cruel, it's too harsh, it's a sign of torture and being cursed. To others, it doesn't conform with human logic. And some simply said it was nonsense. Verse 23, to the Greeks it's Foolishness. What is this though? It's ultimately unbelief. It's rejecting the authoritative message of Scripture that confirms this had to happen, this did happen, and this is why it matters. But he breaks it down even further. He shows that there are two fundamental supports to this unbelief. This unbelief really breaks down into two different streams. And one stream is a stream of self-righteousness. And he's focusing in primarily on the fact that the Jewish people, who were a very self-righteous people at the time of Christ, And by the way, it's not just Jewish people. It's lots of religious people today. You ask a person, are you a sinner? They say, well, everybody does bad things. You say Well, do you deserve to be separated from God eternally and be rejected and bear the wrath of God in hell? They'd say, absolutely not. I'm a generally good person. That's a self-righteousness that's being addressed here. And in verse 19, this is the way that Paul states it. He says, and he quotes from the Old Testament, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Now in order to understand Paul's reference, you have to go back to Isaiah 29. where Paul is quoting from the prophet Isaiah. And here you get a fuller understanding of what Paul is addressing. He says, the vision of all is become unto you as the words of a book that are sealed. Which men deliver to one that is learned, saying, Read this, I pray thee. And he says, I cannot, it is sealed. He's saying they don't understand what God is saying. because their eyes have been blinded. And you say, well, why have their eyes been blinded? The answer is they have been blinded because of their self-righteousness. In Isaiah 29, 13 he says, This people draw near to me with their mouth and with their lips they do honor me. But they have removed their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precepts of man. That little statement at the end is important The reason they're blinded is because they're teaching the precepts of men and they're replacing the teachings of Scripture. This is exactly what the rabbis were doing in the time of Christ. And Isaiah's predicting this. And this has been a consistent pattern of problem. for the Jewish people. And it is to this day for all for all people who are outside of embracing the gospel message. Their self-righteousness blinds them to the true value of the cross And they ultimately reject it because they feel they don't need it. To capture this very well, we see what Paul writes in Galatians 2. 21. He says, if righteousness comes by the law, Christ died for no purpose. And so one of the supports of unbelief is people say, I don't need it, it's foolishness. Because I can earn my way to God. But there's a second support to this unbelief, and that is intellectual pride. People who are blinded by their sophisticated philosophy. They do not value the cross because many of the Gentiles said it's nonsense, it's foolishness, it's unnecessary, not because of self-righteousness, but because of intellectual pride. And we see that he states it in verse 21 this way, the world by wisdom knew not God. Another way of putting it Is that the wisdom of this world says, I don't need the cross, I don't need a savior, I don't need God. You know, there are many modern people today. Who say, you know, the gospel and the cross and the resurrection is laughable to a sophisticated 21st century person who has been educated in Western thought. Well, guess what? That mindset's not new. That mindset was prevalent during the time of Paul and during the time of Christ. It's been a consistent problem throughout all of human history. There are many people that believe that since the ancient peoples were ignorant of modern science and they didn't have access to the kind of knowledge that we have today. That's why they were duped by the cross and the resurrection. Yet people in Paul say laughed at such a thing. What's the point? Obviously, people who lived in the first century viewed the preaching of the cross, the preaching of the resurrection, the same way many skeptics do today. They viewed it as laughable, and they viewed it as weak, and they viewed it as barbaric. But what does Paul say? The preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But to us which are saved, it is the power and the wisdom of God. And I ask you this question this morning. How do you view the cross of Christ? We're this week going to be moving our way to thinking about the cross on the Passover celebration. And we've talked about Jesus coming in on a donkey. Palm Sunday, and we're going to remember the cross when we talk about Good Friday. We're going to remember the resurrection on Sunday. But do you believe that the cross is the wisdom and power of God? That's what Paul's preaching to the Christian on how to live the Christian life effectively. He's taking them back to the cross. And to the unsaved person, he's taking them back to the cross and says Reconsider the cross is the power and wisdom of God. Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue developing this series as we focus in on the text in front of us. And I hope that it's an encouragement to you. Well, have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing will meet again tomorrow. By now