Good morning and welcome to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. This week we're looking at Psalm 55, which is a lament psalm, and we're looking at the importance of casting our burden on our unchanging God. Today what I want to do is look at the context of this passage so that we can really set this passage in a way that we can understand what it's really getting at. And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn again to Psalm 55. We're looking at verses 9 through 23, and we'll see exactly what it says this morning as it relates to context. Here's what the text says. Destroy, O Lord, divide their tongue, for I have seen violence and strife in the city. Evening and morning and at noon will I pray and cry aloud, and he shall hear my voice. He hath delivered my soul in peace from the battle that was against me. There were many against me, many with me. Cast thy burden on the Lord. He shall sustain thee. He shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. But thou, O God, shalt bring them down to the pit of destruction. Bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their days, but I will trust in thee. Now, as I mentioned just a minute ago, we need to talk about the context that David is living through. And in verses 9 through 15, he's going to lament what he is experiencing. And these were lamentable experiences. And so if you go back to the beginning and you look at the various details, it appears that this is probably what was taking place in Psalm, or 2 Samuel 15 through 19. And this is a defining moment near the end of David's life when the kingdom was overthrown. David is running for his life. Absalom his son has led a rebellion, and Absalom uh is is aligned with Ahithophel, who is one of David's closest companions, one of his very well-trusted advisors. So when we talk about Absalom's rebellion, This is a very dangerous time for the people. It was a very personal issue for David. We think about Ahithophel, he had a reason to dislike David, to be angry at him, because Ahithophel his Bathsheba's grandfather. And so I'm sure there was a lot of animosity towards David because of how he had treated Ahithophel's granddaughter. So we we can understand why that would have taken place, why the anger would have been there, but it was still a very low moment in David's life. And so as we think about this issue, we're not just talking about two individuals who have an issue with David And they're grieved at him and they want to undermine him. There's a lot more in play than that. You have to realize that there are national implications because this is a a a breaking up of a nation So when we think about what's going on, we see that, first of all, one person has the right to the throne, and that is David. And the reason that David has the right to the throne isn't because he was perfect man. It's because God had established him to be the king. He had been anointed by Samuel many, many years before. And so when Ahithophel aligns with Absalom, Absalom is ul ultimately saying, My father doesn't have the right to rule. I'm going to overthrow him. Which essentially is him turning against the will that God has for the people. Second thing I want to mention is that they're not just fighting against David. They're fighting against God. It is God's nation, not David's nation. In fact, one of the things that God reminds David of when David was at this low point where he sins against Bathsheba. is that David says or God says to David, These are my people and I have appointed you over my people and you've abused that. And so we see that even though David had sinned, he still is the rightful king. And Absalom and Ahizaphael are fighting against God's plan for the people. Third thing I'll mention is that their manipulation Their ambition, this lust for power and revenge, it wasn't just going to divide the family. It was going to divide literally families all over the nation. It's going to divide a city. It's going to trem bring tremendous pain and suffering to these people. So their personal ambitions were going to affect a lot of people. Lots of people are going to die. It was going to be a vicious war. And it's all because of the actions that they're taking against David. And so what is David's request in this passage? He says, God, I want you to do two things. One is I want you to confuse The coronation of their rebellion. In the same way that you did this at the Tower of Babel, do it here. And that's what he means when he says, destroy and divide their tongues. Make their coordination confusion. The second example that he draws from is the rebellion of Korah against Moses. And he talks about how God made an example of these people who turned against Moses. And it wasn't so much about Moses as much as it was God's right to rule the people as he chose through the instruments that he chose. And so he says, let death seize them, let them go down quickly into hell or into the pit. And so that is what David is talking about. So He breaks it down even further in these verses, and I want to highlight those as well before we close out this little section. He talks about verse 9, how there is violence all over the city. I've seen violence, I've seen strife in the city. Why is that violence and strife there? Well, it's because of a breakdown of social order. It's because David, who is the rightful king, has been overthrown. And Absalom is now seizing power and it's disrupting the population. There was no rest from this violence. Verse number ten he says, Day and night they go about upon the walls. Mischief and sorrow are in the midst of it. Third thing I'll mention here is that this rebellion led to a complete breakdown of the government. We says in verse 11 that wickedness is in the midst Deceit and guile depart not from her streets. He's saying literally from the very top all the way down on every level of the city's government And on every level of the city, there is rebellion and strife and violence. And so David's concern isn't just about himself, it's about the health of the nation. And so in verses 12 through 14 he mentions this is a treachery of the most painful s the f most f painful way possible. These are people who are close to me and are exploiting what they know. He says, it's not an enemy that reproached me. It's not a man my equal. It was my guide, my acquaintance. We took sweet counsel together. We walked upon unto the house of God in company. And so he says one of the reasons this is so dangerous is because this person was trusted. This person has exploited their access to the kingdom and the power of the government. And so David is very concerned about what's going on. So how do we look at this? Well, there are three possible ways that we could look at it The first, which I don't think is the correct way to look at it, is it's just a man who's angry at personal insults. It's a lot more than that. It's not just he's angry because he's been insulted. It's showing us how a man grieves this process of traumatic experience. And as they grieve and they process this information, what do they do? They move to a more grounded perspective as time goes on. It shows us that. Third thing we see, and I think this is important, is it's an example of a leader whose cause is just Now that's not to say that David was just in all his dealings, but on this particular matter, David was in the side of right. He was the rightful king. He was not attacking them. They were attacking him. He was not disrupting the government. They were disrupting the government. And so in this situation, the rifle king carries the weight of defending the innocent. And he's determined to reestablish the peace and the order of the city. Why? Not just for himself, but for all the the well-being of everybody in the city. And that may mean going to war It may mean using force, that's what David has to do. And so I think that's what we're looking at. Really those two that second and third option are the ones that I think best represent what's going on. How we process grief, David is processing it. And a man who recognizes his job is to re-establish order and to protect the innocent. And he's praying that God will cause the way of what is right to triumph in a situation. It gives us some things to think about this morning. Hope you have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep breaking down this passage. Bye now.