Good morning, welcome to our fourth Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And I hate to say it, but I almost feel like this is a clickbait week because I'm working through all of these pieces to this story. But I'm not telling you what I think is the primary focus of the story, and so you have to almost wait till today to get that. And so this morning what I want to do is I want to focus on the primary source of Paul's confidence. And it is not uh Timothy's faithfulness, which certainly was a part of it, or how he had had left him to do work at Ephesus, and he did it the way he should have. But it's actually something that he brings out in the text here that we've been reading this week each morning. And so If you have your Bible, I want to ask you to turn there. Let's look again at 2 Timothy chapter 1, verses 2 to 5. We're going to read what it says and then burrow down into that detail. It says to Timothy, my dearly beloved son, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father. and Christ Jesus our Lord. I thank God whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day, greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I might be filled with joy. When a call remembers the unfaint faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that it is in thee also. Paul's confidence was directly connected to the influence of two people. Those two people are not Dad and not Timothy. But Lois and Eunice, Mom and Grandma. Notice what it says in verse 5. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwell First in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded is in thee also So what Paula is really saying here is that my confidence doesn't just go back to our interaction. It goes back to your mom and your grandma. And what I know to be true about them that I see to be true in you, and it has been demonstrated out as we've worked together for nearly 12, 13 years. That's what he zeroes in on. Very interesting. Notice what he's saying. He's saying, uh uh not just what he says there, but notice kind of the background of what he's saying. If we go back to Acts chapter 16, we're going to find an interesting statement. When Paul is first introduced to Timothy, it says that Timothy was well reported of by the brethren who were in Lystra and Iconium. When he says this dwelt first in Lois and in Eunice, and I'm persuade is in thee, he's talking about something that was true of Timothy before Paul in influenced him. Notice a couple things here. He says nothing about Dan in the passage. The significance of this statement is that Paul knew Timothy so well, he had thoroughly trained him in the work that he was doing, but that is not the reference of the passage. He could have said, I know I've taught you everything that you need to know. Not that he would have. I know that I've seen you in every potential situation, even though it seems that he has What he zeroes in on is I have confidence because I know your mom and your grandma Before Paul interacted with Timothy, his reputation of excellence was already well established. He was known as one who had a good reputation. And so that moves me to this final set of observations. The character of that young man, the character that made him faithful as a minister of the gospel. was not developed through Paul, but through mom and grandma. That's really important. The experience in ministry was shaped by Paul Certainly giving him insight was shaped by Paul, but not the character of the person, the temperament of the person those core values of the person that was shaped before Paul met Timothy. And what that does is that reminds us of the importance of godly parents. And this is something that we see repeated over and over and over in the Bible. We go to Deuteronomy chapter 6. It tells us that we are to love the Lord our God with all our heart and soul and strength, and we're to teach diligently these things to our children when we get up, when we sit down, all throughout life. We see passages like Psalm 78 that talk about teaching the next generation. We see Ephesians chapter 6 where parents are told that they are to raise up their children. Fathers are to raise up their children and then nurture and the admonition of the Lord. And that reminds me of what is stated in the book of Proverbs. It says, My son, hear the instruction of thy father. Forsake not the law of thy mother. They shall be an ornament of grace unto thy head and chains about thy neck. What's he saying? The ornament ornamentation of this young person, what's going to enhance the beauty of the individual is going to be what was shaped in them when they were very young by their godly parents. We see another example, Proverbs chapter 6. My son, keep thy father's commandment, forsake not the law of thy mother. Bind them continually on thy heart, tie them about thy neck. When thou goest it shall lead thee, when thou sleepest it shall keep thee. When thou wakest it will talk with thee Because the commandment is a lamp and the law is a light, and the reproofs of instruction are the way of life. What's the point? The point is that the guiding forces in the life of a young person, what's going to shape their conscience, what's going to shape their values, what's going to guide them in life and give them tools that they need to make good wise decisions, those things are shaped. in their lives by their parents. And by the way, I'm just gonna take a note of this. I know that it that God's plan is husband, wife, mom, dad, investing in children And that's what works best, and that's what God wants. But in the situation of Timothy, even though mom and dad were in his life, it was mom, not dad. Not mom and dad that he focuses in on. It was mom and grandma. That was not the way that that the scripture presents it. It should be mom and dad working together to raise their children. But what it shows you is that God's grace can even overcome these difficult situations. Situations like Timothy finds himself in. God's grace can work through grandma and mom as they invest in this young person. And so what it does is it highlights the importance of godly parents. I want to challenge our moms and our dads out there. What you are doing with your kids, the investment of time and energy and resources. The time you spend teaching them the Word of God, disciplining them, working through challenges with them, shaping their conscience, that is an invaluable work. I say this also to people who are coaches and teachers and Sunday school teachers and people who work with our young people. Maybe they're not your children, but God has given you an opportunity to influence them for the sake of the kingdom of God. And your labor is not an empty labor. It matters. It's important. And so I want to leave that with you this morning. Thank God for those who invest in the generations coming behind them. That's what Paul focuses his attention on. His confidence is rooted in what was poured into Timothy before Paul ever met him. Those who shaped him in those most tender years. May God help us to be faithful in the shaping of the next generation. Have a blessed day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts