Good morning and welcome back to our force anchored in the word morning reflection and we have been working our way through the parable of the prodigal son. And we've talked about the storyline, we've talked about the audience, and this morning what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look at Christ's main point. What was Jesus trying to communicate to those groups of people that were hearing this parable. And so let's read through the text one more time this morning, and then after that we're going to dig into what is his main point. And We're going to kind of divide it between uh one group who was obviously being looked down upon and one group who was uh looking down upon the other person. And so let's dig into the text. Here we go. Luke chapter 15, verse number 11. And he said, A certain man had two sons. And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. And not many days after, the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land, and he began to be in want, and he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him into the field to feed swine And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him. And when he came to himself, he said , How many hired servants of my fathers have bread enough to spare, and I perish with hunger? I will arise and go to my father. And will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants And he arose and came to his father. But when his father was a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran and fell on his neck and kissed him. Now, what was the point of Christ's teaching to his audience? First of all, let's remind ourselves that these parables were meant to comfort a certain group of people. Now when I use the word spiritually broken, what I'm saying is that these are people who recognize that they are spiritually broken. All people are spiritually broken. But this is intended to help the person who had been humbled by the gospel and humbled by their sinfulness and their brokenness, and they understood it. And they felt the weight of it. It was meant to comfort those people to say, you can come to Christ. He wants to save you. He loves you. He values you. Redemption is possible for you. That's what it's all about. On the other side, it was to rebuke those who were self-righteous. They were trusting in themselves that they were righteous. Next, they remind us. That God's grace is something that is so good that we will never be able to completely understand it or grasp it. This is a grace that is extended to rebels. Rebels who have committed offenses that are unconscionable. As people who are listening to this parable would have thought about the way that the Son had treated his father, Jesus was trying to say, you have sinned against the Creator of all things. in a far worse way than this prodigal son sinned against his dad. It's also meant to teach us that God graciously allows people to experience the weight of their sinful choices And the reason that he does this is not because he's cruel and harsh and wants to ruin them, not because he has animosity towards them. It's because he wants to draw them to himself, and in order to do that, he's got to allow them to see the full weight of sin so that they will be humbled by it and see it as a horrible thing. And a horrible offense against the holy and righteous God. We also see in this parable that he holds back his anger and permits opportunity for people to be restored. And so while the father was at home, he was waiting for an opportunity, and he was going to extend that opportunity as soon as he saw his son to bring restoration. God is like that. He holds back his wrath against our sin, our just the justice that we deserve against our sin. He holds it back. so that he can bring us to himself during this period. These parables celebrate the glory of redemption. And so when we think about these parables, we need to recognize we serve a good God. A God who is to be celebrated, a God is to be praised, a God who we are to be humble before, a God who we should be grateful to. The point of Christ's parable falls under these pieces that we've talked about. So I hope that that gives you something to think about throughout the rest of the day. I hope that you have a great rest of your day and that it's a day that is centered on the Lord, that you think about him often, and you celebrate in your heart what he has done for you. Maybe tell somebody about it. In fact, maybe take a moment to share this video so that they can be encouraged by it as well Lord willing, tomorrow I want to give you some final thoughts that really apply the truths that we just talked about this morning. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing. We'll talk again tomorrow. Bye now.