Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I know that this is a good bit later than I typically put these on in the morning, but with Vacation Bible School, what I wanted to do was give you a little bit of an update uh before we get into the actual study that we're doing this morning, which is a continuation of what we've been looking at this week from Luke chapter 14. Well first thing I want to do is say thank you for For keeping us in your prayers. And it's been a bit of a grueling week. You can tell people are tired, but you can also tell that people are very encouraged by what the Lord is doing in our vacation. Bible School. And this year we have had a tremendous number of young people. In fact, if you include our teenagers who come in the morning for our teen rally, we almost have 200 students who have been registered and been a part of our program. So it's possible that tonight if there's three or four visitors we will actually go above that 200 mark and And that's way more than we've had at any point that I've seen in our church. And I'm just thankful for each of those young people coming because those are souls. Those are young people who need to hear the gospel and uh young people need to be encouraged in the Lord if they're saved, uh families that we have the opportunity to uh interact with and hopefully be a tremendous blessing to them. And um Also, we've had a lot of young people that we've dealt with during our gospel times, so probably a little over a dozen young people we have dealt with and um actually gone through the gospel, several of those kids. have made professions of faith and some have also had seeds planted and perhaps uh later in the week, uh today or tomorrow, we'll see those young people trust Christ. And it's also been great to be able to talk to some of the the parents of these children and just let them know that their children are asking questions about the gospel and their need to be saved. And so please keep us in your prayer as we have two more nights tonight. Water night, and uh right now the teens are getting ready to have their games associated with that, and that uh is a lot of fun. It's always a highlight of the week, and uh it's nice Have it be a little bit cooler than it was earlier in the week as well. So that's an update. Keep us in prayer. We're excited about what God is doing and just thankful to get to work with these young people. Well the text that we're looking at is Luke 14 and And this week we've been talking about how God, who is good, confronts us in our pride, specifically religious pride. And so, in order to pick back up where we were last time, I'd like us to read the text together. That's Luke 14, 1 to 6. And then we will look at how Christ as an example gives us a pattern that we need to be willing to follow when it comes to interacting with People who do not understand the gospel and are trusting in a form of religious sacrifice that is not acceptable to God, whether it's a self-righteousness, whatever it is. So, Luke 141 says this. And it came to pass as he went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees to eat bread on the Sabbath day. Sabbath day that they watched him, and behold, there was a certain man before him which had the dropsy. And Jesus answering spake unto the lawyer and the Far lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful To heal on the Sabbath day? And they held their peace. And he took him and healed him and let him go. And answered them, saying, Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fall in? Into a pit and will not straightway pull him out of the out on the Sabbath day. They could not answer him again to these things. Now, yesterday we talked about the fact that Christ was willing to Get into a confrontation with this group of Pharisees and lawyers. What I'd like to do this morning is I'd like us to look at this example. And they're just three simple words that I I want us to remember from this study this morning how we can learn from Christ's action. And before we look at those words, I just want to give you a couple of thoughts that I think are important on the This topic. Sentimentality does not save anybody. Now what I mean by sentimentality is someone uh has a little bit of a Hashtag attitude like let's put up this hashtag where for whatever cause it is. The fact that a personally has emotionally engaged on an issue and Some level is not enough to address the problem. Just because I talk about a thing, or I'm sad when I see something, or I feel some kind of anger in my heart about an issue, does not matter mean that I have actually contributed positive positively to resolving that issue. That's simply sentimentality. Compassion is Meaningless without righteous action that is being motivated by that compassion. Compassion is something that is supposed to drive us to activity. specifically drive us to activity that is constructive in a biblical sense. And so Christ actively confronted the pride and the self-righteousness of these Pharisees and these lawyers. He confronted their theological errors, and he did this because truth matters, and people's lives are in the balances, and eternity is at stake. And we need To learn from that. So here are the three words that I want you to remember. The first word is the word confrontation. Christ confronted the errors that were at the heart of their Religious rejection of salvation. Now, when I use the word confrontation, I don't want you to think of someone being confrontational as in this is talking about the manner in which we go into Addressing an issue. But what we actually mean by that is someone is bold enough and they care enough that they're going to take the steps that are necessary to actually resolve an issue. It's someone engaging with someone rather than just talking about it or feeling about it. They're actually engaging the issue. That's what we mean by confrontation. And so we see this in verse 2 3 it says Jesus answering spoke unto the lawyers and the Pharisees. They did not speak first to him. They simply put him in a situation Where he knew they were watching him, and he knew that they were thinking about what he might do, and they were plotting and scheming how to respond to him. And so So Jesus approaches them, not the other way around. The second word that I want you to remember this morning is the word reasoning. Reasoning. So confrontation, and the next word is reasoning. Jesus reasoned with them from a point of authority, and that that point of authority is both the scripture and his person. So when Jesus speaks as one having authority, he's not just preaching the Bible like a like a pastor does. So when I get up on Sunday and I I open up the Word of God and I read it and I expound it. The authority of that moment is not in me, the minister, but in the word that's being proclaimed. the word that is being read. So long as what I'm saying is consistent with the text in front of us, that's where the authority lies. So when Jesus is reasoning from a point of authority He both reasoned from Scripture and he reasoned from his own authority, inherent because he is God in flesh. But he appeals to the conscience of these individuals. He understands understands that these are people created in the image of God, and they know there is right and they know there is wrong. And if he asks them the right questions and he presents them the right logical conclusions, in their conscience, they're going to know for a fact that what he's saying is true. And so in verse 3 he says, is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath day? He engaged the conscience, reasoned with. Them with a question. Or for instance, in verse 5, he says, Which of you shall have an ass or ox fall into a dit into a pit, and not straightway pull him out on the Sabbath day? He's saying you know yourselves that if an animal is in trouble, even if it's the Sabbath day, you care about that animal, and you're going to go in and you're going to take this animal out of the ditch and make sure it's taken care of. What's Jesus doing? He's reasoning with them. And when we talk about the word repent, we're talking about a word that is built in the reasoning category. It's a person Who is holding a certain set of beliefs that are wrong, they need to be confronted, and then they need to change in how they view things. Reasoning. The third word Is the word persistence? Persistence. He continued to confront and to reason with them while as long as there was a point of contact. And so he asked this question in Luke 6, doesn't God have the right to tell you what is acceptable and not on the Sabbath day? Or then again in Luke 13, doesn't God have the right to show compassion on his children? Or then again in John chapter 5, if the Father and the Son are equal, doesn't that make him God in flesh? Or lastly, John 9, if the Son and Son performs such an unmistakable miracle. Why don't people accept him? Well, what is Jesus doing? He's not just reasoning with them, but he's continuing to reason with them anytime there is opportunity. And I think of that passage where it says that we are to always be ready to give an answer to everyone who asks us of the hope that lies within us with meekness and fear. What is that telling you? If you're going to reason with people, you don't just throw something out there and leave it alone. You engage with them whenever the opportunity comes before you. And we see that this is the pattern, not just for the saved, but also for the lost. And so we see that God desires everyone to be saved. And so what does he do? He gives them opportunity. Second Peter three nine He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. First Timothy two four, he desires that all men be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth. He is reasoning with the unbeliever Through the scriptures, by the Spirit's power, through individuals like you and me who are bringing the gospel to people over and over and over again. And he does that in the lives of Hebrews chapter twelve says, Whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son who may receive it. So what we see is this wasn't just Jesus dealing with the Pharisees and the lawyers, but this was a regular pattern in his ministry. And this is a pattern that we see in Peter's ministry and a pattern that we see in Paul's ministry. This is a biblical way of addressing people. So the question question I want to leave you with is what do we take away from our study today? Well what we take away from this study is that we need to follow that example. We have to be willing to engage situations, not just feel bad about them, not just talk about them. but actively engage them in a way that is consistent with scripture and is going to lead to a positive outcome. That would be a positive outcome from a biblical worldview. And then second Secondly, there's the reasoning side. We need to be prepared to engage people with questions and have biblical answers and direct them to the truth so that the Spirit of God can work in them. To bring them to repentance and faith. The last word is that word continuation. We just continue to engage these individuals persistently. over and over and over again. And so I want to pray that that is what you do today. And this is something that shapes the way that we interact with people. Again, thank you for joining us. Joining us this morning. Keep us in your prayers as we have today and tomorrow, and then our week is over for Vacation Bible School. Lord willing, tomorrow I'll give you one more update and I'll also give you You some final thoughts in this passage of Scripture. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing we'll see a lot of you tonight by now