Good morning. Welcome to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And we are getting very close to the end of our study in the book of Luke. In fact We just have one more week of studies in Luke. And so the last series that we're our last part of our series that we're going to do. is going to be a summation of the book. So just giving you that heads up on the end of our missions month when that's all finished, then we're going to focus in on just kind of a summary of the book of Luke. And so I hope that you will Join us for that. That'll be in the month of November because over the next several weeks we're going to be doing a missions focus. And so also with that I hope that you will join us for our missions services that we have and our Sunday school classes are all going to be dedicated to focusing in on the missionaries that will be with us. Our Sunday morning service is going to be focused on missions themes. And then Sunday night we will have one of our own missionaries that we support featured each night. And it'll be a discussion, about 10-12 minutes. And then after that, the missionaries that are our guests are going to preach. And so excited about all the different things that we're doing this month. Please join us and make sure that you're engaged in all of those opportunities. But this week we're going to go back and review over the passage looking at Christ's prayer in the garden. And so with that, this morning we're going to start with an introduction. So if you have a Bible, please take it. We're going to turn to Luke 22. We'll read that, and then I want to remind you of a couple of things that are important things for us to reflect on going into the week. Luke 22, 39. And he when he was at the place, he said unto them, Pray that ye enter not into temptation. He was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast, and kneeled down and prayed, saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will but thine be done. There appeared an angel from him, from heaven, and strengthened him. And being in agony he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat was, as it were, great drops of blood falling down on the ground And when he rose up from prayer and was come to his disciples, he found them sleeping for sorrow. He said unto them, Why sleep ye? Rise, pray, lest ye enter into temptation. Now as we dig into this passage, I want to give you a few summary statements and then some introduction reflections. First of all, a summary of these verses. As Christ prayed in the garden, he felt the full weight of his future suffering and expressed to the Father both his willingness to face it and his desire to be rescued from it. What it shows you is that as Christ was preparing to go to the cross, he understood fully what he was about to experience. And there was a part of him that desired to escape such misery. But there was also an absolute willingness, a surrender of his will, because of what it would accomplish to go to the cross and experience the suffering. And so that's really what this passage is all about. As we dig into it, we're going to see our need to understand the weight of the cross and the cost of our redemption. So how are we going to do that? Well, first of all, I want to remind you that this is taking place during the Passover And the week before, we talked about the focus of a change from Passover to the Lord's table. When we talk about the cross, we need to recognize that the cross is about redemption. We are a people that have been redeemed to God. And 1 Peter 1. 18 talks about it in both a negative and positive sense. He says negatively, you are not redeemed by corruptible things like money. like things that you received by tradition from your fathers. No rather you were redeemed with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. And so the purchase that was paid for our redemption was not money or tradition. It was not works of righteousness that we do, but rather the the offering of the sacrifice of Christ on our behalf. That's what it's all about. And then we talk about the Passover and how Christ focuses in on how this is now a picture pointing to the cross, not just back to what took place at the Exodus. He emphasizes the role of his body in our redemption and the role of his blood in our redemption. That redemption came through the body of Christ, which bore our sins. 1 Peter 2. 24 says, who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree. As Christ was nailed to the cross, our sin was placed on him. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says that he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, so that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. And so these verses focus in on how the body of Christ bore our shame, our guilt, our sin, and he was punished on our behalf. We also see a second aspect, and that is the blood of Christ and its role in our redemption. This redemption came through the shedding of his blood for the remission of our sins. Romans 3. 25 is an extremely important verse in helping us understand this. It says that God set forth Christ to be a propitiation through faith in his blood. And then this next statement is important, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. Now when we dealt with this passage before, we mentioned that that word remission here is different than the typical Greek term that's used for remission. This is really more of an idea of forbearance, very similar to what he says when he says that that Our sins that were passed were passed over through forbearance. The idea is that someone is passing over a guilt, over a transgression, over an infraction, and he's going to deal with it later. And so that is the sense of it. When God forgave the sinner in the Old Testament, he passed over their transgressions, he would have been unjust if he did that without the cross. What do we know? We know that the cross came, Christ died in our place, therefore God is just to forgive our sin. Then we see it also in Roman, or Hebrews 9. It says, almost all things are by the law purged with blood, but without shedding of blood there's no remission Now, once in the end of the world, he hath appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many Why do all these things matter? Well they matter because it gives us insight into what Christ is basically recognizing he's going to go through as he's praying in the garden. He knows that he's going to bear our guilt. He's going to bear our shame. He's going to bear our sin. He's going to be punished. on our behalf. And that is what he is being weighed down by, understanding the weight of that sacrifice. So I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into these truths. I hope that they'll be encouraging, helpful. Ultimately, they will lead to you having a much greater appreciation for what Christ was willing to suffer for you so that you could be redeemed to God. Have a blessed rest of your day, Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we work our way through this passage by now