Good morning and welcome to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. Now we're really going to get into the details of this text this morning as we focus in on the details of Christ's prayer. So if you could take your Bibles, let's turn together Luke 22. We're going to read verses 39 to 46 and then focus in on the details of the prayer. Here's what it says. Luke 22, 39. And when he was at that place, he said unto them, Pray that you enter not into temptation. And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast, and kneeled down and prayed, saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will but thine be done. And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him, and being in agony he prayed more earnestly. And his sweat was, as it were, great drops of blood falling down from the ground to the ground. And when he rose up from prayer and was come to his disciples, he found them sleeping for sorrow. He said unto them, Why sleep ye? Rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. Let's notice the details of Christ's prayer. First thing we see is the statement, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me, nevertheless, not my will but thine be done. Several pieces to what he's saying. The first thing that I want you to notice is the condition, and that's the word if. In verse 42 it says, if you are willing. And if we look at a cross-reference, Matthew 26, he says, if it be possible. Now, these verses are not in conflict. He's not saying one verse is saying he said willing or maybe he said possible. We don't know which one it is. That's not what's going on here. We need to realize that he prayed several times. It wasn't just a a a a ten -second prayer and that 's the end of it. But that the essence of what he's praying is being captured by the different evangelists as they are recounting this. There is a a desire if it's possible and a desire if it's if if he's willing. Well, if the answer is no, or what we see happens happens, we know that this is something that had to happen. It was impossible for us to actually be saved unless these things happened. God's will was not the that Christ would escape these things, but rather that he would accomplish redemption. And so it gives you insight into the importance of the cross and its nature. The second thing we see is the word cup. He says, remove this cup from me. Now that word cup is something that's being used as a metaphor or an illustration. Another passage in John 18 says, The cup which my father hath given me shall I not drink it? Or another passage in the gospel, Jesus says, you're not able to drink of the cup wherewith I will drink. So he's talking about something very specific, something very serious. The question is, what is it? Well the cup is a symbol of God's judgment being poured out against sin. And we know that because if we follow the illustration throughout Scripture, we find lots of examples of this kind of a usage. For instance Let me give you some examples. Jeremiah twenty-four. He says, Many nations and great kings shall serve themselves of them also, and I will recompense them according to their deeds. You say recompense, what is that getting into? Judgment. According to the works of their own hands. Take the wine cup of this fury at my hand, and cause all the nations of whom I send thee to drink it. Do you see how this is a clearly a judgment context? Or another one, Revelation 14, 10. The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation, and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and the presence of the Lamb. Again, a terrifying symbol of judgment. Come to another passage, Revelation 16, 19 Babylon came in remembrance before God to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath. And then Revelation 18. For her sins have reached unto the heavens, and God has remembered her iniquities. Reward her even as she rewarded you. and double unto her double according to her works, in the cup which she hath filled to her double. What do we see in common in all these verses? They are examples of God's fierce judgment poured out against sin. And so when we see the phrase remove this cup, we are seeing that he understands that he is going to experience God's judgment against sin. And he literally did. He experienced this judgment in his own body on the cross for us. That's why he says in 1 Peter 2, his own self bore our sins in his own body on the tree. Or Isaiah 53, 5. He was wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement of our peace was on him Isaiah 53, 10. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. And so when we talk about the cup being drunk by Christ, We mean that he will become the object of judgment because he has taken our sin upon himself. He was punished as if he were guilty, though in fact we are the ones who have broken the law. And then we see this conviction that's communicated by Christ. Nevertheless, not as I will, but thine be done. He's willing to do whatever is necessary. So what's the conclusion? He drank the cup. He did exactly what he was commanded to do. He experienced estrangement from the Father, Matthew 27. From the sixth hour until from the third, now from the sixth hour there was darkness over the land until the ninth hour. And about the ninth hour he cried, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? What is Jesus expressing? That the Father has turned his back against his son, because he is bearing our guilt. Or another passage of scripture that I'll mention here is Luke 23, 44. The sun was darkened, the fail of the temple was rent in the midst. And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commit my spirit. Having said this, he gave up the ghost. What is the point? It's the Father that is dealing with Christ on the cross. Where in John 19, Jesus, knowing that all things are now accomplished, that the scriptures might be fulfilled, said, It is finished. And he bowed his head, he gave up the ghost. What was finished? the pouring out of judgment upon sin on the cross. Psalm 22 gives us some insight into how this Psalm is not just the end, but in fact it is a judgment and then a victory. His prayer was answered because he rose from the dead. And we see this at the end of Psalm 22, where he focuses in on the triumph after the cross is finished. He says, I will declare thy name unto my brethren in the midst of the congregation, and will praise thee, for he hath not despised nor abhorred the afflicted of the affliction of the afflicted. Neither hath he hid his face from him, but he cried unto him, and he heard. And so what is the point? Christ rose from the dead. So I give you a couple of conclusions to think about with this section of the song or of the text dealing with his prayer. The first is this it was God's will. to redeem us to himself, despite the personal cost his son would experience. Number two, it was impossible to be redeemed to God without the cross. If there was another way, he would have taken it. But there wasn't. Third, Christ faced the just wrath of his Father against our sin as he hung on the cross. Why was that just? Because he was willing to offer himself for us. to bear our guilt so that we could be redeemed to God. Fourthly, this wrath was temporary but sufficient to satisfy God's justice. Lastly, Christ submitted willingly to the Father's purpose on the cross And so when we think about the cross, we need to recognize the cross is not just about physical suffering, but in fact, it is an example of Christ taking our guilt bearing our punishment and ultimately satisfying God's justice so that we can be forgiven of our sins. And so when you think about the cross, glory in it. When you think about God's grace, be overwhelmed by it. When you think about God's love, never, ever get over it. May God help us to have such a heart. If any of you have a question, please don't hesitate to reach out. If you think this can be an encouragement to someone else, take a moment to share that. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we dig into this passage again. Bye now.