Good morning. Welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And hope that you have enjoyed and have been encouraged by the things that we've shared this week. And the topic we're addressing is wisdom, biblical wisdom in the miserable seasons of life. And they're going to happen. It's a part of living. in a fallen world. So we began with we've we've begun with a couple of introductory thoughts, kind of looking at the flow from Psalm 38 to Psalm 40. And then yesterday we looked at the flow of Psalm 39 itself and the different topics that are being addressed. This morning what I'd like us to do is begin looking at several truths that are the supports for what we're looking at in Psalm 39. So if you have a Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to uh the text that we're dealing with and let's read it together. Psalm 39 verses 1 Through 13, we're going to read about half of the Psalm together. It says, I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my tongue. I will keep my mouth with a bridle, while the wicked is before me. I was dumb with silence, I held my peace, even from good, and my sorrow was stirred, my heart was hot within me. While I was musing, the fire burned. Then spake I with my tongue, Lord, make me to know mine end and the measure of my days what it is, that I may know how frail I am. Behold, thou hast made my day as an hand breath, and mine age is as nothing before thee. Verily every man at his best state is altogether vanity. Now as we look at this text, there are two truths that I'd like to emphasize this morning. And then Lord willing, a couple more that we'll emphasize Tomorrow. The first of those truths is that sin creates pain. And this is a fact of life, and there are at least two things that I want to emphasize about why sin creates pain. The first is because of the nature of sin. As we look at the way that the Psalms are laid out, Psalm 38 We're going to see the evidence of this over and over and over again. For instance, in verse 6, he says, I am troubled, bow down greatly, I go mourning all the day. He's talking about how sin was affected him. He says in verse 8, I'm feeble and sore broken. I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart. He's talking about a guilty conscience. In verse 10, he says, My heart panteth, and my strength faileth. Again, he feels like he has no energy. In chapter th or in Psalm 39, verse 2, he says, I was dumb with silence, I held my peace from good, my sorrow was my so sorrow was stirred. My heart was hot within me while I was musing. The fire burned And then in Psalm 40, verse 2, he says, He brought me out of a horrible pit, out of the myri clay, and set my feet on a rock. What's the point? The point is sin affects people's consciences. And it affects people's circumstances. And the reason is because of the nature of sin itself. There are natural consequences that flow from the nature of Nature of sin. sin. In Proverbs 4. 19, he says that the way of the wicked is as darkness, and they know not at what they stumble. What does that mean? It means when people walk according to a sinful pattern, There's a natural consequence in the sense that it deadens their senses and they lose the ability to be able to see clearly and to understand what is going on. It brings trouble on their lives. There are natural consequences that flow out of the fact that we have a conscience. We are image bearers who know there is right and there is wrong. In Romans chapter 2 verse 14 he says that the Gentiles which know not the law do by nature the things that are contained in the law. Now he's not saying that they are righteous people or that they obey God. He's simply saying that that there is This moral sense in people, even though they don't have the word of God. He says, these having not the law, but are law unto themselves. They show the work of the law written in their hearts. and their conscience also bearing witness. So sin creates pain for us because of the nature of it itself and because we are image bearers. But the second thing that we'll look at this morning is that that pain causes us to stop and to reflect. Many times people are going along life and they they have very serious things going on, but they are completely oblivious to them, or they suppress those things, or they don't think about them. And God allows us to experience pain and heart To stop us and to make us reflect and think. And initially, that that reflection is not a good thing And the reason is because we tend to come to the wrong conclusions in that initial reflection stage. It's like we feel that God is an enemy to us. And the Psalms show us this. Psalm 38, he says, Rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. But we know that God is not angry with his children. He is not going to pour out his wrath on his children. Because there's now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. That the Lord chastens people out of love. And so David's thinking is wrong about this issue. We sometimes feel like God's abandoned us. In verse 21 of Psalm 38, he says, Forsake me not, be not far from me. Yet God hasn't abandoned David, but he feels as if he has. In verses two and three of Psalm thirty-nine is he says, I was dumb with silence, I held my peace, even from good, and my sorrow was stirred, my heart was hot within me while I was musing the Fire burned. We're afraid to speak to him about our innermost thoughts, as if God doesn't know what's going on inside of our hearts. That he would be shocked and he would come out against us. But we're wrong in how we see this. We may even come to the point where we want him to leave us. We don't want his presence. In Psalm 39, 13, he closes by saying, Spare me that I may recover strength before I go hence and be no more. You want to talk about a statement where David just seems completely disillusioned with God's God's presence. That is what that statement is. And so the point is that pain causes or sin causes pain, and pain causes us to stop and think. And God uses this actually to accomplish good. If it's not processed in the light of scripture, it's going to lead to despair. But if it is processed in the light of scripture, it can lead eventually to deeper communion with God, to greater strength and stability, to wisdom instead of simplicity or or folly to spiritual maturity instead of immaturity. And so pain is not a bad thing. It's something God uses to accomplish good when we process it in the light of scripture. And so that leads me to the final question. What do we learn from this today? What we learn is that if we're going to choose a path of sin, we're going to experience consequences. And when we experience consequences, it's time to stop and think. And to stop and think and process biblically. Because even if we have gone down a path we shouldn't, and even if we are in a place of trouble by our own making, there is a way out. And God can restore what was lost, and God can strengthen what has been weakened, and God can draw us near to Himself. And these verses teach us that. And so I hope that you'll join us tomorrow as we break this down a little bit further and look at a couple of other truths that are clearly demonstrated in this passage of scripture. Have a blessed morning and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.