Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our fourth anchored in the word, morning reflection, and I'm looking forward to digging into this passage of scripture again this morning with you. And today we're going to focus on the motivation. for this passage of scripture and this really is at the heart of how personal and how rich this concept is That the Father is worthy of our praise, not just because he is good, because he does good, but because he has been moved toward us in his kindness. We are the recipients of God's love and God's grace. And that is what we will focus in on today. So if you have a Bible, let's take it, turn together to Ephesians chapter 1. We're going to read verses 1 through 6 together and then look at the motivation. that is communicated in this text. Here's what it says. Paul an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, to the saints which are at Ephesus. and to the faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace be to you. Of that statement. Peace from God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. according as he hath chosen us in him, before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him, in love, important statement, having predestinated us unto this adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself. according to the good pleasure of his will. Great quote. Great statement there as well. To the praise of the glory of this grace, wherein he hath made us accepted. in the beloved. Now when we talk about motivation, we're going to see what it says in verses 4 through 6. It says that in love having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will. to the praise of the glory of his grace. Now what statements or what little phrases in that passage The purpose was to create good out of evil. When the fall happens, what does God do? He takes what is bad, Adam's fall, Adam's sin, and death that comes to that sin. And he does what is good. He purposes to redeem fallen humanity. And what does this do? It demonstrates the greatness of God's goodness. And so we see statements like in verse 4, in love he predestinated us. It was the love of God for sinners that was his motivation. Or verse 5. It was according to the good pleasure of his will. His desire to do good was being demonstrated in these verses for people who are unworthy of that goodness. Or in verse 6 it says, it is to the praise of the glory of his grace. His desire to commend the greatness of his grace to the world is being demonstrated in these verses. And so what do you see? His love, his good pleasure, the glory of his grace. These are the reasons that God has saved us, that he has acted toward us in this way. It is to demonstrate, to magnify his greatness because he is a good God. And so this passage celebrates God's resolve to complete what he planned, secured, and has given to us We can put it like this in another way. He purposed before the foundation of the world that he would send the Son. He promised to send his son. And then what does he do? He does it. He accomplishes it. He sends his son in the fullness of time. And then he accepts the sacrifice of Christ on our behalf. Christ goes to the cross and it says in the text, it is finished. He saw the travail of his soul, he was satisfied. By his righteous servant, he will justify many because he bears their iniquities. And so Christ's sacrifice was accepted fully by the Father. And then he has justified us by faith alone in the gospel. We are declared righteous in Christ, all because of his grace. He will complete every part, every aspect. of what has been purchased for us in Christ on the cross. And that is really the focus of Ephesians chapter 1. The Father promised, the Son came, he will accomplish all that he said he's going to accomplish. And then he gives us his spirit so that he seals us until we experience the completion of all of these things. This passage celebrates God's resolve. to complete what he planned, secured, and has given to us. And so as we think about this passage, I want to encourage you this morning to celebrate the greatness of our God. Bask in his glorious presence Recognize that you don't deserve to be there, but you are there and you're accepted there because of this grace. And glory in him. Praise him. He is an awesome and good God and has been good to us. us. Well that's what I have for you this morning. I hope that you have a wonderful rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts on this passage of scripture. Bye now.