Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. The text we've been dealing with is Luke chapter 19, verses 41 through 44 We've been looking at Christ's lament over the nate uh not just the nation of Israel, but specifically uh the city of Jerusalem, which has rejected him and is ultimately going to face the judgment of God. And as Christ thinks about all the things that are about to happen in the city that week, and he thinks about their future some 30 years later, his attitude is one of compassion, it's one of grief, it's one of brokenness over the city. What a powerful example of the heart of our God towards those who were set at vicious enmity against him. And so what I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to close out the week looking at some final thoughts, some applications. Let's read the text one more time, and then we'll dig into it together with these final thoughts. It says, When he was come near he beheld the city, and wept over it, saying, If thou hast known, even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belong unto thy peace, but now they're hid from thine eyes For the days shall come upon thee that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on every side, and shall lay thee even with the ground. And thy children within thee, they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. As we look at this passage of scripture and we think about all the things we've talked about, I'd like to like to break the application into two categories. One would be those who are unbelieving. and those who are believers. Because the applications are different. First of all, to the unbelieving, why would you continue to rebel against God? God's judgment is sure. Absolutely, all those who reject the gospel will face his wrath. He's just. You will not be able to get away with that. I remind you, he's done everything possible for you to be safe from your sins, to be saved from wrath through him. He became sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him, the just for the unjust to bring us to God. Do not push this to the side, respond to the gospel. The second group I want to address is the believer. Probably the vast majority of those who are hearing these videos. First of all, I want you to think about the comparison or the contrast between these two thoughts. If Christ lamented the destruction of his enemies the way that he did in this text, how do you think he views the suffering of children whom he loves dearly? If that's his compassion, how much more his compassion on those who are redeemed? He loves us dearly. I think about it this way. In a moment of weakness or misery, you and I cannot allow ourselves to embrace a twisted view of God. He is tender toward us even when we are in misery What does the text say? It says, he remembers our frame. He remembers that we are dust. This is the way that God is toward us. It's of his mercies that we are not consumed. His compassions fail not. They're new every morning. Great is his faithfulness. He hears us when we cry out. He is slow to anger, and he is plenteous in mercy. He does not permit pain and suffering without there being a real redemptive purpose. I'm also reminded of this. There is a great difference between the way that the believer laments and the unbeliever. The word is hope. We as God's people, who know that there's eternity and we are redeemed to God through the death and resurrection of Christ, we have hope. And so we recognize that there's redemptive purpose in suffering. And when God permits pain, he has a reason for it. And he doesn't hate us and he doesn't have animosity towards us. In fact, he's doing something in our life that we may not understand at the time. Secondly, in a moment of self righteousness Let's not allow ourselves to embrace an arrogance toward the world around us. It's easy for us to get this us versus them mentality. I find this to be a great temptation for me. And I think it's important for us to remember that it's God's mercies that sustain our lives. And it's God's grace that drew us to Himself And it's all of his grace that we have made any growth in the Christ's likeness. We have no reason to harbor pride and self-righteousness toward the world. Thirdly, in a moment of frustration with others, let's not desire their destruction It's easy for us to say, God, if you just take them out, then I don't have to deal with them anymore. Or they did this to me, so this is what they should get back. But that's not the attitude that we should have. If they don't repent and believe the gospel, then they're certainly going to face God's judgment. God doesn't need your help. He doesn't need my help. If they repent and they believe, they will be just as forgiven as we are. They'll be just as righteous as we are in Christ. And so let's not desire the misery and the destruction of the world. Let's desire their redemption. I'm reminded of Philippians chapter 2 again. Paul writes, if there be any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love. If any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bows of mercy, fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded, having the same love. being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves. Let this mind be in you which is also in Christ Jesus, who made himself of no reputation, and took upon himself the form of a servant. May God help us to have such an attitude, the mind of Christ. I hope you have a wonderful weekend. I hope that we'll be able to see many of you this coming Lord's Day. If you have any questions Any concerns? If you need to reach out, please do not hesitate to do that. Have a blessed rest of your day. God willing, we'll meet again next week or on Sunday by now.