Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And the passage we're in is Luke chapter 20. And what we're going to do today is we're going to look at how Christ responds to the religious leaders who have confronted him while he's teaching. And rather than Christ just going straight to the point and saying, You're wrong, and I'm going to tell you why you're wrong, which he most certainly could have done Instead, he asks a question. And I want us to consider this probing question that he asks, and I want us to consider what it reveals to us about Christ's motive. And so let's go ahead and pick up our Bibles again. Luke chapter 20. We'll read verse number one. Here's what it says. And it came to pass that on one of those days, as he taught the people in the temple and preached the gospel The chief priests and the scribes came upon him with the elders. And they spake unto him, saying, Tell us, by what authority doest thou these things? Or who is he that gave thee this authority? He answered and said unto them, I will also ask you one thing. Answer me The baptism of John, was it from heaven or men? And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say from heaven, he will say, Why then believed ye not? But, if we say of men, all the people will stone us. For they be persuaded that John was a prophet. And they answered, they could not tell him whence it was. And Jesus said unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things. Now, as we read this passage and we think about what Jesus is doing, we see that that the focus of this passage is now on an exchange between Christ and religious leaders. And that exchange is ultimately a question. He says, what about this? How do you understand it? If you answer this question, I will give you an answer. If you don't answer this question, then I will assume that a foundational understanding that you need to understand what I'm saying is not there. And it's not there because you are resistant to seeing what the Bible actually has said and the significance of what you have seen. And so we can put it like this. Verse 3 says I'll ask you one thing. Answer me. Why does Jesus ask this question? And what is the question? First of all, the question The baptism of John. Is it from heaven or man? Now we talk about John's baptism. John's baptism is different than what we would call New Testament church baptism New Testament baptism looks back at the cross and our identification with what Christ has done. John 's baptism was looking forward to the cross at what Christ would do. Now both of them are identifying with the gospel message. When someone was baptized during the time of John, they were saying, I know I'm a sinner. I know I need my sins to be washed clean. I need the Messiah. I believe that He's coming. I'm looking for Him. I believe God will follow through with His promise to send a Redeemer. That's really what John's baptism is. It's identifying with that message. Faith With the heart and a willingness to testify openly to that. Baptism for us in the New Testament is looking back at the cross and saying, I believe what the Scripture said would happen. I believe that Christ fulfilled that, and I believe the significance of what is there. He died for my sins, he rose from the dead, I am forgiven, cleansed, and righteous in him. I believe that, I'm willing to publicly testify to it. So the question was regarding John's baptism. The question is motive. Why? Well, he is demonstrating by this question and their unwillingness to answer it that they are actively rejecting the witness of Scripture. What is clear to them, they will not address it. You say, well how do you know that? That's a pretty strong statement. Well, I know that because of the information that we have in the Bible leading up to this question. First of all, the Old Testament. Isaiah prophesied regarding John the Baptist. He talks about the voice of him who is crying in the wilderness, prepare ye the way of the Lord make straight in the desert a highway for our God. So Isaiah predicts that there will be a man who will come preparing the way for Yahweh, God in flesh. That's why he calls him our God. That's why he says, prepare the way of the Lord. This is the one that John is actually fulfilling. He is fulfilling this prophecy. And we see this even come out in John's preaching, Matthew chapter three. He says, Repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Chapter 1 of John, verse 23. I am the voice of the one who Crying in the wilderness, make straight in the way straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Isaiah So John isn't just leaving this ambiguous. He's actually claiming to be this person. He's saying, repent, be ready. The Messiah is coming. And then in John 1. 26 he says, I baptize with water, but there's one standing among you whom you know not. It is he who is coming after me, who is preferred before me, whose shoelatchet I am not worthy to lose. He's literally saying there's somebody in this midst right now, you don't know who he is, and I'm going to identify him for you shortly. But he is so great, I don't even have the right to unlatch his shoe I'm baptizing you with water, but he's going to baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire. That's what John says. And then we see his proclamation in verse 29. John seeth Jesus coming and said, Behold, the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sins of the world. So what's his point? His point is, in the Old Testament, this is predicted. I'm fulfilling that prediction. That's the one who we're to look for. He's the one who's going to take away the sins of the world. But that's not the only witness that we have during the ministry of Christ. We also have what takes place when John baptizes Christ in the Jordan River. And that's revealed to us in Luke 3. It says, the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him, and a voice came from heaven which said, Thou art my beloved son, in thee I am well pleased. Now what do we see in these verses? We see the Son, Messiah, who is being validated by the Father, who says, This is my beloved Son Who is also being validated by the spirit who's descending upon him in bodily shape? Something that they could visibly see so that they would understand what was taking place. Interestingly, In the book of Isaiah, it predicts that the Spirit of the Lord's going to come upon him, and this is the fulfillment of those things. So we not only have the witness of the Old Testament With Isaiah, the witness of John the Baptist, but we have the witness of the Father, we have the witness of the Son, we have the witness of the Spirit All of these things tell us it was unquestionably clear the people should understand who Christ was. And then we see Christ's own words. If you do not believe I am He, you will die in your sins. What is the point? The point is this: Christ is the fulfillment of those promises. He came, he died, he rose from the dead, and he did it for you. Christ died for our sins. He was manifested in the flesh to put away our sins. My question is this. Are you resting in that Savior Are you trusting in who he is? What he's done for you? Are you resting in the sufficient work of Christ? Have a blessed rest of your day, Lord willing. We'll keep dealing with this passage tomorrow, by now.