Good morning. Welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good Wednesday morning. And the text that we are dealing with this week is 2 Timothy 2, verses 1, or excuse me, chapter 1, verses 2 through 5. And so if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it, let's turn together to this text, we're going to read it. And then we're going to focus in on a little bit of background information That emphasizes the resilience of Timothy. And this is part of what is giving Paul this confidence. Again, it's not all of it, but it is a significant part of it. Here's what the text says To Timothy, my dearly beloved son, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father in Christ Jesus our Lord I thank God whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day, greatly desiring to see thee. being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy when I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois , and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that is in thee also. Now one of the things that is important for us to know when we look at these verses is some of the background story with Timothy. Timothy was an overcomer. He had overcome tremendous obstacles. Obstacles that would have caused lots and lots of people to stumble, and in fact they would not have become the person that Timothy became as a young man who served with Paul. And I'd like to highlight a couple of those things so that you can appreciate them a little bit more. The first thing I want to mention is his the overcoming of the obstacle family. In verses and in Acts chapter 16, verses 1 and 2, it says, Then they came to Derby and Lystra. And behold, a certain disciple was there named Timotheus. That's the same person we're talking about. He was the son of a certain woman, which was a Jewess, and believed. But his father was a Greek, which was well reported of by the brethren that were at Lystra and Aconium. Now it's hard for us to appreciate how much this would have been a challenge for Timothy growing up. He's caught between two cultures. He's caught between a Jewish culture and a Gentile culture. If he's in the Gentile context, his mother is a Jew, and that brings stigmatization to the people that he interacts with in the Gentile context. And if he goes into a strictly Jewish context, because his father is a Gentile That's going to bring a stigmatization to him there. So here's a man who's going to have a very conflicted identity, and he would have carried the burden of that conflicted identity. And with that in mind, it's also important to recognize it never mentions that his father became a Christian. And so what it shows you is that he was experiencing a lot of family obstacles. But there's a second thing I want to emphasize, and that's the kind of hardship that he experienced in ministry. In 2 Timothy 3. 10, it says, Thou hast fully known my doctrine Manner of life, purpose, faith, long-suffering, charity, patience, persecutions, afflictions. Those two statements at the end, the two words, persecutions and afflictions, are important because that's what we're going to zero in on this morning. It says, These came to me at Antioch and Iconium and Lystra. What persecutions I endured. What Paul is saying is, you know what I experienced at these places, Antiochonium and Lystra. And the question is At what point in Paul's interaction with Timothy did he experience persecution at Antioch, Iconium, and Lystra? The answer to that is this is when Timothy became a Christian. This is very early on in his Christian interaction. Paul knew Timothy through tremendous hardships, and Timothy would have witnessed those things firsthand. In Acts 14, we see the narration of those things. And I want to hit a couple of highlights so that you can see what it says. It says, in Iconium, they were both together, they went both together into the synagogue of the Jews and spake, and a great multitude, both of Jews and Greeks, believed. Verse 2. But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles and made their minds evil affected against the brethren Verse 4. The city was divided, part was held with the Jews, and part with the apostles, and there was an assault made both of the Gentiles and also of the Jews with their rulers to use them despitefully and stone them. They were aware of it, and they fled into Lystra and Derby. Then verse nineteen. Then there came thither certain Jews from Antioch and Iconium, who persuaded the people, and having stoned Paul, drew him out of the city, supposing that he had been dead Now, this is Timothy's introduction to Paul, and this is his introduction to ministry. And so here he sees this uproar when they're there in Iconium, and as they preach the gospel, people are converted. But some are upset and they create a contention and a stir in the city. They literally create a massive chaos. And so they flee to the next city. And what happens? These people from Antioch and Iconium, they follow Paul, and when they get there, they stir up an insurrection again, and Paul is stoned and left for dead outside the city. In fact, some would say that he may have actually physically died and was resurrected. We don't know all all the details, but what we do know is they were trying to kill him and he was stoned and left for dead. This is Timothy's introduction to ministry. And he knew what it was like for Paul to be mistreated in Philippi. For instance, in Acts 16, 22, this is after Paul invites Timothy to travel with him. This is his very first part of being a part of the ministry team. It says, and the multitudes rose up together against them, and the magistrates rent off their clothes and commanded to beat them, and when they had laid many strikes on them, they cast them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely who having received such a charge thrust them into the inner prison and made their feet fast in the stocks. So when it comes to his introduction to the gospel, he sees that Paul suffers When it comes to his introduction to ministry, he sees firsthand that Paul suffers. And a lot of people would have walked away and said, I want a new part of this. I do not want that to happen to me. But Timothy stood by Paul and was willing to continue to endeavor to be faithful in the ministry. But there is a third, and this one is also extremely significant. And this is a personal sacrifice. 1630 it says, Him would Paul have to go forth with him, and took and circumcised him, because the Jews which were in those quarters, they knew his father was a Greek. And this is amazing Here is Timothy, who's probably 18, 20, 22 years old. We don't know exactly how old, but he's a young man. And Paul says, if you're going to master with me. We're going into a Jewish context. You have a Gentile father. You're uncircumcised. Everybody knows it. And so so that we don't bring reproach on the preaching of the gospel, so that we don't hinder the work. I am going to expect you to follow the rite of circumcision. As an adult nonetheless. Now it's important to notice something here. When he makes the sacrifice, we know that theologically circumcision was completely unnecessary In Galatians, Paul makes the point that circumcision means nothing. Okay? It wasn't an expectation for him to do it when it came to relationship to the gospel or to be a good Christian. What's going on is that he understands the status of being uncircumcised. It's something that has been a stigmatization for Timothy. And if Timothy goes into a Jewish context, that's going to continue. But if he goes into that Jewish context and he has followed the bride of circumcision, it's not going to limit the reproach of the gos or the offense of the gospel itself But it will it will drop aside or put to the side one of the stumbling blocks to being able to present the gospel in the first place But this would have been a personal thing for Timothy. His whole life up to this point, he would have experienced that tension of Jewish mom, gentile father, where do I fit in the world here? He's also a young man. And so it's important as we think about this. He is submitting to this right for simply one reason: deference for the sake of ministry. Here's what's important for us to recognize. All of these things are important part of Paul calculating a Timothy will be a faithful man. But tomorrow I want you to see what Timothy or what Paul really focuses in on as his source of confidence. It's not how long you knew Timothy. It's not the sacrifice that Timothy was willing to make, not the things that he overcame. It was actually the faith of mom and grandma. And I want us to look at that, Lord willing tomorrow. Have a blessed rest of your day And I hope you'll join us tomorrow as we keep working our way through this passage by now