Good morning and welcome back to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. I hope that as you join us this week you'll find this to be an encouraging study and we're going to look at the contrast between the truth, the Lord Jesus Christ being the one and only way of salvation, and then the contrast with the religious system of the day. when Christ was being confronted by the religious leaders. So we're going to read through the passage. I'm not going to read through the entire section every day this week, but today because it's the introduction. I'd like us to read through the entire section, and then we're going to look at the catlass that brought this confrontation to a head and ultimately the parable that Christ is going to teach. Here's what it says, Luke chapter 20, verse number nine. Then began he to speak to the people this parable. A certain man planted a vineyard, led it forth to husbandmen, and went into the far country for a long time. At the season he sent a servant to the husbandmen, that they should give him of the fruit of the vineyard. But the husbandmen husbandmen beat him, and sent him away empty. Again he sent another servant, and they beat him also, and entreated him shamefully, and sent him away empty, and again he sent a third, and they wounded him also, and cast him out. Then said the Lord of the Vineyard, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son. It may be that they will reverence him when they see him. Then says, But when the husbandmen saw him, they reasoned amongst themselves, saying, This is the heir Let us kill him, that the inheritance may be ours. So they cast him out of the vineyard and killed him. What therefore shall the Lord of the Vineyard do unto them? He shall come and destroy these husbandmen, and shall give the vineyard to another. And when they heard it, they said, God forbid He beheld them and said, What is this then that is written, The stone which the builders rejected? The same has become the head of the corner. Whosoever shall fall upon that stone shall be broken, and on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder. Now as we dig into this passage of scripture, I wanted to begin with a few introductory thoughts. While there are differences between the numerous theistic religions of the world, There is one difference that is supreme over or there's one similarity amongst all of those distinctions that is supreme. And that that similar principle in all of these religious systems is that the foundation of what they view to be salvation is that people are attempting to save themselves through some mechanism, some religious system , series of rules, culture, whatever it might be, that people can save themselves. A necessary corollary to this principle is the natural attempt to compare people to one another. And within that system, we're going to have one of two potential outcomes. Either one, people are going to despair because they'll realize they can never fully, perfectly fulfill the obligations of their system. On the other side, we'll see people who are very proud because they're going to believe that they're doing better than those around them. On the opposite side of this is the gospel. And what is the gospel? It reveals that salvation is secured not by our efforts, not through our sacrifice, not through our goodness, not through our righteousness, but instead through the redemptive of work of another. Christ death for us. His resurrection from the dead His impeded righteousness, we stand forgiven and righteous in his sacrifice and in his righteousness And so we see the complete opposite. One system says it is Christ alone, and all the other systems say do good, be good, look good, and you'll get there. And this Christ-alone way of looking at things is going to make Christ the center and the object of all glory As a necessary result, pride and self-righteousness are going to be pushed to the side. There is no room for this. in a Christian worldview. Because we do not stand before God through our own efforts. We stand through Christ's sacrifice. And so that's important for us to realize. This passage is going to highlight that contrast. The reason the religious leaders were so antagonistic to Christ is because he is standing as a contrast to what they believed and what they were presenting. He was a threat to their system. And so I would summarize it like this. The religious system that rejected Christ would be destroyed and replaced by a new way built entirely on Christ. Not a religious system that earns way to God, no, a sacrifice who provides full pardon and forgiveness and cleansing. All of it is in Christ God wants us to rejoice in that redemptive purpose. And He wants us to see it through His eyes. So with that in mind, a couple of things in introduction. What was the catlist for this parable that Christ gives? Well the catlist is something that goes back to things that we talked about in the last several uh passages that we were dealing with. For instance in chapter five, we see that these people reason with themselves saying, if Jesus is saying uh if John's baptism was from heaven, then we know that he's gonna say, You should have uh listen to what he had to say. If we say it's for man, then we're gonna have problems with the people. And so rather than answering Christ Christ Christ's question These people said we don't know. And so as he was teaching, the religious leaders confront him, they ask him questions, he answers their question with a question. They refuse to answer his question. And what does it ultimately lead to? At least to this point that Jesus is saying, I'm not going to answer you. So when they refuse to answer, because they understand the implications, Jesus counters with the following statement. They answer, they could not tell him whence it was. Jesus said, I will not tell you. By what authority I do these things. And then what does Christ do? He goes right back to teaching. And this is what is going to be taught to the people when they process the the the combative back and forth between Christ and the religious leaders The catless ultimately comes down to authority and a religious system that is completely contradictory to the truth. And so I hope you join us this week as we dig into this passage. As we work our way through the confrontation, as we work our way through the parable, as we work our way through the significance of that parable, and as we work our way through the foundation that separates these two systems of thought. and ultimately ways to God. I hope that you'll join us. Well, have a blessed rest of your morning and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow as we start breaking down this text. Bye now.