Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. As I mentioned yesterday, we are talking about the cross and we're talking about the betrayal that took place. and specifically the flow of events. And so today what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look at the way that John breaks down this narrative, what actually took place. And I'm going to look at the way that John presents it and then step back and look at the other Gospels to show how there are some details that John chose not to include, not because they weren't important, but it wasn't really a part of what he was trying to present, but just to give us a full picture of what actually took place on the day that Jesus was betrayed that night. And then ultimately he stands on trial and then is later condemned and crucified on Friday. And so let's go ahead and get our Bibles out and turn to John chapter 18, verses 1 through 8. And then we'll talk about the flow of events. It says, when Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Kidron, where was a garden in which he entered. and his disciples. And Judas also which betrayed him knew the place. For Jesus oftentimes resorted thither with his disciples Judas then, having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, came thither with lanterns and torches and weapons. Jesus therefore knowing all things that should come upon him went forth and said unto them, Whom seek ye? They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus saith unto them, I am he. Now as we look at this passage, it's important for us to kind of see how John lays out the narration of these events. And so we first of all begin with what we just read here in verses 1 through 11. This gives us the details about Christ's arrest in the garden. And Judas knew where Jesus was going. This is a place where he often would go for solitude, or maybe he would go with his disciples. And so he leads a group of men there to the garden. Now these men are officials that are connected to the Sanhedrin because we have to rec recognize that the Sanhedrin was not just a religious body. There was a there was a governmental power there as well. And so these men uh would have been soldiers, would have been uh people who came to capture Jesus. And then from verse 11, or verse 12 down to verse 27, he talks about the trials that took place that evening as Jesus is basically being condemned to die. And so from verses 12 through 27, John relates the various different the various individuals that Jesus stood before. And each of those individuals had different levels of power. When we talk about uh some some didn't actually have power. When we talk about uh Annis, he is not technically the high priest, he's the father-in-law to the high priest, we talk about Caiaphas. He is the current high priest, but he was appointed by the Romans. And then when we talk about the Sanhedrin , they didn't have the authority to be able to condemn Jesus to death by crucifixion. And so They have to work amongst themselves ultimately to take Jesus to a Roman official who has the authority to condemn him to crucifixion. And so this is why there were so many different places. that Jesus stood that night. And John talks about the details. He chesis record are from verses 12 through 27. Then the third aspect of this that he talks about would be verses 28 through the next chapter, verse 16. where he stands before the Roman governor, Pontius Pilate. And he stands there more than once because Pilate recognizes that in fact Christ is innocent, that he is being delivered not because of some terrible crime that he's committed. but because the Sanhedrin despised him and they were jealous of him and they wanted him to do their dirty work. And so He stands before Pilate twice. So then we move to the fourth section, and that would be chapter 19, verses 17 through 30. where John gives us details about the crucifixion. And interestingly, in each of the the the accounts that are given in the Gospels, There are certain things that are not talked about. For instance, we talk about Luke. Luke talks about the thief on the cross. John doesn't talk about the thief on the cross. There are some statements that Jesus makes on the cross that Each of the gospel accounts are going to mention those and some that are only mentioned once. And the reason for that is is not because there was some somehow incomplete information or there's some contradictory information. But because each of the evangelists, as they're laying out these accounts, have a different purpose. And so they're highlighting different aspects of what took place. So that kind of shows you the flow of events. We go from the garden and the arrest, standing before trial in multiple places, then ultimately before Pontius Pilate, and then he is crucified the next day So it's important for us to remember just to kind of go back and think about that statement that I made yesterday where it says that Jesus understood all the things that would happen to him. It's important for us to kind of recognize that in just a few hours when most people were sleeping because they had just had the Paschal dinner and they're preparing themselves for the feast on love and bread and They're getting ready to prepare for the Sabbath day in just a few days, which was a high and holy Sabbath. During that time, Jesus is bouncing around back and forth between different officials. And so to kind of catalog this, we see, first of all, he stands before Annas. And John talks about this in chapter 18, verses 12 to 14. And then again in 19 through 23. Just to remind you, Annas was not the high priest. He was the father-in-law to the current high priest, and that's because Anis had been disposed by the Romans. However, Anna still is wielding authority and power. So this this trial more than likely is Anna 's trying to do preliminary work so that they can bring charges when he stands before the Sanhedrin with Caiaphas overseeing, and then ultimately after they have brought those charges, then they're going to send him to Pilate, who has the authority to crucify him. They're going to put pressure on Pilate, and then ultimately Pilate is going to do their bidding. And he's going to crucify Christ. That is the plan. So it starts with Annas. And then it moves to Caiaphas, who is the son-in-law to Annas. And this is a political appointment. Caiaphas uh did not have, we could say, the legal right through um the Levitical system to be in this position. He wasn't appointed because of his birthright. He was appointed because of money and political maneuvering through the family. And so Matthew 26 talks a good bit about Caiaphas. And then in Matthew 27, it talks about Jesus before the Sanhedrin. So Caiaphas is the one who is overseeing these events. The Sanhedrin wants to declare that in fact he's guilty of a capital crime, but they don't have the power under the Roman rule to be able to do what they desire to do. And so they send him next to Pilate. And John really spends a good bit of time talking about this interaction between Christ and Pilate. And he talks about it in verses 28 through 38 because this was one of two times that he stands before Pilate. Interestingly. When Jesus stands before Pilate, Pilate recognizes that this is a difficult case, not because he can't figure out what is true and what is right and just It's because he knows that politically it's very difficult for him to do the right thing. He doesn't want to disrupt his own system of rule He doesn't want to lead to some kind of rebellion and he's afraid that at this time we have the Passover uh you know two weeks of Massive numbers of people in Jerusalem. He does not want to have an event that's going to lead to him getting removed from his post. So what does Pilate do? He passes Jesus on to Herod because he says, you know, Herod is the one who actually has the jurisdiction over Christ because He's from Nazareth. He's not from Jerusalem. And so he tries to pass them off to Herod. And basically there is political maneuvering between these two individuals. And Herod is actually kind of interested to talk to Jesus because he's heard about it. And so Luke records these details in chapter 23, verses 6 through 12. So what you can see is that there is a lot of movement going on that night Well, by the end of the interaction with Herod, what does he do? He sends him back to Pilate, and then Pilate ultimately is going to have Jesus beaten. And he's hoping that he can somehow make a deal with the the the Sanhedrin. He's unable to do that. He's unable to appease them. He tries to present Barabbas as an alternative. They will not take uh they they take Barabbas as an alternative instead of Jesus. And and ultimately what he does is he says, I wash my hands of this issue. I'm going to go ahead and crucify him. Or maybe I should say, I'm going to deliver him to you. And I'm going to crucify him, but it's going to be on your hands, not on my hands. So that's what we're talking about. What do you see? You see a bunch of people that are desperate to kill Christ, and they're going to do everything in their power to do it, and through manipulation and coercion and clear unjustice. Jesus ultimately is crucified. And so I want to remind you of those details as we work our way through this week in preparation for remembering what Christ did for us on the cross. Don't ever forget the tremendous price that was paid for your salvation and my salvation. It's all because of what he did, that we have access to God, that we are reconciled to him, that we are forgiven and cleansed. And Jesus was willing, understanding all these things that were about to unfold, he was willing to take that cross and die in our place. Well, that's what I have for you this morning. Hope you have a good rest of your day as you reflect on those things. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we'll keep breaking down this text. Bye now.