Good morning and welcome to our Thursday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope this week you've really been challenged and encouraged by these things. We've talked about the object of our prayer being the Father and how He works on us from the outside. We've talked about the confidence that we have that the Spirit is going to work in us. And he 's going to work through the word. We've talked about the focus of the prayer that we would be shaped into the image of Christ. And in fact, our identity would be lost in Him, and that our lives would be shaped in such a way by the Spirit that ultimately it reflects our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Today what we're going to do is look at the end of this prayer. What is the ultimate end of all of these things? And it is true it is spiritual maturity, but the question is, to what end? And it's at the end that God is glorified through our lives, that his grace is magnified and put on display and people can recognize how great his grace And his love is toward us. And how wonderful his plan of redemption is. That's really what this is all about. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles again and turn to Ephesians chapter 3, read through the text, and then look at the end of what this prayer is leading toward. It says, For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, that he would grant unto you according to the riches of his glory. To be strengthened with might by a spirit in the inner man, that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and the length and the depth and the height and to know the love of Christ which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. Now, there's a little bit more to this passage that I haven't read each day. but in fact is the focus of our study today. And that is the end. What is the end of the prayer? It brings glory to God 100%. Not glory to you and not glory to me, glory to God. And we see this in verses 20 and 21. Now unto him who is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us, unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages. World without end. Amen. Paul loved using superlatives. He loved just talking about the greatness of God. And that's really what this passage is going to end with. It's all about him. It's all about his glory. It's about him showing his love to us so that we can we can marvel at it. It's about him demonstrating his grace so that we can bask in the greatness of that grace. It's about recognizing that every good thing and that we enjoy is a result of his kindness. That's really what it's all about. So that is the end of this prayer. It is to bring glory to God. God's redemptive purposes For us, are way bigger than we can fully comprehend in these moments that we live. The little short-sighted view of God needs to be changed. That limited perspective of God needs to be expanded. And I think that's the idea in verse number 20. He's able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we could ask or think. We're worried about little things. And he has great things in the mind. And so that's the first thing we'll mention. The second is that the transformation that is in these verses being talked about, it's all done by God. It's his power that accomplishes, it's his grace, it's his love, not ours. And so we see this in verse 20, according to the power that worketh in us. Whose power? His power This wouldn't happen if it was all dependent on us. It happens because he does it by his power. And the third fact As God's transforming our lives, he's the one who gets the glory. Now we get the benefits. We get to enjoy it. But he's the one who should get the praise. Unto him be glory in the church by Christ throughout all ages, world without end. Amen. Verse 21. God transforms, God gets the glory And so that's a simple thing for us to comprehend or to ponder this morning, but it's hugely important. We shouldn't take credit for what we're able to accomplish. We shouldn't take credit for our salvation. It's all of his grace. He did all the work. We simply receive it as a gift. We shouldn't take take uh in any kind of credit for how we grow and how we mature. It's true that we have to make decisions. No question about that But he's the one that does it in us and through us and for us. It's all about him. So let's take some time this morning to just praise God for what he has done for us. In us, what he has accomplished, that we'll be able to enjoy for all of eternity. If you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out And Lord willing we'll look at this passage one more time tomorrow with some final concluding thoughts of application. Have a blessed day. Bye now.