Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and hope you're having a good start to your week. And it's hard to believe that we've gone through 100 episodes already this year, and this is episode 101. And the topic we're going to address this morning is God's compassion and dead religion's rotten fruits. And the text that we're going to look at is Luke chapter 13, and we're looking at verses 10 through 17 together, and this will be an introduction to the passage that we're looking at. Let's go ahead and open up our Bibles, turn there together, and look at this passage. Here's what it says. And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath. Behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity, eighteen years, and was bowed down together and could in no wise lift up herself. And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said unto her, Woman, thou art loosed of thine infirmity. And he laid hands on her, and immediately she was strafe, made straight. And glorified God, and the rulers of the synagogue answered with indignation, because that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath day, and said unto the people, There are six days in which men ought to do work, and then therefore come and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day. Then the Lord answered him and said, Thou hypocrite, dost each one of you on the Sabbath day lose his arms? Ox? Ought not this woman being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan has bound low these eighteen years to be loosed from this bond? the Sabbath day. Now I want to give you a summary and from that summary kind of remind you of the progression of events that are leading up to this very confrontational moment. So summarize the passage this way. Christ's compassionate healing of an infirmed woman on the Sabbath day provided a necessary rebuke to the Pharisees' dead religion and the rotting fruits that As we look at this text, we'll see that God wants us to see the rottenness of dead religion and embrace the vibrancy of genuine faith in Christ. And so let's look at the flow of the passage that's leading up to the text in front of us. First of all, when we go back to chapter 11, verses 14 to 13. We see the story of Jesus healing a mute man. Now, when we see this mute man, it's not just about Jesus showing his His compassion on the man. It's about a miracle that was establishing two facts. The first fact is that Christ has the authority to do this. And it's not just the power to heal, but authority over the kingdom of darkness. And this is a man who is mute because he was He was controlled or dominated by a demon. And when Jesus performed this miracle, the the Pharisees equated this miracle that he did by the power of the Spirit. With it being done by the power of Satan, Beelzebub. And so when they rejected Jesus and what they saw, Jesus said, there is no hope. of embracing the truth if you reject the witness of the Spirit. The second passage that we see moving through this is verse Verses 37 to 54, where he deliberately ignored the Pharisees' ceremonial traditions. He goes into a man's house, and there he begins to eat. and drink and he doesn't wash his hands in the in the in the pattern that was expected by the religious leaders. He was confronting the hypocrisy and the oppressive nature of their religious system. Then in verse 42, he talks about how they ignored the weightiest matters of the law. He says you tithe mint and roux and all manner of herbs, but you pass over judgment in the love of God. They laid unsustainable burdens on the people. In verse 46 he says, You laid burdens grievous to be born, and you yourselves touch not the burdens with one of your fingers And then we continue in verses 53 and 54, where it talks about how they were consumed with destroying Christ and killing him and getting rid of him. It says, and the Pharisees began to urge him vehemently and to provoke him to speak of many things, laying wait for him, and seeking to catch something out of his mouth that they might accuse him. So we can see how there is a developing feud between Jesus and the religious leaders. And then in chapter 12, verses 1 to 21, he goes on this intense polemic, exposing the hypocrisy. of the religious leaders. And he says in these verses, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees' hypocrisy. And then in verses 22 to 25, he exhorts the people to understand the time. they're living in and to be prepared for the day of Christ. He says there's two kinds of people, the wise and the foolish. Be wise, be ready, live with an anticipation of the return of the Messiah. And then in chapter 13, he warns the people to be sobered by two tragedies that they experienced. One where uh a person was going up into the temple to sacrifice. And when he did that, the uh the the soldiers of Pilate went in and killed this man in the act of sacrifice. And then there was a tower that fell and killed people. And they were confused about these events. what the significance of it was and what Jesus thought about it, and he said, Except you repent, you'll all likewise perish. Be warned and be sobered. Then he gave this parable of a fig tree. And the parable of the figure was meant to say, Jesus is patient, but he is just. So what is the progression of these events doing? It is building to this event that we're going to read. in our text this week. And so I hope that you will join us this week as we think about this. Whenever we take a passage of scripture, It's important for us to think of it in its context, to see the flow of the book leading up to those events, if we want to appreciate it the way that we should and then seek to apply it appropriately. And so this week I wanted to start with laying a foundation, the progression of events, and then, Lord willing, we'll explain the passage and apply the passage through the week. Hope that you'll join us this week. If this has encouraged you, if it's piqued your curiosity, share that please. And take a moment to share this with others who can be blessed by it. Well, Lord willing, tomorrow we will meet again. So have a blessed rest of your day. Bye now.