Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And hope that you had a great weekend and I'm very excited about dealing with the text of scripture that we're going to look at. at this week and uh this passage uh really narrates one of the most powerful examples of God's grace in the gospels and so if you have your Bible let's take it let's turn together To the book of John, and we're in John chapter 4. We're looking at the story of uh the woman at the well, the Samaritan woman that Jesus met, and we're gonna look at how God desired to partner with this woman and and his disciples to reach into this community where the woman uh was living. And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles and let's turn together to John chapter 4. We'll read the text together and we're looking at uh verses 27 through 42. We won't read all of the verses, but we'll read the bulk of it as we work our way through the text this week. So here's the text says. And upon this, his disciples came and marveled that he talked with them the woman. Yet no man said, What seekest thou? Or why talkest thou with her? The woman left her pot, and went her way into the city, and saith to the men, Come, see a man which told me all things things I ever did. Is not this the Christ? Then they went out of the city and came to him. In the meanwhile his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat. But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that you know not of. Therefore the disciples said unto one another, Hath any man brought him aught to eat? Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work. Say not ye there, yet four months, and then cometh the harvest. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they are white already unto harvest. He that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto eternal life. That both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together. And herein is that saying true. One soweth and another reapeth. I send you to reap that whereupon you You bestowed no labor. rejoice Other men labored, and you're entered into their labors. And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman which testified, He told me all that I ever did. Now I want to start this morning and this week by looking at, first of all, a summary statement that kind of captures the main focus of the text that we're looking at. And then since there is a this is a narration of Christ's interaction with this woman. And ultimately the people of the town. I want to talk about the various people that we see in this text. Who are the characters? What what in what way is are they revealed in this text? And I think it will be helpful for us as we we work our way through its details. So first of all, the summary statement: God is doing his work in remarkable ways, in unlikely places, and his desire is for his people. to partner with him in that work. Now this is not just something that we see in the text. This is a continual situation. God desires for us to be laborers together with Him. This passage is going to reveal that. He wants us to seize the opportunities that He's placed in front of us. And he doesn't want us to miss them. He doesn't want us to overlook what's in front of us. And that will be the driving focus this week. So let's go ahead and transition from a summation of what the text is dealing with. with to the players, the characters, who are the people that are presented to us in the passage. Well obviously the focal point of the passage is Christ. And as we work our way through this passage, we're going to see several things about Christ's character that are going to be revealed. And this is obviously not all-encompassing. But we're going to see that when Jesus is presented in the text, he is presented as a very compassionate person. He is compassionate towards the Samaritans. He is compassionate towards the Samaritan woman who had lived a very difficult life. He is compassionate towards the disciples. He is compassionate, and this is at the heart of what drives him to go to that well at that moment when he would meet this woman. It was ultimately his compassion that moved him to take the gospel to this town called Sycar. Secondly, we see the wisdom of Christ. Jesus is a wise Savior. He knows how to deal with people. He knows how to deal with the Samaritan woman. He knows how to deal with the townspeople. He knows how to deal with his disciples. Jesus' wisdom is demonstrated all throughout the text. And then the third characteristic that really is presented about Jesus is his patience. Jesus doesn't go immediately to the point. He moves methodically through these things. He is presenting a parable to this woman when he says, could you draw me water to drink? He could have just gone straight to the point and said, you're not a believer, I'm the Messiah, trust me. He didn't do that. He started with an illustration and he moved through this conversation. And so you see the patience and the wisdom of Christ. He he could have really ripped apart the disciples because they were uh prejudiced towards the people and they didn't see the in the the opportunity in front of them. But that's not what he did. He he gave illustrations and he let them come to these conclusions and he let them witness what was going on. So we see his compassion and his wisdom and his patience all throughout the text in front of us. The second group, we could say character that we see in the text are the disciples. And as we see the disciples, we see them presented as ordinary people. These are men of their times. They carried the same mindsets of of everybody else that they looked at. The same prejudices between the Jews and the Samaritans are going to come out in their interactions. Their view of women is going to come out in this interaction. And Jesus presents them as ordinary people who he's going to work through, who are going to get to participate in the extraordinary work that He's going to do in this place. They're also presented as men not just who are ordinary, but who are focused on physical matters. They're concerned about food. They're concerned about reputation. They're not as concerned about the kingdom of God. And it's advanced and the opportunities that are in front of them and the the weight of souls who are in the balances, heaven and hell, that's not their primary concern. It's where do they get food from? Did Jesus get food? And how did he get this food? And why is he talking with this woman? These are their focuses. Thirdly, these are people who are unaware of the significance of the moment they're living through. And this is where probably most people find themselves. We are very, very focused on what's in front of us, the things that we are doing on a daily basis. How much do the bills cost? And how much do groceries cost? And who's going to win the next election? And what's going on in our culture? We're very focused on immediate temporal matters. And we fail to realize that God is always at work in the world, and this moment is a part of that story. And we we miss what's going on. Well, this is what's going on. On with the disciples. They are missing the opportunity that's right in front of them. And Christ will involve them in the story, but it's not because they had the eyes to see it. The third group that we see Or the third character is the Samaritan woman herself. And when this woman is presented, she is presented as a troubled person. There's a reason that she comes. to the well in the heat of the day. There's a reason that she was hesitant when Jesus asked her the question to call her husband. And she said or asked her to call her husband and she says, well I don't have a husband. She wasn't entirely honest. She was concealing some information. Well, what does it tell you? There was trouble going on in her heart. She was a broken person. She had been sinned against. She had sinned. She had lived a very painful life. And so this is the way that she's presented. She's also presented as spiritually confused. She's living in Samaria. She has a typical Samaritan mindset. She's not going to the temple. She's not following the Levitical system. She is a part of a people who have a nine had had a 900-year history of being isolated from the Davidic line and isolated from the prophets and the priesthood and the the sacrificial system in the temple. And so she's a spiritually confused person. This will be a major part of the storyline. But the third thing, what I is I think perhaps the most significant thing about her, not her troubles, not her spiritual confusion. But the fact that she becomes an object of God's grace, she is an unlikely object of God's grace, not just in the fact that she becomes a believer who embraces the Messiah, but that God uses her to reach into her community where she had a very poor reputation and was not looked upon well, he's going to use her to bring the gospel to these people. And ultimately, there'll be a massive spiritual awakening and a place that's incredibly spiritually dark. And so we see the Samaritan woman. The last group that I want to mention would be the towns people. And the townspeople were ordinary people as well, going about their jobs, uh living life the way that everyone else at the time that they were living in would have gone about their lives. They were stumbling in spiritual darkness. And this is very apparent in the text in front of us. And then thirdly, these were people who are separated from God's covenant people. I'm not going to get into the details today, Lord willing, tomorrow, but I want to talk a little bit about the history between the Samaritans. and the southern tribe of Judah. And I want you to think a little bit about the estrangement and how this plays into the storyline. that's in front of us and how it really demonstrates the power and the mercy and the grace of God. So that's what we're going to look at this morning. We 'll look at the main players and the narrative in front of us. I want to think about how the text presents them and ultimately how this is going to drive us to a deeper understanding of what Jesus is saying and doing and why it matters. I hope that you'll join us throughout this week as we focus on the passage. I hope that as we lay out each little piece of it, it will be Very helpful to you. It will give you greater insight into what's going on and that you'll see the pertinent applications to your day today. And so I hope you have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will meet again. Again tomorrow. Talk to y'all later. Bye now.