Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I'm very excited about the text that we're going to deal with this week, and that is Psalm 41. And I'm excited about it because I think it's a very, very practical passage of scripture. Not that others aren't, uh, but there's a lot for us to unpackage this week. So I do hope that you'll join us throughout the week. as we dig into the passage of scripture and I hope that the things that are shared will really help uh encourage you and strengthen you in your walk with the Lord. The text that we're reading is Psalm 41 and so I'm going to ask you to take your Bibles if you have them. Turn there, or you could just follow along on the screen in front of you. It says, Blessed is he that considereth the poor. The Lord will deliver him in time of trouble. The Lord will preserve him and keep him alive, and he shall be blessed upon the earth. And thou wilt not deliver him unto the will of his enemies. The Lord will strengthen him upon his bed of languish. Thou will Make all his bed and his sickness. I said, Lord, be merciful unto me, heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee, mine enemies speak evil of me. When shall he die, and his name perish? He continues to say, If he come to see me, he speaketh vanity, his heart gathereth iniquity of itself. Whether he goeth abroad, he telleth it, all that hate me whisper together against me Against me do they devise my herd. I'm going to pause there because of the length of this passage of Scripture, and I want to talk to you about the structure of this psalm because I think it It will help us to understand really what David is saying and and where he's going with this. And there is a distinctive structure to this passage of scripture. There are four pieces to the structure of the Psalm. The first is it it's an emphasis on the kind providence of God. Literally, God gives mercy to those who are merciful. And we see that in verses one through three. But then he transitions in verses four to nine and talks about That's harsh providence. What we mean by that is that nobody, not even godly people, are immune to suffering. We're all going to experience heartache and difficulty because we live in a fallen world. The third piece of this psalm is a focus on wisdom, understanding the kind providence of God, the harsh providence of God, the fact that He's merciful, but we're Not immune to his or to difficulties in life. How are godly people supposed to respond when they suffer? And the answer is that they will wisely turn to God. And there's a real And so he ends in the last section, which is really just one verse, and that is a doxology of praise to God. Our interaction with God should cause us And so this is where the psalm will go. What I'd like to do this morning is kind of summarize that and then talk about the first part of that. So we could summarize it this way. Though godly people suffer, God relates to them in mercy, which causes them to cry out to him in trouble and to glory in him as they Experience his merciful hand. He wants us to look to Christ and to see that he is a merciful redeemer. And this is a very redemptive focused psalm. And that's That's really what makes it so encouraging. So the first thing we'll talk about this morning as we work our way through the psalm, and there's a lot of content to get into this week, is that we should take great comfort in God's presence. Kind providence. And in these verses, verses 1 through 3, he talks about this. He says, Blessed is he that considereth the poor. The Lord will deliver him in time of trouble. Trouble. We could take great comfort in the fact that God is kind in his providential work in our lives. And the statement assumes several things. The first thing it assumes is that there actually people who are merciful. When he says, blessed are they that consider the poor, well he's saying that there are people out there that are like that. And the question is, well, where are these people and why are they like that? Well the answer is that it's assumes that there's a reason for them to be merciful. And one is is simply a statement about human conscience. And I really developed this a bit um on Wednesday night We were talking about the golden rule. Romans chapter 2 talks about the conscience. It says that the Gentiles, which do not have the law, do by nature the things contained in the law. This show the work of the law. written in their hearts, their conscience-bearing witness. One of the reasons there are merciful people is because we have a conscience and we recognize we're supposed to be kind But there's an additional piece to this, and that is that there's a difference between those who are godly and those who are not. Those who know the Lord and walk with the Lord don't just have a conscience, but they also have a new nature. They are alive in Christ. And so in 1 John chapter 4, he says, Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought to love one another. That's conscious And responsibility. If we love one another, those are the people that do, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. God is love. He that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God. God in him. So a text like this one tells us that the believer doesn't just have conscience, the believer has awakened conscience and a new nature and a responsibility. And that's going to translate into there being people who, though they are imperfect, they do walk according to a principle of mercy toward others. It also assumes that there's a context where mercy Is warranted. The people need mercy because they're suffering. And so the Psalm talks a lot about this. It talks about in verse 1, trouble, the Lord delivering him out of trouble. Verse 2, he talks about trouble. Danger, the Lord preserving him and keeping alive. He talks about opposition that will not deliver him unto the will of his enemies. He talks about sickness. The Lord will strengthen In him on his bed of languish. It also presents this timeless principle that we see all throughout Scripture. God blesses merciful people. And so in verse 1, he says, Blessed is he that considereth the poor. That's another way of saying he's merciful, he's compassionate. Considering means who looks on them with pity. This kind of a person experiences a Rich quality of life, being blessed, and this rich quality of life is not about circumstance, it literally rises above circumstance. When he's vulnerable, God intervenes on his behalf for good, deliverance. God protects him in the midst of numerous kinds of trials that surround us. And that's where the word preserve comes. He does experience heartache, but God protects him in the midst of those things. God even sometimes will insulate him from potential troubles. He will not deliver him to the will of his enemy. Literally there are Certain things that God protects him from. And God develops him or strengthens him through the things that he permits. So when we think about this, it gives us a lot to choose. It it makes us think about the fact that there are merciful people. There's a reason that they're merciful. And it leads us to the question, are we merciful? And are we a person That has trusted in Christ, we have a new nature, our conscience has been awakened, the Holy Spirit's work in us, and when we see other people in time of need in hard That's what God says we are to do. And Scripture encourages us that those who are like that, those who show such mercy, So I hope that that's who you are and that's how you live. And I give I hope that you have a great rest of your days. You have more that over and Lord willing we're going to really break this psalm down there's a lot of content in it and I hope that you'll join us as we work our way through it. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing we will meet again tomorrow. Bye now