Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection for the week. And the text that we have worked our way through is Psalm 44. And the topics that we've been addressing, I hope, have been a challenge and have helped you. And so we're going to look at one last concept or topic from this sermon. And that is an interesting passage that we're going to mention, and that is Romans chapter 8, because in Romans chapter 8, Paul directly references a portion of Psalm 44 and it is that portion of Psalm 44 where he says, For thy sake we are killed all the day long. We are accounted as sheep for the slaughter. And uh obviously when um when when Paul talks about this, he's talking about people who appear to be suffering not because of something that they've done that was evil or unjust or wrong, but they appear to be suffering because of their alignment with God and their association or their identification with Him. And so it's something that's very perplexing to the Christian. How can I be suffering because of my identification with God and him still be good to me and merciful and loving and a God of grace toward me? These are the kinds of questions that people can have pop into their heads. And interestingly, Paul is going to reference that. So we're going to talk about what I think is the highest of all the comforts or should be the highest of all the comforts for us when we are going through circumstances that are comparable To what the author, the writer of Psalm 44 is expressing. And that is, we are secured in God's unshakable love, and there is nothing that can separate us from his love. And so let's get into that topic together. Let's read the text, Psalm 44, and we'll listen to a short excerpt from the sermon, and then dig into the concept one last time. It says, We have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us what work thou didst in their days. In the times of old, how thou didst drive out the heathen with thy name, with thy hand, and plantest them, how thou didst afflict the people and cast them out. For they got not the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them, but thy right hand, and thine arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou hast favoured favor unto them Thou art my king, O God, command deliverance for Jacob. Through thee will we push down our enemies. Through thy name will we tread them under that rise up against us. For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me. But thou hast saved us from our enemies, and hast put them to shame that hated us. In God, we boast all the day long and praise thy name forever. Selah. Let's go ahead and listen to that little section together. You know what that passage tells us? Our greatest comfort and our darkest moments is that nothing can take us from the The hand of our God. You know why that is? Because He loves us. And His love is a love that isn't rooted in how good we are. And his love is not rooted in how well we've performed, and his love is not rooted in some promise we made. His love is rooted in nothing but his pure goodness. You know, it's interesting when we talk about our position. When we talk about our position in Christ. It is sometimes helpful for us to think about this position in covenantal terms. What I mean by that is that God has taken us to himself. And he has covenanted with us that he will never leave us or forsake us, and that we belong to him. And when we talk about covenants in Scripture, there are two covenants that come to mind. I mean, there are more covenants than the two that I'm going to mention. One would be the Abrahamic covenant, and the other would be the Mosaic Covenant. The Abrahamic covenant is what we call an unconditional covenant. God made promises to Abraham, and they were not contingent on Abraham's obedience. or Abraham's ability to do things perfectly, but they were simply entirely rooted in God's faithfulness to his own word. When we talk about our position in Christ, we are talking about an unconditional covenantal kind of arrangement. We're talking about God taking all the burden of holding us secure and he takes it all upon himself. We see this in John chapter 10. He says that there is nothing that can take us out of the Father's hand. He says, My sheep hear my voice, I know them, they follow me, and I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, neither can any man pluck them out of my father's hand. My father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man can pluck them out of my father's hand. I and my father Or there's another passage where it talks about us having the hope of eternal life in God who cannot lie, who has promised The idea is if God's word is at stake and God is not capable of lying, it's an impossibility. It is so contradictory to his nature. that it makes it an absolute impossibility. How in the world can I doubt the security that I have as a believer? Well when we read the book of Romans, we read Romans 5, 6, 7, and 8, What we are reading about is a section entirely devoted to the security of the Christian. Romans 5 lays this out. Romans 6 answers the objection. If we can, you know, i if this is true, it's all of God's grace, shall we continue and sin that grace may abound? He says, Of course not, God forbid How shall we that are dead to sins live any longer through? Romans chapter 7, another objection. He asks the question, is the law evil? And the answer is, of course not. He says, I would not have known sin had it not been by the law doing its work in my heart. Then we move to Romans chapter 8, which is the crowning jewel of this security position. And this is the latter part of that Romans chapter 8. He says, whom he foreknow, he predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. He says, whom he called, he justified, whom he justified, he glorified. He says, it is impossible for anyone to lay any charge against God's elect, because it is God who justifies. Who is he that condemneth? Christ has died and is risen and is even interceding for us at the right hand of the Father. And then from that section, he goes on to talk about how there is nothing that can separate us from the love of God. Not tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril are sword. He says, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. He says, I am persuaded that nothing can separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. And interestingly, in the middle of that section, what does Paul do? He quotes from Psalm 44 and he says, For thy sake we are killed all the day long. We are accounted as sheep for the slaughters. Yes! In all of these things we are still more than conquerors to him that loved us. And the point is that the height of our encouragement in the midst of struggle. is not the fact that I'm being built by it, though that is an incredible help. It is not the fact that God is sovereign, though he is. It is not the fact that God is giving us an experiential knowledge of him, not just an academic knowledge of him, though he is. It's not just that God is going to reward us for our faithful endurance at the judgment seat of Christ, though He will. All of those things are true. All of those things are comforts, all of those things are encouragements, but this one is the highest of all. There is nothing Nothing that can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. I think of the writer of Hebrews, he says, Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. He will never leave us, never forsake us. Nothing can remove us from the Father's hand. And so the highest comfort and encouragement for us in the midst of suffering. Is that God loves us and we are secured? And no matter how bad it might get on this side of eternity There is another side of eternity. And that side is secured by the death, resurrection, and righteousness of Christ It has been imputed to us, and we are going to stand righteous in him, and God's love holds us forever. And so I want to encourage you and warn you, and I say warn you. I want to encourage you and challenge you to remember that when you doubt God's love for you, remind yourself of the cross. Remind yourself of the resurrection. Remind yourself of your union with Christ, and glory in that and be comforted by the fact that God's love will hold you forever. Well, that's something to think about going into the weekend. I hope that you have a blessed rest of your day. I hope you have a good weekend. Hope to see many of you on Sunday. And Lord willing, we will meet again next week. Bye now.