Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week in another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope that you had a great weekend and looking forward to the topic we'll be addressing this week. And the passage we're looking at is a little bit shorter, but it's very practical, and I believe that it will be a great help to us as we work our way through it. Luke chapter 18 verses 15 through 17 is what we'll be reading together. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's turn together. We'll read this text and then we'll listen to a short excerpt from the sermon a couple weeks ago and then uh dig into that topic for the day. So let's read the text together. It says this. And they brought unto him also infants that he would touch them. But when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them unto him and said, Suffer the little children to come unto me. Forbid them not, for such is the kingdom of God. Verily I say unto you, whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein. Let's go ahead and listen to this little excerpt, and then we'll dig into the topic. There are ordinary tools all around us. Let's use these tools to point people to Christ. I mean, here is Jesus sitting on a roadside And and there is water in that well, and he says, Can you get me something to drink? Opportunity. A guy comes to him, he says, Hey, we know you're a good man. You did all these miracles. Hey, unless you're born again, you won't see the kingdom. I understand that. The wind blows, you don't see it, but you see what it does. What a fascinating concept that what God does is he uses all of these ordinary things around us to point us to himself And it's not so much that it was a technique that Christ was using, as much as it was, here is God in flesh, the Lord Jesus Christ. And his burden is to communicate the truth effectively to people. And so what he uses is the simple stuff all around those people. And God does the same thing in our lives too. He uses ordinary things to teach us lessons. Um I think about what it was like when we my wife and I had our first child and we're starting to work with our son and uh as he's beginning to develop and And he's growing and all of obviously our lives have completely changed because we now have this new dynamic, a child in the house. It's amazing how some of the things that we experienced as young parents as we're working with our child and then when it goes from being one child to two, three, four, five, six, okay, for us, as the dynamics in the household change as we think about our relationships with other people. God uses all of these things to point us to himself, to teach us about his care, to teach us about his wisdom, to teach us about his patience, to teach us about the way that he has ordered things. And so that's what Jesus is doing there. He is using this example of people who are like, no, don't let these little kids come. He says, no. Allow them to come. The kingdom of God is made up of little ones like these. In fact, unless you become like them, little children. who have really no reason, no claim to be able to say, hey, you should welcome us and give us access into your presence. They're not coming on their own merits. They are dependent and they are humble because of their position in life at that season. He said, unless you become like that, you can't enter the kingdom of God. I want to ask you this question this morning. What are some of the things that God is using in your life? The ordinary, simple things that are going on around you, what is he using? To teach you? Are you listening to what he's saying? Are you allowing him uh to work in your life through those things? Like I said in that little excerpt from the sermon, Christ used things like water to teach a woman about living water, living water that she desperately needed, because she was living a life that was pursuing all the wrong things, looking for satisfaction in lots and lots of places that could offer her no hope. He goes to a man like Nicodemus and he says, unless you're born again, you have to literally experience a new life, regeneration. You will not enter the kingdom of God. Another man on the Sabbath day, he says, So that you know that I am the Lord of the Sabbath, identifying him. He tells this person, take up your bed and walk. This is the way that Jesus worked. And he works in our lives the same way. And so let's have a sensitivity to what he's doing. Not just what we read in the scriptures, obviously that's the primary thing that God uses, but think about the everyday, normal, ordinary things around us. that God uses the point as to himself. Let him teach you through those lessons. Learn them and use them when you're trying to communicate truth to others. Well, that's all I have for you this morning. I hope you have a great rest of your morning. If this has been an encouragement to you, please take a moment to share that feedback. And if you think it'd be a help to somebody else, maybe take a moment to share that. In a place where others can have access to it, and Lord willing will meet again tomorrow by now