Good morning. Welcome back to another Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and we're moving our way through this passage. And what I'd like to do now is I'd like to take the last statement that we looked at yesterday morning, and that's what we read in verse 16. where he talks about the disciples not understanding. And I would like you to notice how this this pro improper response, this this response where people didn't understand It repeated itself over and over and it was emphasized throughout the New Testament. And I'd like to kind of revisit each of those examples and see how God took those situations. And his grace triumphed in each of the ones that we're going to look at. So let's read the text again together, and we're going to look at how this tragedy and triumph of Palm Sunday It's something that we see repeated over and over and over again when it comes to the responses of people. All right, the text says, on the next day, much people that were come to the feast When they heard, were come when they when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him. And cried Hosannah, Blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereupon, as it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion, behold thy king cometh, sitting on an ass 's colt. These things understood not his disciples at the first But when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him. The people therefore that was with him, when he called Lazarus out of his grave and raised him from the dead, bear record. For this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this miracle. The Pharisees therefore said amongst themselves, Perceive ye How ye prevail nothing. Behold, the whole world is gone after him. Now yesterday we finished looking at verse 16 where it said , These things understood not his disciples at the first, but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him. Now that passage, that little statement, is very important. It shows you that before the cross and the resurrection and the ascension, There were groups of people that had access to all this information, but they didn't get it. They didn't understand. They couldn't see the significance of these things, and they were not trusting in it But then on the other side, they were able to look back, and then it all made sense. And they embraced the gospel. Well, we see that this is something that happened to several different people that are highlighted in the text of Scripture. And you can see how God worked in those situations and you see how history repeats itself. Not just these people at that time, but but people you know, in a in a time period leading up to um the the gospel going to to the nations and then the time that we're living in today, we see the same kinds of things going on. So let me highlight them for you. Later in that Passover week, as Jesus comes in after the triumphal entry, this is what he states to the religious leaders. He says, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. You be witnesses unto yourselves that you are children of them which killed the prophets. I sent you unto the prophets and wise men and scribes, and some of them you have killed and crucified. That upon you may come all the righteous blood shed upon the earth from the blood of the righteous one Abel unto the blood of Zacharias of Barakaias whom you slew in the temple. Verily I say unto you, all these things shall come upon this generation. O Jerusalem Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and stonest them which sent which which I sent unto thee. How often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens, under her wings, and ye would not Now, think about that statement. There were many people that as Jesus was preparing to go to the cross, he laments they did not understand. They resisted the truth. And they had been doing this for generation after generation after generation. But I want you to hear the words of Peter as he preaches on Pentecost about seven weeks after these events. Here's what he says in Acts chapter 3. He says, You denied the Holy One and the just one, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you, and killed the Prince of Life, whom God hath raised from the dead. We are all witnesses. Now, brethren, I would not that you did it in ignorance, as did your rulers Repent, therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out. Now don't miss this. In Matthew 23, Jesus says. How long I wish to have gathered you like a chicken gathers the wing- the ticks under her wings. But you would not Peter preaches at Pentecost and he says, you denied the Holy One and you desired a murderer and you killed the Prince of Glory. But you can repent. And you can turn to him and you can trust in him and you can be converted. And guess what? 3,000 people were converted at Pentecost. So as Peter preaches, repent and be converted, many of the people who Jesus rebuked in Matthew 23 turned to him. What does that show you? It shows you the tragedy on the first side of the cross and the triumph not just of what was accomplished on the cross, but how God extends his grace and people are saved on the other side. Then we look in Acts chapter 7, and this even comes to a head further, where about a year later, Stephen is preaching. And he says, ye stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart, ye do always resist the Holy Ghost as did your fathers. He says, which of the prophets have you not persecuted? He says, you you have essentially killed Christ. And it says that when he's preaching this sermon to them, and he's very confrontational about it, It says they were cut to the heart and they gnashed on him with their teeth. And in the next chapter, chapter 8, verse 1, this is how it opens. And Saul was consenting unto his death. Saul was amongst those people. Saul was angry with them. Saul wanted Stephen killed. Saul was even possibly one of the authorities that put him to death. He consented unto his death. And at that time a great persecution against the church went out from Jerusalem, and they were scattered abroad, and Saul made havoc on the church, entering into every house, hauling men and women, and committed them to prison. Now, what you're looking at is a repetition of what was taking place during that week of Passover. You have these people, they see Jesus, they reject him, they say crucify him. What happens at Pentecost? Many of them believe. And then about a year or so later, here is Stephen. He's preaching and he's saying, You killed the Prince of Glory. And here is Saul, and he says, you need to die because you're a blasphemer. And what is what happens? In Galatians chapter 1, we see the rest of the story. Because this man, Saul of Tarsus, the Apostle Paul, is gloriously converted on the road to Damascus. And Paul writes in Galatians 1, You have heard of my conversation in times past in the Jewish religion. How that beyond measure I persecuted the Church of God and I wasted it and it prom and profited in the Jewish religion above many my equals in my own nation, more zealous of the traditions of my fathers. But when it pleased God, who separated me from my mother's womb and called me by his grace, revealed his son in me, that I might preach him amongst the heathen. What do you see? The rest of the story is this man, Saul of Tarshis, is converted and God used him Now, in 2 Timothy 3 we come to what he writes to the Church at Ephesus at the end of his life. He says, this know In the last days perilous time shall come. Men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous boasters, proud blasphemers. Without natural affection, despisers of those that are good, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. I asked this question. Can people like that be saved? The answer, yep, they sure can. In fact, when we read the book of Revelation, what do we read? We see that during the tribulation. The time where God focuses his attention back on the nation of Israel, a time of great darkness spiritually. God saves innumerable multitudes of people. And so when we talk about history repeating itself, we're not just talking about the tragedies of history. We're also talking about the triumphs of history. We see people rejecting Christ and some of those very same people who you would never believe could ever be saved, God saves them. Miraculously, gloriously, he demonstrates his power and his grace. So I want to remind you this morning, the takeaway is history repeats itself because human nature is fundamentally the same. And desperate times that show that the desperate measures that people will take to resist the truth also set up times of great demonstrations of God's power and grace. And so I want to encourage you, don't lose heart and faint in the times we're living. God can do a work that is beyond us, as he did in the lives of these people. Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to close out this section with some final thoughts that I hope will really encourage you. Have a blessed morning. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow by now.