Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. This is a bonus episode. We don't typically do our episodes on Saturdays, but I wanted to give you some final thoughts uh with what was a pretty lengthy discussion we've had this week on the the the discussion of uh genuine faith in Christ and what it produces a desire to Follow him in discipleship. And so if you have your Bible, let's take it one more time and turn to this passage of scripture that we've been reading this week from Luke chapter 14, and then I'll give you some final thoughts that Lord willing Here's what the word of God says. And there went great multitudes with him, and he turned and said unto them, If any man will come to me and hate not his And whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be Be my disciple. For which of you intending to build a tower sitteth not down first and counteth the cost, whether he has sufficient to finish it. The foundation and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not able Now there are five things that I want to remind you of as we go into this uh as well, I say go into the weekend, we're already here, but As we reflect on these things from the week. First thing I want to mention is this. We have to understand the concept of genuine faith. We talk about faith, we recognize it is not a casual or Academic assent to facts, specifically the facts of the gospel. It's something that involves more. It involves the heart. Genuine faith is connected to a conviction. Regarding the person and work of Christ and a wholehearted dependence upon that gospel. And so I wanted to start with that first concept. Secondly, we see that We need to ask ourselves if we have genuinely placed our faith in Christ. Now, as you've been listening to these series that we do, I'm assuming that most of the people that listen To these studies are believers. You've placed your faith in Christ. But the truth is, I don't know how you came across this video, and it may be that you attend church, but you've never really come face to face with the gospel. You should ask yourself this question: Have I genuinely placed my faith in Christ? Do I understand who He is? Am I convinced by these truths? Have I placed my faith in the one and only savior or not. And so we need to consider this. If this is something you recognize you've not done, then I ask the question, well, what's keeping you from placing your faith in Christ? Christ. Do it now. Third thing I want to mention is that we need to ask ourselves if our identity has been truly lost in Him. A lot of people today are talking Talking about identity. In fact, when we talk about our political system in the United States, we hear a lot about what's termed identity politics. We are putting people into categories. is a person's identity. Well I will tell you that if we want to talk about our true identity, either we're in Christ or we're not in Christ. Are you a believer or are you not a believer? Your your your ethnic background Where your family comes from, what you do for work, those things are all secondary. They're not entirely irrelevant, but they are Deeply secondary to the greatest priority of my identification is with Jesus and Jesus alone. Do the people who associate with us See that in fact how we think and what we love and what we do are all things that point them to recognize that That's somebody who knows Jesus, loves Jesus, walks with Jesus, has genuine faith in Christ. Do we love Him And are those who love him feeling drawn to him by our lives, and those who hate him feel uncomfortable in our presence? That's a genuine question for us to consider Fourthly, we need to act on this conviction with an enduring, wholehearted commitment to Christian discipleship. Do we live as if Jesus Is truly the Lord over all? Do we put him first in our lives without any exceptions or rivalries? And fifthly, I ask this question. Do we live our lives in a distinctly Christian way? Do we live like we are salt and like we are light, as the scripture says? Are we functioning in the capacity that that God has created us to do. we And so He has placed you in a certain location and He has placed me in a certain location to function as salt and to Function as light, a preservative, and something that points people to the Lord Jesus Christ? Are we functioning as the salt that God has put us in this decaying world? To preserve against the corruption that is around us. What can I leave you with? I leave you with this final thought. Have a wonderful weekend. I know that it's already started, but I hope that you have a great rest of your Saturday or Sunday, whenever you You get this. And I really do hope that you'll be able to join us this Lord's Day as we celebrate the Lord Jesus Christ and as we focus in on his goodness. and what he has done for us. Have a blessed rest of your weekend, and Lord willing, we will meet again on Mon on Monday by now