Good morning and welcome to a new week and a new series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. We're in Ephesians chapter 2 this morning and I hope that you will join us this week as we dig into A text of scripture that is really, really practical and extremely helpful for us if it when it comes to our understanding of the gospel and our position in Christ and how we actually get into that position. And so if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and turn with me. We're in Ephesians 2, and we're looking at verses 1 through 7, and we're focusing in on God's rich mercy. Today we're going to talk about our position in Christ. And we're going to show that there are two positions that are potential for everybody in this world. So Ephesians chapter 2, and we begin reading in verse number 1. Here's what it says. And you have he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins, where in times past you walked according to the course of this world. according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience, among whom also we all had our conversation in times past fulfilling the lust of the flesh. and fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath even as others. But God who is rich in mercy For his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead, hath quickened us together with Christ, by grace ye are saved. So as we look at this passage, there are a couple of things I want to start out by mentioning. First of all, a simple summary of what we're talking about. We can put it like this. Every person who is a believer should never forget who they were before they were born again and also what God did for them to give them salvation As we think about that simple summary of the text, we should rejoice in the greatness of the salvation that we have. And if we're going to appreciate it, we have to see both positions that we could potentially have. In fact, everybody in this world is in one of these two positions. Either you were in the first and now you're in the second, or you are currently in the first position. You say, well, what do you mean by that? Well let's break it down a little bit like this. Two position options in the world. The first one we see in verse 1, you have to be quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. That word dead means separated from God. That word quickened means made alive. And so we could put it like this. Either one, we've been made alive We've been quickened together with Christ, or two, we are or we were dead in trespasses and sins. Those are the only two options. Everybody's like this. Either you're alive in Christ or you're dead in trespasses and sins. And this concept is communicated in a lot of different ways in the New Testament. For instance, let me give you some examples One would be in Adam or in Christ, 1 Corinthians 15, 21. By man, the first man, Adam, came death. By man, the second Adam, Christ Jesus, came also the resurrection of the dead. For, as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive Now this is not talking about physical life and death here. It's talking about spiritual life and death. This is not a metaphor. This is not something that it's like. This is not an illustration. This is a real, literal spiritual reality. Everybody who is born into this world is born into this world, dead in trespasses and sins, separated from God. The moment that a person is born again, they are regenerated, they are quickened, they are made alive in Christ, the new birth. A second example. John chapter 5, verse 24. He says, He that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life. And he shall not come into condemnation, but he has passed from death to life. So he says, if you hear the word, you believe you have at that moment everlasting life. But that is a result of a change that has taken place, a positional change. You were dead, but you have passed from death unto life. And it's by hearing the word and believing. It's through faith alone in Christ And so we see that same idea of being dead or alive. I give you a third example. And that example is in Romans 8. 1. He says, there is therefore now, important word, no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. Well what he's saying is that now you're not condemned, but you used to be condemned They're two different positions. Either I'm I'm dead or alive, I'm condemned, or I'm no longer condemned. Third example, or excuse me, fourth example. We have what we would call the natural man or the new creation. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Notice that word if, the phrase in Christ. If you're in Christ, you are a new creature If you're not in Christ, you're not a new creature. You're a natural man. And so we see that distinction again. Why do I bring all this up? It's to help us to realize something about the text in front of us. If you are going to appreciate what God has done for you, you have to understand what you were before you met the Lord as your Savior. Before you were born again, before you became God's child, you need to see that distinction between those two positions and to recognize it's alone the grace of God that puts you in the second position. And so as we dig into this passive this week, I hope that you'll join us for each of those studies. Hope that they'll be an encouragement to you. They'll give you a fuller understanding of these concepts. and that you can pass them along so they can be a help to others. Have a blessed rest of your day. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out and share feedback if you'd like to do that. Bye now.