Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection, and really looking forward to getting into the details this morning with you as we look at the various elements of Christ's lament. And so Uh it's not just about putting this in a in its context, but actually looking at the things that Christ said and how he responded when he was thinking about the people. and the ultimate judgment they are going to face. So let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to Luke chapter 19. We'll read verses 41 through 44 together, and then we will dig into those details one piece at a time. It says the following And when he was come near, he beheld the city, and wept over it, saying, If thou hast known, even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belong into thy peace, but now they are hid from thine eyes. For the day shall come upon thee when the enemy shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on every side, and shall lay thee even to the ground, and thy children with thee. And they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. The first thing I want to point out about this lament is it reveals that Christ's heart was deeply moved with grief over the city. That lament uh is is an interesting term. He wept. And that's that word wept, there's actually a couple different terms that could be translated wept uh Greek terms. And the first example is in Luke, or excuse me, in John chapter 11, verse 33. And this is the picture of The people who are weeping at the grave of Lazarus after he has died. And so Christ is coming on that scene. Lazarus has been laid in the grave. His his sisters are crying. Um people who have come to mourn with the family are weeping. And this is what it says. It says, when Jesus saw her weeping, The Jews also weeping with her, he groaned in his spirit and was troubled. That word weep means that there's this heaviness and an intense intense expression of grief. When it says that he groaned and his spirit was troubled, I wouldn't put this in the same category. It was more like He saw this and it it affected him, like he shed a tear, he was sad, but he's not grieving in the same way that she is Another example would be in John 11. 35, same context, but it says Jesus wept. Different word. The idea is he shed a tear. Now when we go back to this passage dealing with him beholding the city and weeping, it's not the second example, shedding a tear. It's actually the first. This is a person who is weeping over the loss of a family member who they love very much. So what it's showing you is that there is a deep movement of grief in the heart of our Savior. Second thing is he lamented the tragedy of their unbelief. He says, if thou hadst known. That word if is incredibly important because it's showing you there's a condition. If the people had responded differently to Christ, they would not have faced this terrible judgment But because they rejected him in unbelief, they will face it. They did not have to respond this way. This is what they chose. Thirdly, He lamented the misplaced confidence that the people had. He says, the things which belong unto thy peace. Now the problem that the people had is they were far more concerned with geopolitical peace than they were with theological peace. They needed to be concerned not about having a place with Rome and having an easy life, but how a sinner can be reconciled to a holy God. Passages like Romans 5. 8 He says we are justified by his blood and saved from wrath, important word, through him If when we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, that we're reconciled We were enemies, we've been safe from wrath. What does this show you? The need to be theologically at peace. with God. Or Ephesians 2. 12. You were without Christ, but now in Christ Jesus, you who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. Another example will be Colossians 121. You who sometimes were alienated and enemies in your mind by the wicked works You have now he ha you you now have he reconciled in the body of his flesh. So while these people were concerned about having peace with Rome, they needed to be concerned about having peace with God And so their confidence was misplaced. Fourthly, he lamented the hardness of their hearts. He says, now they're hid from thee. The response to their unbelief is that their hearts became darkened and hardened. Matthew 13 says, this people's heart is waxed gross. and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes have they closed, lest at any time they should see with their eyes, hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and be converted. Matthew 23, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killeth the prophets, and stoneth them which are without thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, but you would not. Fifthly, he lamented the terror of their impending judgment. He says, The day shall come upon thee that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on every side, and shall lay thee even to the ground, and thy children within thee, and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another This lament reminds us of one that had happened hundreds of years before, during the time of people like Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel. In Isaiah 48 it says, O that thou hast hearkened to my commandments, then had thy peace been as a river. And thy righteousness as the waves of the sea. Jeremiah 13. My soul shall weep in secret places for your pride. And mine eyes shall weep sore and run down with tears, because the Lord's flock is carried away captive. Jeremiah 14, 7, let mine eyes run down with tears, night and day, let them not cease. My people is broken with a great breach, with very grievous blows. So we can see the similarity between what Jesus is saying over the city that is going to be judged and what Isaiah, Jeremiah, and people like Ezekiel said about the city. when it was in the balances to face judgment. Sixthly, he lamented the failure to understand God's timetable He says, you did not know the time of your visitation. By the way, there were there were definitely people living at that time that understood what was going on Zechariah, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, who has visited and redeemed his people, and spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began. Simeon, Lord, now letest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation, which thou hast prepared before the face of all people. a light to lighten the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel. So as I think about these verses and the lament of Christ, you know what it tells me? Despite everything that Christ knew about these people, their animosity, the enmity between them and him, their arrogance, their pride, their unbelief, their hardness of heart. His heart was moved with deep compassion because it was not his delight to see them be judged. His desire was that they be saved. And may God help us to have such a desire for others. Well, that's all I have for you this morning. Hope that you have some time to process that and think about it. If it's been an encouragement to you, perhaps share that with others who can be benefited by it. If you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we continue digging into this passage. Bye now