Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope that as we've been going through this passage this week, it's been an encouragement to you. And I'm really excited about today's discussion because what we're going to do is we're And then we're going to reflect on that and um you'll understand why in just a couple minutes, but this morning our focus is glorying in the mercies of God in praise. Not just in prayer and trust and humility, but in praise. And so let's take our Bibles together and let's turn to Psalm 41, and we're going to read that text again, and then we're going to look at this passage understanding the importance of praise. Psalm 41, verse 1. Blessed is he that considereth praise And that will not deliver Deliver him unto the will of his enemies. The Lord will strengthen him upon the bed of languish. That wilt make all his bed and his sickness. I have said, Lord, be merciful unto me, heal my soul. I have sinned again Against thee, mine enemies speak evil of me. When shall he die, and his name perish? And if he come and see me, he speaketh vanity, his heart gathereth iniquity When he goeth abroad he telleth it, all that hate me whisper together against me. Against me do they devise my hurt. An evil disease say they cleaveth fast unto him. And now that he lieth, he shall rise up no more. My own familiar friend in whom I trusted, which did eat of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me. But thou, O Lord, be merciful unto me and raise me up that I may requit them. By this I know that thou favorest me, because mine enemy doth not triumph over me. As for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and setteth me before Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from everlasting and to everlasting. Amen and amen. This passage is Scripture points us to this very simple conclusion that God's nature and his ways should cause us to praise him. And so this morning I want us to reflect on a couple of things I'd like us to just reflect on them and then land in this place and let's praise Him. So the first thing we see is verse 13. He ends the psalm with this statement: Blessed be the Lord, God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting. Amen and Amen. Now this statement is not just the conclusion of Psalm 41, it's actually the conclusion of the entire first book of the Psalms. The Psalms were written as follows. Five books, a five-volume set. And so this is how he closes out book number one. God is the same from everlasting and to everlasting. Well what is his nature? First thing I want to mention is that he is from everlasting to everlasting as one who is righteous. What I mean by that the scriptures teach is that what God does is always right. It is always just. Psalm 11 verse 7. The righteous Lord Loveth righteousness. His countenance doth behold the upright. Psalm nineteen, verse nine, the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. Psalm Psalm 116 verse 5, Gracious is the Lord and righteous. Yea, our God is merciful. God is from everlasting to everlasting righteous. The second piece is that he is wise. Psalm 104, verse 24. How manifold are thy works! In wisdom hast thou made them Psalm thirty-one verse nineteen Oh, how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee, which thou hast wrought to them that trust in thee, before the sons of men. How great is his goodness. I think of another passage, Psalm 335. He loveth righteousness and judgment. The earth is full of the goodness of God. So from everlasting to everlasting, He is righteous. He is wise. He is good. Let me give you another one. He is kind. Psalm 37, or 36, verse 7. How excellent is thy loving kindness, O God! Therefore the children do put their trust under the shadow of thy wings. beautiful picture of us resting under the care of God like a mother hen who gathers her chicks and and protects them under her wings and draws them Close to her. This is how God deals with us in His kindness. Jacob are not consumed. Now think about this for a moment. Malachi is the last book in the Old Testament. And this is how he really closes out the entire Old Testament. Well, what is the Old Testament? Testament. From the beginning of it to the end of it, it's the story of God calling out a people in his grace. And through Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, he raises up a nation who he gives The law and he gives the prophets to, and he gives them priests, and he gives them kings and he gives them the scriptures. And what do these people do with all they've been given? They reject him. They miserably reject him. even live more abominably than those who lived around them, who God destroyed and removed from the land. And when God says, I am the Lord, I change not, therefore you're not consumed. He's basically saying, even though you have sinned so severely against me, and I have had to deal harshly with you as a nation, I will preserve you. And I will keep you and I will not violate my word because I do not change. I am consistent. I am the same yesterday and today and forever. And that concept of him being faithful Is incredibly encouraging. But here's the last one I want to leave you with. He is Redeemer. In 1 Peter 1, 18 through 20, he says, ye were not redeemed with Corruptible sea things as silver and gold, from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blending Without spot, who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you. Now, what does Psalm 41 do? It points us to Christ. It points us to the sufficiency of his work that is to come. It points us to the fact that as we suffer, he has suffered as well. And he has suffered ultimately to bring us ridiculous. And so Psalm 41 points us through all these aspects of who God is: His righteousness, his faithfulness, his goodness, his kindness, his wisdom, and his redemption. And so I want to leave that uh that thought with you this morning as you come to the end of your week. I know tomorrow's Friday. Have a great rest of your day, but have a great rest of Great day reflecting on the nature of God. We should praise Him because He is consistent from everlasting to everlasting. He praised because of who he is. Have a blessed day, and Lord willing we will meet again tomorrow by now