Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. First thing I want to mention is that this week we are having special meetings at our church. And we have the Gellis family with us. Brent is a friend of mine who I who I've known for many years. And if you're with us this past Sunday, you were able to hear him preach and teach both in Sunday school, Sunday morning, Sunday night. And so tonight, tomorrow, and Wednesday night, we will also have meetings. And I want to invite you, um, if you are local and your church doesn't have anything going on, and you just want to be blessed and encouraged in the Lord, uh, come out to our meetings. I think it'll be a great time of spiritual encouragement. And this week as we work our way through the topic that we're going to address here from Ephesians chapter 3, I do think that this will be an extremely helpful, encouraging portion of scripture. I got a lot of feedback when we were looking at this passage from our church. um uh well not this Sunday but the one before. And so I really am looking forward to talking about these things with you this week. So if you have a Bible, turn to Ephesians chapter 3. We're going to look at verses 1 through 13 But because it's a large portion of text, we're just going to read a portion of that, but we will look at the entirety, Lord willing, throughout this week. Ephesians chapter 3, looking at verses 1 through 13. Here's what the text says. For this cause, I Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ for you, Gentiles, if you've heard of the dispensation of the grace of God which is given to me to you, word. How that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery, as I wrote to you afore in few words, whereby when you read you may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ. Which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit, that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs of the same body, partakers. of his promise in Christ by the gospel. So as we look at this passage, it's important for us to start with asking, what about this text? contributes to the flow of the book of Ephesians. We know how it starts, we know how it ends. The question is, where does this fit in the progression that Paul is giving us in the book? Well, it's kind of interesting to try to nail that down because this section is actually a logical break from what Paul has been working through. So he's progressing through a lot of theological concepts. He's going to move to the implications and the practical daily working out of those things later on in the book. And it's almost as as if he has paused and he says, you know what, there's something that's been weighing on me. I want to address this issue before I keep moving. It's not completely dis disconnected. from what I've said. In fact, it's actually very, very much connected to it, but it is a break in the progression. And so that's what it is. He has expounded truth. expounded theological concepts, rich concepts. He's going to some very practical implications, but he pauses. And in these 13 verses, Paul talks about a topic that's important. And this important topic is about his concern for the church. He believed that there was the potential, or it was already happening, a stumbling in their view of Paul looking at his suffering. They recognize that he's going through a lot. They recognize that this suffering is connected even to them as a church. I'll talk about that at another time. But these individuals are concerned for Paul, and it's affecting them. And so that brings us to the topic of suffering and trials and tribulations, hardships. This is the normal part of life. I say normalists because we live in a fallen world, and living in a fallen world means that we're fallen creatures every Everybody around us is fallen creatures. And this is a fallen world that we live in. We're going to experience suffering. We're going to experience trials. It's an inescapable part of our experience. I wish that that was not the case, but it is the case. And what this passage will show us is that suffering is something that is not random or chance. God permits suffering. God guides. the process. God even preserves us sometimes from suffering and he does it the way he manages, the way that he sovereignly, providentially works in our lives. This is something that we should recognize as a part of demonstrating God's goodness. We shouldn't stumble at it, though sometimes we do stumble at it In fact, when we see other people sometimes, we actually stumble more at what we see them going through than what we go through. And this passage is meant to help us when we are in such a position. It's meant to show us that life should be looked at from a thoroughly biblical perspective, not just an in the now, how we feel in the moment, only this short time that we're looking at, but to see it from another angle. And so I'll give you this summary of what Paul is addressing here. Paul is showing us that God's plans And the part we play in those and what we experience in the midst of those plans, they are far bigger, far grander than we realize. in our limited perspective. That's really what this text is all about. I'm going to break it down and show you that, hopefully throughout this week, and help you to more thoroughly appreciate that. So as we as we reflect on it, we're going to see that God's desire for us is simple. When you go through difficulties, consider circumstance in the big picture, eternity. We'll answer how we can do that. So hopefully you'll join us this week as we work our way through this passage. Each morning, I hope that the things that are presented to you will be biblically instructive, spiritually refreshing, encouraging, challenging, that you can actually put them into practice right here, right now. in your daily life. I hope you'll join us for that. And I also hope that you'll join us this week for some of our special meetings. If you can't be there in person, then join us in the live stream. But I think it'll be a great time of encouragement in the Lord. Well, that's what I have for you. Hope you have a blessed rest of your morning or whenever you watch this video. And Lord willing, we'll see many of you tonight or tomorrow on our next Anchored in the Word study. Bye now.