Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and hope that you've had a good start to your week. I know we're at the midpoint and this topic that we're addressing this morning. morning as if yesterday wasn't a practical enough one. This one here is extremely practical and it is in no way disconnected. It's connected to what we talked about yesterday yesterday and it's really an extension of the topic of yesterday, which uh was dealing with interpersonal challenges and how difficult they are. And so I hope that you'll join us this morning as we work our way through the concept of faith and the illustration that Jesus uses and why it is so important in this context. So let's take our Bibles again. Let's turn to Luke chapter 17. We're looking at verses 1 through 10 together and I'll read the first section here. It says, Then said he unto his disciples, It is impossible, but that offenses will come. But woe unto him through whom they come. It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea, that he should offend one of these little ones. Take heed to yourselves, if thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him. If he repent, forgive him, if he trespass against thee seven times in a day. And seven times in a day he turned again to thee, saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him. The apostle said unto the Lord, Increase our faith. As we think about this, we're seeing the following concept. These people needed to anticipate that God would work remarkably through them, but they had to be willing in the work They were going to do. They should have anticipated that God was going to advance his kingdom in a remarkable way through them. And this teaching is a part of that. So let's break it down. Verses 5 and 6, he says, The apostle said unto the Lord, and Increase our faith. The Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say unto the sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the seed. Now this statement is filled with illustration, and it's an illustration that could be made mis applied or misunderstood very easily. And so I think it's important to consider the illustration in the immediate context of what Jesus was talking about and then the broader context of what's going on in the book of Luke that Luke is recording for us as Jesus is moving his way towards Jerusalem. Jerusalem, ultimately to go and to die for our sins and rise from the dead. So as we think about this, we're looking at the first statement in verse number five. Increase our faith. Now, Jesus is not saying, I need to increase your faith. The disciples are saying, we need you to increase our faith. The question is, why did the disciples say this? Why did they say we need our faith to be strengthened? The answer is Jesus just taught some very difficult things He talked about the fact that we're going to face persecution as disciples of Christ. He gave some very difficult teaching about how to deal with interpersonal disputes. and dealing with forgiveness and addressing bitterness and looking inside. And so the things that Jesus has just stated are extremely difficult. He's also in the midst of a tremendous controversy with the religious leaders, and the disciples are wondering how is this all going to play out? It's almost like you're you're you're sitting here today uh at this point in American history and you're you're watching opinion polls and you're you're looking at electoral analysis. and uh swing state polls and and and and what is gonna happen in the election and everything rises and falls on all these little things that are going on. I mean we're processing things in that way. Well, the disciples were just like us. They're looking at how people reacting to Christ, and they're like, you know, are they going to accept him or reject him? The religious leaders obviously seem to hate him a lot and he's very confrontational with them. Are they gonna ultimately kill him? And then are our are chances of being a part of this kingdom are these are these chances dashed because he's been killed? And is is our movement going to actually survive? And is it really going to become this massive thing or not? And all of these questions are going on in their minds. They needed the assurance that God will accomplish his remarkable work through their faith as it is properly directed. And so we see in verse 6 he says, if ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say unto this sycamine tree, be thou plucked up by the root, be thou planted in the sea, and it should obey you. So what does Jesus mean by this? Well, first of all, we see the word if. He gives a promise, but there's a condition. These disciples had the duty, the responsibility, to actually respond to Christ's teaching. With faith. They had to trust him. They had to depend on what he was saying. They had to take action, believing that what God says is true, and they're responsible to obey him. Secondly, The key to this faith is not how big it is. It's not how mature it is. He says, if you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, Now technically we don't even know what this seed is, but it is obviously something that when he speaks about it, the disciples immediately say, this is something very small, very tiny, very insignificant. it, but we know it has the potential to grow into a massive tree. And so Jesus is saying, if your faith, though small and though weak, is properly focused, the object is right. then I can do remarkable things through that faith. So it's not about size and maturity. It's about the object of faith. Thirdly God can accomplish the impossible in this very specific obstacle or series of obstacles I'm talking about. When he says this sick and mine tree It's not like Jesus is just making this generalization , or he's leaning against a tree. He's like, well, you could uproot this tree if you just have a little bit of faith like a mustard seed. He's using an illustration that's representing something that he's just talked about It's not a blanket statement. It is an obstacle in the context. It's very specific. This sycamine tree, which is an illustration of what Jesus says can be uprooted. You say, well what is it? What is he talking about? Well in the immediate context, Jesus has just talked about persecution. And he's talked about forgiveness. And what Jesus has said about persecution and forgiveness, in fact, they're very difficult. For you to believe that you can be happy and contented and have joy while people are treating you like dirt does not seem like a possibility. Or the fact that you could actually forgive a person over and over and over again who has wronged you does not seem like something that would be easy to do. Or that when someone has wronged you rather than lashing out in anger, you actually stop and ask, am I contributing to this in any way? Or when you're nursing your wounds and you're kind of dwelling on these bitter angry thoughts about a person. You actually go to them in the right spirit to resolve the issue. Or this person that has so wronged you, you actually forgive them. You don't keep record of all the wrong. To do those things is no easy task. And so in the immediate context, when he says, this sycamine track, I think that's what he's talking about. He's saying this teaching on forgiveness, this teaching on persecution. This is a root in the heart of a person that it is impossible to uproot it apart from faith, trust in what I've said, taking action. on the instructions that are given and believing that in fact they are true and they are right and you have a duty to do them and you can do them. And he says, guess what? You can, even if you trust God just a little bit And you take that action, you can do it. This is also a broader context. The advance of God's kingdom and the massive obstacles that are facing it at this point in the life of Christ are things that would have been weighing heavily on the disciples. This is a period where they were seeing this confrontation between Jesus and the religious leaders growing and growing and growing. They see the animosity. They see the hatred. They know that there's plotting. In the back of their minds, they wonder, is Jesus going to be killed as a martyr? And are we going to die with him? And they don't understand all of the details of what Christ is doing, but they do recognize that it seems that the tide is turning in the wrong direction. And the question is, will God actually accomplish his purpose? that we have given our entire lives to pursue. These are big issues. So what are the implications? Well despite the external pressures of persecution and the internal pressures of internal conflict, God will accomplish his work. And they had to believe that too. If we trust him, even when our faith is small and weak, he will accomplish great things that we could have never imagined were possible. through that very weak and that very deficient faith that is properly trusting in him. We can obey him, even in these difficult situations that we're facing. The things that seem insurmountable. We can obey him. It is possible. He is giving us what we need to do it. He will build his church and nothing can stop it. Not persecution, not the murder of Christ, in fact the murder of Christ on the cross. is going to lead to the removal of our guilt and our sin as God places our sin on Christ and He is punished in our place. and his triumph over death and the resurrection will demonstrate that he is God in flesh, that his sacrifice was accepted, and that he has purchased redemption for us. And so when we think about this, nothing, not even the case of hell, can prevail against the Church of God. And anyone can be a part of this great work. It's not about your strength. It's not about your stature. It's not about your intelligence. It's not about where you're positioned in s society. It's about your willingness to get involved in what God's doing in that childlike faith. That that grain of a mustard seed faith, that that small willingness and weakness to be involved in what God's doing. That's how God uses people in this grace. work. So that gives us a lot of encouragement today. I hope you have a great rest of your day. And if this has been an encouragement to you, I hope you take a moment to share that. If you think others can be benefited by it, take a moment to share that with them. And Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow as we continue moving through this text of Scripture. Have a great day by now