Good morning and welcome to our Tuesday anchored in the word morning reflection. Yesterday I just gave you a really simple summary, didn't dig a lot into this passage, but today I'd like to look at the first portion of Paul's prayer and then just make some comments about some of the details that I think are very interesting. And um I guess we can't be absolutely dogmatic as to a couple of the details. But I think that you'll see where we're going with that. So join us in Ephesians chapter 1. We're going to read beginning in verse number 15 and see what it says and then dig into that first little portion. Here's what it says Wherefore, I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord, I love and love for the saints, cease not to give thanks for you. Making mention of you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation and the knowledge of Him. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of his calling, and what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance and the saints. What is the exceeding greatness of his power to us for who believe, according to the working of his mighty power which he wrought in Christ? As we look at this prayer, the first thing that really stands out to me about it is the heart of the shepherd and the apostle Paul. Now, Paul was not a pastor. Really, even Timothy technically wasn't a pastor. John was a pastor. It seems that Peter was a pastor. But Paul had a pastoral heart. And so I like using that word shepherd because this is someone who is caring for souls. What was it about Paul's shepherding heart that comes out in these verses? Well, first of all, we see in verses 15 and 16 that Paul is hearing about the church, he's burdened for the church, he's thankful for the church, and he's praying for the church. Notice how he puts it After I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, I ceased not to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers. A couple of details about the history or the background of Paul's relationship to Ephesus that I think will help us to understand this a little bit better. We when we think about Paul's history with the church, he actually knew this church for a very long time. His initial desire was to go into Asia Minor. And God forbid him from going into Asia Minor to start a church at the time that he wanted to, and instead he directed him to Macedonia. And then In the region of Macedonia, he goes to several different cities, and in each of those cities, there are churches that are eventually going to be established, but Paul's ministry there was very short because he was driven out of those places. Well eventually he gets to Corinth, and there in Corinth he meets two people named Aquila and Priscilla, a couple. Paul becomes close friends with them. And when Paul leaves Corinth, he ends up going to Ephesus, and there in Ephesus he leaves Aquila and Priscilla. And so his initial ministry is through this couple. And he actually goes back to Jerusalem, he celebrates a feast, and when he comes back to Ephesus from Jerusalem, he begins to preach in the synagogue, and eventually many people are converted. Paul's driven out of the synagogue, he starts ministering to the Gentiles, and eventually a church is established with some Jewish converts, some Gentile converts. And he spends about three years there at Ephesus in total. During that time, he's evangelizing, he's discipling, he's mentoring and training future leadership And he eventually uh is going to leave Timothy there. Um and so about seven seventy-nine years is when Paul is is writing this letter. So some time has gone by. Now you might say, well, why does this even matter? Well, the reason I think that this is interesting to me is the way that Paul speaks to the church. For instance, he says, I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus. Now that that seems like a kind of an unusual thing to say about people who you led to Christ. And so it may not be that Paul has led these people to Christ. As the time has gone on, he's actually writing to the grandchildren. and the children, maybe even the great-grandchildren, of some of the people that he's led to Christ. In other words, the church is growing by the multiplication of disciples. And so that may be what he's saying. That means it's a healthy enough church that there are people there who've been saved through people who were saved under Paul's ministry, or even people who are the the disciples of those saved in Paul's ministry. So that's one side. The other possibility is that Paul is saying, look, in the other places that I'm ministering, These people are actually connected back to your church. And I've heard about your faith through them. And so either way that you put it, it's a church that is growing and thriving and multiplying, or It's a church that is planting other churches or influencing other church plants. And both of those things are good things. But what it's telling you is that Paul stayed in contact with the church. He didn't abandon them. He cared about them. Second detail is that his heart was actually engaged in their well-being. He was concerned about them. He says, I do not cease to give thanks for you. He thought about them often. It's like when your children go to college or maybe they get married and they start their own families. You don't forget about your children. You love them. They're your kids. And so Paul is continuing to be concerned about their well-being. And then the third thing we see is that he regularly prayed for them. He says, I make mention of you in my prayers. So Paul has a heart for these people, even though he's not with them, even though he is separated by a great distance and even some time. from those initial people that he ministered to there at Ephesus. He still loves the church very much. Well, this is a pattern that we should follow ourselves. What I mean by that is in every single context of our life that we have the opportunity to have an influence and a shepherding way in people's lives, we should have this same kind of pattern. So every context is an opportunity for this kind of heart to be exhibited. When we talk about our homes, relationship to our children, our spouse, when we think about the church, where we're talking about our relationship to other Christians. When we think about people that we have the opportunity to lead to Christ and then disciple, they're they're shepherding relationships in all of these different contexts, even in our work context. In our school context, we may have opportunity to have these kinds of shepherding relationships. And so I want to encourage you, do not neglect what Paul is showing us here. He's laying open your soul so that we can see how people think when they love Christ and they are being influenced by the Spirit of God. May God help us to have the same kind of heart. Well, that's what I have for you this morning. Hope you're having a great morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep digging into the Word of God. Bye now.