Good morning. Welcome back to a new week and another edition of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And I hope that you'll join us this week as we are focusing in on the significance of the cross of Christ. And I know that this week is the week that we'll focus in on the Passion. I hope that you will join us this coming Friday as we will be going up to Calvary Baptist, Westminster. And when we are there, we're going to be focusing in on the cross. So this passage of scripture we're dealing with and the content of this text will be very helpful for us as we reflect on the significance of the cross and then ultimately the resurrection on this coming Sunday. And so if you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's turn together to Luke chapter 23. We're going to read through this passage together, and then I'm just going to give you a couple of introductory thoughts as we prepare for the week. Here's what the text says. And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified him. And the malefactor is one on the right hand, the other on the left. Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them, for they knew not what they do. They parted his raiment and cast lots, and the people stood beholding. And the rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others, let him save himself, if he be the Christ, the chosen of God. And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him and offering him vinegar, and saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself And a superscription also was written over him in the letters of Greek and Latin and Hebrew. This is the King of the Jews. One of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us. The other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost thou not fear God, saying thou art of the same condemnation? We indeed justly, for we have received the due reward for our deeds. But this man had done nothing amiss. He said unto him, Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, today shalt thou be with me in paradise. Now as we think about this passage of Scripture, We've seen a lot of things that are emphasized in these verses. There was a word that if you were picking up as I was reading it, I emphasized that, and that's the word if. If you are the King of the Jews, if you are the Son of God, if you are the Christ, why that word if? That word if is there because it's really the line of demarcation between belief and unbelief. A person says it's not if, it's since you are the Christ. Since you are the Messiah, since you are the Son of God. That's what this passage is all about. It's emphasizing the person of Christ and his work of redemption. And so as we dig into this passage, I hope that you will help us, or that that the that the things that we talk about this week are going to help you to understand why that is so very, very important. And really what we're ultimately wanting to do is understand the facts. and then embrace them and glory in them. So let me give you a simple summary statement for the text that we're looking at this week. Christ's crucifixion is one of the most consequential events in human history. This is because it provides reconciliation to God for all who humbly trust in Him. And someone might say, well, hold on a second. Why don't you say it is the most, not just one of the most consequential events? Well It's because it's the coupling of the resurrection and the cross. Not just the cross, but the cross and the resurrection. This is where redemption was purchased. And the resurrection is where Christ conquers sin and death. And so that's what I mean by one of. It is the cross and the resurrection that are the most consequential events in history. And so as we dig into this concept, this this week. We're going to see that God wants us to glory in the cross. And we're going to look at some reasons from the text that we should glory in the cross. I hope that you'll join us this week. As we dig into this passage. Maybe you have some friends that you want to pass this along because it could be an encouragement, a help to them, a challenge to them, maybe give them some things to ponder. And uh I pray that this will be a great week of studies with you. Have a blessed rest of your morning. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we start working our way through the reasons that we should glory in the cross of Christ. Have a blessed day. Bye now.