Good morning. Hope you're having a great Wednesday and hope that you'll be able to join us this evening for our midweek Bible study prayer time or kids' classes for our young people. And I really love the topic we're going to address this morning because it talks about affection. What I mean by affection is it's our passion, it's our love, it's our motivation. One of the distinct differences between the Christian and the unbeliever is how there is a change in the disposition of a person in their orientation toward God. towards themselves and toward others. And so we're really going to break that down a little bit this morning. And so if you have a Bible, let's take it. Let's turn together to Colossians chapter 3 again. And as we dig into this passage, we're going to talk about the affectional change that takes place in the life of the Christian. Colossians chapter 3, verse 1. If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God Set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth. For ye are dead and your life is hid with Christ and God When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall you also appear with him in glory. Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. Fornication. uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry. For which things sake the wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience. and the which you also sometime when you walked lived in them. Now when we talk about this issue of affection, I'll frame it in this way. Our union with Christ frees us or liberates us to love God freely. The Bible says that we love him because he first loved us, and that love is something that he works in us, and his love is perfected in us And so when we talk about this concept of affection, verse 2 he says that we are to set our affection on things above, not on things of the earth. That means this is something that we must choose to do, but it's also something that we have the capacity to do. I think it's important to make that distinction. We now have a new and living source of affection. And this is a huge change from what we were before we were Christians In Romans 8. 4, the passage that we talked about yesterday, it says that those who are after the flesh, or the unbeliever, He minds the things of the flesh, but they that are after the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. When a person becomes a Christian, a new creature in Christ, He now has a new source of affection. Not his flesh alone, but he now is a new creature, and he has the Spirit of God working in him on the heart level to change his disposition toward God. I can put it like this. We were, before our salvation, we were dead to God and alive unto sin. I'll break it down practically. Our affections were consumed with self-interest and this temporary world. Our identity was disordered in some way. What we were consumed with as our identity was disordered. Our passions, our affections, our emotions. Disordered. Our pursuits were misguided. Our gods were idols Now I know that that is a very stunning and a very negative view of human nature, but that is a thoroughly biblical view of human nature. But when a person becomes a Christian and they are regenerated and they become a new creature in Christ, they, and I say they as in, we who have believed on Christ, we are now alive to God and dead to sin. Do you see the huge contrast? So what I mean by that is that we have new affections, and these affections drive us to God and drive us to eternal pursuits and his purposes. A complete different orientation of the heart. Our broken identity has now been restored in him. Our broken passions have been redirected toward Him. Our empty pursuits have been replaced with godly, eternal, lasting purposes, His pursuits. Our idols have been replaced with the true and living God. You see, there's a complete contrast between the believer and the unbeliever. And if you're a Christian, this is true of you. And you shouldn't see the practical evidence of that in your life. But even though this is true, we still have to make a choice And we must choose to set our affection on things above. And Scripture talks about this a lot. In verse 2, he says, you must set your affection on things above. Now that's the logical conclusion, but it's a choice you need to make. A Romans chapter 6, same kind of concept. We are to reckon or consider it, count it. Reckon yourself to be dead to sin but alive unto God through Christ Jesus our Lord. This has both a positive and a negative side to it, and this text deals with that quite a bit. By the way, those other passages deal with them as well. For instance You must put to death the disordered affections. Verse 5. Mortify your members that are on the earth. And he mentions several of them, and one of them is inordinate affection. Okay? So our affections have been turned upside down, we have to put to death those fleshly passions that are disordered. or put off disordered responses. Verse 8, put off these, anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication. Put it out of your mouth. Put off those disordered responses Responses. Consider yourself dead to sin. Verse not. Lie not one to another, seeing that you have put off the old man with his deeds. That's very similar to what Paul says in Romans 6, where he says. Reckon yourself to be dead to sin, but alive unto God. You are dead to sin, so live like you're dead to sin. That's the point that he's making. Live like the person that you are. And then be transformed through the renewing of your mind. Very similar to what we see in Romans 12. 1 , Colossians 3. 10, it says. that you have put on uh put on the new man which is renewed in a knowledge after the image of him that created him. And so as we think about this concept of affection, I want to remind you today that if you're a Christian, you have the capacity to love God with all your heart. He is motivating you and compelling you and pressing you in that direction. The Spirit of God is working in you, but you must make a choice. To reckon yourself dead to sin, but alive unto God through Christ Jesus our Lord. You must set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth. And so let's do that this morning. Let's set our affection on him and his purposes. Have a blessed morning. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.