Good morning, and I'd like to welcome you to another week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I'm excited about the new format that I'm going to try this week. um as we do our anchored in the words and I am going to be following the pattern of working through text of scripture that we've been dealing with on Sunday mornings. However I'm going to change the format slightly and I I would be interested to get some feedback on the way that we're going to do that. Typically what I do is I take the passage of scripture that we're dealing with and I break it off into chunk sections and basically reteach to the notes and are anchored in the word studies. What I'd like to do this week is I'd like us to take little pieces of the sermon and watch a short video clip. We're talking like 30, 40 seconds long. And then I'd like to kind of camp out and focus on the topic that's being addressed in that video clip so that I can expand it a little bit. So I hope that this will be a help to you, that you'll enjoy that And that this can be something that you can share and uh will be an encouragement. So the text that we're dealing with this week is John chapter 1. Verses 1 through 14. Let's go ahead and read through the text together and we'll sh we'll watch a very short video clip. And then from that we will uh dig into the concept that's being presented there. Text says this, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men, and the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. which were born not of the flesh, nor of the blood or the will of man, but of God. Alright, well the text in front of us, we've read through it I want to give you a little clip from really the introductory part of our sermon, and then we're going to reflect on what is there. Wow, there are four gospel accounts of the Lord Jesus Christ, and I want to mention something about the uniqueness of each of those because sometimes in a time like what we're living in today where uh you two and TikTok and those places are very popular, especially for young people. People will go to those sources and they will watch these short little videos, and those little videos will tremendously misinform them about a lot of things in the Bible. And so it's really important for us to understand that when we come to the gospel accounts, the differences that we find between those gospel accounts are not mistakes. Okay, so a couple of comments on this introductory part of the sermon. My goal was to accomplish a couple of things when we were starting out the sermon. One of the things that I wanted to do was kind of set the stage. for the content that we're finding in John chapter 1. John 1 is the prologue and so if you want to get an idea of where John is going in the book. We start with the prologue, we look at the contents of the prologue, and then from moving on from the contents of the prologue, we looked at the end of the book and where it ends, and the whole purpose of the book of John is that these things are written so that we'll believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing we might have life through his name. And so we were trying to make that connection in the introduction between the prologue and the conclusion of the book. But there was another piece that I was concerned about as we opened up the sermon, and that is as we work our way through the Gospels, we will notice from time to time in the Gospels some differences in the way that some of the interactions that Christ has with the disciples or maybe some of the miracles that he performs that there are some differences that we find in some of these accounts. And one of the things that will be an accusation people will sometimes bring about those differing accounts is they'll say, see, you can't trust the Bible, uh, you can't believe that the Bible is inerrant because we have these differences, these discrepancies. And one of those examples might be Looking at the introduction to the book, for instance, we go to Matthew and then we go to Luke, we see an accounting of Christ's genealogy. But the names that we find in Matthew's account versus Luke's account are different. And so we might say, well, the reason that they're different is because they're obviously both not correct. Well, if we go into the text and we dig into it, we will discover That it's a lot more complicated than just coming to the simple conclusion because there's a difference. There there 's a an error in the text itself. The fact is that each of the books that are written were written to a different audience. So Matthew was written primarily to a Jewish audience. Mark was written primarily to a Roman audience. Luke is written primarily to a Hellenistic audience, and John is written to a Greek audience. And because each of those gospel accounts are directed toward a different group of people, Sometimes the way that time is told in those different Gospels or the way that it describes someone going to a location some of the terms that are used, there are going to be differences because he's focusing in on a different group of people that have a different culture and a different way of telling time and things like that. And so it's important for us to recognize that. But also there is the concept of what is his intent? What is the purpose? And is it possible that we have some situations that There were similar scenarios when Christ uh heals lepers. He didn't just heal one leper, he healed lepers on several different occasions. Could it be that that some of these differences are actually talking about different accounts? Well, I I wanted to camp out on the genealogy topic because that's the one that opens up each of these books. And that genealogy one is interesting because if we look carefully at the accounting in Matthew When he talks about the genealogy of Christ, he does not give us the genealogy of Christ through Mary. He gives us the genealogy of Christ through Joseph, but he makes a point. That in fact Joseph is not the father of Jesus. He is in the position of his caretaker. Christ's legal right to the throne of David comes through Joseph. but he is not biologically connected to Joseph. But then when we go to the Luke account, we see that the genealogy is not through Joseph. But in fact It is through Mary. And it takes us all the way back, not just to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, but all the way back to Adam. And it tells you something about the differing intentions of these two penmen. One is focusing on a Jewish audience and the concerns of the Jewish audience, and one is focusing on a Greek audience, or excuse me, a Hellenistic audience and the concerns of that Hellenistic audience. I think it's also fascinating because we've been talking about the story, the life of David, and we just dealt with the story of David and Bathsheba, which is obviously the most tragic, the darkest, uh the greatest blot in David's life. God chose to spare David's life, and it is because he chose to spare David's life that that the genealogy of Christ is kept intact. And fascinating for us to notice, but if we look at the genealogy of Christ, when we look at it through Joseph, his legal guardian, it goes through Solomon, who was Solomon's mother? Bathsheba. And when we go through Mary's lineage, we see that it goes through a man named Nathan, who was a son of David, and the question is, who was Nathan's mother? The answer is it was Bathsheba. And so God preserved the line of the Messiah by showing grace and mercy to David, even though David had sinned. And so just a fascinating little tidbit for us to talk about. But the reason I bring this issue up is simply to say that when you see differences, you need to dig deeper. Don't just come to the conclusion, oh, there's a mistake. I I I guess these are irreconcilable. The fact is, if you dig and you search and you read and you compare scripture with scripture, you will be amazed at how you're able to come to very helpful conclusions that help to harmonize our understanding of this text of scripture. Well that's what I have for you this morning. I hope that it gives you some things to think about. Hope that you have a wonderful day. And Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow as we pick up on the next little clip from our sermon, which will be a different topic.