Good morning, welcome to our fourth Anchored in the Word of Mourin Reflection, and hope you're having a good Thursday morning or whenever you watch this video We've been looking at several comforts from this passage of scripture dealing with the conversion of Zacchaeus. And this morning what we're going to do is look at the third comfort. And that is being comforted by the transforming power of the gospel. And out of all the things that are going to be said in this passage, this might be one of the most fascinating of all of them. And um it also is one that I think I'm gonna have to give you some explanation so that you get a good sense of maybe why Zacchaeus is saying what he's saying. Um so I'm gonna kind of explain what I think is going on in this passage And I hope that it'll be a great help to you. And ultimately it's going to drive to the point that when God saves people, he changes them. And their lives are radically changed by the power of the gospel. So let's go ahead and get our Bibles out. We're going to look at Luke chapter 19, verses 1 through 10. 10 again. I'll read the passage and then we will dig into this very important concept. It says, and Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. And behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans, and he was rich. And he sought to see Jesus who he was, and could not for the press, because he was of little stature. And he ran before and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him. And as he was passing that way, Jesus came to the place, and looked up, and saw him, and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, come down. for to day I must abide at thy house. And he made great haste and came down and received him joyfully. And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, that he was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner And Zacchaeus stood and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. If I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house, forasmuch as he also is a son of Abraham. For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. Alright, as we dig into this passage, we're going to see the comfort of how the gospel transforms people. And in order to do that, we need to look at what is stated in verse number eight. Behold, Lord, half of my goods I give to the poor If I've taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. The question that should pop into our minds when we look at this statement Is to ask why does Zacchaeus say this? The question is, is Zacchaeus saying this in the same way That people in Matthew chapter seven say, Lord, have we not prophesied in the name, cast out demons, and did all these wonderful works? And then he says, Depart from me, I never knew you, those who work iniquity. Is that what he's saying? The kind of uh statement similar to what we see in Matthew 7? Or is this similar to what the Pharisee is saying when he's in the temple and he sees the publican and he says, God, I thank you I'm not like other men Extortioners, proud boasters, he lays all these things out, and he says, I do all these things, I don't do all these things like this publican. Is he saying those things in that kind of a way? In other words, is he trying to boost his credentials? Is he trying to prove to Christ that in fact he's worthy of salvation? The answer to that question is no. That is not why he's doing it. And so in order to do that, we need to kind of think about the background of this story. Why is it that this man was looking for Christ? Why was he doing this by practice? And why does Jesus say that salvation has come to this man's house and call him a child of Abraham? Well, the answer is because Jesus is saying he's truly a believer. He's someone who has embraced the Messiah. But there's a twist to it that we need to understand. That's why we've got to go to the background of John the Baptist teaching. And so if you go back to the beginning of the book of Luke, Luke chapter 3, You're going to see that as John was baptizing in the Jordan River, people were coming, and the message was, Repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Prepare you the way. Be ready to meet the Messiah. And so when people came down to that water and they were being baptized, they were identifying with the message of John. John's message was, your sinners. You need to be redeemed to God and you need to look for the Messiah. That is extent essentially what he's saying. And everyone who admitted that, believed that, was trusting in that message of that the gospel is coming and we are sinners who need redemption, those people were baptized as a public profession of their belief in the coming Messiah's message. Now, when those people came, not everyone submitted to water baptism with a pure heart. Some people, just as today, there are people who are baptized in churches that don't understand the gospel. Or maybe they've understood the gospel, but they've not genuinely pr uh trusted in Christ. And so water baptism doesn't save anybody, doesn't wash away anybody's sins. It's simply a public statement of faith And if the faith in the heart is genuine, then the person's a believer. The faith in the heart is not genuine, then they're not a believer. And so when the people came, John knew that some were genuine and some were not. And so listen to the words that he says. This is very fascinating. And I think it's important for the story of Zacchaeus. Then said he to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of him. O generation of vipers, who hath warned thee to flee from the wrath to come? And here's the next statement important Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance. Begin not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father. For I say unto you that God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham The people asked him, saying, What should we do? He answered and said unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath none. He that hath meat, let him do likewise. And he came also to the pup then came also publicans to be baptized. And he said unto them, Master, what shall we do? And he said, Exact, no more than that which is appointed to you Now, if you notice in this passage, there is a challenge to the genuineness of people coming to be baptized And he says if you're genuine, then your life should be changed because there is an internal transformation. Fruits worthy of repentance. How can you see repentance? How can you see faith? The answer is you can only see it by how it changes a person's life And so when he's teaching, he warns these people, don't think that just because you come here and just because you're a Jewish person means that you're a child of Abraham. And that's interesting language. It sounds very similar to what Jesus is saying here of Zacchaeus. He is a child of Abraham. In other words, Jesus is verifying that Zacchaeus is a believer. John the Baptist in Luke chapter 3 is warning that people who are presenting themselves as believers may not actually be believers. And then notice what John says. Give half of what you have to those who have no need, and to those who are publicans, quit cheating people. So interestingly, there was something that caused Zacchaeus to do what he was doing. That leads us to the question of why does he present it? Well, Zacchaeus has just been charged by those who are grumbling about Christ as someone who's not genuine. And what is he doing? He is providing the verification that sounds very similar to what John was was asking them to provide for verification, that in fact his he was trusting in the message of John But John's message was incomplete because John was only talking about the Messiah to come. This man has come and now Zacchaeus is looking to him. So what you really see is you see someone who I think is a believer in the same line as a believer who has heard the bat the bat of the baptism of John He's trying to live consistent with what John has said you're supposed to do as one whose life has been transformed by the gospel, and he's waiting for Messiah. And that's why he's interested in Christ. He's looking because this looks like the person John has talked about. And so I think that that's in the background here. Without any prompting from Christ. He is generous with his wealth, and he goes beyond the law's expectations for providing restitution. Luke chapter, or Leviticus chapter 6. A person who steals shall restore what he took violently, the thing which he has taken deceitfully, he shall restore it in the principle, and also add the fifth part. Zacchaeus is going beyond this. And so what is this? This is him doing what he's doing, not as a zeal to appease God, not because he's trying to establish a basis for salvation. It is him showing visible fruit that follows genuine internal transformation. It is ultimately Zacchaeus ' life bearing the resemblance to the position that he has. He is living in a way that demonstrates the transforming power of the gospel. And it has radically reoriented his life. And so that's what we're looking at. We're looking at a man whose life has been changed. And as he talks about what he is doing, he is not doing it to convince Jesus to save him. He is talking about it because these are the fruits that are following genuine faith in the message that was being preached at the beginning of Christ's ministry. I hope that clarifies the passage a little bit for you. It's a great text and there's a lot we can learn from it. Hope that you have a great rest of your morning as you continue to think through these things and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts by now