Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. And I hope that this study this week is going to be a tremendous help to you. And we're going to be talking about how to deal with anxious doubts that creep into our hearts, how to deal with them in a godly way. And yesterday we kind of laid out some introductory thoughts. We uh we looked at some statistics and we talked about how under the surface of a lot of these problems that we're seeing in our society Which there are a lot of different factors that contribute to these problems. At the core is this foundational problem, a worldview problem that does not answer life's greatest questions. um according to what is true. And that's one of the reasons, a major factor that's contributing to these tremendous struggles that we're seeing in our society Well this morning what I'd like to do is continue with that as we dig into an interesting topic, and that is the common link between worry, hypocrisy, fear, and covetousness. And what those things have in common and a lot of us would say, Well, I'm just glad that uh I'm not a hypocrite, but I do struggle with worry or you know, I'm I I I'm a fearful person, but at least I'm not covetous or You understand what I'm saying. There's a common link between these various pieces, and we want to talk about that this morning. So I'm going to read the text again I'm not going to read the whole thing this morning because it's a lengthy passage, but I want to remind you of what we're dealing with. Here's what it says. And he said unto his disciples, Therefore, I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, neither for the body, what ye shall put on. The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment. Consider the ravens, for they neither sow nor reap, which neither have storehouses nor barns, and God feedeth them. How much more are ye better than the fowls? And which of you, taking thought, can add to his stature one cubit? If ye then be not able to do the thing which is least, why take ye thought for the rest? Consider the lilies, how they grow, they toll not, neither spin. Yet I say unto you that Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. If then God so clothe the grass, which is today in the field, and tomorrow cast in the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O ye of little faith? Now the first thing I want us to deal with in these verses is this common link between the topics of hypocrisy, fear, covetousness, and worry. And before we get into that link, I think it's important for us to define what Christ meant by take no thought for your life. Um just reading it quickly, not considering the context that it's in, not considering the rest of Scripture, someone might say, well, what Jesus is saying is that we shouldn't plan and We shouldn't actually um make decisions based on deliberation. We should just kind of just do whatever happens. And that is not what Jesus is saying. The scriptures tell us that we need to be prudent and we need to be wise and it talks about foreseeing evil and hiding ourselves. And so we need to understand what Jesus means. And what he doesn't mean by this statement, take no thought for your life. So first of all, I want to talk about what we would call a godly internal tension, a healthy kind of tension that we should experience that is not what Jesus is telling us we shouldn't have. Okay? And we know that because there are other scriptures that command us to do these things. And there's not an inconsistency between what Christ is saying and say what was taught under the Old Testament system or what is taught in the New Testament system. There is a continuity between the teaching of Christ, the Old Testament, and the New Testament. And so there are passages that talk about healthy introspection. For instance, in 1 Corinthians 11 It tells us to examine ourselves before we come to the Lord's table. A person should sit down and ask the question, what is the manner in which I am coming to the Lord's table. Or in Romans chapter 12, verse number two, it says that we are to prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Literally we should sit down and ask the question Is God's will good? And the answer is, of course it is. Is it acceptable to him? Of course it is. Is it complete? Yes. Okay? We should actually sit down and internally analyze the will of God. Or in Galatians chapter 6 it says that every man is to prove his own works, and then shall he have rejoicing. Now, that word prove and examine, it's the same great term. It has the idea that I need to sit down and be introspective In the Proverbs, we see a lot of these instructions as well. It talks about the prudent man foreseeing evil and hiding himself, or it talks about people being circumspect. In fact, the entire book of Proverbs is given so that we would be a people who think carefully about the choices that we make. This is not what Jesus is condemning in these verses. A healthy sense of consequence is another great example. In 2 Corinthians 7, verse 11, when he talks about godly sorrow that leads to repentance, he says, that ye sorrowed after a godly sort, what carefulness it wrought in you, what fear The idea is really very similar to what is talked about in Proverbs, where a person is thinking about consequences. We are told to think about consequences. Again, this is not what Christ is telling us that we shouldn't do. He's not condemning this kind of activity. And then a healthy sense of duty. We should be motivated to do what God has commanded us to do. In Hebrews chapter 12, Verse 28 it says that I preach the gospel uh excuse me, I I I I jumped ahead. He says that we are to serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear. There is this sense of duty to God as one who is redeemed that should motivate us, impress us. First Corinthians 9, Paul talks about How he says, necessity is laid up for me, woe is me if I preach not the gospel. So what we can see is that there are definitely types of internal tension. that are good, they are right, they are godly. We should experience them as Christians. And Jesus is not condemning that kind of an internal struggle. Okay? But there's another kind of internal struggle that is unquestionably sinful. And Jesus is condemning it, and he's telling us Don't do this. That is exactly what he means by this. And we see this laid out in other texts of scripture. For instance, in Hebrews 10, 22, he says, Let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. Now you may ask, well, what is the writer of Hebrews telling us we need to be cautious about? He's saying, make sure that what you know to be true is not something that you begin to doubt. That you don't become so introspective that all of a sudden you now are consumed with doubts. and fears and anxious thoughts. He says we're to draw near to God with a full assurance of faith. A similar statement is made in 1 John 4, verse 18. Not that the statement itself is the same, but the concept that it's dealing with is very similar. He says that there is no fear in love. Perfect love casteth out fear. Fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. So in the same way that a person can have an unhealthy kind of introspection, a person can have a disquieted conscience. rooted in doubts that that truthfully they should not have based on the facts or the evidence. Or in Luke chapter 12, verse 6, he talks about people being fixated on what they can't control. He says, fear not, you are of more value value than many sparrows. And he talks about how we can't I add any height to our stature. He talks about how the ravens of the field are fed. He talks about how the lilies of the field, they they they are beautiful yet they don't spin. And the point is, he's like there are a lot of things in life that you really don't have the ability to control. But what you need to do is turn those things over to God and rest in Him. Luke chapter 10, verses 41 and 42 also touch on another interesting one. And that is that there are some things that we fixate on that that frankly they're of min minimal value. They don't really matter. And so we should just kind of not be consumed with them. And so when he's talking to Martha and Mary, he says, Martha, there's one thing that's needful. Mary hath chosen that good part which shall not be taken away from her. And so the point is. . That . internal struggle can be healthy in some contexts, and in others it's very unhealthy. And not just very unhealthy, it's actually sinful. And it's important for us to understand That one side Jesus is condemning and the other side he is not condemning. So let me kind of summarize what Jesus means by taking no thought for your life in a very simple way. It is the fearful fixation on things that are not our duty. They are not true, potentially true, okay? They're outside of our control, and they're secondary. They're not of primary importance. These are the kinds of things that Jesus is saying, take no thought for. Okay? So We did mention earlier that there's this connection between the different expressions of noise in our souls, things like hypocrisy, fear, worry, and covetousness. And you say, well, what is that connection? Well, you see the connection by the statement that he makes in verse number 22 where he says, therefore. In other words, what Jesus is doing is he's connecting this discussion on anxious thoughts with all the other things that he's talked about. And what has he talked about? He's talked about fear. He's talked about taking thought. He's talking about those kinds of things. And and what Jesus is saying is do not be consumed with things that you can't control, the way that people view you. Don't be consumed with things that are out outside of what you are responsible for. That's what he's saying. What is the root connection between all those things? Well the in the root connection i are are the things that he's addressed in these verses already. For instance in verse four, he talks about a wrong view of God. He says, I say to you, friends, be not afraid of those who can kill the body, and after have no more that they can do. Fear him that has the power to what? To cast into hell. In other words, rather than being consumed with what people around you think of you, Be concerned with what God says and what God thinks. May your view of God shape how you think about him. Or in verse 15, he talks about a faulty sense of values. He says, take heed and beware of covetousness. A man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth Your life is more than just the stuff that you have. So faulty values are another factor that ties those pieces together. And the third is a lack of trust in God's providence, how He manages the world. Verse 28, If then God so clothed the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O ye of little faith? So what is the link, the connection between worry, hypocrisy, fear, and covetousness? These three root causes. A faulty view of God, a faulty system of values, and a lack of trust in God's providence. And so I want to encourage you this morning with this very simple fact, that if you want to have victory over any of these expressions of internal disquietitude, you've got to think right about God. You've got to value what he values. And you need to learn to trust in his providence. And so we're going to unpackage those concepts. as we continue to work through this week. I hope this will be a challenge to you. If this has encouraged you, perhaps it'll encourage someone else. So consider sharing it. And I hope that you have a wonderful rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.