Good morning, welcome to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And this morning what I'd like to do is I'd like to look at the tragedy of the thinking. of the people that confronted Christ, and that would be the Sadducees. And so if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's turn together and dig into this passage together. Luke chapter 20, we'll begin reading in verse 27. It says, Then came to him certain of the Sadducees, which deny that there is any resurrection. And they asked him, saying, Master, Moses wrote unto us, If a man's brother die, having a wife, and he die without children, that this brother should take his wife and raise up seed unto his brother. There were therefore seven brethren, the first took a wife and died without children. The second took a wife And he died childless. The third took her, and in like manner the seventh also. They left no children and died. Last of all the woman died also. Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife of them is she For she had seven, seven had her to wife. Jesus answers the following way. The children of this world marry and are given in marriage. But they which are which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage. Neither can they die any more, for they are equal to the angels, and are the children of God being the children of the resurrection. Now that the dead are raised, even Moses showed at the bush when he called when he's called the Lord, the Lord the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. He is not a God of the dead. but of the living. For all live unto him. And certain of the scribes answering, said, Master, thou hast well said. After that they durst not ask him any question at all. So as we think about this passage of Scripture, I want us to focus in on the tragedy of the teaching of the religious leaders that were Sadducees. And we see this in the statement on verse 27. It says, these are those who deny that there is any resurrection. Now in order to understand some of the dynamics, it's helpful to look at an overview of first century Judaism. And I know that this is going to be a great generalization of the various factions, but I think it will be helpful for us to understand some of Christ's interactions. The first group we see are the Pharisees, and Christ was extremely combative with the Pharisees. The Pharisees were the Judaism of the people. What I mean by that is that these were the layman theologians. These were the people that worked in the synagogues, that were teaching in the synagogues. They had tremendous influence over the people And they were theologically conservative, running the synagogues. These are the ones who are influencing the common thought of people in in first century Israel. But they were very legalistic. And that conservatism was that theological con conservatism, for instance, in the situation of the resurrection, which was a good thing. also led them to having some other problems. And those problems were that they took the rabbinical teachings and they laid them beside the scriptures and they basically gave them equal weight. Now, the reason that they did this is because there are many things in Scripture that are interpretively challenging, and a lot of people debate about them. So essentially what they're doing is they're having the rabbis write about these things, essentially comment on these things, and their commentaries and the rules and the walls that they put around these teachings ultimately become the authority. Very, very dangerous. In other words, the authority is now not scripture, but people's interpretation of the scripture or their rules to protect people's observance of the scripture. They had a misplaced religious authority, and they had a deficient view of the righteousness of God versus the righteousness of man. They didn't understand the purpose of the law. And so that's the first group The second group we run into are the Sadducees. This is the Judaism of power. What I mean by that is these are people who dominated the priesthood and the temple. They rejected rabbinical ch traditions, which was in opposition to the Pharisees, and they held exclusively to the Torah as being the final authority. Now that concept is good. We want the scripture to be the final authority The problem is that many of their interpretations were reactionary against the Pharisees and were not necessarily looking exclusively at the Scriptures and letting them speak for themselves. One of the areas where this was very obvious would be in the issue of their view of the resurrection. And so this is a group that would have been politically aligned with Rome. They leveraged that relationship so that they could control the temple and the priesthood and not lose that power. They had an unbiblical view of life, death, and the resurrection. And this really comes to the forefront in this interaction that Christ has. The third group that we see are the Essenes. This is the Judaism of restraint. They rejected worldly society, often lived in wilderness communes, and they sought for a deeper spiritual life. By the way, the desire for a deep spiritual life is a good thing. The problem is they were not seeking it according to Scripture. And they developed a lot of strange ideas and ultimately were outside of the the the mainstream of thought and the di the debates that were going on between the Pharisees and the Sadducees. Then we have a fourth group. And these would have been more politically engaged rather than theologically engaged. Not to say that they weren't theologically engaged These were the zealots. This was the Judaism of resistance. They were against the Romans, and they were intensely nationalistic, and in pride they opposed the Roman rule and ultimately sought for the future kingdom of Israel, and they looked for the Messiah. Now all of these people had massive differences But you know what they all had in common? They had a common enemy, Christ. They fought against him. In their systems, they did not need Christ as he was coming to redeem man from sin. They were looking for someone who was far different. They didn't need him because of their systems. And so this question that we see in this text highlights the great contention with Christ. In this particular situation, the contention is over the belief in the resurrection. And so in verse 27 it says, Then came the Sadducees, which deny that there is resurrection. I want to remind you that what they believed was not just biblically wrong, it was also tragically misguided. And I think about what Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 15. He says, if In this life only we have hope in Christ. We are of all men most miserable. I am thankful that in fact there is a resurrection. And we're going to see by the way that Christ answers their question, that in fact he affirms the resurrection, he corrects their uh their unbelief in the scriptures. And we can drive home, uh we can we can drive to the end of this week with great confidence, in fact, of our hope of eternal glory. And so I hope that you'll join us this week as we continue working our way through this passage. We're going to learn insight about how Christ dealt with skeptics, how we went to the scriptures, and ultimately affirmed the truth. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.