Good morning. Welcome back to our fourth, our Thursday, anchored in the word morning reflection. Today is where we're going to spend the heart of our discussion for the entire week. And that is on the concept of hope. God's redemption is a glorious redemption. It is all of his grace. And in fact, this is the only true hope in a fallen world. And so as we look at Psalm 49, we've we've seen the need for wisdom. We've seen the folly of rejecting that wisdom. and the emptiness of rejecting that wisdom. Now we're going to look at the positive. What do we have if in fact we embrace God's wisdom and we reject the wisdom? of this world. Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to Psalm 49. And as we do, we're going to read through the text and then focus in on that statement, but God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave. Here's what it says. Hear this all ye all ye people, give ear all ye inhabitants of the world, both low and high, rich and poor, together. My mouth shall speak of wisdom, and the meditation of my heart shall be of understanding I will incline my ear to a parable, I will open my dark sayings upon the harp. Wherefore should I fear in the day of evil, when the iniquity of my heels shall compass me about? They that trusts in their wealth and boasts themselves in the multitude of the rich as none of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him. For the redemption of their soul is precious, and it ceaseth forever, that he should still live forever and not see corruption. But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave. For he shall receive me. The word that I want us to remember is the word hope, God's gracious redemption. is our one and only hope. This is the place that is a rejection of the folly of this world and the emptiness of this world and materialism as our one and only hope. And this is depending on Christ alone. Verses 13 to 15 has the following statement. But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave. He shall receive me. Death without God is unspeakably tragic. In fact, when we think of it this way, we could say that it is a life of complete emptiness. This, their way, is their folly. That's what the text says. Or their posterity approved their saying. The idea is as these people are dying. The things that they were trusting in that cannot save them, their children and their grandchildren and those that are around them and still alive, they're just waiting for them. to die so they can take all their stuff. And then the cycle repeats itself. What an absolutely tragic way for people to live. Like sheep, they are laid in the grave, death will feed on them, their beauty shall consume them in the grave. Their bodies will rot like an animal's body will rot. What a dark thing to consider But that's not the end of the story. That's not where the psalm ends. In fact, the psalm points us to an alternative, and that is the gospel. And so I want us to think about this in verse 15. But God will redeem my soul. The word grace is the first word that comes to mind. But God. God interrupts the story and he does for us something we can't do for ourselves. Redemption. He will redeem our souls Now from the standpoint of the psalmist, this is something that was coming in the future. From our vantage point, we look back at what the psalmist predicted. and was looking toward and what has actually happened. The word resurrection. He's going to redeem us from the power of the grave. Think about 1 Corinthians 15. Oh death, where is your sting? And grave where is your victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God who giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. And we have the word reconciliation. He shall receive me. And so we see these words, grace and redemption, resurrection, reconciliation. What does all this point us to? It points us to the fact that God has given us, in his grace, undeserved kindness. And this isn't something that's just talked about in Psalm 49 It's talked about all over the Bible, especially verses like this from Romans 5, 6. When we were without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. God commended his love toward us while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. Being now justified by his blood, we shall be safe from wrath through him. The alternative is that God has worked on our behalf. Ephesians 2 But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love for with he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace you are saved That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ. Not only do we think of the word grace, but we think of the word redemption. This is something that comes through the payment of a price Our salvation wasn't free. It was paid for in full by the Lord Jesus Christ. 1 Peter 1. 18 You were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver and gold, from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. And so what do we see here? We see exactly what Psalm 49 is saying. Your redemption did not come through money or tradition, but rather through the death and the blood shed of the Lord Jesus Christ on your behalf. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. He hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin. that we might be made the righteousness of God in Him. He took our place. He redeemed us to the Father. Third work that we see. I guess I'll add this passage as well, because it's important. 1 Peter 3. 18. Christ has suffered for us, for our sins, the just for the unjust. that he might bring us to God. We have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our sins. By his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. All of these verses focus in on redemption, the payment of a price to give us salvation. Third word that we see is the word resurrection. This is something that can never be taken away. Romans 88 or 32. He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall we not also, how shall he not also freely give us all things? Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather is risen again and is even at the right hand of God, who shall make intercession for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Nothing, nothing can separate us from the love of Christ in Christ Jesus our Lord. So we see that word grace, and we see the word redemption, and we see the word resurrection Ephesians 1 talks about this as well. We also see the word reconciliation. That is that he is bringing us into a right position before God when we were estranged and alienated. Ephesians 2. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were afar off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even the law, and the commandments contained in ordinances, that he might reconcile both unto God and one body by the cross. having slain the enmity thereby, through him we have access by one spirit unto the Father. Now therefore you are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints, and of the household of God. Another passage, Romans 5. 10. When we were the enemies of God, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. 2 Corinthians 5, all things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. In Colossians 1, having made peace through the blood of the cross. You that were sometimes alienated and enemies are now reconciled in the body of his flesh through death, to present you holy and unblameable and unreprovable in his sight Why do I show you all these verses? Because this is the heart of what gives a person real hope. It is God's Purchase possession. We are his through redemption, by grace, through we are reconciled to God because of what he has done for us. That's the gospel. So let's make sure that we glory in the right place. We glory in the finished work of Christ alone. His death, his resurrection. His righteousness, it is all by grace alone, through faith alone, and in Christ alone. If you're listening to these lessons and you came to this one, you don't know for certain that when you were to die you'd go to heaven. I hope that you'll reach out. I'd love to take a Bible, explain to you how you can know for certain that you're saved. Don't Ignore these videos. God can use them to draw you to Himself. Have a blessed rest of your day, Lord willing. We'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.