Good morning. Welcome back to our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a great Thursday morning or afternoon, evening, whenever you're watching this video. And we've been looking at a very important topic from Luke chapter 13. We've been looking at how God takes tragedy and how it should cause us to see him. And so this morning what we're going to do is we're going to take what we talked about yesterday. And that was this concept of the balance of God's perfections, as was being illustrated in this parable of the fig tree. And we're going to develop it a little bit further as we're going to look at some other passages of scripture and uh just kind of dig into this a little bit. little bit more today and I really hope to reflect on this concept and to see how it applies to us on a daily basis and how this should shape every aspect of how we think about God. and who he is and how he works in the world. So the passage in front of us is Luke chapter 13. We're looking at verses 1 to 9. Please take your Bibles and let's all look at it together. Here's what the text says There were present at that season some that told him of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galileans were sinners above all the Galileans because they suffered such things? I tell you, nay, but except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Or those eighteen upon whom the Tower of Saloon fell and slew them, think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem? I tell you, nay, but except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. He speak also this parable. A certain man had a fig tree, and planted it in his vineyard, and came and sought fruit thereupon, and found none. Then he said unto the dresser of the vineyard, Behold, these three years I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree tree, and I find none. Cut it down. Why cumbers it in the ground? He answering said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it and dung it, and if it bear fruit well, and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down. Now, we want to take the concept we talked about yesterday, the balance of God's perfections, and I want us to look at other scriptures that present the same thing. And I want you to see it because this is such a rich and important concept for us to consider. So the first passage we're going to look at is Exodus chapter 34, Old Testament text. We're going to look at verses 6 and 7. Here's what it says He is the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long -suffering and abundant in goodness and truth keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquities and transgression and sin. Now, when we think about God's character, what we should think about is his mercy, the fact that he looks on us. in our moments of frailty and weakness and he has compassion on us. He extends kindness to us that we are so undeserving. He puts up with so much grief. he sees the way that we live. He is good and he keeps mercy to thousands. But don't miss the last statement. And he will by no means clear the guilty. What's the point Yes, he's a merciful God, and yes, he's a gracious God, and yes, he's a long-suffering God, and yes, he abounds in mercy and forgives iniquity and transgression and sin. But realize he does it only when people respond to him in repentance and faith. He will also judge the guilty. You see the balance. His holiness. and his mercy. We see the same thing in Romans chapter 11, verses 22 to 23. He says, behold therefore the goodness and the severity of mercy. God on those which fell severity, but towards thee goodness, if thou continue in this goodness, otherwise thou should be cut off They also, if they abide not still in unbelief, shall be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in. Now this is a s this is Paul talking about the Jews and the Gentiles and how that the Jewish people rejected the Messiah. And so God turned to the Gentiles, but he still loves the Jewish people. He still has a place for the Jewish people in his system. And the promises that he made to Abraham and to Isaac and Jacob, they're still valid, they're still going to take place. And so he emphasizes the fact that God is severe in his wrath. But he's also kind and he's merciful and he can grasp these Jewish people back in, and one day he will. One day the Jewish people will people will turn to. And that's the point of Romans chapter 11. This passage really, really grabs, and that is Psalm 145. Listen to what it says. Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised. His greatness is unsearchable. I will speak of the glorious honor and thy majesty and thy wondrous works. The Lord is gracious and full of compassion, slow to anger of great mercy. The Lord is good to all, His tender mercies are over all his works. Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. Thy dominion endureth throughout all generations The Lord upholdeth all that fall down, He raiseth up those who are bowed down. The eyes of the Lord wait upon thee, and thou givest of them their meat in due season. Thou openest thine hand and satisfieth the desire of every living thing. The Lord is righteous in all his ways, holy in all his works. He is nigh to them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth. And notice some of the statements that are highlighted here. His greatness is unsearchable. He is glorious in honor and majesty. and in wondrous works. He is gracious and full of compassion, slow to anger and of great mercy. His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion endures throughout all generations. He upholds those who fall and raises up those who are bowed down. The eyes of all wait upon him. And he gives them their meat in due season. He opens his hand, he satisfies the desire of every living thing He is righteous in all his ways. He is holy in all his works. And the question that we should ask is, is God holy and righteous? Or does he uphold those who fall down? And does he open his hand and satisfy the desires of everything? Is he nigh to those who call upon him? Or is he a holy and righteous God who judges the wicked? Well, the answer is that he is both. And those aspects of who he is are demonstrated in perfect balance. And so the question we should ask is, well, if this is how God is, then how are we to respond to him in such a way? And the answer is we need to see this balance of his perfections, this balance of his nature. He is holy and he is righteous. He is angry against sin. He is transcendent He is sovereign. We talk about these aspects of God's character. We think about a God who is distant, a God who's in control, a God who cannot be approached. a God who judges righteously, a God who is angry against sin. All of those things are true. But that is not only who God is. He's also gracious and merciful. You see the balance of his holiness and his righteousness, yet his grace and his mercy. We see that he's angry against sin, yet he's slow to anger and slow to wrath, and he's reluctant to pour out his judgment on people. We see that he's transcendent, but he also comes and he satisfies the needs of people. He opens his hands to them He is a high and lofty God, yet he is personally involved in our lives and he cares for us. He is sovereign and he rules in triumph, yet he is restrained. And he works with people through the details of life. This is the God that we serve. How do we respond? Know him as he is And let this knowledge of him shape every aspect of your life. If you understand how God is, it will cause you to love him. and to long to serve him with a fervency. It will cause you to desire to rest in him and be willing to rest in him and long to be in his presence. I think about David's words He says, Oh how love I thy law. It is my meditation all the day long. Or in another psalm, he talks about how as the heart, as the deer, pants for the water brooks, so his soul pants. for the Lord. Or how in Psalm 84 it says, I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. How I long to be in the courts of the Lord. What's the point You want to be with God. You want to serve him. You want to honor him. You want to know him. You love him. And so this is how we should respond. on. I hope that you'll join us tomorrow for the last, the summation, the final thoughts of all these things, as we take what we've seen, what we've studied, what we've contemplated, and we try to put it together in some very practical closing. thoughts. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow. By now