Morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. We're on the other side of Wednesday and moving into the weekend. And so hope that the uh challenges that we have found from God's Word here in Luke chapter twelve, the encouragements. that all of them have been used of the Lord to be a help to you this week as you think about him and as you think about the need to be ready to meet the Lord. I'd like us to read that text again together, Luke chapter 12, verses 35 through 48, and then once we've read it, uh we will dig into the next section of what we're looking for. looking at. So the text in front of us says the following Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning, and ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their Lord when he will return from the wedding. That when he cometh and knocketh, they may open unto him immediately. Blessed are those servants whom the Lord when he cometh shall find watching Verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself and make them to sit down to meet, and will come forth and serve them. Now, this passage of Scripture has consistently called us to be ready for the return of Christ. And the talk about the kingdom has called us to be ready for the return of Christ. Yesterday we talked about the blessing of Christ serving us. his kingdom and us communing with him and the emphasis on uh being ready because of the blessing side. Well now what we're going to do is look at the negative side, the warning to be sobered. by the need to be ready for his return. And so we see the the structure again the way that it's laid out. In verse 41 Peter asked the question, Lord, who are you telling this parable to? He says, Lord, speakest thou this parable unto us or unto all? Great question. Peter's saying, is this for the believer? Is this for the disciple? Or is this kind of a universal statement for everybody? Well, Jesus doesn't really answer his question This is what he says. He says, well, there's two kinds of people. There are those who are wise. Verses 42 to 44. Notice how he puts it. Who then is that faithful and wise steward? Blessed is that servant whom his Lord when he cometh shall find so doing. Of a truth I say unto you, he will make him ruler over all that he hath And then there's a second option, the foolish, verses 45 and 46. He says, but, and if that servant say in his heart, My Lord delayeth his coming, and shall begin to beat the men servants and maidens, and to eat and to drink, and to be drunken. The Lord of that servant will come in a day when he looketh for him, and at an hour when he is not aware, and will cut him in sunder, and will appoint him his portion. with the unbelievers. So you can see that Jesus is very black and white on this issue. There are those who are wise, those who are foolish, those who are ready, those who are not ready. And there are certain end results that are the results to those who are ready and those who are not ready. And so he emphasizes this in the closing of the section, verse 5. 47 and 48. The justice of God will be more severe towards those who had greater levels of access to truth. Notice how he puts it. The servant which knew his Lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. And whosoever much is given shall much be required, and to whom men have committed much, of him shall they ask the more. So the question is, is he writing this to warn unbelievers or to encourage believers? And the answer is that's not really his point. His point is to establish a principle. Principle one, you need to be ready. Principle two, those who have access to a lot are held responsible for a lot. That would be true for the unbeliever. He's going to face a greater level of judgment because he's rejected a greater access And that would also be true for the believer who is going to be held more uh more liable, you could say, on that day. We when James talks about the need to not multiply teachers, he says That we need to be cautious that we don't rush people to become teachers because he says we know that we will receive a greater condemnation In other words, you know more, so you will be held accountable for more. That's the point. That's the warning. That's the emphasis on being ready But the question is, where do we fall into this? Well, every person falls into one of those two categories. Every person has access to God's self-revelation on at least three levels. They are first of all existence. If you're existing, then you have a reminder that you have a creator. We didn't create ourselves. We didn't come from nothing. Somebody, something. made us. So our existence reminds us we have a creator. And what does that do? Well it tells us that we have a responsibility to this creator. Number two, we have our conscience. Reminds us that we have a moral obligation to him If somebody lies to me and that bothers me, well my conscience is telling me that I understand that lying is wrong. And so when I choose to be be a little bit fudging on the truth myself and I say something that isn't true, whether I have intent or not. The fact is that what I'm doing is I am demonstrating that I am a person with moral awareness. I am an image bearer. I have a conscience. And the third thing is our environment. And what I mean by environment, I mean this world that we live in. The heavens declare the glory of God. And it says there is no speech and there is no language where their voice, the voice of Christ, is not heard. But these people had an even greater level of access because they had the scriptures and because of the Lord Jesus. Those who have access to Scripture, they have the law of God to awaken their conscience. That's a greater level of responsibility. The word proclaims the Son and commands us to repent and believe, trust in Christ. And so we have a greater level of culpability. And these people not only had the scriptures. But they had Jesus himself. They had the firsthand account access opportunity. They literally sat at his feet, they witnessed his ministry with their own eyes. They ate meals with him, with Jesus. they had access in a very, very significant way. And so Jesus is especially warning that generation who had so much access. to not just the fact that, oh, I exist, so I have a creator, and I know things that there's right and wrong, so I know that I'm answerable to him because of my conscience. And The heavens declare the glory of God, and I have the scriptures, but these people saw Jesus firsthand. And so we see the simple contrast in the text. The wise, the foolish. The wise is a person who the Bible says is a faithful and a wise steward. When Christ returns, he will find him so doing. And when he comes, Christ will make that person the ruler over all that he has. On the other side, we see the fool. He says in his heart, My Lord, delay this coming. He beats the men's servants and the maidens and is drunken. He comes, and when Christ comes, he will appoint him his apportion with the unbelievers. What is Jesus ultimately saying here? Well, he's saying the wise take seriously three things. Number one, they take seriously the person of Christ and his right to command their service. Secondly, they take seriously the imminence of Christ's return. He can come at any moment, and they want to be ready. And number three, they are sure that when he comes, he's going to judge the world. And he's going to reward his children. And so the wise take the word of God and they respond to it with wisdom. They believe that he is who he says that he is. They are ready for his return. They are ready for his judgment and reward. But on the other side, the foolish ignore Christ on at least three levels. They scoff at his person and his right to command their service. They scoff at the immincy of his return, and they scoff at the surety of his judgment and future reward. And so that leads me to some application. First, which of these two options best describes the way that you relate to this topic? Either you are wise, Or you are foolish in the way that you respond to this teaching about Christ and the eminency of his return. Number two, I ask this question: how do you view him, the person, Jesus? Do you take seriously the immincy of his return? Are you sobered by his judgment and encouraged by the promise of his future reward? How you answer these questions? determines which of those two categories you find yourself in. And so I want to challenge you this morning. Let's think about where we stand and if we need to repent and believe. Or if we need to humble ourselves, or if we need to live in the light of what we say we believe to be true, then let's do it while there's time. I hope that tomorrow you'll join us as we share a couple more thoughts to close out this week as we think about the immincy of Christ's return. and our need to be ready for him on that day. Have a blessed morning. If this has encouraged you, I hope that you'll share that. If you think it'll be a help to somebody else, share that with them as well. And Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again. Bye now.