Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And as we do on Fridays, we look at application. I'd like to take everything we've talked about this week and hopefully put it Just give you some really simple practical thoughts that will help you this morning and throughout the weekend and going into next week. And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles one more time and look at Ephesians chapter 3. We're reading verses 14 through 21, and we're going to focus on application this morning. Here's the text says. Ephesians chapter 3, verse 14. For this cause, I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named. that he would grant unto you according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by the Spirit in the inner man, that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith. that ye being rooted and grounded in love may be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height and to know the love of Christ which passeth knowledge that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. Now as we think about this passage, all the things we've talked about, we think about the fact that we've prayed to the Father. We have confidence that the Spirit will work. We desire to be shaped into the image of Christ. And ultimately God gets the glory. What do we take away from this practically? Well, first thing we're going to see is this. We desperately need to long for spiritual maturity. Obviously these verses are prioritizing the need for Christians to grow and mature and to be shaped. We should want that. We should want that in our own life. We should want that in our spouse. We should want this in our children. We should want this in our our parents. We should want this and other people that we go to church with, the people that don't yet know the Lord, but we want them to know the Lord and get saved and then live for Him. We should long for this. And so let's ask God to give us a deeper hunger to know him and to grow in him, to grow in that knowledge of him, to grow in that sense of the love that he has for us. us, to have our lives shaped in the image of Christ. Let's get back to the basics that God uses to shape us in such a way. Let's take time to reflect on what Christ has done for us. Preach the gospel to yourself every single day. We need to long for this. Prioritize what he uses, his word. Second application. We need to understand what he's doing. That's an important thing. We need to think about the basics and say, well, what is God actually trying to accomplish in my life? Well, what he's trying to do, the foremost goal of the Christian life, the will of God for every Christian, is that our lives will practically be shaped in the image of Christ, that we will look like the people that we are. The way we think, the way we communicate, the way we respond in circumstances, all of this is supposed to be a reflection of who we are in Christ. Secondly, in that process, we want God to reveal Himself, and we want Him to do it in us and through us in a very practical way. So God is going to shape us and we need to be understanding of how he goes about to do it. As we grow, he's going to work through us for his glory, and we should long for that. We should desire that. Third application, we need to understand the manner in which he does it. How does he accomplish this? How does he work through this? What are the tools that he uses? And that's an important thing for us to reflect on in application. The Father uses everything, all circumstances, good circumstances, challenging circumstances, sweet circumstances, harsh circumstances. He uses all things to shape us into the image of Christ. The Holy Spirit who indwells us, he takes the word of God and he strengthens us from within to shape us into the image of Christ. And he does that as we go through these circumstances. As we think about this issue, we need to recognize he uses the word and he uses circumstances. Fourth. We need to embrace what he's doing. Maybe another word to use is submit to his ways. Bend our wills in submission to him. So as growth is taking place, we've got to make sure that we respond properly to God in all these circumstances. If we want to grow deeper and more mature, then we're going to have to submit to what God's doing in our lives. We need to recognize that the pain that we encounter can do one of two things. It can make us very bitter and disillusioned, or strong and compassionate. You say, what's the difference? Well, the difference is how you respond to God in those circumstances. So may God help us to not be that bitter and disillusioned person, but that person who's strengthened and compassionate and reflects the image of Christ more and more each day So don't accept this attitude that you're a victim. And maybe you've been wrong. I'm not trying to diminish that. But the question is, are you going to let that define you? Or are you going to rise above it? Are you going to grow through it? Are you going to learn from it? Are you going to allow God to strengthen and build you? I hope the answer is yes. One passage that I want to leave you with this morning that I think really encapsulates everything we've talked about is Romans chapter 8, verses 28 and 29. And by the way, there's a lot of parallel between Romans 8 and Ephesians 1 to 3. It says, we know that all things work together for good to them that love God. To them who are the called according to his purpose, whom he foreknew he did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. And so what's the point? God takes all the different things that we encounter in life. He weaves them together to create something that is beautiful for his glory and our good. May God help us to carry that perspective into the weekend. Hope you have a great weekend. If you need anything, please don't hesitate to reach out. I want to be an encouragement any way possible. Have a blessed day, and Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday or this next Monday as we dig into the anchored in the word studies again. Have a blessed day. By now