Good morning and welcome to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And if you have been joining us this week for Vacation Bible School, hope that it's been a great blessing to you. I'm thankful that we're getting to work with a lot of young people this week and for how God is working in their hearts. And those who are uh keeping us in prayer, thank you for doing that and please continue to do that. It's Wednesday. We're at the midpoint of the week and uh looking forward to what God will do the last uh three nights tonight and then Thursday and Friday night. So keep us in prayer. The text in front of us is Luke chapter 14, verse Verses 1 through 6, and we are talking about how God, who is good, confronts religious pride. And this text is important. We're looking at Christ's concern and So let's turn there together at the and look at the text. Here's what it says. It says, It came to pass as he went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees to eat bread on the Sabbath day, that they watched him. him. And behold there was a certain man before him, which had the dropsy. And Jesus answering spake unto the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath day? And they held their Peace. And he took him and healed him and let him go. And answering said to them, Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fall into a pit, and will not straightway pull him out on the Sabbath day? And they could not answer him again of these things. Now, the question that I asked yesterday in our closing was why was Jesus so concerned to confront truth. What was the big deal? I mean not every single issue rises to a level where you need to be confrontational about it and really drives the point home. Well, this issue was because eternity is in the balances when we're talking about the gospel. And so the reason that Jesus was so passionate about this issue And the reason that he he steps into this situation and addresses the issue so forcefully and so publicly is because he came to save sinners. And these people were presented Printing a message that was contrary to the gospel which saves sinners. And so when we think about this issue, we should think about a verse like Matthew 18 where it says that the The Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which is lost. It is not the will of your Father, which is in heaven, that even one of these little ones should If this was the passion of Christ, shouldn't it be ours? Shouldn't it be our great desire to see souls saved? And shouldn't we have this great desire To address issues that are related to the gospel and the period of the gospel? The answer is yes. Well, in order for us to appreciate this, I think it's it's helpful for us to step back And ask the question, what has to take place in order for a person to actually get saved? In order for them to become a believer? Well there are at least three basic realities that are absolutely essential part of someone becoming a Christian. Nobody gets saved without these three basic And this is one of the driving forces as to why we have a Cassian Bible school. This is why uh our church believes in missions. This is why Why we believe in giving the gospel to people, why the gospelists preach so regularly in our pulpits. Well, first is this. has to be a basis for which a person can have salvation granted to them. What I mean by that is that God doesn't just save people because He's nice, because Because he wants to save them, because he's compassionate. God would compromise his holiness and his justice and his righteousness if there was not a just Genuine, legitimate basis for him to offer salvation. And so we see that in Second Corinthians chapter 5, verse 21. It says that he made him to become sin for us who knew no sin so that we might be made the righteousness of God in him What these verses tell you is that if God is going to make us righteousness of God in him, there has to be a basis by which he does that. And the basis is that Christ became sin for us. He took on sin. Literally, the sins of the world were placed onto Christ's shoulder. And we see this even I In Isaiah 53, it says that the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all, and he became an offering for sin. And when he saw the travail of his soul, He was satisfied. And so God does not save people without there being a basis for that salvation. The second thing I want to mention. Is that no one gets saved without there being a confrontation that calls people to repent and believe. Now, that word repentance is an important word for us to understand. In the Bible. The word repent has the idea of a change of mind. Now, the reason this word is coupled with faith is because no one believes in the gospel. Without their worldview being confronted by truth. A person who is a sinner and believes their sin is okay and believes that their righteousness is accepted. And believes that Jesus is someone other than God in flesh who died for sins and rose from the dead, has to have their thinking radically changed. In order for them to actually believe in the gospel. And so in 2 Corinthians 4, it says, If our gospel be hid, it is hid to them who are lost, in whom the God of this world hath blind The minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ should shine unto them. We preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord. And ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake. For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ. So, what this passage is telling us is not just that there has to be a basis for someone to be saved, but also there has to be a confrontation whereby People's worldview is confronted with truth. And the lies that they're building their lives on have to be met with truth, and they have to have Have a radical thinking change about those issues in order to be able to believe in the gospel. And so these two pieces are important. But then there's a third reality. No one gets saved. There is no repentance and no faith without someone being willing to proclaim the gospel to that person. And so in Romans chapter Chapter ten , verse fourteen it says, How can they call on him whom they've not believed? And how shall they believe in him whom they've not heard? And how shall they hear with out a preacher. That word preacher is not saying like a pastor, but someone whoungalinsumai, they're preaching the gospel. Preaching of the good news. They are proclaiming what Jesus has done for them. It is an evangelistic appeal. And so he says, faith comes by. Hearing and hearing by the word of God. Have they not all heard? Yes. Their sound went into all the earth, and their words unto the ends of the world. So the point is that there has to be a basis for God to grant salvation, there has to be a confrontation in order for people to repent and believe, and there has to be someone who actually brings the gospel in that confrontation. You know what that means? That means that Jesus has to do what he did. This is why Jesus was so persistent and so confrontational to what the religious leaders were doing He was stepping into that role of calling people to see their false thoughts about these issues, how their worldview was shaped by lies, not truth. To call them to repent and believe. So, what do we take away from this passage of scripture this morning? Well, what we take away from it is that we we are going to be called at times to do this. God commands us to be ready always to give an answer. of the hope that lies within us. And so this week as we strive to do that through running vacation Bible school, having a teen rally, as we do those things, pray that we will do it well. That God would open a door of utterance for us, that we would minister the word freely, powerfully, that the Spirit of God would work in hearts. That's my encouragement to you this morning. Well I hope that you'll join us again tomorrow as we're coming to the second half of the week. And as we continue to dig into this passage of scripture, please continue to keep us in prayer as we run Vacation Bible School and our teen rally. Have a blessed rest of your day. Talk to y'all later, Lord willing. Bye now.