Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Angered in the Word Morning Reflection for the week. I hope that we as we've been working through these studies this week, you have been challenged and encouraged by them. We've talked about God's presence and our troubles. We've also talked about God's purposes and how he accomplishes his purposes. This morning we want to focus in on the fact that though God does not delight in seeing us suffer and go through heartache, He uses trouble to reveal his goodness. And I want us to see that this morning. So let's read the text again at Psalm 46, and then we'll dig into this topic. It says, God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore will not we fear though the earth be removed and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea Though the waters thereof roar and are troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof Selah. There is a river, the streams thereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the most high. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God shall help her in that right early. The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved. He uttered his voice, the earth melted. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge, Selah. Come, behold the work of the Lord, what desolations he has made in the earth. He maketh wars to cease into the ends of the earth. He breaketh the bow and cutteth the spear in sunder. He burneth the chariots with fire. Be still, know that I am God. I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah. Now, as I mentioned earlier, our focus this morning will be on how God uses trouble to provide a platform for us to see his work firsthand. to see his goodness, to see his faithfulness, to see his strength, to see his defense. We can know about God, but we do not know him personally unless He demonstrates his nature in very practical ways. And so we see the statement in verses 8 through 11. He says, be still and know, I am God. I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth. God wants our faith and our knowledge to be practical. Or sometimes you'll hear the word experiential. He doesn't want us to just be theoretical theologians. He doesn't want us to just be academic theologians. He wants us to be practical, worshiping theologians. And so as we think about this, we see it stated this way. In verse 8, come, behold the work of the Lord. Take a look at what God does and is doing. Verse 10, be still. Know that I'm God. Take a break from what you're doing. Quit trying to work it out on your own strength. Quit obsessing over what you can't control. Let God demonstrate that He's God and He's good. And he is faithful. Let him do it. Thirdly, verse 10. I will be exalted. Walk by faith. He's going to do it. Let him do it Verse 11: The Lord of hosts is with us, the God of Jacob is our refuge. Rejoice in his triumph. So we see this is very practical. Look at what he's doing. Take a break from your labors, walk by faith. rejoice when he demonstrates his faithfulness. But I want to give you a real-life practical example from the history of Israel that I think lays this out so very well. And it is very possible, we don't know this for certain It 's very possible that the person who God used to compile this was Hezekiah himself. And this would be a story from his reign. And so in chapter 18 of 2 Kings, we see the story of the Assyrians coming in and basically taking over Samaria. So it came to pass in the fourth year of King Hezekiah that Shamanazar, king of Assyria, came up against Samaria and besieged it. Now, Hezekiah is in Judah. Samaria is the northern kingdom. And we know that in 722, the northern kingdom uh experienced a captivity and destruction by the hand of the Assyrians. And so during that time The Assyrians took over Samaria. And so you can assume that Judah believes that they're next. In fact, the Assyrians have taken over the whole known world at that time, all of the regions all around Israel. were controlled by the Assyrians, all the way down into Egypt, all the way west into into what is today modern Turkey, all the way east into what is modern day Persia, and all the way north to the borders of what is modern day Russia. The Assyrians control that entire region, except for one little speck, and that is in Judah and Jerusalem. And so they know Jerusalem is next. Chapter 18, verse 19, it says, Thus saith the great king, the king of Assyria. What confidence? Is this wherein thou trustest? Or whom dost thou trust that thou rebellest against me? Basically, the king of Assyria says, Jerusalem, you're next, and you're not going to be able to stop me. He goes on and it says this in verse 33, this is the challenge. Have any of the gods of the nations delivered at all the land out of the hand of the Assyrians? The answer is of course not And so how does Hezekiah respond to this? Does he obsess over it? Does he wring his hands as he go into alliance with another nation? The answer is no. He lays the letter before God in the temple, and he says, God have mercy on us and deliver us. Here's what it says. Hezekiah received the letter at the hand of the messengers and read it. And Azagai went up into the house of the Lord and spread it before the Lord, and he prayed before the Lord and said, O Lord God of Israel, which dwelleth between the cherubim, thou art the God, even thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth Thou hast made the heavens and the earth, Lord, bow down thine ear and hear. Open, Lord, thine eyes and see, and hear the words of Sennacherib which he hath sent. to reproach the living God. Of a truth, the king of Assyria hath destroyed the nations of their lands, and hath cast down their gods into the fire. For they are no gods but the work of men's hands, wood and stone thereof, therefore they've destroyed them. Now, therefore, our Lord, our God, I beseech thee, save thou us out of his hand That all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art the God, even thou alone What does he do? He goes to God and he says, save us. And then we see the response that God gives In verse 20 of chapter 19, it says, Isaiah the son of Amos sent to Hezekiah saying, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, that which thou hast prayed Against Sennacherib, king of Assyria, I have heard. He says, Thus saith the Lord concerning the king of Assyria. He shall come into the city, or he shall not come into this city, he shall not shoot an arrow there, nor come before with shield, nor cast The bank against it. By the way that he came, the same way he will return, and shall not come into the city. For I I emphasize this, I will defend this city, and I will save it for my own sake and for my servant David's sake. God says, I will do it. Then what do we see? He follows through. It came to pass that night that the angel of the Lord, this is often a reference to Christ, God incarnate, before uh the incarnation, what we call the pre-incarnate Christ. The angel of the Lord went out and smote the camp of the Assyrians, a hundred fourscore and nine thousand. And when they arose early in the morning, behold, they were all dead corpses. So Senagrib, king of Assyria, departed and went and returned and dwelt in Nineveh, and it came to pass as he worshipped in the house of Nishrath his God that his sons killed him. Now what's the point? God defended his people. We can trust him because his purposes are stable and sure. And God is able to do what we would never ever imagine that He would do. He is faithful to His word. What are the two takeaways? The first is this: God preserves his people no matter what goes on around them. Number two, the believer's future hope is unshakably sure. This passage of Scripture reminds us that this is our God. We can trust him. We must trust him. And he allows difficulty and hardship because that is a platform through which he will demonstrate his power, his love, his goodness, his faithfulness. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow by now.