Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our fourth anchored in the word, more reflection. And uh this week's going to be slightly different. Uh we're actually just going to do four episodes on Luke 16, and then Lord willing. tomorrow we will have um a fifth anchored in the word for the week, but it'll be a bonus episode. We're actually going to look at the passage that we dealt with on the Sunday night that I preached a couple weeks ago. weeks ago. And um that passage is really practical. And so I hope to uh just share with you some thoughts on David's interaction with Abigail and Nabal. So um just so you know this is going to be the last last episode for Luke 16, but we will have, Lord willing, a bonus episode tomorrow. So let's turn in our text one more time to Luke chapter 16. We're looking at verses one through through 13. And we're looking at the application side of a biblical view of stewardship. So let's read the text one more time. Here's what it says. And he said also unto his disciples. disciples. There was a certain rich man, which had a steward, and the same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods. And he called him and said unto him, How is it that I hear this Of thee, give an account of thy stewardship, for thou mayest be no more steward. And the steward said within himself, What shall I do? For my Lord takes Taketh away from me the stewardship. I cannot dig, to beg I'm ashamed, I'm resolved what to do, that when I'm put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses. Now, as we look at this passage of Scripture and we think about not just the parable, but the explanation of the parable, Christ's expansion of that explanation of the parable, what we walk away with is A very simple principle. God wants us to be practical in how we view this material world. He wants us to be good and faithful stewards. And one of the passages in The New Testament that really comes to mind that is a direct application of what Christ is teaching in this passage is in 1 Timothy chapter 6. This is what Paul says in verse 17. He says, charge them that are rich in the world, that they be not high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God who giveth us richly all things to enjoy That they do good, that they may be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to Now there are several pieces of Paul's instruction to Timothy. That comes directly out of what Christ is teaching here in Luke chapter 16. For instance, we see don't be proud. We also see do not put Your trust in uncertain riches. We see, enjoy the good things that God has given you as a gift. We see that the good things He has given are to be used in eternal pursuits And really out of all of the pieces of Paul's application, that one right there, the fourth one, is the one that is most directly connected or flows out of what Jesus is teaching here. Be a faithful Faithful and a wise manager. And so this is what God wants us to do. He wants us to be faithful managers. And so taking ourselves back to Luke chapter 16, we see that If people who have poor character and a short-sighted perspective can shrewdly can be shrewd with what they are given, well, how much more should we act wisely with what we're given? That's what Jesus is saying. He's saying, wake up. Don't waste the time that you're given. Don't waste the money that you're given. Don't waste the opportunities that you're given. Don Waste the gifts that you're given Don't waste your stewardship. And once you have wasted a season of life or once you have wasted opportunity, you can't go back and and and redo it. period of your life is gone. Those resources that you were given, they're gone. And you can't go and make it back up. So we need to think practically about This particular issue. We know that this temporal world is not going to last forever. We have a limited amount of time on this earth. And we know that we're going to stand before the Lord one day We're going to give an accounting of our stewardship. We know this because the scripture promises it. And so we need to be prepared. We need to ask ourselves, why are we not more diligent about preparing for our our future. Now this is not set not talking about how we go to heaven or not. We we don't earn heaven. We don't earn our way into the kingdom of God. That's why this the teaching that's for the believer because that issue's already been settled. But there's a judgment seat of Christ that determines actual eternal reward or loss based on On how we have stewarded the resources we're given. And so this is what Jesus is driving at in this text. He's saying, have a healthy view of material possessions, the things of this world. Don't love them. Don't serve them as a slave. Use them for eternal pursuits. What you do with what you're given actually matters. Will not be given greater opportunities if we fail to be faithful with what we're given now. Though proper manage through proper management, we we can use temporal things to provide eternal blessings. And this is one of the things that's so fascinating about the material world that we live in. The material world is not necessarily good or bad. It's just material What we do with it is what makes it good or bad. It's the use of the technology, not the technology. It's the use of the money, not the money itself, that's what we have to keep in our minds. And so when we think about this, we should recognize that someone like our children is not given to us just to enjoy them, but to enjoy them and then to point them to God. It's to raise them up as a godly generation. I think of the book of Malachi where he says, why did why did he He make two one. It was to raise up a godly seed. Or I think about something like the opportunity of influence, shaping the next generation of church leaders. This is something that we desperately need to do as a pastor. I need to do a better job in preparing and equipping the next generation so that when we're gone, they're able to do what we're doing now. In fact, do it better, do it more effectively. Effectively, do it more faithfully. We should invest in the generation behind us. We think about our material resources, supporting eternally focused pursuits. When it comes to things like missions monthly it comes to things like being a faithful giver in our church. These are things that we need to actually think very carefully about. And when we think about our homes, I think a lot of us as Americans We love living independent. We like our personal space. And that's okay to some extent. But the Bible teaches us as believers where to be hospitable. We should open our homes. We should invite People in. We should spend time with them. We should invest our lives in them and allow them to invest their lives in us. And so when we think about the management of resources, our children our influence, our money, our homes. These are just some of the practical ways that we can use what we've been given and channel it into eternal protection. suits. May the Lord help us to wisely steward the resources he has entrusted to us. I hope that you have a great rest of your day and Lord willing tomorrow I hope you'll join us as we look one more time at uh at the word of god this week and we're going to look at a bonus episode dealing with the life of david have a blessed day lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow by now