Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word for 2024. And this will be our final Anchored in the Word for season three. And Lord willing, um I'll get to start this back up as we enter into the new year, but uh because of the Christmas season, the new year's season, we're gonna be traveling, getting together with family and friends. I'm not going to be doing any recording after today until we get into the new year. But I really enjoy doing these studies. I hope that they're an encouragement to you. Just give you some things to chew on throughout the day And also sometimes it expands a little bit or allows me to shed light a little bit further on some of the things that I get to present on a Sunday morning um when I preach through the text of scripture. And so I hope that you enjoy those things and that you will uh you will have benefited from them throughout the year. Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles one more time to Daniel chapter 9. And today we're going to look at what I think is a very appropriate way to end the season, and that is that the gospel calls us to repent. and to believe. And that's what the Christmas season is all about. It's about us knowing for certain that we are saved from our sins. that we have eternal life and that comes through faith alone in the finished work of Christ. So let's go ahead and read that passage one more time and we'll listen to a short video about this and then I'll give you some final thoughts. Here's what the Word of God says in Daniel chapter 9. Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city, to finish the transgression and to make an end of sins and to make reconciliation for iniquity. and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint the Most Holy. Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah, the Prince shall be seven weeks and three score and two weeks. The street shall be built again, the walls, even in trouble times. And after three score and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not for himself. Let's listen to that video. God doesn't just call us to listen to the gospel and say, that's really neat. What a great story. I just love the Christmas season. It makes me feel so warm and fuzzy. You know what the Christmas season does? It calls you to repent and believe Repent and believe. It's not about sentimentality, folks. It's about God making a way for you to be redeemed to Himself. We must turn to him. We must trust in what he has done for us alone. That's what the Christmas season does. It tells us to repent And believe in the gospel. What an appropriate way for us to end season three The purpose of the gospel was not just for us to talk about it, or for people to debate about its significance. The purpose of the gospel is for us to believe a message that comes from God about a person. The person is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is God in flesh. He took on flesh so that we could be redeemed to God. He came with the intent to go to the cross. and to die for our sins and to rise triumphant from the dead. It is through this person's death and resurrection and righteousness imputed to us that we can stand righteous before God. And so when we think about the Christmas season, the Christmas season reminds us of the gospel, because at the heart of the incarnation is the purpose for which Christ came. to die so we can be redeemed. But God doesn't save us simply because we're aware of these facts. He doesn't save us because we think that they're interesting facts, because we're entertained by them or because Our hearts get worm fuz gets worm fuzzy feelings about God when we think about what He's done for us. It's not because we are able to debate people into saying, okay, fine, I think it could be true. The reason that the gospel comes to us is so that we will embrace the gospel as our one and only hope of salvation. God commandeth all men everywhere to repent. That's what the Bible says. When Paul was preaching and he talks to the Ephesian elders, he says that he preached repentance toward God. and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. As John the Baptist was preaching, he said, repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Jesus sent his disciples out preaching repentance for the kingdom of heaven. And you say, well, what does it mean to repent and believe? It means that whatever is keeping me from placing my faith in the finished work of Christ. It could be the fact that I'm very proud and very self-righteous. It could be the fact that I just reject the fact that Jesus even came and that he really exists and that there is such a thing as sin that I'm going to be judged for and that God really created the world. Repentance can can be addressing lots of different issues that are roadblocks to me placing my faith in the finished work of Christ. But when a person comes under the conviction of the Spirit of God and they become convinced that they are a sinner before a holy God, Now he alone can save them through what Jesus did for them on the cross, his death and resurrection. And they recognize it's not through works of righteousness that I've done, but it's only through his mercy that he saves us. When they come to that firm conviction, they turn from whatever it is they are placing their faith in, and they place their faith in the finished work of Christ. They trust in his death. They trust in his righteousness. They trust in his sacrifice, in his resurrection from the dead, his triumph, his work, not their work. Repentance and faith is coming to terms with the reality of gospel, saying, this is true, I believe it in my heart, and I'm trusting in this alone for salvation. And I want to appeal to anyone who comes and listens to this message today. Whether you're listening to it today on the day that I'm recording it, I'm putting it out. or you listen to this ten years from now because it's still on the internet, the same message and the same appeal applies to you today as it as it would have on the day that it was recorded. God in his love and in his mercy and in his grace calls us to repent and believe and he promises in his word that he is not willing that any should perish but that all should come to repentance And whoever comes to him, he will in no wise cast them out. He is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. There is no sin that is unforgivable save the sin of rejecting the gospel. And so I leave you with that as we head into the Christmas season. season and the new year. May God help us to understand the weight and the significance of the cross and the resurrection, and may we with a humble heart, with belief That this is true. Choose to depend alone on what Jesus Christ has done for you. If you have any questions about that, do not hesitate to reach out to me through Facebook. YouTube, through email. I would love to have a conversation with you and point you to what Christ has done for you. And if maybe through hearing this you've come to understand the gospel and place your faith in Christ, it would be a joy to hear that from you as you reach out to us. Have a blessed rest of your day, a blessed rest of your weekend, a blessed Christmas and New Year's Eve, New Year's season, and Lord willing we'll see many of you at our Christmas Eve service coming up. And we'll see many of you back when we get back into our Anchored in the Word morning reflections in season four, Lord willing, in January. Have a blessed day. Bye now.