Good morning, and I'd like to welcome you to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope that you had a great weekend, and I'm really looking forward to digging into this passage of scripture with you this week. When I preached on this text two weeks ago, this passage was a big help to a lot of people. I got a lot of feedback, and I think that this will be an encouraging week for many people. So the text that we're going to be dealing with is Psalm 42 and we're going to look at the topic of caring for a distressed heart. And this is something that can help us if we are doing uh dealing with this ourselves and we're going to We're dealing with a lot of stress, a lot of anxiety, a lot of internal turmoil, or if we are dealing with someone that we love very much and we want to be an encouragement. to them and they're dealing with those things themselves. So let's take our Bibles and turn together to Psalm 42 and we're going to look at the entire Psalm, but we're going to focus our attention on the first several verses this morning. Here's what God's Word says. As the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and be appear before my God? My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? When I remember these things, I pour out my heart unto you. For I had gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God, with a voice of joy and praise, with a multitude that kept holy Holy Day. Why art thou cast down on my soul? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him who is the help of my countenance. Now, the text in front of us is a very helpful text, and in order to dig into it, I want to give you a summary and then a few introductory thoughts as we think about this concept of having a disquieted heart. that needs to hope in God. So I'll summarize it this way. Whenever we are distressed, and that distress meaning anxiety, disquieted spirit, downcast, those are the words that are use in this text. We must seek strength in our Christian community, the church. We need to investigate the root of that distress. And we need to speak stabilizing truths to ourselves ourselves as we purpose to praise the Lord. God wants us as we dig into his word to hope in him when we are downcast. And so I want to give you a few introductory thoughts about this topic. The first is this, we are living through what some are calling a mental health crisis. What people mean by that when they use that term is that people are disquieted. There's a lot of depression, anxiety, discouragement. a lot of frustration, a lot of people that feel as if they can't carry on and they're internally going through tremendous trouble. And so there was a recent survey that I read that said over 50% of people The working force in America would say that they are burned out. If you do the stats, that's 80 million Americans. That's a lot of people. And when they gave the same survey to people that were in management-oriented Roles, these people have an even higher level who would say that they believe that they are in burnout. And so this is not something that we should just ignore. It's also important for us to recognize Recognize it's not a new phenomenon to the Church of God. In fact, if we look at church history, we see that this is a topic that's addressed quite a bit. We're to see that it's addressed in the Psalms, this is thousands and thousands of years ago. But it's also something that was preached a lot on on a lot in church history. I sp think specifically of the Puritans who wrote extensively, and a lot of their sermons have been Recorded for us. They wrote a lot of books and preached a lot of sermons on this topic. For instance, in 1630 there was a man named Richard Sibbs. He wrote a book called The Bruised Reed. This is a book that I've read and I found to be extremely encouraging, very comforting, very helpful. Another book written in 1649 was by William Bridge. It's called Lifting Up the Downcast. And this is 13 sermons that he preached on Psalm 4211 from the text that we're looking at this week. 13 sermons. Why? Because he understood that the people in his congregation were dealing with tremendous burdens. He wanted to address those burdens and help them to think biblically about how to work through those issues. Or in 1674 and in 1682, a man named John Flavil uh preached and wrote on facing grief, preparing for suffering. And these are two books that you can you can buy from Banner of Truth. They're abridged and they're very helpful in more modern English. And John Flavell wrote extensively on these topics of grief. and suffering. The reason for that is because he was a sufferer and he was living at a time when lots of people suffered. Then we move forward another fifty years and we have uh John Owen who wrote a book called Several Practical Cases of Conscience Resolved. And he's writing on these issues as well. Then we move into the 1800s. People know about Charles Spurgeon. Charles Spurgeon was a man who dealt with tremendous internal discouragement, anxiety, depression, and he wrote or he preached a sermon called Encouragement for the Depressed. And then we move to the 1900s in 1954 after World War II. Martin Lloyd Jones, who was both a medical doctor and a pastor, he preached a series of sermons and it eventually became a book in 1965. called Spiritual Depression, Its Causes and Its Cures. This is a book that we have in our bookstore. Now the reason I go through this list is to let you know that here are people who wrote extensively preach extensively on this topic. And the question is why? Why is it such a big deal? Two people who lived hundreds of years apart, some during a time that was radically different than the time that we're living in and some that are closer to our time with Martin Lloyd-Jones. Well the answer is that this is a topic that is extremely personal. People don't want to talk about their burdens and what's going on on inside of them, how their heart feels and how they are discouraged and disquieted. It's also very painful. People get into a place that is like what Martin Lloyd Jones is preaching and writing about. and and some of these other writers and preachers, what they're in is in a place that is very painful and very lonely. They feel very isolated. And then thirdly, it's a lot more common than you realize. If this is a personal matter and it's a painful matter, a lot of times people don't talk about that. And so being a common issue, it's something that needs to be addressed very carefully And so I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this topic. I think about the primary statement that's made several times in the psalm. Why art doubt disquieted within me? This week I hope that you will join us as we work our way through the this Psalm, Psalm 42. and we look at some of the causes for being downcast and disquieted and biblically how to work through those issues. So join us this week. Share these if you think they'll be an encouragement. And I hope that you have a great rest of your day. As uh we get into our week by now.