Well good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And it's Wednesday, and I hope that your week has gone well, and I hope that it ends well. Let's go ahead and look at this passage again today as we look at the failure of Peter. And we're obviously not going to dwell on this for the rest of the week, but this is a very important part of the story. It's in a very important part of understanding what Jesus says to him, why he says it to him, and why this is an encouragement to us. And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles again and look at John chapter 21. We'll read that little section and then look at the failure side of the story. Here's what it says. After these things, Jesus showed himself again to the disciples in the Sea of Tiberias. On this wise showed he himself. There were together Simon Peter and Thomas called Didymus, Nathaniel of Canaan Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples. Simon Peter saith unto him, I go a fishing, and he said unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth and entered into a ship immediately, and that night they caught nothing. For when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. Jesus saith unto them, Children, have ye any meat? They answered him, No. And he said unto them, Cast your net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. They cast their four, and now they were not able to draw in for the multitude of the fishes Now yesterday we talked about the fact that this was a complicated man, but he also had great potential. The last thing that we focused on yesterday was the statement that Jesus said to Peter, where he says, you will die for me. But before that happens, the rooster is going to crow three times and you will deny me. And that was a very sobering thing for Peter to hear. And Peter thought, there's no way that I will do that. I'm all in for Christ. But what we see just a few hours later is that in fact what Jesus said came to pass. In fact, when we come to John chapter 18, verse 25 We see that that there is Peter warming himself by the fire after Jesus has celebrated the Passover with his disciples. He's gone to the Garden of Gethsemane, and there he's praying in the garden, and they fall asleep. And then he is betrayed by Judas and he's taken to these mock trials. There's Peter warming himself by the fire. And three times people look at him and say, We know you. You're one of his disciples. Well, what does Peter say? He says, I don't know this man. In fact, he does it three times. And in Luke 22, verse 61 , In fact, out of all the gospel accounts, this is the one that really captures this one little aspect that's not mentioned in the other passages. It obviously happened. Luke chooses to focus in on this detail. It says that Simon Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And immediately, as he yet spake, the cock crew. The Lord turned and looked upon Peter, and Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had said unto him before the cock crows , Thou shalt deny me thrice. And Peter went out and wept bitterly. Now, I don't know if Peter was close enough to Jesus where he could literally hear what he said, but when Peter saw Christ's eye catch his , He knew that Jesus knew. And he knew that in fact what Jesus said would happen did. And this man is crushed by his failure. He is humbled by his failure. And the question is, what happens next? Well, what happens next is Peter says, I think the Lord's done with me. Now we have the cross. We have the resurrection. Peter knows that the Lord is risen. But he doesn't know that he still has a ministry. He doesn't know that that commission that was given to him three and a half years before still stands and is valid. And he has questions. He stumbled. And so what does he do? He goes back to what he knows how to do, and that's fish. And he takes all of his buddies with him, his brothers, the guys that all work together. They all go together and fish. And that night they don't catch anything. And in John 21, verse 1 it says, After these things Jesus showed himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. And what does it say? It says, They say unto him, Peter says, I go fishing. They say unto him, Will also go with thee. They went forth, entered into a ship immediately, and that night they caught nothing. I love to fish. I grew up uh in Pensacola on the water and when I was in high school, when I was in college, I used to fish all the time. I can tell you there's nothing more frustrating than going out in that boat and getting burned in the sun and catching nothing and coming home and Mom says, do you have any fish? Your little brother says, do you have any fish? Your sister says, do you have any fish? And you say, nope. I'm sweaty. I'm tired. I'm sunburned. I smell bad. I didn't catch anything But that's not what I did for a livelihood. That's what I did for fun. These men did this as a profession, and they didn't catch anything. And so here's Peter, a man who's failed the Lord. He's humbled and broken, and he's failed at the one thing he thought he could do, catch fish. And the question is, what does Jesus do? Jesus goes to him in his lowest moment. And guess what? He does that with us too. He doesn't kick us to the curb and ignore us. He pursues us. And I hope you'll come tomorrow or join us tomorrow as we look at the grace that is demonstrated in this text, rich grace that teaches us so much about the goodness of our Savior. We'll hope you'll join us tomorrow as we dig into that truth. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. By now