Good morning. Welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you're enjoying these studies and that things that we're talking about are a help to you. We are dealing with the Lament Psalm, which is a bit of a darker theme. But I think that in some of those darker moments, there's so much that we can learn about God, about ourselves, and it is in those seasons of life that God really develops us. into the kinds of people that he wants us to be. Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to Psalm 44. We're going to read the text together and then we're going to talk about the concept of endurance. and how when we endure the difficulties of life, God is going to reward that faithful endurance. So Psalm 44, verse number one. We have heard with our ears, O God. Our fathers have told us what work thou didst in their days, in the times of old, how thou didst drive out the heathen with thy hand and plantest them How thou didst afflict the people and cast them out, for they got not the land in possession by their own sword, neither the dead neither did their own arm save them. But thy right hand, and thine arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou hast favor unto them. Thou art my king, O God, command deliverance for Jacob. Through thee will we push down our enemies. Through thy name will we tread them under the r under under that rise up against us. For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me But thou hast saved us from our enemies, and hast put them to shame that hated us. In God we boast all the day long, and praise thy name. Forever. Selah. Let's go ahead and listen to this little section. Some of life's greatest tests of faith are followed by God's greatest testimonies of faithfulness. We read this to open up our service, but I want to read to you what it says in Psalm 48. Verse number 8 it says, As we have heard So have we seen. That's really interesting. In Psalm 44, he says, we have heard with our ears. We have heard what you've done. And then in verse 9 he says, but you have cast us off and put us to shame. That's very different than Psalm 48, which says, As we have heard, so have we what? Seen. In other words, what God's done, He did again. And He did it in my life. This is such an interesting concept for us to consider. When we come through dark seasons of life and we we feel like we've been backed into a corner and there's no hope, there's no way to get out, one of the things that can give us great hope is the fact that God uses those things to test us, and on the other side of that test. . As we have endured and we have seen his faithfulness, there are things about his character that we will see much more clearly. Because we have passed through those seasons. And when we compare Psalm 44 and Psalm 48, which is kind of what's coming out in that little video clip, We see very similar language in the Psalms, but we don't see the same end result. In Psalm 44, the one we've been looking at this week, we see that as we've heard. We have responded to by trusting, but the result is confusion. We've not gotten to the end of the test. We've not gotten to the point where you step in and deliver. We are still in that period of time where our our faces are in the dust and we are overwhelmed by grief and fear and confusion and discouragement and we don't know how it's going to play out. But then when we go to Psalm 48, we see, as we have heard, so now have we seen. And the picture that we see in Psalm 48 is a period in the history where these armies were gathered against Jerusalem. This happened many times in the ancient world. where these armies of the enemies would come and lay siege on the city, and all they could see as they looked over those walls were this massive body of people who were just choking out all the resources of the city and choking out their ability to run and to hide and to get away from the enemy armies. And eventually, as the siege l uh carried on for a long enough period of time, people would begin to get sick and weak. and die of starvation, and then they would come in and they would decimate the city. And it it's hard for us to even imagine how how terrible it would be to be living through such a series of of s of circumstances. But in Psalm 48, he's talking about the people seeing that reality and then seeing God's miraculous, unprecedented deliverance. And as the people walk around the city, they go, God has done it Just like God has done it in the past, and we have heard from our forefathers, we've seen it with our own eyes. These walls are still standing, these bulwarks are still standing, these gates are still strong. We are a people that have been delivered by our God. We have seen what he is capable of. We have learned of his mercy and grace and power and wisdom and his providence. And so when we go through these dark seasons and we endure faithfully, one of the rewards of that endurance is knowing God not just by, we could say, reading about him academically, but knowing who he is and how he works by experience. And that is what this Psalm is all about. You may this morning find yourself in a very dark and difficult position. And I will tell you that if you will stay the course. And be faithful and endure and rely upon the grace that God gives you. There will be a day down the road that He will allow you to look back and you will see Him in a different light. You will see him as the deliverer. You will see him as the one who strengthens. You will see him as the one who tenderly guided you. You will see him as the one who has demonstrated his faithfulness. And so may that be something that sustains you until the time that you can look back and see what in fact he has done. Well, I hope that gives you some encouragement this morning. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue working our way through this text. Bye now.