Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And the passage of scripture we're going to look at this week is going back to Father's Day. So If you are with us on Father's Day, you'll be familiar with the passage. And the text that we're looking at is going to be, I hope, a tremendous encouragement to you this week. So if you have your Bible, let's turn together to Psalm 12, and we're going to read verses 1 through write together and then look at a couple of introductory thoughts for the text in front of us. It says, Help, Lord, for the godly man ceaseth, for the faithful man fail from among the children. Children of men. They speak vanity every one with his neighbor. With flattering lips, with a double heart do they speak. The Lord shall cut off flattering lips. And the tongue that speaketh proud things, who have said with our tongue, we will prevail. Our lips are not our lips are our own. Who is Lord over us? for the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy. Now will I arise, saith the Lord. I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. The Lord uh I will set him excuse me, the the words of the Lord are pure. Your words, as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord, thou shalt preserve them from this generation forever. Now as we look at this text of scripture, there are a couple of things that can kind of summarize it. First of all, this is a bit of a lamentation. David is lamenting that the wickedness of his general Is something that causes constant suffering for godly people. And so he is is suffering, he is complaining, he is lamenting. until he remembers a promise from God, an unshakable promise from God, that he's going to preserve his people. And so as we look at this passage, What we will see is that God wants us to purpose to be faithful as we trust Him and His promise to preserve us in a wicked world. Now, when we think about this, we can be faithful, but the The question is how? Well I want to start by reminding you of three great enemies that all of us have. And the first enemy that confronts us is that enemy, the flesh. That is what is inside of us. Romans 7. 18 says says, I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. Our temptations do not come from outside of us, they come from Within us. And we are tempted when we are drawn away of our own lust. That is the first and foremost of these enemies. The second enemy is this world's system. And 1 John chapter 3 says, this is the message that you have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain, who was of the wicked one and slew his brother. Why did he sl s slew him? Because of his own work. They were evil. His brothers were righteous. Marvel not if the world hates you. And so the world is a system in opposition to God, and we as God's people are going to face onslaughts from that. The third enemy is Satan and the kingdom of darkness. In Ephesians 6. 12 it says that we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, powers, the rulers of the darkness of this world. world against spiritual wickedness in high places. There is a real enemy called Satan, and he desires to destroy us. And so as we think about these three great enemies that confront us every day, the question is, what is going on? Well, Satan is working through this world system. To provoke us to be discouraged, to compromise, to give in to temptation. He wants us to be isolated from those who can be a support system. to us and he wants us to believe the lie that in fact serving God is hopeless. He wants to disrupt the generation of young people who are now fathers and they are trying to raise their children. in the nurture and admonition of the Lord and point them to Christ. Not only is he doing that, but he wants to stunt the development of the next generation of fathers. As their lives are being formed, he wants to enslave them to Sinful passions. He wants them to make sinful choices that are gonna they're gonna scar them in life and they're gonna follow them throughout life. He wants to ruin the work of God. He also doesn't want us to see the potential blessing of raising up the next generation of young people. A a group of young people that can be godly and vibrant and strong and will become the next wise men and women who are going to serve the Lord and raise up uh godly godly children. And so he's trying to discourage the generation who is contemplating, do we have children? So, what do we take away from this? Well, what we can take away from this is that we need Psalm twelve. And the twelfth Psalm is going to give us promises that are going to give us an encouragement. And we need to recognize that sometimes the discouragements that we're are experiencing are the direct result of lies that have been fed to us by this world system, or lies that in our flesh we are inclined toward, or lies that Satan has planted. in our in our minds. And so I hope that you'll join us this week as we look at the twelfth Psalm. If you think that these lessons would be an encouragement to someone, please share that. And if this has been an encouragement to you, take a moment to share that feedback. Well Lord Billy we'll meet again tomorrow so have a blessed rest of your day. We'll talk later. Bye now