Good morning and welcome to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Yesterday we were talking about the confusion that Mary and John and Peter experienced when they found the sepulchre empty. And today we're going to further look at that and see how Mary goes from being confused to now being in complete despair. And by the end of our uh study this morning she's going to believe because she's going to see the risen Lord. And so this is a really exciting part of the story. So let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to John chapter 20. Again, we're looking at verses 26 through 31 together, and let's go ahead and read it, please. It says, after these eight days, again his disciples were within. Then said he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger and behold my hands. And reach hither thy hands and thrust it into my side, and be not faithless, but believing. Thomas answering said unto him, My Lord and my God, many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples that are not written in this book. But these are written that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing ye might have life through his name. So as we've been working our way through this passage, we've seen first of all that when Mary and the other women go to the tomb, they are not expecting to find it empty. And so there is a simplicity toward the resurrection. Once they discover that it's empty, there's the beginning of process. What's going on? And the first response, the first scene that we looked at, is one of confusion. Now by the end of that time, John believes. It really doesn't say anything about Peter. We don't know if Peter believed or not, but we do know that John did, and it's because he reflected on things that he'd heard. It was all starting to come together to him. Well now we move forward a little bit into the narrative and we discover that Mary is now back at the tomb. And when Mary comes to the tomb, she's now here by herself. In verses 11 through 18, we could say that this statement probably captures very well what's going on. It says, Mary stood without the sepulchre, weeping. As she wept, she stooped down and she looked into the sepulchre. Now what do we see in this statement? What we see is a woman who is broken. As she returns to this location, Peter and John are not with her. They're gone, and she is in complete despair. In fact, John takes time to really communicate this, emphasize it. In verse 11, he talks about her weeping. In verses 12 and 13, he talks about her weeping. And in verses 14 and 15 again, he talks about her weeping. And so here believes that the Lord's body has been stolen, and she's grieving deeply. And this does not seem to be a place that you would expect to find someone who's going to be the first. testimony, give the first testimony to the resurrection. So in her despair we see this inf this interaction between her and the angels that were there at the tomb. And then a man appears who she believes is the gardener. Now she's crying. She's not anticipating seeing the Lord. And so when she sees this man, She believes that it's the gardener and maybe he knows who has stolen the body. So notice what it says. She didn't expect him to be alive. It's telling us that the last time that she'd seen him had really influenced the way that she's looking at him. I I I know sometimes people say something like, I've even thought this. I go, well, if if if Mary saw the Lord, why didn't she why didn't she recognize him? Well, she wasn't anticipating it. And when she last saw him, he had been beaten and bloodied. They had driven a crown of thorns into his head. They had ripped apart his flesh. He's hanging on a cross. I mean, the Bible says that he was unrecognizable. And so that would have been seared into her into her mind. I can't imagine how traumatic those hours being at the foot of the cross would have been for this woman. She is next to Jesus' mother, Mary, and his aunt, Mary's sister. And so here at the cross You just can't imagine how that would have really affected her internally in her mind and her emotions. She's not expecting to see the Lord. It also shows you that after the resurrection, though we can identify individuals, clearly Jesus was identifiable. What it also shows you is that there were some differences in the way that his body was. Scripture doesn't explain this. We don't know how old he looked. We don't know in what ways his his form and appearance would have changed. Obviously, he had the marks. that were driven into his hands and he had the mark where the the spear was thrust into his side and so there is that evidence of the crucifixion those scars are still there but initially she doesn't recognize him We could also say this about it, that when he speaks her name, that's when she gets it. That's when she recognizes her despair is replaced by comfort, not with what she sees. But what she hears, verse 17, Jesus said unto her, Mary. She turned herself and said unto him, Rabani, which is to say, Master. It tells you this man knew her by name. And when he speaks to her, she recognizes this man knows me. And when she hears his voice, it brings comfort because she recognizes this is the voice of the master. This is the voice of Christ, and I know it. And then he calls his disciples brothers. And I love that little statement. In fact, this is the first time in the gospel, as far as I could tell, where Jesus doesn't refer to his disciples as disciples. or servants, but he actually calls them brothers. And this reminds me of a really fascinating passage of scripture in the book of Hebrews, where Jesus, or where the text says in Hebrews chapter 2, verse 9. Jesus was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death. He was crowned with glory and honor, that he, by the grace of God, should taste death for every man. and bringing many sons to glory to make the captain of their salvation perfect through suffering. For both he that sanctifieth and they that are sanctified are all one. for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren, saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren. What an amazing statement. So what is the change from servant, friend, and disciple to brother? In my opinion, the change is the cross, because the cross is what establishes the basis of redemption. These men are now reconciled to God through the death of Christ. May God help us to let that sink in. But here's the part I want to leave you with this morning. Out of all the people that the Lord Jesus Christ could have appeared to first, the least credible witness was the very first to see him. to speak to him, to hear his voice, to touch his hands, and ultimately to proclaim he's alive. I've seen him. I've held him. I've spoken to him. I've heard his voice. I've seen the scars. He is alive. In verse 18 it says, Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples, she had seen the Lord, that he had spoken these things unto her. And this is a great testimony to God's ways. God doesn't do things the way that we think he should or anticipate. He does them the way he chooses to do them. And so he chooses Mary to be the one who that takes the message that there is a risen Savior to his disciples before anyone else. Aren't you glad that's the kind of God that we serve? Well, I hope that gives you some things to think about. Hope you have a great rest of your day. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we start working our way through a couple more details of this passage of scripture. Bye now.