Good morning and welcome back to our third anchored in the word and warned reflection. Hope you're having a good Wednesday morning or whenever you're watching this video or listening to this podcast And the passage we've been dealing with is an important one because it's really hammering out Christ's attitude towards the religious establishment. that was extremely abusive and destructive and was harming people. Well this morning what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to zero in on exactly who was the focus of those being abused by the system. Where was it being concentrated? Well the answer to that question will become a lot more apparent hopefully after today's lesson. And so if you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to turn to Luke chapter 19. We're looking at verses 45 through 48. We're going to read it together and then dig into this topic together. Here's what it says. And he went into the temple and began to cast out them that sold therein. and them that bought, saying unto them, It is written, My house is the house of prayer. But ye have made it a den of thieves. And he taught daily in the temple, but the chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him. And could not find what they might do, for all the people were very attentive to hear him. Now It is my view as I read this text and as I look at the cross references, because obviously there were other gospel witnesses to this event. And when I notice the quotation from the Old Testament that Jesus references in this moment, it gives me an indication of who was the focal point of the one being abused by the system. Now I want to mention this. Across the board, everyone was affected in some way. It wasn't just proselytes, Gentile proselytes traveling from a great distance who were being affected by this, but I think it is it is probably oriented towards them more than towards others. And so it's my view that these abuses were primarily directed towards Gentile proselytes. You say, why do you say that? Well, let's work through the text and through the cross-references, and then I think you'll see it In verse 46 it says, It is written, My house is the house of prayer, but ye have made it a den of thieves. Now to appreciate this statement, it's important for us to look at some of the other gospel accounts so that we get a fuller understanding of everything that was said. It's not like everything that took place in that moment uh was recorded for us. I mean you you literally could have had uh books written about this particular day if people are to write out all these details. So what is most important to each of the evangelists as the Spirit of God is moving them is what they record for us. Well in the Gospel of Mark, which by the way is written primarily towards a Roman audience, he quotes in Mark 11, 17 in the following way. And he taught them, saying, Is it not written, My house shall be called of all nations? the house of prayer. Now Luke did not record the of all nations part, and that's not because Jesus didn't say it, and it's not because Mark is adding it when he didn't say it. The reason for that is that their audience and focus are slightly different. But that statement in Mark, where he includes the of all nations is important. Because when we dig into the to the passage that Jesus is quoting from, that is in the Old Testament text. And so I'd like us to kind of consider what is talked about in the context. of what Jesus is quoting from in Isaiah. Now Jesus is technically quoting from Isaiah 56, but to appreciate what he says in 56 It's helpful to go back to 55. And so I want you to follow the progression of the things that Isaiah writes to the nation of Israel. First of all, notice the universal appeal. Coming from the Lord to the people. He says, Ho, everyone that thirsteth, come ye to the waters. that hath no water or no money, come and buy and eat, and come and buy milk and wine without money and without price. Now notice the word everyone Everyone. And then we see come to the waters. This sounds very similar to what Jesus says to the woman at the well. If you knew who it was who was talking to you, you would ask me to give water to you and you'd never thirst again. It's an amazing Correlation here. Jesus is probably borrowing from this particular passage of scripture. Here's a woman whose life is destitute and spiritually bankrupt, and she needs Christ. the sustainer of life. So this passage is an invitation. Come, all who are thirsty. Buy even though you have no money. You say, well, how do you do that? Well, it's because it's a gift. It's grace. You don't buy it through your merits because you have no merits to give. And so it's a universal appeal to receive the grace and the gift of God that is available in himself. Secondly, we see that this is a promise that wasn't just for Jews, it was also for Gentiles. In Isaiah 55, 6 and 5, 5 and 6 he says, Behold, thou shalt call a nation that thou knowest not. the nation that knew not, they shall run unto thee because of the Lord thy God, for the Holy One of Israel, for he hath glorified thee. Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near And then we see the passage that Jesus quotes from. He says, Let the son of the stranger who hath joined himself to the Lord speak, saying, The Lord hath utterly separated me from his people speak, saying For even unto them will I give mine house, and with my walls, a place and a name better than of sons and their daughters. I will give them an everlasting name. That shall not be cut off, and also the sons of the stranger that join themselves to the Lord to serve him, and to love the name of the Lord to be his servants Their burnt offerings and sacrifices shall be accepted on my altars. Mine house shall be called an house of prayer for all people. The Lord God, which gathereth the outcast of Israel, saith, Yet will I gather others to him, besides those that are gathered unto him. What is the point? The point is that God wanted all nations to worship him, not just the Jewish people. And here are people who are fulfilling the desire of these passages of Scripture, coming from great distances, people like the Ethiopian eunuch. Or we just recently, this past week on Sunday night, talked about the Queen of Sheba coming to Jerusalem because she heard about the wisdom of Solomon. What are these things? These are examples of people coming to the land of God's people to worship in his temple or to inquire about the Lord and how he was working amongst these people. They were being drawn to the Lord through the nation. That was God's plan always. And here are people Who, rather than welcoming those who have traveled a great distance and celebrating the fact that these people are coming to worship the one true God from Gentile lands, what are they doing? They're abusing them They're taking advantage of them. And so when we think about this, we ought to recognize that a person who loves God and has his heartbeat would never do such a thing. And a person who has been attracted into a position of authority through dubious means and out of fleshly passions is a person who will take advantage of that great trust that has been given to them. May God help us to never abuse the authority that we've been given. May we love the Lord and have his heartbeat and treat people, in fact, the way that he would want us to treat them. Have a blessed rest of your morning. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we work our way through this text a little bit further. Bye now