Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And again, I hope you're having a great week. And the text that we're looking at this morning and that we're looking at this week is Psalm 43 And it's a passage that I got a lot of feedback from when I preached it. And it's a passage that's really ministered richly to our church family. So I hope that as we work our way through the passage this week, you will also find it to be very, very encouraging. as it was a few weeks ago on Sunday morning. Let's read the text together. It is Psalm 43, verses 1 through 5. And then after that we'll listen to a short excerpt from the sermon and then I'll dig into that concept a little bit with you this morning. It says, Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation. O deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man. For thou art the God of my strength. Why dost thou cast me off? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? O send out thy light and thy truth. Let them lead me, let them bring me unto thy holy hill, and to thy tabernacles. Then will I go unto the altar of God, and unto God my exceeding joy. Yea upon the harp will I praise thee, O God, my God, why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope in God, for I shall yet praise him who is the health of my countenance and my God. Let's take a moment and listen to this short little section here. Life isn't just about what you get. It's not just about where you end up. It's about how you get there. It's about what you become as you're going there. God has ways, because he loves us, of shaping us through some of the most challenging situations we encounter. I pray this year is not a hard year for you. But if it is God will give you everything you need to get through it. Now one of the questions that people often ask themselves when they're dealing with hard hard hard challenges in life is they say if God is good and God is sovereign, then why would he allow me to encounter the things that I'm encountering? And something that comes out in Psalm 42 and Psalm 43 is that the psalmist is experiencing difficulty. One of the things that we drew out of this text and also was just a part of this discussion is that though God is sovereign and good, God's purposes sometimes will take us through heartache and difficulty and challenge so that we can ultimately become a more refined and a more godly individual. It's not about our position being shaped, it's about our practice being shaped. It's about our character being shaped. It's about our thinking being shaped Like in Romans chapter 12 it says that we are to be transformed through the renewing of our mind, or in 2 Corinthians chapter 3 it says that we, as in a Glass, behold it, behold the glory of the Lord, and we are changed in the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. God takes the circumstances of life. He takes his word and the Spirit of God shapes us and molds us into the kinds of people that God wants us to be. And in this passage of Scripture, we are reminded that the grace of God is sufficient. to draw us through the situations, to shape us into the people that he wants us to be, and ultimately to get us where we need to be in situations. I remind you again of what it says in James chapter 1. He says, My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptation, knowing that the trying of your faith worketh patience. Let patience have her perfect work. That you may be perfect, speaking of spiritual maturity, wanting or lacking nothing. And so when we think about this, we are reminded that God allows us to encounter difficulty, to draw us close to him, to drive us to him. to strengthen us, to build us, to shape us, to challenge us, to cause us to think differently about areas that we need to think differently about. And ultimately as God brings us through life, And as he gives us the opportunities that he desires for us to encounter, he makes us more and more like Christ in our conduct, thinking, and character. And so, whatever you're encountering today, my prayer is that God will give you strength, that he will enable you to endure as seeing him who is invisible, and that you will look up to him and recognize that his purposes are in fact good for you. And he loves you, and he is going to accomplish his purpose in you. May God help us to have a great rest of our day as we think about these things, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we continue looking at some of the topics that are related. Tsalm forty three, have a blessed day by now