Good morning. Welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection, our last day of the week. And this is always Application Friday. And so I hope that you'll join us as we look at this last little section and we reflect on what we've learned from the week. And so take your Bibles, please. Turn with me to Psalm 48. I'll read the text one more time. And then we'll break this down with a couple of final thoughts that I hope will be a real encouragement to you. It says great is the Lord and greatly to be praised in the city of our God, in the mountain of his holiness. Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth is Mount Zion on the sides of the north, the city of the great king. God is known in her palaces for a refuge. For though the kings were assembled, they passed by together, they saw it, and so they marvelled. They were troubled and hastened away, fear took hold upon them there, and pain as of a woman in travail. Thou breakest the ships of Tarshus with an east wind. As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God. God will establish it forever. Selah Now as we think about the application side, I want to begin with those who are not believers. Maybe you listen to this every week and You've not yet come to the place where you're convinced that Christ is in fact the Savior. He died for your sins. He rose from the dead. He is the one and only way of salvation. You must place your faith in him. If that's you, or maybe somebody has passed this along, or maybe you just came across this for the first time and you you didn't even look at the other videos. This is the first one that you've watched. If you're not a Christian This passage calls you to one simple response. Turn to Christ and be reconciled to Him. And I want you to think about this. In the secular worldview, a worldview that does not believe in God. What do you have? You have emptiness. All we are is people who have the immediate. No eternity. No final judgment, just the emptiness of the immediate darkness. No infallible standard outside of ourselves. Whatever culture thinks from generation to generation, that has to be true. But what do we actually have in the Bible something very different? We think about this issue of guilt. Every person knows what it's like to do something that they know to be wrong, and internally they are troubled about it, and they know that there's an issue and there's this emptiness and this darkness and this guilt that they don't know how to deal with. There's no answer to the guilt problem in the secular worldview. And then it's a very fatalistic perspective. There is no order to the flow of history. Things just happen by chance. And so the secular worldview is empty and dark. Filled with guilt and fatalism. But I want to remind you that there is an alternate view. And the alternate view is what the Bible presents. And this alternate view tells us that we are made in the image of God. All things were created by him and for him. And he upholds all things by the word of his power. And rather than the emptiness of this world system view of the world, there is hope in Christ. We have value Our lives have value and we can know God and we can enjoy Him forever because we were made in His image. There is light instead of darkness. We have an infallible standard. It is God who is that standard. There is forgiveness instead of guilt. Our guilt is real because we have to answer to a holy God, but he has provided in himself forgiveness through the cross of Christ. And instead of this world just moving through random chance, in fact, there is an order to what goes on in history. God works and intervenes in history. He is the God of providence. History is complicated, I get that, but it is filled with unmistakable testimonies to God's mercy and his merciful intervention for our good. And so if you're not a Christian, turn to Christ, place your faith in Him. Second group I want to address is the believer. And I want to challenge all those who watch these videos or listen to these recordings to never forget that God in fact has proven himself. We think about how God has proven himself, we need to recognize that we're going to face challenges where God is going to have to use those things to demonstrate who he is. And so we have to be prepared. We're going to face hardships in life, tests of our faith. But those tests will be used to build us. Remember, each test will be a platform through which God demonstrates his faithfulness. These times are the gracious tools that God uses to train us and shape us and equip us and strengthen us up in the faith. So let's diligently study his word and be prepared for these seasons. Let's arm ourselves with truth so we know where to stand. Let's ask him to open our eyes so that we will understand what he is doing in our lives in those difficult times. Let's take the time to learn what he is trying to teach us. That we not get distracted and miss those things. And then as we have time to process and reflect, and drink in these truths. Let's rejoice in the good purposes he has for our lives. I hope that you have a great rest of your day. I hope you have a blessed weekend. Lord willing we'll see many of you this coming Sunday. Bye now