Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. I hope that the study that we've been doing this week has been an encouragement and we've been talking about how in spite of suffering we can see God's goodness. And it is actually through suffering sometimes that God is able to give us a clearer understanding of who he is and how good he is. And so we see that suffering can be a catalyst. for God to teach us. And that will be the focus of our study this morning. So we're looking at some of the lessons that were being taught in this text. and how to apply them. So let's go ahead and read the text together. It is again Luke chapter 17, verse 11. It came to pass as he went to Jerusalem that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. As he entered into a certain village there met him ten men that were lepers. While he stood afar off, they lifted up their voices and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. When he saw them, he said unto them, Go show yourself unto the priests Came to pass that as they went they were healed. And one of them, when they saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God, and fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks, and he was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed, but where are the nine? There are not found to return to glory to God, save this stranger? And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way, thy faith hath made thee whole. Now we see in this passage of Scripture a truth that is illustrated all over the scriptures, and that is that God uses pivotal moments in our lives to teach important lessons. Look back at verses 16 and following. It makes the statement, and he was a Samaritan. Jesus said, were not ten cleansed, but where are the nine? There was not found return not found that returned to give glory to God save this stranger. He said unto him, Arise, go thy way, thy faith hath made thee whole. This miracle and their responses was a teachable moment. And so let's kind of work our way through some of what this passage is teaching here. First of all, this one interaction was one small piece of a bigger picture. It's like you're looking at a mosaic. You see this one little piece, but all those little pieces together form a picture. And so when we see the example of ten people being healed, but only one being made whole. Nine that were not giving uh praise and glory and thanks to God, and one that was, and one who is a Samaritan being the one who is the rare exception. I think there's a point that's being made here, and that is that most people are not by nature very appreciative to God for the things that He's given them. Christ's encounter with the Ten wasn't an accident. He purposed to go through Samaria and purposed to speak to these men and purposed to heal them and purposed to make a point. He showed mercy to all of them indiscriminately. Only one of them expressed worship, humility, and gratitude. And his faith is highlighted for a reason, because his wholeness came as a result of his faith in Messiah. And his ethnicity was also highlighted because this was Jesus was trying to draw attention to the fact that Here are ten people who were healed, but only one, the Samaritan, the one who the Jewish people would have had a lot of disdain for, this man was healed. Second thing I want to mention is that the miracle and their responses were a teachable moment and that they reflected this on a national level. That Jesus was coming to a broken nation, a nation of spiritual darkness. And you can also see that he and his disciples were preaching the gospel. And they preach it indiscriminately. You can see the parallels here. You have the people who are sick, you have the nation who is spiritually in darkness. You have the men who are healed in God's mercy. You have the gospel being preached and discriminately to the people. Only a few of those who received this mercy did it with joy, gratitude, and worship. And so when we look at The story of Pentecost, there's just a small group of believers who are there when Peter is preaching before a massive number are saved. What's the point? The point is that the majority of people did not receive Jesus as the Messiah, rather, they rejected him. And their joy and their gratitude and their willingness to worship him all came from some kind of source And that source is that Christ is, yes, Messiah, the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies, and they were coming to trust in him as their personal savior. The least likely were some of the greatest examples in the Gospels of people who were converted. And so we can we could give a whole bunch of examples as we've been working our way through this. We think about the Samaritan woman being someone who was saved. We think about the people in in Sikar. We think about uh the demon-possessed men and in in the gatherings, how he was converted. We think of uh Jarius and just lots and lots of examples. The centurion who is a gentile and his son is made well. There are lots of examples in Scripture, in the Gospels, of unlikely people coming to faith in Christ. I want to go on to a third point, though. Nobody enjoys trouble, but God uses trouble to accomplish good. And the situation that we're looking at today, and that we've been looking at throughout the week, is a situation that trouble and difficulty is what provided the catlass for. That's the story that we're talking about and the way that God was able to teach through it. No one enjoys the trouble, but we do appreciate what God does through the trouble. Think about some of these scriptures that really emphasize this point. Romans 8. 28. All things, all things, work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. He is shaping us into the image of Christ, and he does it through all things. We think of another example, Isaiah 55, 11. God's word does not return void. It accomplishes what he intended it to accomplish. He says, So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth. It shall not return to me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereunto I send it. A third example, affliction is a catlass for growth, Psalm 119, 71. He says, It is good for me that I have been afflicted, not because he likes pain. But he says, because through the affliction I have learned your statutes. I give you another example. Great passage. Proverbs chapter 2 verse 6. It says that it is the Lord who gives wisdom. It is out of his mouth that comes knowledge and understanding. Well, how does God give wisdom and knowledge and understanding? Well, he uses his word in affliction to give us the understanding that we need. And then Proverbs 9. 10, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy is understanding. Knowing God causes us to fear Him and have understanding. And it is going through difficulties that force those things to take root in our lives that we begin to really know the Lord Well, those are some things I wanted to share with you this morning. I know that when we're going through challenges, we don't feel like God's good sometimes. Sometimes we doubt his wisdom. We doubt what he's accomplishing. But the truth is these passages of scripture show us that there are lessons that God has for us. There are big picture lessons. There are lessons about Him. There are lessons about ourselves. There are things that He's trying to shape in us. And so I want to encourage you this morning, be a person who trusts God in the midst of those troubles. Let him shape you, mold you, make you the person that he wants you to be If this has been an encouragement to you, maybe take a moment to share that. If you think it'll encourage someone else, share that with them. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. And Lord willing, tomorrow we will meet again for some final thoughts. Bye now.