Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you've had a great week. Hope that going over this passage of Scripture has been an encouraging refresh on what we looked at on Resurrection Sunday. And as we've looked at each of these different parts of the storyline, as John is presenting it, I hope that it has given you a little bit more insight into the resurrection what took place that day, but also that it strengthens your faith that in fact when we talk about our Savior dying and rising from the dead, this isn't just some tradition we hold, but in fact it's true. It's It's a piece of history. It's something that actually happened. And John records in great detail a lot of personal details that are driving out of very specific application. And what I love about the way that John writes this book is John tells us exactly what his purpose is. And so we're going to read that this morning in our application. Here's what it says, John chapter 20, verses 26 through 31. After eight days again his disciples were within. Then said he unto Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, behold my hands. Reach hither thy hands, and thrust it into my side. Be not faithless, but believing Thomas answered, said unto him, My Lord and my God, many of their signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written so that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you might have life through his name Now as we look at the application side, the question is, well, what do we do with all this? The answer is, well, John tells us. He tells us exactly what he wants us to do. And so right after that interaction with Thomas and the Lord Jesus, This is what he says in verse 30. Many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. By the way, John's saying my goal wasn't to give you this blow-by-blow history so that you have all this information that's very interesting. It's to drive out a practical application. What I've chosen to record for you was written so that you will believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing, you'll have life through his name He says, I'm saying all this because you need to believe on the gospel. You need to place your faith in Christ. I want you to realize this is personal. This isn't just about information. It's not just about entertainment. It's about faith alone in the gospel. And so that's what it's all about. The application is about calling us to repent and to believe. John wrote all of these things, all of these individual accounts, these very personal interactions. for the purpose of convincing people to personally place their faith in Christ. And so the question is, why do we need to do that? Well, it's because every person is a sinner. And our sin separates us from a holy God. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There is none righteous, no, not one. The wages of sin is death. We have a problem. And we do not have the ability to remove our guilt. We deserve eternal judgment and we are helpless and hopeless. If it's not for God reversing that by his grace, our only hope is what God does for us, not what we've done for him. Our only hope is Christ. He went to the cross. He became sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. It's the just for the unjust to bring us to God. The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. He goes to the cross and he takes our guilt. When we partake of the Lord's table and we eat that bread, we're reminded that the body of Christ bore our sins. on the tree, who his own self bore our sins in his own body on the tree. He was crushed under the weight of our sin and our guilt. He was punished in our place. The chastisement of our peace was on him, and with his stripes we are healed. He'll look at the travail of his soul and be satisfied. He'll justify many because he'll bear their iniquities He made his soul an offering for sin. He went to the cross, took our guilt, was punished in our place. He literally gave his life for us. When he says, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit, he's simply saying, it's done. Now I'm entrusting myself into your hands. He dies, and he triumphs over death and the resurrection. That's our only hope. We don't find hope anywhere else. He conquers death by going to the cross taking our guilt, being punished in our place, and triumphing over sin and death through the resurrection. He openly triumphed over all those kingdoms of darkness. He did it for us. And so the cross is a triumph. The cross is God doing for man what he couldn't do for himself. He literally purchased for us the gift of eternal life. And Romans 6. 23, the wages of sin is death, but what is it? The gift of God's eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Ephesians 2. 8. 9. By grace we're saved through faith, not of ourselves. It is the gift of God. It is not of works thus any man should boast. A gift means it's all of grace. We can't do anything to deserve it. He gives it to us because he's good. A gift is something that's free to us. We don't pay for it. It's paid for by the one who grants the gift. Jesus paid it all. And this gift is available to anyone who will humble themselves, repent, and believe in the gospel. And you know what I really love about John and this book? John gives us all these different people who interacted with the Lord. And each of them show you the different kinds of people that need salvation and can be saved, and really those hindrances on their personal side that keep them from coming to the gospel. Nicodemus. He's religious. But he doesn't know Christ. And when Jesus said to him, Nicodemus, unless you're born again, you'll not see the kingdom of God, he was shocked He said, how can this be? How can a man be born again when he's old? And Jesus says, I'm marveled that you don't know these things. He says, you have to be born from above, Nicodemus. And the very next person that he talks to is a Samaritan woman. She's broken by her sin. She has lived a life of tremendous, tremendous trouble. She's been married five times and living with a man who's not her own husband. She's a part of the Samaritan people who are ostracized from the Jews. Yet what does Jesus do? He goes to her and he says, hey, I can give you water with you'll never thirst again. I can save your soul, the Samaritan woman. Or then we see Mary Magdalene. The Bible says that she was enslaved to sin as well. She was dominated by Satan's oppression. She was actually demon-possessed before she met the Lord. And what does this show you? This shows you even a person who is who has sold their soul to Satan and to the kingdom of darkness. Even that person can be delivered from eternal destruction. So whether you're a religious person, whether you're A person like this Samaritan woman whose life has been wrecked by sin and broken relationships, or a woman who's actually given herself to the kingdom of darkness, you can be saved. Then we have Peter, this impulsive man. Who is humiliated by his failure? Yet what does he do? He's reinstituted. He's preaching at Pentecost. God uses him in a mighty way. And then we see Thomas, this plain speaking. Man who says, I don't believe unless I see. I need the evidence. It shows you that each of these individuals interact with Christ. Each of these individuals had an opportunity to be saved, and each of these individuals. It's kind of like somebody that maybe is listening to this video. You might be more like Nicodemus. You might be more like Thomas. You might be more like the Samaritan woman or Peter or Mary Magdalene. Who knows? But God can save your soul And so I asked this question, are you willing to receive this gift by faith alone? What is keeping you from placing your faith in Christ today? If this has been an encouragement to you, maybe you have some questions. You say, I don't know for sure that I'm safe, but I need to talk to somebody. Hey, reach out. I would love to talk to you Take a Bible, show you from the scriptures how you can know for sure that you're born again. I want to leave that with you as we go into the weekend. Hope you have a wonderful weekend. Hope we see many of you on Sunday. Have a blessed rest of your day. And Lord willing, we'll meet again this weekend or on Monday. Bye now.