Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And as we typically do on Fridays going into the weekend, we leave you with some applications, some final thoughts. And I hope that this week, as you've joined us, or if you haven't joined us, you'll go back and maybe look at some of these other videos, that you'll find them to be a great comfort. God is with us. We he'll never leave us nor forsake us. We see the fact that God's promises are sure and he's going to follow through with what he says he's going to do We're reminded that God allows difficulty because that is a platform through which he will demonstrate who he is and we can know him experientially. Well this morning what we're going to do is look at how to apply this practically. And so let's read through the text one more time and then dig into these final thoughts. It says, God is our refuge and strength, the very present help and trouble. Therefore, will not we fear though the earth be removed, though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea Though the waters thereof roar and are troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof. Sila. There is a river, the streams thereof shall make glad the city of our God, the holy place of his tabernacles of the most high. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God shall help her in that right early. The heathen raised, the kingdoms were moved. He uttered his voice. The earth melted. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah. Come, behold the works of the Lord, what desolations he has made in the earth. He makes wars to cease and to the ends of the earth. He breaks the bow and cutteth the spear in sunder. He burns the chariots in the fire. Be still. Know that I am God. I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge, Siva. I want to break this down, as I have been consistently, into two categories. One would be the unbelieving. And then the other the believer. This passage of scripture is not meant to be a gospel appeal. It's meant to show you that when you belong to God , You can rest in his protection and you can draw from his strength and know that he is with you. But if you are not a Christian, if you've never placed your faith in Christ, you have no hope in this life. You don't have hope in this life because you've not placed your faith in the finished work of the one and only Savior who came and died for your sins and rose from the dead. And he redeems you to himself. He forgives your sin. He cleanses you. He makes you his child. And he makes you his purchased possession for eternity. You have the guarantee of eternal life. You have both no hope in this life or in the life to come if you don't have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so my encouragement to you, while this has not been a gospel-oriented week with an appeal to evangelism, the gospel is at the heart of this psalm because God's presence is associated with his relationship to us. But then I move to the believer. And to the believer, I want to remind you of some simple thoughts we've seen this week. Since God is our refuge and strength, we should not fear what we cannot control. If he truly is a refuge, if he truly is a strength, if he truly is with us, then we shouldn't fear. Secondly, since he has established an everlasting covenant with us as his people , We can rest in his everlasting presence. Now, when I talk about an everlasting covenant, what I mean is that God promises that those whom he has saved, he will keep. In fact, Romans chapter 8 says that there is nothing that can separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Paul writes, I am persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Thirdly, since he continually demonstrates his faithfulness, we should glory in him and rest in him. This is something he does all the time. We should glory in his work. So I challenge you, rest in his care. Whenever you're facing uncertainties and difficulties and heartaches and struggles, rest in his care. Be like those who during the Passover, when they put that blood on the doorpost, they went to bed and they said, everything's good. God's going to keep us safe. Not those who say, I'm going to do it, but I really don't know what's going to happen. Secondly, rest in his care when facing vicious enemies. This world is full of evil. Satan is a vicious, terrible foe. Trust God. Rest in him when you face Satan's onslaughts Rest in God's character. He is good. He is wise. He is gracious. He is sovereign. He is faithful. You just keep going down the list. Rest in his character. And rest in his promises. Know what he says he will do. Know how he has bound himself to his word And then cling to those promises. Rest in those promises. Rest in the fact that He is good, that He has promised, and He is with us not only now, but forever. I hope that you have a wonderful, wonderful weekend. Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday. If you're not able to join us, I hope that Lord willing we'll see you on Monday as we work our way through a new passage of Scripture. Have a blessed weekend, and I'll talk to you, Lord willing soon, by now