Good morning and welcome to our Friday edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And as we always do on Fridays, we're going to look at application. And yes, there are practical things that we have talked about all week. But this will be extremely focused on just pulling it all together and saying, how are we supposed to respond to these truths? So if you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to turn there to Luke chapter 20. If not Just follow on the screen if you're watching this and we'll read the text together and then kind of pull it all together with a few questions and then some encouragements for us to follow. Here's what Luke chapter 20 verse 46 says. Beware of the scribes which desire to walk in long robes, and love greetings in the markets, and the highest seats of the synagogues, and the chief rooms of feasts. which devour widows' houses, and for a show make long prayers, the same shall receive greater damnation. And he looked up and saw the rich men casting in their gifts into the treasury And he saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two mites. And he said, Of a truth, I say unto you, this poor widow has cast in more than they all. for all these out of their abundance cast in unto the offering of God, but she of her penury has cast in all the living that she had. And the same spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts Now as we dug into this passage of scripture, we we tended to look at it in a negative sense. What uh was the problem with the way that these people were giving and how were they What was what was the cause of that? What is the root, the source of all that? We saw it had a lot to do with their view of God, their view of themselves, their view of what worship is supposed to be, how to actually do it. It was extremely self-serving, it was extremely superficial, it was extremely hypocritical. But the question that we should ask ourselves is not what was their problem? The question should be, do we have a problem? And if we do, how do we address it? And if we don't, how do we keep ourselves in a position that in fact we do not get into this kind of problem So let me begin with a couple of questions for us to consider, and I want us to consider them truly from the heart. The first question is this. Do I actually give? Now when I say when I ask this question, I'm I'm not asking this question because I'm trying to coerce anybody to give more than they do or to start giving if they don't. The truth is we shouldn't be giving Because of pressure from our pastor or from our spouse or from our parent or from our church. We should be giving. Because we have a biblical conviction, we have a right view of God, a right view of ourselves, and it truly is an expression of worship. That is not to say that there aren't religious duties in this area. But our motivation really should be a convictional motivation. And it should be a genuine from the heart motivation. But I ask the question, do you give? The second question is, to whom do you give? And the truth is it's not just the local church that can be the focus of our benevolences people. The reality is that our church uh gives to us. I mean if you come to Anchor Baptist Church, um there are people that minister in the Word to you and when they are ministering in the Word to you, you are growing, you are being challenged, you're being encouraged, you're being exhorted, you're being shepherded, all those things. So you're receiving hopefully pretty significant blessings from God in the context of the local church. And so Scripture teaches that we have a responsibility to support those who minister to us in the Word. But the church is not the only area where we can we can be involved in in benevolence. The truth is there are lots of causes that are outside the church that um can accurately and and and be a part of our giving. But the question is to whom do you give? The answer should be ultimately I give to God and I give to God as a good steward of what He has given me. Third question is how do I give? Do you give in a way that draws attention to yourself? Do you give in a way that thinks a lot about what you've done or what you haven't done? How we give is very important. And then the question is why? Why do you give that way? Why do you give it all? Why don't you give it all? The answer to that question, why, is going to be really giving us a good sense of what is at the foundation and the root of what's going on in our heart. And so those four questions are important questions. The second part of what I want to do on the application here is I want to give you some exhortations, some challenges from the Word of God. The first exhortation is this: we must get into the Scripture and get a big view of God. If I struggle in this area of giving, rather than than than me basically doing it out of guilt, We're doing it because uh I I'm tired of people hounding me or something like that, or I'm I'm afraid that God's going to punish me because I'm not giving. Instead of that being the motivation, we need to ask the question, where is my view of God deficient? And my view of myself deficient. And we've got to go back into the Word of God, and we've got to get our lives properly oriented around God and His truth. And so we need to get into scripture and we need to have a big view of Him. We secondly need to get into the Scripture and get an accurate view of ourselves. The truth is that we have an opportunity to stop and think about our strengths and our weaknesses and ask the question where did our strengths come from? Who gave them to us? The assets that we have, the the opportunities that we have, who gave us those things? The limitations that we have, who permitted those limitations, and who empowers us and strengthens us and works despite those limitations All of those resources that I have, where did they come from? And all of a sudden I start realizing that I'm independent. I have strength because God gave it to me. I have wisdom because God gave it to me. I have opportunity because God gave it to me. I have resources because God gave it to me. I have a context where I can actually express gratitude because God gave it to me. And so an accurate view of self is critical. Thirdly, we need to purpose in our heart to live humbly, generously, and invest wise in eternity. We are to be stewards who manage the resources that God commits to our trust carefully We are to be humble, that we don't lift ourselves above what we should, but in fact we function in a way that's consistent with who we really are. Humble creatures dependent on God. We ought to be generous. We shouldn't be stingy. We shouldn't be hardened in our hearts toward others and the needs that are around us. But the fact is we should be a generous people. Generosity, that's coupled with wisdom. Generosity, that is a good stewardship, but generosity nonetheless. And then fourthly, a regular part of our worship to God should be giving back to Him in proportion to the way He has blessed us. Notice I didn't give you a number. I didn't say here's what you have to do. What I did say is that this should be a regular part of your giving to God It should be proportionate to the way he has blessed you. And it's something you need to sit down and you need to truly think about in your own heart and purpose to do by God's grace faithfully as an expression of worship to him. This is not just true about our money. It's true about our use of time and talent and strength. All of those things we need to live our lives as good and faithful, humble and generous stewards of what God has entrusted to us. Well, that's a lot to think about, isn't it? I hope you have a wonderful weekend. Hope to see many of you this Lord's Day coming that we'll have a wonderful service, that God will be glorified, and we as his people will be strengthened. If you have any questions, anything that's a concern, a struggle, you want to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that. Have a blessed rest of your day and weekend, and Lord willing, we'll meet again on either Sunday or Monday. Bye now.