Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and our first anchored in the word morning reflection for the week. And the text of scripture that we're dealing with is Luke chapter 14, verses 15 through 24. And the topic we're addressing is God's grace and man's folly. And so we're going to look at a couple of introductory thoughts this morning that I hope will be a great help to you. And uh hope that you had a good weekend and uh many of you we got to see at church this past uh Sunday yesterday and so I hope that uh the time together was a great encouragement. Let's go ahead and turn in our Bibles to the text that we're looking at. That's Luke chapter 14, verses 15 through 24. We'll read it and then look at some introductory thoughts. Here's what the scripture says. And when one of them that sent Then said he unto him, A certain man had a great supper, and bade men And sent his servants at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come, for all things are now ready. And they all, with one consent, began to make excuse Then we'll skip down to the end of the passage where it says, And the Lord said unto the servant, Go into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled. For I say unto you that none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper. Now, as we look at this passage of Scripture, the first thing I want to do to start out our week. is I'd like to summarize it with a couple of statements and then dig into uh the the statement that is made by this observer and how Jesus responds to him. So So first of all, a summary, the following parable magnifies the greatness of God's grace and his persistent extension of it against the backdrop of the tragic Irreversible rejection of that grace. And so what we're going to see in these verses is that Jesus is presenting that God is one who graciously invites people to Himself. And people in their folly turn away from that opportunity that's in front of them, that gracious invitation, and they choose to Prioritize the wrong things. And so what God wants us to do is be warned that there is a sin of presumption against God's grace that could potentially lie And so we need to be so very cautious of this attitude towards God's invitations. So, first of all, let's talk about this concept. God's grace alone is what makes people citizens of his kingdom. It is not through our works, it is through his grace that we have this opportunity. And we see in verse number 15 that when When one was sitting at the me at the table, he heard these things, and he said to Jesus, Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God. Now this man's in this man's statement about invitation And opportunity to be a part of God's kingdom is in fact correct. But the observer, though he's correctly understanding the immense value and privilege of being a part of God's kingdom, kingdom does not understand the full implications of what he's saying. And so when Christ gives this parable, what it's showing you is that the man's statement is true, but he doesn't understand the significance. And Jesus picks up on that. And so I want to just hammer out this point this morning. Um, and it's something that we talked about this past Sunday as well. They emphasize the fact that salvation is All of God's grace. So when we say that, there are several passages of Scripture that come to mind, and I want to highlight a couple of them. First one is Acts chapter 15, verse 11. He says, We believe That through the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ we shall be saved. Or in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 5, it says, When we were dead in sins, he hath Quickened us together with Christ, by grace we are saved. Ephesians 2. 8. 9. For by grace are ye saved through faith. And that not of yourselves, it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Or then again in Second Timothy chapter one, verse nine. He has saved us and called us with an holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which he hath given us in Christ. Jesus before the world began. Now, when when the Bible talks about grace, the question is, what does it mean when it says grace? Well, grace is un Unmerited favor. In other words, when God brings a person into his kingdom, it's not through something that they have done for God. It is through something God has done Done for them. And they do not deserve that goodness. God gives it simply because He is a good God. So I would put it like this: Grace alone is the basis of our grace. Salvation, which means we are not saved by something we give to God. We are also not saved through something we do for God. We are not saved through Something that we promise to do for God or promise to God. We are not saved because of who we are. And so if a person thinks, well, I can be saved by being faithful in church, or I'm saved because of my family background, or I my my ethnicity, or because I'm an American, or because I'm kind to people, if that is a person understanding of the gospel, then their understanding of the gospel is not biblical. It's not consistent with what Scripture teaches. We're not even saved because of the scripture. Strength of our faith in Christ. We go back to Ephesians 2. 8. 9, it says that we are saved by grace, and it's through faith. In other words, the basis of our salvation is Not technically the faith, but the grace of God, meaning his redemptive work on our behalf. Faith is what rests in the redemptive work of Christ. And it is the instrument through which God connects us to the benefits of the gospel. And so it's not how strong our faith is or how enduring our faith is. It is the simple fact that we are resting in Christ's work, the basis of that salvation being God's work and his grace. And so we do not in Anyway, deserve to be saved. We are saved through God's work alone. It is a free grace gift. It is all of the grace of God and based entirely on The work of Christ and in no way based upon our work for Him, only His work for us. It's a gift that we receive when we trust Christ and we trust in what He He's done for us. I love 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 18. He says, You know that you are not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation. Received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot I think that that text of Scripture really lays out so very well that salvation is not through our payment to God, but through his payment on our behalf. So the question is, what can we take away from this this morning? Well, what we take away from this is that we need to celebrate what God has done for us. We should rest in what God has done for us. We should be So very grateful for what God has done for us. And if it's possible that you've never responded to this message by placing your faith in Christ, I want to challenge you this morning. That is exactly what I'm saying What you need to do today. You don't need to be in a church building. You don't need to be talking with a pastor. You simply, in your heart, understanding what Jesus has done for you, his death and resurrection, you understand That salvation is exclusive in Christ, you turn to Him and place your faith in what He's done for you. Call on the Lord, ask Him to save you. If you've never trusted Christ, I hope that you will do that. this morning. And perhaps this is something that has been an encouragement. You take a moment to share that. If you think it'd be a blessing and a help to someone else, take a moment to share that as well. Hope that you have a great rest of your morning. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.