Good morning and welcome to our Friday edition of Anchored in the Word. And as we always do on Fridays, we deal with the final thoughts of application. I hope as we've worked our way through this text, you've seen that David was a man who went through great turmoil. In the midst of those turmoils, he went to God. He fled to him, he turned to him, and he found his strength in him. But that strength was built on some very significant things. And so I'd like to pull it all together this this uh uh morning and just kind of give you some final thoughts of application. So here we go. Let's read through the text one more time and then look at this final thoughts. Here's what it says Save me, O Lord, by thy name. Judge me by thy strength. Hear my prayer, O God. Give ear to the words of my mouth. Strangers are risen up against me. Oppressors seek after my soul. They've not seen set God before them. Selah. Behold, God is my helper. The Lord is with them that uphold my soul. He shall reward evil unto my enemies and cut them off in thy truth. I will freely sacrifice unto thee. I will praise thy name, O Lord. It is good. He hath delivered me out of all trouble. My eyes have seen his desire upon my enemies. As we look at this passage, we think about everything we've talked about, how can we boil it down to some final thoughts of application? First thing I want to say is this. We absolutely need to flee to God in our desperate times. Not from God. We don't need to sit there and be angry and disgruntled at him. We need to turn to him, run to him, find our strength in him. And so as we do that, let's remember there's a reason to do it. We should do it because we know the name of our God. And when I say we know the name of our God, we know that He's a God who sees us in our troubles. We know that he's a God who is almighty. There is nothing too difficult for him. We know that he's a God that doesn't change. He's outside of time. And he's consistent. His nature is always the same. All of creation is at his disposal. And when I say that, I mean that he uses all things and all creatures to accomplish his purposes. We know that he's a God who when we're in great trouble, he provides for us. He meets our needs. He gives us what we need. He separates us even through those trials. He gives us the strength. He nourishes our soul. He is there with us. This is our God. And when we go through those trials, what does he do? He heals us when we come on the other side. And so we remember the names of our God. That's a compelling reason for us to flee to him in trouble. Second thing I want to say is that we do it because we're on the right side of who he is. And I'm making the assumption that you're a you're a believer and that to the best of your ability you're trying to walk with the Lord. And so we were reminded in this passage that He's a righteous God. When you are walking in a way that's consistent with His purposes, when you stand Righteous in Christ before him, he's your father. You're on the correct side of the issue. You're on his side He's our Savior. He loves us. He's redeemed us. And he's done it for his glory, yes, but also to demonstrate his love and his compassion and his goodness toward us. And so we're on his side. And he's working on our behalf because we're walking where we're supposed to. Next thing I'd say is this, we should flee to him also. Because we have learned through the experiences of life that He's a consistent God and He meets our needs. And it's true that there are times when we maybe don't have a lot of history to draw from. So we need to go to the scripture. And draw from the history of scripture. We should read good biographies and learn about how God's worked in people's lives. Talk to godly Christians who are a lot older than us and and learn by their experience. But I really love this passage because It captures it so well. 2 Corinthians 1. 7, Paul writes, Our hope of you is steadfast. Knowing that as you are partakers of suffering, so you shall also be of the consolation or the comfort For we would not, brethren, that you be ignorant of our trouble which came to us in Asia, that you were pressed out of measure, above strength, insomuch we despaired even of life But we had the sentence of death in ourselves, that we should not trust in ourselves, but in God, who raised up the dead. who delivered us from so great a death, and doth deliver, and in whom we trust that he will deliver us. I love that statement. Paul is saying that we were in the lowest of places But we know that God's going to deliver us. We know because he has, because he is, and we trust that he will. And so as we think about the most desperate situations we ever encounter in life, we need to always run to God. We know his names. We know his testimonies, and we know by experience that he's a faithful God. May that be what we take into this weekend. Have a wonderful rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday. I hope that the Word of God will be a great encouragement to you and that these lessons have been a great encouragement to you. Send them to somebody who you think might be encouraged by it, and Lord willing we will meet again. On Sunday were Monday by now.