Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Flection. And as we always do on Fridays, we focus on some application. And so that's how we'd like to close out going into the weekend. Also wanted to make a couple of comments about the weekend. It obviously looks like we're going to have a significant winter storm. And so more than likely on Sunday we will not have services. But if we don't, I'll try to put something out just as a word of encouragement to everyone. And I hope that you have a wonderful Lord's Day. And maybe go back over these Anchored in the Word studies and just spend some time thinking about that or follow one of the services that we had recently and just let the preaching of God's Word and the Ministry of Music just be a blessing to you. Well let's go ahead and turn our Bibles again to Psalm 52, and we're going to read the opening to the Psalm and then look at some final thoughts that I hope will encourage you going into the weekend. Here's what it says, Psalm 52. 1 Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? The goodness of God endureth continually. Thy tongue deviseth mischief like a sharp razor working deceitfully Thou lovest evil more than good, and lying rather than to speak righteousness. Thou lovest all devouring words, O thou deceitful tongue. God shall likewise destroy thee forever. He shall take thee away, pluck thee out of thy dwelling place, and root thee out of the land of the living Selah. As we think about this Psalm, all the different aspects to it, the things we've talked about over the past week. I think it's important for us to land on this final thought. There is an opportunity for comfort even when life is very hard. It can be complicated. It can be painful. Sometimes those complications are the result of our own choices. Sometimes this is the natural consequence of those choices. Sometimes this is something that's completely out of our control. We can't do anything to stop it. And in those seasons when we are very discouraged, there is the potential for hope and comfort, but we've got to go to the right place. And that place is the Word of God. And so I think of this New Testament text That really presents a parallel idea to this psalm we've been looking at. And that's 2 Corinthians 4. 17. He says, our light affliction which is but for a moment, important word, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory This comfort comes in a couple different ways. One is it's light, and when we say light, we don't mean it's insignificant. The scripture is saying it's light when you present it and compare it to the weight of eternal glory. It's but for a moment. That doesn't make this moment an insignificant moment. It's serious. It's something that weighs heavily on us. But it it it pales in comparison to the length of eternity. And then it's not something that's destructive to us. It's something God uses in our life to build us and mature us and grow us. And so how does God comfort us in those ways? Well, let's kind of step back and compare what we just said here to what we've looked at all week in the Psalms. The first thing is we're reminded that God preserves his people. No matter what we encounter in life, our soul is preserved. Our eternity is preserved by the work of Christ. And so we experience preservation. And by the way, God intervenes for our good over the course of our lives to preserve our lives until the day that He's He's done with what he has left us here to do. I also think about the fact that our suffering is temporary If there's an end date, there's a time when we won't face that anymore. And we can look forward to that because we know it's coming. Thirdly, we see that God judges the wicked, and when we see the wicked apparently getting away with things, that it's important for us to step back and realize, well, it might be for a period of time. But this justice is still coming. Perhaps God in his mercy is giving a person an opportunity to repent and to turn to him. And so God's delayed justice doesn't mean a person's going to get away with it. Their prosperity is temporary, and they're not going to prosper forever. And this judgment's going to be severe. And this severity is something that's entirely just. God's not being irrational. God's not being unjust in his justice. No, he is being perfectly righteous in the way he measures it out. And he is patient, and he is measured, and so we can trust in that. I also add this: the wicked's judgment is eternal. And the salvation of the righteous is also eternal. And so it's important for us to remember these things. It's important for us to remember that there is comfort available, even when life is challenging, even when it's complicated. And so I leave you with this final thought that I hope will be helpful to go into the weekend. We've got to learn to live with a tension. A tension between being a redeemed person who is destined for eternal glory and all the joy that awaits that eternal glory. Yet also being a redeemed person who suffers for a little while in this world. We've got to understand that that tension is there. We've got to accept it, and we've got to live in the light of it. And so I encourage you, may God help us to do that as we go into this weekend. I don't know what you're dealing with, I don't know what challenges you're facing. But God can work through those things. May we have the strength and the eyes to see it. Have a blessed weekend. If you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out. I'd love to be an encouragement any way that I can. And Lord willing, we'll meet again either on Sunday. Depending on the weather or Monday in anchored in the Word. Take care by now