Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. I hope that you've enjoyed these studies this week, and I hope that you've joined us and shared these things because these are all centered on the gospel. and the heart of the gospel. And the cross is the heart of the gospel. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles one more time, look at this passage of scripture, and then I'd like to give you some final words of application. application, both to those who know the Lord as their Savior and those who maybe are not believers at this moment. So Luke 22 verses 39 through 46, let's read it and then we'll look at those applications. Here's what God's word says. And when he was at the place he said unto them, Pray that you enter not into temptation. And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast, and kneeled down, and prayed, saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless not my will but thine be done. And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him. And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground. And when he rose up from prayer and was come to his disciples, he found them sleeping for sorrow. He said unto them, Why sleep ye? Rise, pray, lest you enter into temptation. Now there are two possible positions we could find ourselves in today. Either we are a believer, someone who understands the gospel, has repented and turned to Christ and placed their faith in him. Or we are an unbeliever. We're not yet convinced of the truths of the gospel. Maybe we don't believe that we need the gospel. Maybe we've been delaying this issue. Whatever the situation, we are sitting in a position of unbelief. If that's you, then I want to appeal to you first. If you are an unbeliever, do not allow this passage to pass you by without thinking about the implication. Realize that there is no other alternative. There's no other place you can turn to find salvation. Christ is the one and only way. When Jesus says, if it is possible, if ye be willing, nevertheless your will not mine be done, it's telling us something. It's telling us Christ is the only way. Secondly, realize the implication of thinking that you can earn your way to Him. If a person thinks they can earn their way to God, they're essentially saying that the cross was a waste. We didn't need it. Now we know that we did need it. And so we know that's the wrong way to look at it. But the scripture says in Galatians If righteousness can come by the law, the Christ has died in vain. Thirdly, do not treat the cross as if it's cheap or a wasted sacrifice. Don't think that Christ would go to the cross and it be a waste. He died for your sins. He desires you to be saved. Turn to him. Place your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so that's my encouragement to the unbeliever. If you've never repented and believed, then today's the day you need to do that. And maybe you don't understand how to do that. Maybe you need to ask some questions. Please reach out to me. Reach out to me through Facebook, YouTube, email, however you need to do it. Reach out and I'd be glad to have a series of conversations with you. pointing you to the gospel and showing you what Christ has done for you and explaining how you respond to the gospel in repentance and faith. But the second group is the believer You've understood the gospel, you've placed your faith in Christ, you know that you have eternal life. But the question is, what do these verses have to say to you and to me? Well, it has a lot to say as well. First thing I want to mention is this. We should never entertain doubt that God loves us. God's love for us is something that is consistent. It's something that we can rest in. It's not something that comes and goes, ebbs and flows. It's not built on our goodness, our righteousness, what we've done for God. None of those things. It's a free love. It is a rich love. It's a true love. Secondly, we should never diminish the significance of the cross. When we talk about it, we shouldn't talk about it as a cheap thing. We we shouldn't diminish the weight of that sacrifice. It wasn't just a physical suffering, but there was a spiritual suffering that was there on that cross. Thirdly, never forget the weight of that sacrifice in a personal sense. It's not just in the general, this is what Christ did, it's this is what he did for me. I'm the one who his sins were laid upon. I'm the one. My sins were laid upon his account. He was punished for me. It's a personal matter. Fourthly, once you've trusted Christ, rest in what you have in him. Rest in that inheritance, rest in that justified position. Rest in the acceptance that you have with God. Rest in the guarantee of that future in inheritance and eternal joy that we'll experience in heaven. Rest in the fact that your sins are removed and they're gone and you'll never face them again. Rest in what Christ has done for you. Rejoice in what it tells you about his love for you. It tells you that his love is far deeper. far wider, far more expansive than we can fully comprehend. We serve a God who values our soul and loves us deeply. And regularly remind yourself of these truths and live it like you actually believe them to be true. It's important for us every single day to preach the gospel to ourselves. This morning, as I was reading my Bible, as I was thinking about these truths I took time to stop, to reflect, to thank God for what he's done, to reflect on the cross. That's something we need to do every single day. Not as a ritual, but as a moment of real reflection, worship, and gratitude. And so I hope that's what you'll take into this weekend. As I mentioned, each week or each day this week, if you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out. If it's been an encouragement, share it with someone else. If you need to can make a connection, please do that. Have a blessed rest of your day. Blessed weekend. Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday as we continue in our missions month. And by the way, not only is it missions month. But we also have our international meal coming up as well. So I hope that you'll take time to prepare for that as well. Have a blessed day. Lord willing. We'll meet again tomorrow or on Monday. Bye now.