Good morning, welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And uh yesterday we talked about some introductory thoughts for Psalm thirty-seven and looking at godly wisdom while living in a fallen world. And what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to take the psalm and just kind of give you a basic uh overview of what the psalm is addressing. What are the main themes of the psalm Because what this is going to do is it's going to really shape our perspective as we dig into the context. And so I hope that you'll bear with me as I as I deal with a lot of details, we're going to read a lot of verses. uh but we're really going to hit the primary themes of the psalm. And there are four themes that I think we can find in the psalm. Um probably you could argue that they're there are more than that, but these four are kind of give you the basic structure. So let me read the section with you again, that's Psalm 37, verses 1 through 8, and then we'll walk our way through those little pieces. Here's what the scripture says. Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the rulers of iniquity, for they shall soon be cut down like the grass and wither as the green herb. Trust in the Lord and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man that bringeth wicked devices to pass. Cease from anger and forsake wrath, fret not thyself in any wise to do evil. Now, as I mentioned earlier, there are four basic themes that we find in this psalm. The first of those four themes is that God's people are supposed to walk in wisdom. And what you will see is that each of these statements that we're going to analyze about this walk in wisdom, they are stated in commands form. Things like do not fret. Do not be envious. Trust God. Do what is right. Delight in the Lord. Commit your way to Him. These are commands. We as Christians are responsible to obey God in such a way. And so we could make the argument that choosing to not walk in wisdom Or maybe it's not that we are actively choosing in rebellion to not walk in wisdom, but we are being passive and we're unwilling to actually take these things seriously. We're in disobedience. The second theme is that God punishes evil. He is righteous and he is just. And though God does not deal with sin immediately, he most certainly is going to ultimately deal with sin and evil. And then the third theme is that he comforts his people. He cares for them. And there are lots and lots of encouraging statements in this psalm about that theme. And then the last of those themes is that he is actively working in the world to preserve good and to preserve his people. So knowing that that is the structure of the psalm, let's kind of work our way through that. Theme 1, we find in verses 1 through 8. And these are the statements that we find. Verse number 1, fret not. Verse number one, do not be envious against the workers of iniquity. Verse number three, trust in the Lord. Verse number three, do good. Verse number four, delight thyself also in the Lord. Verse five, commit thy way unto the Lord. Verse number five, trust in the Lord. Verse number seven, rest and wait patiently for him. Now, I'm not going to dig into each of those statements in depth today. But later on in our studies, we will actually break down each of those pieces. We as God's people are responsible to walk in wisdom. It is an obedience issue. And I want to encourage you, let's obey the Lord in this area. The second section is found in verses 9 through 22. And this says that God punishes evil. So in verse number 9, he says, evildoers shall be cut off. This is a promise. So while the first several were commands, this section is stated in the form of promise A little while, verse 10, and the wicked shall not be. Yea, thou shalt diligently seek his place, and it shall not be. This is a promise. This is not the current experience of the psalmist. This is something that he believes God is going to do because He is affirming that in fact this is true. Verse 13, it says that the Lord shall laugh at him, for he seeth that his day is coming. And then in verse 20 it says, That the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the Lord shall be as the fat of lambs, and consumed into smoke, and shall consume away. So while the first section was dealing with command, the second is dealing with promise. The third is also dealing with promise. Or we could even say it's going beyond promise. It's a blend of both promise and observation. David is saying this is what God says he is going to do. But it is ultimately, this is what I have seen that God does. This is how I know that God works because of my experience in relation to his promises. And so notice what it says in verse 23 and 24. It says, The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down, for the Lord upholdeth him with his hand. Now this is an affirmation of what is true. David is saying God does not allow his people to fall and not get back up. He upholds them with his hand. His steps are ordered by the Lord, and he delights in his way. Verse 25, he says, I have been old, young, and I'm now old. Yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. David is saying, throughout my whole life I've had the observation, the opportunity to observe life and observe people. And what I have seen is that God does not forsake people. God upholds them. He takes care of them. He is a caring and comforting Heavenly Father. Verse 26, it says, He's merciful and lendeth, and his seed is blessed. And he basically is saying God gives him not just enough to take care of his needs, but God uses him to minister to other people. And then in verse 28 it says that the Lord loveth judgment and forsaketh not his saints. So we see that there are commands. And there are promises, and then there are observations, reflections on life. Well, the last section is kind of dealing with this same idea. that God is going to He's going to punish evil and He's going to uphold His people and preserve them. And the reason for that is that He is a God who is providentially at work in the world. When things are going on, while God allows people to make choices, and he allows them to experience the consequences of their choices, He is actively at work to punish evil and to preserve his people. And we're going to see that in verses 32 to 38. He says that the wicked watched the righteous, and they seek to slay him. The Lord will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged. He says, I've observed in life that the wicked are plotting and scheming and they're lurking, waiting for opportunity, and seeking opportunity to destroy God's people. And what does God do? He protects them. He preserves them. He's not going to allow evil to triumph ultimately in the world. Verses 35 and 36. I love this statement. He says, I have seen the wicked in great power, and they're spreading themselves like a green bay tree. Yet He passed away, and lo he was not. When we think about history, what we see is that there are times that the wicked rise to power and the wicked prosper, but it is only for a season. And you ask the question, how is it that the wicked fall so rapidly? And how is it that God is able to, or that people who are righteous are preserved? And the answer is it's because of God. God lifts up, He brings down, He preserves His people. And the last verses , last two verses I want to mention are verses 37 and 38. He says, Mark the perfect man and behold the upright. The end of that man is peace, but the transgressors shall be destroyed, and the end of the wicked shall be cut off. You say, Joel, what can I take away from this study this morning? What you and I can take away from this study is that we have an obligation, a responsibility to walk in wisdom. And we should recognize that God punishes evil, He preserves the righteous, and the reason that the righteous are preserved and the wicked are punished in the end. is that God in His providence is actively at work in the world. And the summation of this is, because that is true, then we should not fret, we should not be envious, we should trust God, we should do what's right, we should delight in the Lord, we should trust Him, we should rest and wait patiently for Him. And so I pray that that's what we will be doing. Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to go a little bit further into this passage, break it down a little bit deeper, as we reflect on what this text says about our duty to walk in wisdom. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again. Bye now