Good morning and welcome to our Thursday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope you've been uh learning a lot and enjoying the study that we've been doing this week. We've been talking about how God preserves his children and how he delivers them even when they're going through very difficult times. And so let's go ahead and look at the concept of how God preserves his people. Yesterday we talked about two themes dealing with how foolish it is for the wicked to live as if God doesn't exist. The fact that they're going to stand before God's judgment seat and his justice is very certain. Today we're going to look at the preservation side and the contrast between the wicked and the righteous and how God deals with them. So let's go ahead and turn to Psalm 52, and as we turn there, we're going to read through the first portion of the Psalm. Let's remember that it's Amashel, a son of David, when Doeg the Edomite came and told Saul that he had seen David. It says, Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? The goodness of God endureth continually. Thy tongue deviseth mischiefs, like a sharp razor, working deceitfully. Thou lovest evil more than good, and lying rather than to speak righteousness. Sila. Thou lovest all devouring words, O thou deceitful tongue. God shall likewise destroy thee forever He shall take thee away, pluck thee out of thy dwelling place, and root thee out of the land of the living. Siwa Now, this morning we're going to focus on how God is going to preserve and then defend and ultimately judge the wicked as He preserves and defends the righteous. And so the second theme we look at, or the third theme, excuse me, that we're looking at here, first one today, is that godly people are going to witness God's righteous intervention. Notice the way that he puts it in verses six and seven. The righteous also shall see, important word. They will fear, important word, they will laugh. Lo, this is the man that made not God his strength, but trusted in the abundance of his riches, and strengthened himself in his wickedness. Now, as we look at this passage, we see three words. First of all, we see that they're going to see. The idea is that there's going to be a witnessing of God's intervention. The second thing is the word fear. The righteous are going to fear or they're going to process what's going on and they're going to be sobered by it. They're going to recognize the power and the justice and the righteousness of God. And so there is a processing of what they've witnessed. And the third is, they're gonna laugh. They're gonna look and go, how in the world could someone think they could get away with this? And so what this is showing us is that the righteous are going to have times in their lives where they're going to witness God's intervention and it's going to cause them to realize, hey, God is in control, not these people. The fourth thing, or the second today, is that he sets an eternal distinction between those who are righteous and those who are wicked. And this really is drawn out in this passage of Scripture. Verses 8 and 9 he says, but I, in contrast to the wicked, I am like a green olive tree in the house of my God. I trust in thy mercy, O God, forever and ever. I will praise thee forever. Why? Because thou hast done it. And I will wait on thy name. It is good before thy saints. We contrast this with the metaphor that he uses to describe the wicked. The wicked are going to be uprooted. They're going to be destroyed. They're going to be plucked up. They're going to be taken away. We're contrasting that idea of a brooding with what? God planting someone who's going to flourish forever. And this is something that I really thought was kind of neat to think about. David was actually, um, there were there were trees that were alive during the time of David as he was writing these things that are still alive today some of these olive trees. And so he's saying the wicked are going to be uprooted, the olive trees. These are some of the oldest trees in the world. These trees, they stand. What's he saying? God punishes the wicked, he preserves the righteous. Or we could also see that he contrasts the object of the confidence of these two groups of people. So one group of people, the unrighteous, their confidence is in their ability to do what is manipulative, coercive. uh to play a chess match with people. He says that thou lovest evil more than good, and lying rather than speaking righteousness. What's he saying? These people like to do whatever they they they rest in whatever they can do to manipulate the situation On the other side, these people, the righteous, have confidence in the mercies of God, his providence, his loving kindness, his covenant faithfulness. And he says, I trust in thy mercy, O God, forever and ever. So we see the difference between how God deals with these people, the difference between their objects of confidence, one that is in the covenant faithfulness of God, one that is in his ability to destroy and to manipulate. and to coerce. And that word mercy is the Hebrew word chassed. It has the idea of gospel implication. God has promised, God has fulfilled, I can rest in his faithfulness to his word. And so that's the difference between these two people. But then there's a third difference that I think is also very important to notice, and that is the contrast of relationship. What I mean is that how they're related to God. The wicked is cut off from the Lord. Verses 14 and 15 Uh we uh excuse me. In these verses we see something that is that is talked about in Revelation chapter 20. where God is going to punish the wicked. And it says that the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be tormented day and night forever and ever. This passage describes how God's going to cut off the wicked forever. On the other side, we see what the scripture has to say about the righteous. It talks about it in the Psalm, but also in Revelation 21. He says that the tabernacle of God will be with man, and he will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and he'll wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there'll be no more death or sorrow, crying, or any more pain. because the former things are passed away. What's the point? These two people, these two groups, are relating to God very different. One is separated and judged, the other is brought into his presence and will enjoy him forever. One final thing I want to mention here is that this passage presents a tension, a tension between the immediate struggles and the temporary experiences of God's intervention, and the future experience where we will never experience suffering and pain ever again. And so we see this in the statement, I will wait, there's the patience, on your name because it is good. And so the idea is that we as Christians are living in a tension between the already and the not yet. The already meaning we are already saved. Our sins are forgiven. We've been given eternal life. We are God's children. Our inheritance is promised and secured. But they're not yet. We're not yet living in glory. We're not experiencing the unending joy and eternal bliss that's available to us in the presence of God without sin and suffering, like we will have forever. And so that tension is built in. So I leave you with this final thought. This passage of scripture is all about saying, listen It's true that life is hard. It's true that there is suffering. It's true that the wicked appear to prosper. But what is also true is that's not the end of the story. The end of the story is that God will preserve his people. The end of the story is that God will punish the wicked. The end of the story is what you're experiencing now is only a foretaste of what is to come. And may God give us strength as we focus in on that, or meditate on that this morning. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing will meet again tomorrow as I leave you with some final thoughts to go into the weekend. Bye now.