Good morning. Welcome back to our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope you're having a good Thursday morning or whenever you're watching this video. And the the topic that we're going to address this morning is a little bit of a subtopic, but it is a very important topic for us to consider. And there's a word that we find in these verses in Psalm 38, the word is chastening, and we see the same word used in the in Psalm 6. He uses the word chastening. And those two Psalms are very similar. So what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like us to dig into this concept of how do we respond to God when the suffering that we're experiencing is directly connected to God's chastening hand. It's not just that we're weary and it's not just that people around us are doing things that are causing misery in our lives, but we have a guilty conscience. We are experiencing God's hand on us and it's making us weary as we think that perhaps He's displeased with us. So how should we look at this topic here. So turn with me in your Bibles to Psalm 38. We're going to dig into this text together and as we do we'll we'll talk about this topic of how do we respond to God in Him So, Psalm 38, verse 1. O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. For thine arrow stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore. There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger, neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin. For mine iniquities are gone over my head, as in heavy burden, they're too heavy for me, my wounds stink and are corrupt because of my foolishness I am troubled. I am bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day long. And then at the end of the Psalm he writes, Forsake me not, O Lord. O my God, be not far from me. Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. Now, the first thing I want us to ask. is how do we tend to respond to God when he is chastening us? Well we actually get some great insight from the text. We tend to respond in the same way that David does. In verse number one we see this statement. Rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. We understand what he's doing. The two words that stand out in these verses are the words rebuke. and chasten. We see that he has called attention to wrong that we have done. And we realize that we are experiencing his fatherly discipline Now, I'm not going to dig into this in great detail this morning because this is a lengthy discussion, but when I preached on this on Sunday night, we talked about God's chastening hand. And chastening is not just talking about God giving you discipline. It's talking about the entire part of how God shapes us and how God In fact, when we look at Ephesians chapter 6, he says that fathers are not to provoke their children to wrath, but they're to bring them up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. And the word that is translated chastening in other New Testament texts is translated in that text, nourish, let uh bring them up in the nurture. Excuse me, not nurture. nurture and admonition of the Lord. So the idea is that he is taking us as children and he's teaching us and he's walking alongside of us and he is disciplining us and his hand is firm at times And he's allowing us to experience heartache and difficulty and hardship. But it's all about him shaping us to become more like Christ. And so we understand what God is doing. But where we fail is we fail to understand why. Why is he doing this? And notice the words and the verse that David writes. He says, in your wrath and in your hot displeasure. But when the Bible talks about chastening, for instance in Proverbs or Hebrews chapter 12, he says, whom the Lord loves, he chasten. A father chastens a son in whom he delights. And so what we see is that we are failing to understand its God's love for us as his children, not wrath against us as his enemies, that is motivating his firm hand of correction. God chastens us because he loves us. And so the question is, how should we respond to this chastening hand that is accomplished, that is really a result of the loving care of God on our lives. Well the first thing that we're going to see, and we're going to see this in the Psalm 38 passage, is that we need to pour out our hearts transparently to Him and remind ourselves that He cares. In verse number 9, he says, Lord, all my desire is before thee, and my groaning is not hid from thee. Now, when Devon says that, He's saying that because he's reminding himself that God sees everything and that God cares. He says, my groaning is not hid from you. In other words, he is anticipating that as God sees his groaning, his disposition toward him is one of mercy. One of compassion, one of care. And so when we don't feel as if God loves us because of the heaviness of our circumstances, Part of crying out to him is reminding ourselves that in fact he does care about us. And we express it to him The second thing we see in the Psalm is he reminds himself that he's not abandoned by God. And so we, in like manner, should remind ourselves that he's not abandoned us And that he hears our cries. In verse 15 he says, In thee, O Lord, do I hope thou wilt hear. We remind ourselves that God's promises toward his children are sure and they're still steadfast, and they're unshakable. And there's nothing that can separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Word. And there's now no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. And faithful is he who calleth you who also will do it. God is going to continue, and he's going to work in our lives, he's not going to abandon us. And so at the end of that statement, he says, you hear You're going to hear. I have confidence of this. The third thing, remind yourself that he is your salvation. Verse 22, make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. And part of this is we should remind ourselves continually of what was accomplished for us, what we have in Christ, all of the benefits that we have. These are things that we need to remind ourselves. There's a fourth. We've got to be patient as he brings healing and comfort to our wearied souls. In verses one and two, David writes this, Psalm 40. I waited patiently for the Lord. And he inclined unto me, and he heard my cry. He brought me up out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and he set my feet on a rock and established my going. Now when David says, I waited patiently for the Lord and he inclined unto me and heard my cry, you ask, well, what's he referring to? Well he's referring to Psalm 38. and to Psalm 39. Because what we read in Psalm 38 is never truly resolved. It's actually continuing into Psalm 39 And we see it not entirely resolved at the end of Psalm 39, but when we open up Psalm 40, we see the resolution. What's the point? The point is there's got to be patience. And healing takes time. And God's comforting hand to a weary soul is something that doesn't happen instantaneously, but it's something that happens progressively. We've got to remind ourselves of the nature of how God comforts us. us when we are weary. But lastly, this is the one that really encourages me. And I hope it encourages you. We need to realize that he can, he is able. To restore the broken and to put a new song in a renewed heart. God can take you, no matter how you feel right now, no matter how dark this season is, He can lift you up And he can strengthen your ways, and he can give you stability, and he can put a song in your heart again. That's what he's saying. That's an amazing, amazing He writes it this way in Psalm 40, verse 3. He, God, has put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall hear. And shall fear and shall put their trust in the Lord. Blessed is that man who maketh the Lord his trust, and respecteth not the proud. Many, O Lord, my God, are thy wonderful works which thou hast done. And the thoughts which are to upward are to usward that cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee. If I could declare them and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. What is David saying? He's saying, God, on the other side of this struggle, I can sing again. I have strength again. And now I understand. that the way that you deal with me is far, far richer and far more patient and far more loving and far more kind than I could ever have comprehended. It is because I went through the struggle that I now have the eyes to see the You might say, well, Joel, what can we take away from this? Let me give you some final thoughts here. When we find ourselves in a similar place as David, rather than seeing God as our enemy, we've got to see him. As the one who loves us and humbly turn to him and find his strength. We need to pour our hearts to him Tell him how we feel. Tell him what's on our heart. It's not like he's gonna be caught off guard and go, what's going on? I didn't know this is how things are. That's how we are with people, but that's not how God is with us. He knows everything. We need to remind ourselves that he cares. He hasn't abandoned us. He loves us. He's there. We need to remind ourselves that we have in him so many wonderful blessings because he is our Savior. And we need to be patient with him as he brings healing and comfort to our weary souls. I hope that tomorrow you will join us as we take One final look at this passage, a passage that reminds us that God can restore us, He can restore joy, He can put a new song in our heart. That's where we're going tomorrow. So I hope that you'll join us one more time as we look at some final thoughts, and I hope that we are encouraged in the word by the things that we read. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. By now.