Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that your week's going well. And this is the midpoint, and I hope that as we talk about this portion of the story that you will be encouraged and challenged in that today, by the end of this lesson, you will be encouraged to be a grateful person. And we all have reasons to be grateful. And this passage reminds us of how important that is. So let's turn our Bibles again to Luke chapter 17. We we are again reading verses 11 down to verse 19. Here's what the word of God says. And it came to pass as he went to Jerusalem that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. As he entered into a certain village there met him ten men that were lepers. which stood afar off. And they lifted up their voices and said, Master, have mercy on us. And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go show yourself to the priests. It came to pass that as they went they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw them, that he was healed, turned back. With a loud voice glorified God and fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks. And he was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed, but where are the nine? There are not found that return to give glory to God save this stranger? He said unto him, Arise. Go thy way. Thy faith hath made thee whole. Now, as we look at this passage of scripture, it reminds us of one example of something that is a big picture. And that big picture is that many people fail to respond properly to the mercy of God. And that statement is important for us to break down a little bit this morning in the light of the passage that we're looking at. In verses 15 and 16 it says, and one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back and with a loud voice glorified God and fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks. Notice the word one, only one out of the ten. Every single one of us is a person that has experienced God's rich mercy. And I want to look at a couple of scriptures that remind us of that this morning. The first passage is Acts 17, verse 2028. It says, In him we live and move and have our being. Another passage, Hebrews 1 verse 3, says, Christ is the brightness of his glory, the express image of his person, and upholds all things by the word of his power. Again in Matthew 5. 45 it says that he maketh his son to rise on the evil and on the good, and he sendeth his reign on the just and on the unjust. And then again in Lamentations 3. 22 it says that it is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. As we look at this progression, what do we see? That we live and we move and we have our being and our lives are upheld by his hands. And he gives us good things, and it's of his mercies that we are not consumed, his compassions fail not, and they're new every morning. God is a faithful God. And this is true whether people are godly or ungodly. People who express gratitude to God and people who don't express gratitude to God. People who live a very sober life, recognizing that they are created in the image of God and they have a responsibility to Him. And people who say that we are not created by God, we are not image bearers, we're simply the result of random chance. God is merciful to all people across the line. And many people scorn that goodness. In fact, in Isaiah 65, he says, I've spread out my hand all day unto a rebellious people which walk in a way that is not good after their own thoughts. Or then we look at Romans 1. 21. He says, when people knew God, they did not glorify him as God, but were unthankful. They were vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was dark, and professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. I just want to pause and ask the question, which side of humanity do you stand on? Are you on the side that recognizes that you are created in the image of God and every good and perfect gift comes from him? and that we should be eternally thankful and grateful to him and express that every morning? Or are we the side of humanity that when we know God, we don't glorify him as God, and we're unthankful, and our heart is becoming vain and foolish and darkened. We are going to fall on one side of those two. And so taking ourselves back to this passage of scripture, we see out of the ten, only one came to express gratitude to God. His gratitude revealed several things, specifically four. One out of ten realized that the one who killed him was who? Was God. He gave glory to God. One out of ten realized that this person, the Lord Jesus Christ, he is God in flesh. And that's why he bowed at his feet. And that's why he worshipped him and praised God for the work that had been done on his behalf and expressed thanks. One out of the ten understood the glories of God's mercy and grace. Only nine, or nine out of the ten, failed to express anything to Christ. By the way, I want to add something here to think about before we close. When you look carefully at the text, what does it say? Ten men were healed. One man was made whole. There's a difference between those two things. One man, because of his faith, did not just experience God's healing. But that man experienced the wholeness that comes through the gospel. He recognized Jesus as Messiah He received him as the one who was coming to deliver him not just from death as a leper, but eternal death as a sinner. And so as we think about this passage of Scripture, we don't know anything about the other nine. We know they were all healed, but only one we know was made whole. Have a blessed rest of your day as you think about that. As you think about how good God is. I hope you'll write it down and I hope that you'll take time to express gratitude to Him. Let's live today. As a grateful, thankful people who recognize that it is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. His compassions fail not. They are new every day. Great is his faith. Faithfulness. Have a blessed day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. By now