Good morning and welcome to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Today we're going to talk about some more background in Peter's life that's really focused in on this interaction between he and Christ. And we're going to look at the potential that this man, Peter, had, but that was potential with, we could say, some rough edges that needed to be rounded out. So if you have a Bible, let's take it and turn to John 21. I'm going to read this text again and then start looking at some of those details about the diamond in the rough, the potential that Peter had, though he was a man who had a lot of flaws and difficulties. John 21, verse 1. After these things Jesus showed himself again to his disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. And on this wise showed he himself. There were together Simon Peter and Thomas called Didymus, Nathaniel of Cana and Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee and two others of his disciples. Simon Peter saith unto them, I go fishing. They say unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth and entered into a ship immediately, and that night they caught nothing. But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore, but his disciples knew not that it was Jesus And Jesus saith unto them, Children, have ye any meat? They answered him, No. And he said unto them, Cast your net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find They cast their four, and now they were not able to draw in the multitude of the fishes. So yesterday we talked about how there were two different events in the life of Peter where Jesus performs this miracle. Very similar. but also different events, different times, and the things that Jesus says to them are quite different. Let's go back and ask ourselves, who is this individual? that Jesus is interacting with in both passages of Scripture. Who is Simon Peter? Well Simon Peter was a man who was complicated But he was a man who had huge potential. In fact, if we were to go to the beginning of the story, we see in John chapter 1 that Peter first meets Christ through his brother It says, on the next day after John stood, two of his disciples looked upon Jesus as he walked, and he saith, Behold! the Lamb of God. The two disciples heard him speak and they followed Jesus. One of the two which heard John speak and followed him was Andrew. Simon Peter's brother. He first findeth his own brother Simon and saith, We have found the Messiahs, which is being interpreted the Christ. And he brought him to Jesus So the way that Peter meets Jesus is because his two brothers were following John the Baptist. As John the Baptist is preaching, repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand and calling people to get baptized and to look for the Messiah, confessing that they were sinners and they needed a savior. One day as John is preaching, He says, there he is. That's Jesus, the Lamb of God, the one who's going to take away the sins of the world. Now when Andrew hears this, he says, I've got to tell Peter about this. And so he gets his brother. We then see that Peter is a man who, when he follows Christ, is personally called by him and given a very strong commission And that's the passage that we looked at in Luke 5, the first time that Jesus performs this miracle. Now, after Jesus has performed the miracle, There is Peter sitting in this boat with Jesus. He's heard him preach. He's seen the miracle, and he recognizes that he's dealing with the Messiah, God in flesh. It says, when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' feet, saying, Depart from me. I am a sinful man, O Lord. He was astonished, and all that were with him at the draught of the fish that had been taken. And so was also James and John, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon. And Jesus saith unto Simon, Fear not, from henceforth thou shalt catch men. And they that had brought their ships to land forsook all and followed him. And so here is Peter, who's a man with great potential that acknowledges I'm a sinful man. We don't know why he said that. I mean, we know that we're all sinners. But maybe Simon's going into the fact that he was a rough man. He had a lot of flaws. There were a lot of things that were potential hindrances to him having an effective ministry. Yet what does Christ do? He calls him anyway. He commissions him. The third thing we see is that Peter was a man who was all in. He was passionate about the Lord Jesus. He was convinced Jesus is the Messiah because of what he heard. Because of what he saw. In John chapter 6, we see that Christ's ministry kind of comes to a crossroads with certain people. People began to leave Jesus because of the things that he was saying that were difficult for them to understand. And in John 6, Jesus asks, these disciples, are you going to leave too? Here's what it says. From that time, many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him. Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will you also go away? Then Simon Peter answered, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life. We believe and are sure thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. So what do you see here? You see a man who is complicated. But he has great potential. In fact, so much potential that he's willing even to die for Christ. And he confesses this in John 13. He says, Lord, I'm willing to lay down my life for your sake. Jesus says, Thou wilt lay down thy life for my sake. Verily, verily I say unto you, the cock shall not crow, till thou hast deny me thrice. We're going to go back to that statement tomorrow. The fact is that Peter was a great man, but he was also a complicated man. And you know what? All of us are complicated people. When we place our faith in Christ, we come to Him by grace alone, through faith alone, and the work of Christ alone. We are new creatures in Christ, but we're still flawed people. We still bring a lot of baggage. Yet God can use us despite those things. And we're going to see how God did that in the life of Peter. So join us tomorrow as we keep working our way through this passage. I hope it'll be an encouragement to you. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow by now