Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you've had a great week and I hope that this study has been a challenge to you. This morning what we're going to do is move from the focus yesterday of the pain that was experienced as a result of sin. And today what we're going to do is look at how David had a fresh, renewed perspective. and view of God. And so what we see is that even though his pain and his suffering was a very negative thing, it led him to a correct understanding of God. And this is how God can use take good out of bad. And so let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to Psalm 51. We're going to read through the text a little bit this morning and then dig into this portion of the focus. Here's what God's Word says. Have mercy upon me, O God, according unto thy loving kindness. According unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgressions Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquities and cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me. Against thee thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight, that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. Behold, I was shaped in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me Behold, thou desires truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. This morning we're going to look at how David's perspective of God is refocused and renewed as he is now in a repentant state in his sin. And so as David looks at himself before God, there are several things that he's going to emphasize in his penitent prayer that show us that his perspective of God has been refocused. The first thing that we'll notice is that when he was in this penitent state, he realized there was only one person who can meet his greatest need. And that person is God. And he's going to express that in the way that he approaches him. We also see that as he approaches God, there is a comfort that David expresses. And this comfort is in the fact that God does not change. He is an unchanging, immutable God. And David understands that. A third thing that he really emphasizes here is God's faithfulness to his covenant promises. And in verse 1 it says, it is according to thy loving kindness. that I appeal to your mercy. And that word loving kindness is the word chassad, which has the idea of God's faithfulness to his covenant, his loving kindness. There's lots of different ways. His covenant love is another way that this is often um uh translated. And the idea is that when God makes a promise and he puts his word on the line His character doesn't change, and he will not break his word. And David takes great comfort in that. So we see several things that he's going to emphasize here. One would be his mercy. Verse 1, according unto the multitude of your Tender mercies, blot out my transgression. We talk about mercy. Mercy is God looking at us with compassion or with pity or with tenderness despite our broken condition. A second thing that he emphasizes is the sovereignty of God. What we mean by that is that God is overall. He is the ultimate ruler, the one that we're all answerable to. That's what he's expressing when he says, it's against you only that I have sinned. He's expressing God's ultimate sovereignty over him and his creation. He also talks about God's presence. He says, I have done this evil in thy sight. And so he's emphasizing the fact that he did this with God's full knowledge, because God is present everywhere. Another aspect of God's nature that he talks about is his righteousness. Verse 4. Thou mightest be justified when thou speakest. And clear when thou judges. He says, God, you always do right. When you punish evil, you're doing it in a righteous way. You are the just, perfectly righteous God. He also emphasizes God's power. His power to restore those who are broken. Verses 10 and 11, create in me a clean heart, renew a right spirit within me, cast me not away from your presence. He talks about the immutability or the unchanging character of God. And that unchanging character always points us back to the gospel. So as we think about David and his sin, we are reminded that God takes the misery of his brokenness and his sin and his failure. And he uses it for good to point him to God, where he finds comfort and strength in God's mercy, God's sovereignty, God's presence, his power, his compassion, his faithfulness. The gospel is where we find all that comfort. And so when you find yourself in a position of brokenness and repentance before God, cast yourself upon his unchanging character and his goodness. Remind yourself of the gospel. And let that be your greatest comfort in that moment of desperation. Well, I hope that gives you some things to think about this morning. Hope that it encourages you, strengthens you, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we dig a little bit further into this passage. Take care by now.