Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we are looking at Ephesians chapter 1 and Paul's Prayer. And this is an important prayer because it really gives us an understanding of how godly people pray for others. And there's nothing wrong with praying for physical needs and financial needs and all those things. God cares about those things. But it's important that that doesn't become the full extent of what we pray or the end of what we pray. The truth is we need to be concerned for the spiritual well-being of people. This text really emphasizes that. So let's go ahead and look at the content of Paul's prayer and kind of consider what exactly he is getting at. So Ephesians chapter 1, verse number 15. Let's read it and then we'll dig into this. uh passage together again today. Here's what it says. Wherefore, I also, after I heard your faith in the Lord Jesus, and your love for all the saints, cease not to give thanks for you. Making mention of you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation and a knowledge of Him. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of his calling, and what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints And what is the exceeding greatness of his power to usward who believe, according to the working of his mighty power, which he wrought in Christ? Now let's look at the different pieces of this prayer. This shepherding prayer in verses 18 through 23 breaks into four different components. The first is this. He focuses on the security of the believer. He says in verse 18, I pray that you may know what is the hope of his calling. Now, when we see the word hope in relation to the gospel, we're talking about a confidence that is built, an assurance that is built on the promise of the Word of God. And so if we want to know how confident we should be that the believer is secure, we should ask the question, can God lie? And the answer is, of course not. It's contrary to his nature. He is consistent in his action with who he is. God would never lie. God would never speak and say he would do something, put his word on the line, promise, and then follow, not follow through And so he prays that they would be cripped by the security that they have as Christians. The second thing he mentions is in verse 19. It says, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints? He prayed that they would be gripped by the wealth of this eternal inheritance that's been given to them. And so if we were to contrast what we have today versus what we will enjoy for eternity, it's incomparable the contrast between these two things. And so he's saying, God help these people to understand how blessed they are, not just now, but the greatness of the riches of their future inheritance that is secured for them in Christ. The third thing that he mentions, and I love this one, is how the gospel displays God's power. In verses 19 through 20 it says, what are the exceeding greatness, what is the exceeding greatness? of his power to us word who believe, according to the working of his mighty power, which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead. What an amazing statement. God grant these people a fuller understanding of your power that is demonstrated in the work of redemption. Your power that is demonstrated in the resurrection, your power that's demonstrated in your providential work in history to bring this thing to pass. Every single aspect of the gospel, it displays the power of God. It displays his love. His grace, his mercy, his justice, but it displays also his power. And so he says, God, help them to understand your power. And then the fourth thing, and I really love this, is the greatness of Christ. I want them to be gripped with the supremacy of Christ over all things. In verse 20 it says, Which he wrought in Christ, when he raised him from the dead, and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places Far above all principalities and powers and might and dominion and every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come. And it put all things under his feet, when he gave him to be the head over all things that is the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all and in all. What an amazing statement. I'm going to actually break this down, Lord willing, next week as we dig into the Word of God together, of the supremacy of Christ and how He demonstrates that in this text. But this is this is Paul's prayer. I want them to understand the security. I want them to understand the riches of their future inheritance. I want them to understand the power of God demonstrated in the gospel, and I want them to understand this tremendous greatness of their Savior. May we have this same kind of attitude and may we have the same kind of heart Well, that's what I have for you this morning. I hope that you have a blessed rest of your morning. I hope that you think about the significance of these individual components. And when I say the significance, I mean things like We need to be gripped by the security that we have in Christ, or we need to be satisfied with the wealth of our eternal inheritance, or we need to live lives that are vibrantly built on the greatest of the power of God demonstrated in the gospel, or We are overwhelmed by how great Christ is. That's what I mean. I want us that to leave with that thought. That's what I have for you. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts of application. Bye now.