Good morning and welcome to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Today what we're going to do is build on what we talked about yesterday and that was kind of setting the tone by looking at the setting. And we're going to look at how John develops this passage by showing a building tension that's taking place. And remember the theme is it's impossible to be neutral about Christ. And we're really going to see that developed in the passage that we're looking at this morning. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to John chapter 12, and we'll read verses 12 through 19. Here's what the scripture says. On the next day, much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took branches of palm trees. They went forth to meet him and cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel who cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass set thereupon, as it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold thy king cometh, sitting on an ass 's colt. These things understood not his disciples at the first. But when Jesus was glorified, then remembered he these things that were written of him, and they that had done that they had done these things unto him. Now, as I mentioned, there's a building tension in this passage. And what I mean by that is that Palm Sunday is an event that takes place within a story. And John is relating that story to us, that there's a movement going on. There are tensions that are beginning to develop. And he really points this out in the chapter that we're working our way through. So the story starts with, first of all, a background of the Old Testament. We have all of these prophecies that talk about the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then John the Baptist comes on the scene. And John the Baptist is Christ's cousin. And he says, Repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand, and one day, as he's baptizing in the Jordan River, he sees Jesus and he says, Behold the Lamb of God. who takes away the sins of the world. This is very, very important for the people to recognize that the Messiah is not John, but it's the one that John's pointing to. And so Jesus begins to preach and to teach and to perform miracles. And he's preaching the exact same message that John is. There's a consistency there. Repent, prepare the way for the Lord. Here he is. Place your faith in him. He must establish redemption for you in order to be saved. And so as he's performing these miracles, what is he doing? He's ultimately confirming the message. He's confirming his identity. And each of these miracles is forcing the people. Have to choose a side. Is he the Messiah or is he not? Is he the Son of God? Is he the one who's coming to take away the sins of the world? Or is he just an itinerant preacher? People have to decide where they're going to stand. And as this tension is developing, there are some who want a physical hero. They want someone to come and conquer the Romans and establish a rebellion. And that's clearly going to be found in the text in front of us. There are others who are going to resist that, that tendency. They're afraid that he will establish a rebellion, and if he does, then they're going to lose their place. Or he's pushing back against their hypocrisy and they don't like being exposed. And so they feel very threatened by them There are people that just don't seem to understand why he has come. And that tension is being developed in this passage. But then if we look in the immediate context at what's taking place at the beginning of the chapter, we see the story of Jesus coming to Bethany right before this Passover. And this will be the last Passover that he celebrates. This will be the fulfillment of all the Passovers. And as he's there in Bethany on the Friday before that final Passover week, When they would have s set aside that Passover lamb, and then there would be uh cleaning and getting the house ready to celebrate the Passover later in that coming week. As they're doing this, Jesus stops in Bethany and he gathers with his friends. And he's in the house of a man named Simon the Leper. And this is a man who Jesus has healed. And so as Lazarus and Christ are there, they are the center of attention that evening. And there's something that interrupts this moment. And we read about this in John chapter 12, verse number 1. As they are eating, And as everyone is looking at this man Lazarus, six days before the Passover, someone comes into the room, and this is Mary, the sister of Lazarus. And she takes a moment to show this extravagant and humble worship to the Lord Jesus. Here's what it says. Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spikenert, very costly. and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair. Now immediately people are going to respond to what Mary has done. And Judas is the one that speaks up. In fact he mocks her He says, why was not this ointment sold for 300 pence and given to the poor? Now 300 pence is the equivalent of a full year's worth of salary. And so it's kind of shocking to think how much time it would have taken her to be able to save enough money to buy this ointment and then to just pour it out on his feet. It doesn't make any sense. unless you understand how great a person is in your midst and ultimately what he's about to do. So you could see this division. Here is Mary who sees that Jesus is the object of worship. Here's Judas who says, what's the point? What a waste. And Jesus immediately defends her, and he says that her sacrifice needs to be looked at in perspective. Then said Jesus, Leave her alone. Against the day of my burying hath she kept this Jesus is saying, you don't understand what she understands. She has done this to prepare for my burial. Now while these things are going on, John records that the chief priests are plotting behind the scenes to take Lazarus by force and kill him. You say, well, why is this? Well, because Lazarus is the one who's bringing all this attention to Jesus. It says the chief priests consulted how they might put Lazarus to death because that by reason of him many of the Jews went away and believed on Jesus And so here is plotting and scheming. Here are people mocking extravagant worship. And here's someone who realizes that Jesus is worthy of all praise and all glory and is humbly worshiping him. What do you see? You see tension. You see division. In fact, from this point all the way to the cross, that division is going to be highlighted in these verses. For instance, in verse 45, some believe on him. Many of the Jews that came to Mary had seen the things which Jesus did, and they believed on him One humbly worships him. We've already talked about this with Mary. Then we come to Judas, who is rejecting Jesus. We come to the masses who want a national hero. who they believe is going to crush the Romans in verse 12 of chapter 12. When they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, they took branches of palm trees and they went forth to meet him And by the way, those palm branches were a symbol of the people rising up against their oppressors, the Romans. And so there was a lot of significance to what is going on there. Then we have the people that see him as a threat, chapter 11, verses 46 to 48. Some go to the Pharisees, they gather together a council, they say, what do we do with this man who's done all of these miracles? If we leave him alone, all the people will believe on him, and the Romans will come and take away our place and our nation. Do you see the division? They are afraid. And then we see That one is willing to betray him. And that's Judas. He says, why did you not take this ointment and use it to give to the poor? The point of all this is to simply say this. The treachery, the division, the hatred, it's leading somewhere. And what these people didn't realize is that as they were plotting and scheming, this was ultimately going to fall out to history's greatest triumph. And I say fall out, it's not happenstance. God is providentially working through these things. And we see in verses 49 through 51 that Caiaphas says. He being the high priest, it is expedient for us that one should die for the people, so that the whole nation does not perish. This spoke he not of himself, but being the high priest that year he prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation, and not for that nation only, but also for all he should gather together in one, the children of God, that were scattered abroad. Let that be what sinks into your mind as you hear the end of this little study. Think about that. All of these divisions. People had a will. They had an opportunity. They could choose or reject. But no matter how they responded to the Lord Jesus, God was going to use it in his plan. He was going to use it to bring about redemption. And so we should praise God for that and we should respond properly to him when we are faced with similar confrontations. Well, that's giving you some things to think about today. Hope you have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we dig into this passage a little bit more. Bye now.