Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And hope you're having a great week and it's Wednesday and we're kind of in the middle point of the week. And I do want to mention before we dig into this passage a little bit again that we have our cantata coming up on Sunday, and I hope that you would be able to join us for that. We have had some issues with our live stream and hopefully we're going to have that resolved. But please come in person if possible and it will be a really, really good time. The gospel is going to be given, the music will be very beautiful, very Christ-centered. And the the storyline that we're going to focus in on is going to be a part of the Christmas story that I really, really love. And so I hope that you will be able to join us for that as we look at Luke chapters 1 and 2. Alright, well let's go ahead and dig into our Bibles again this morning as we are in Ephesians chapter 1, and we're going to look at the tone of this letter. And so if you remember, yesterday we talked about a lot of the big picture when we're talking about the book of Ephesians. We talked about how it breaks into two parts. We have a focus on our position in Christ. And then the second half of the letter is focused on our practice as Christians. There's a lot of emphasis on prayer in the book. And At the beginning of the section dealing with our position, he talks about praying that the people would understand who they are in Christ. Then in the middle of the book, he transitions again in prayer, and you see the connection between position and practice. And at the end of the book, that third prayer is focused in on applying what we've seen. Today we're going to expand that issue a little bit more and look at the tone of the book. specifically how it opens up in chapter 1. So let's read it again, Ephesians chapter 1, beginning in verse number 1. It says, Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ. by the will of God, to the saints which are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace be to you and peace from God our Father and our Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings and heavenly places in Christ. According as he hath chosen us in him, before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame, before him, in love. He predestined us unto adoption by children, by children by Jesus Christ, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise and glory of his grace. wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. Now when we talk about the tone of the letter, the word that I want to present to you this morning is the word Doxological. Maybe you've heard the word doxtology. When I was a college student, we would sing the doxtology at the beginning of our chapel services. And the the doxology starts, praise God, from whom all blessings flow. Praise him, all creatures here below. Praise him. Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. Amen. Okay? So when we sing the doxology, you'll notice something that's repeated over and over and over again is praise God. A doxology is a song of praise to him, and we're talking about his greatness and his ways, all of those things. So when we come to chapter 1, verses 1 through 14, we see that this letter starts with a doxology, a praise to God. And it focuses in specifically on praising God because He has saved us. And when we talk about our salvation, we need to recognize that it is each person of the Godhead who is specifically involved in different aspects of our salvation. This portion of Ephesians celebrates that. We first of all see praise to the Father. Verses 3 to 6. He says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. So he begins by talking about celebrating, praising God for the work of the Father. He is the one who gives us all spiritual blessings, and he gives them to us in the person of Christ. And so that moves to the second part, which is verses 7 to 12. We see the sons work on our behalf The Father has a plan of redemption. The Father accomplishes that plan of redemption. He gives spiritual blessings to us, and he does it through Christ. And so we see in verses 7 through 12, it is in whom Christ that we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace. And so the Father's role is to send the Son, and the Son's role is to go to the cross, to shed his blood, to die in our place for our sins. so that we can have redemption through his blood. So Christ's role in our salvation was one of purchasing redemption for us. And then we see the third aspect, and that is the role of the Spirit, verses 13 and 14. It says, in whom also, after that you believed, ye were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession under the praise of his glory. Very interesting statements here. So he talks about the fact that not only are we placed into Christ, and it is through Christ that we are redeemed to God, but we also see that it is the Spirit who seals us at the moment of conversion until the day of redemption. And that day of redemption is when we receive the full purchased possession. So when the Bible talks about our salvation, it talks about it in terms of already, but not yet. We are already saved. We are already justified. We are already sanctified. We are already forgiven. We are already cleansed in Christ. But we are not yet experiencing all of the benefits of our salvation. We are not in glory. And so the not yet part is we're not experiencing the fullness of what has been purchased for us in Christ yet. We will experience that in the future. And so the Spirit seals us, and He is our earnest until that time that we experience the fullness of what we've received in Christ. Now we're going to dig into each of these concepts, Lord willing, later on, not this week, but later on in the weeks to come But what does this show you? It shows you that the focus of this section is praise to God. Doxology. Well, thanks for joining us this morning. I hope that you'll be able to join us tomorrow as we keep working our way through a couple of introductory thoughts on this book of the Bible. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.