Good morning. Welcome back to a new week in another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I love this time of the year where we focus in on the death of Christ. the resurrection of Christ and significance of those things because when we talk about being a Christian, that is the heart of what makes a person a Christian, what they do with the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. And if you joined us this past week for uh this past Sunday for Palm Sunday, I hope that it was an encouragement to you as we looked at the story of the triumphal entry. Well, this morning what we're going to do is we're going to begin a series talking about the importance of the cross. We're going to talk about the wisdom of God demonstrated in the cross. and the power of the cross and what it accomplished, the implications of that. And in order to do that, what I'd like us to do is look at the introduction So if you have a Bible, let's all turn together to 1 Corinthians chapter 1 We're going to begin reading in verse 18, and then we're going to lay out a couple of introductory matters as we consider the Church of Corinth and the conflict that was going on in the church that sets the stage. for helping us to appreciate what Paul is saying and why he is saying it. So, 1 Corinthians 1. 18 says this, for the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But to us which are saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For after that in the wisdom of God the world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. For the Jews require a sign. The Greeks seek after wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Greeks foolishness. But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. And by the way, that little statement, the power of God and the wisdom of God, is really the focus of what we are looking at this week. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. For if you see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh Not many mighty, not many noble are called, but God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. And God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. and base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to naught things that are. But no flesh should glory in his presence But of him are ye in Christ, who of God hath made unto us wisdom and righteousness, and sanctification and redemption. That according as it is written, he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. Now the first thing I want to draw your attention to this morning as we dig into this text throughout the week is the way that the text we're dealing with begins. It begins with the word for. Now that word for is a really tough place to start a sermon. Because what it tells you is that the things that you're going to focus your attention on are actually built on something that has been stated before we get to that particular text. And so that word four draws our attention to the things that Paul has stated in verses one down to verse 17. And when we read those things, and then we look at the rest of the book of 1 Corinthians What we see is that this is a congregation that was dealing with tremendous turmoil. It was a church that was in conflict. And it's important for us to understand that this is shaping why Paul is going to talk about the cross. And notice some of the ways though that Paul talks about the church, because as he talks about the church, he doesn't talk about it in the beginning as a church. that appears to be in conflict, but rather church that God that that that God has saved, a group of people he's saved, a group of people who are walking in the light of that or in a position that is righteous. And then when we start seeing the things that Paul talks about, in fact, it's almost a little bit confusing that he would speak in such ways at the beginning and then throughout the book. For instance, we see that Paul really does love this church And he emphasizes that he believes that they are in Christ, and this position is a strong position. For instance, in verses verse 2, he says, this is under the church of God. They belong to him. They are at Corinth. They are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saved. He makes it very clear, he believes that they're believers, they belong to God, and they are positionally called saints. In verse 4, he says, I thank my God always on your behalf for the grace of God which is given unto you by Jesus Christ. So when Paul thought about the church, he thought about them as a people that he loved, people that he he thought of as very dear to him. And then verses eight and nine he says that God will confirm you unto the end that ye may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus. God is faithful, who also hath called us unto the fellowship of his Son, our Lord. Now, when we think about what Paul is saying, he's saying you belong to God, you are righteous in Christ, you are saints. I'm thankful for you, and I'm confident that when you stand before God someday, you will be found blameless. But I want you to contrast what he has just stated with the rest of the book, the contents. He talks about the fact that these are people who had this shameful use of the law. They dragged people into the courtroom so that they could undermine them and destroy them. He talks about people who are abusing the Lord's table and the spiritual gifts that God has given them. is that this is a group of people, they've got massive problems, lots of sin problems. You say, how could Paul speak about this church in that kind of a way? Well, the reason that he can speak about them in this kind of a way is because he believes that their position is correct, but their practice is inconsistent with their position. And that leads us to the question of, well, how will Paul address the issue? And that is the is that answer is found in the text in front of us. Paul believed that the fundamental solution to the problem that the church at Corinth found was rooted in the gospel. He believed that them getting back to thinking about the cross and its implications and the resurrection and its implications was at the heart of the solution to the problem. So Paul is not addressing this issue in a moralistic way. He's not just saying, hey, the way that you're using the law to abuse other people needs to stop. Obviously it did. Or, you know, the fact that you're being an immoral person needs to stop. Obviously he believed that Or the way that you're abusing the Lord's table needs to stop. He obviously understands those things. But the way he gets to the solution is not through a moralistic or legalistic approach. It's through a gospel-centered approach. It's from a distinctly Christian approach. He's saying the way that you have victory and the way you do right and the way that you live in a way that's consistent with the position. is you remind yourself of the position. And so this morning I want to remind you of a very simple fact that we are Christians. We are in Christ. We are justified. We are sanctified. And as Christians, we can and we must walk consistent with the position that we have. And so as we dig into the passage in front of us and as we break it down piece by piece throughout the week, that will be the focus of all that we say. And so I hope that this morning uh when you when you hear this uh little episode it'll remind you of those truths and it'll whet your appetite for the rest of what we will say this week. I hope that you'll encourage other people. To join us as we dig into the text and that as we reflect on these things, it will prepare our hearts to remember his death. Good Friday, if you celebrate Good Friday, obviously remember the death of Christ. And when we go into remembering the resurrection on this next Lord's Day, that we will remember not just what happened, but why it matters. And this passage will lay that out. very very clearly. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow by now