Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And normally this would be our last episode, but as I mentioned yesterday, we're actually going to do a bonus episode for our final thoughts. So because of the length of the text that we dealt with and the length of uh the way that we've broken it down, it's going to be an extra episode. And so I hope that you'll join us for tomorrow's episode as well as we kind of Of bring everything together. This morning the focus of our attention will be on the word endurance. Endurance. And so we'll be back in Luke chapter 14 again. Let's read the text together. And then let's dig into this concept. Here's what the Word of God says. And there went great multitudes with him. And he turned and said unto them, If any man will come to me and hate not his Father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters, yes, in his own life also, he cannot be my disciple And whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. For which of you intending to build a tower sitteth not down first, and counteth the cost? He hath sufficient to finish it. Lest happily, after he hath laid the foundation, and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build And was not able to finish it. Now, as we think about this statement in front of us, we see that there is a need for endurance. And that is really the focus. of the text in front of us. It's about priority and it's about endurance and it's about something being genuine and tested. And so when we talk about that word endurance, We mean that a careless calculation will not produce an enduring commitment. A genuine faith will produce a real and lasting Enduring commitment as a disciple. And so in verse 30, he says, this man began to build and was not able to finish it. Genuine faith. Produces an enduring commitment. And the kind of faith we're talking about is a faith that has three facets to it. A lot of times when we talk about faith, we talk about the intellectual Side of faith, the aspect that is our heart, and the aspect that is our will. And I want us to notice how genuine faith tracks in those areas. So first of all, I want to mention The will. Faith is a decision. It is a choice. But it is more than just a choice. It is a choice that involves The intellect. So it is a decision that is built on real facts. When we talk about faith in Christ, we're not just talking about this in this casual sense, like I have faith in this name called Jesus, I'm talking about a person that I actually believe certain things about them. I believe that he is God in flesh. I believe that he literally physically Came and he literally physically died, and the nature of that death was a substitutionary death. He bore my sin and was punished in my Place. We call it a penal substitutionary death. And he literally physically rose from the dead. And so when we talk about faith in Christ, it's not just An intellectual thing, a thing of the will, but it's also something that involves the intellect. I am thinking through facts and I'm taking it as as I actually believe it to be true. But it's more than just an academic understanding of those facts. It's not just I can regurgitate some statements from a systematic theology Or an ancient Christian creed or something like that. It involves the emotion, the heart. And so it is a decision that is built on facts that are accompanied with Conviction and that word conviction is very, very important. So when we talk about genuine faith, we're talking about it involving the will, a choice, the intellect. Facts and the emotions. It is accompanied with conviction. And so what we could put it, what we could say is this a genuine faith is accompanied With a conviction that is also accompanied with new life in Christ, regeneration, and the indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit. Now, what do these things together Accomplish. What they accomplish is an enduring commitment. I want to give you a perfect example of this. In John chapter 8, verse 31, it says this. Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, If you continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed, and ye shall know that The truth and the truth shall make you free. Now, Jesus isn't saying, I don't think you believe, so let me test you. That's not what he's saying. What he's saying is Is those who actually believe have an enduring desire and commitment to follow Christ. And they are true disciples. In other words, he assumes That genuine faith produces genuine discipleship. Even though it is true that discipleship and faith alone in Christ are different matters, we're talking about A person that initially trusts Christ and a person who follows him. Those are different matters. We shouldn't separate them out so much that we see that, well, there are some people they genuinely believe. Christ, but then they have no desire to follow Christ. That kind of a thinking is foreign to what Jesus is saying. Or in John chapter 6 we really see this. There were some of you, there are some of you that believe not. Now, who are the you? Well, they're people following Jesus. They're listening to his teaching. They're presenting themselves as if they actually believe. He says, For Jesus knew from the beginning that there were some that believed not, and who would betray him. And he said, Therefore said I unto you, that no man can come unto me except it were Given unto him by my Father. From that time forward many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him. Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will you And Simon Peter answered and said, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life, and we believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Now, what does that show you? Well, that shows you that a person who believes this continues. They endure. The second word that I want you to remember this morning is the word quality. We say quality we mean God wants committed disciples. And we see this as Jesus kind of ends this little Discussion in verses thirty four and thirty-five he says, If the salt has lost his savor, wherewith shall it be seasoned? It is neither fit for the land, nor yet for the dung hill, but men cast In other words, Jesus' redemptive work was a complete redemption. It was something that dealt with our sin debt. Our justification, our forgiveness. But it's something that also deals with giving us everything we need to grow into Christ-likeness. And so when a person places their faith in Christ, they're not only forgiven of their sins and declared righteous, but they are set apart to God, and now they are to walk in the newness of life that they have in Christ. And this is what we mean When we say that He has promised that there's nothing that can shake the ultimate fulfillment of these things, God has started a work in us, He will complete that work in us. And that is Really, the sense of how genuine faith produces real commitment and endurance and good quality. And so the question is, what do we take away from these Things this this morning. What we take away from this that we are the salt of the earth. We are here to function with a very distinctive purpose. And if we are true Christians, we will follow that course that God has for us. Hope that that gives you some things to think about this morning. Have a blessed rest of your day. And Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow. for our bonus episode on Saturday. Unusual, I know. But if I don't have the opportunity to speak to you tomorrow, I hope that you'll have a great weekend and that we'll see many of you on Friday. Have a blessed day now. Bye.