Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Forming Reflection. Hope you're having a great week and I hope that this study has given you a couple things to think about. And I love this text because It really encourages us, especially when we think about how God and his grace works in the hearts of people who are some of the most unlikely people. And he is just a good God. And we see this demonstrated in the text in front of us. Let's go ahead and turn again to John chapter 4, verses 27 through 42. We'll read the text again and then we will dig into some of the truths that we see as we take what we've processed in the different observations to simple truths that are demonstrated in this text of scripture. So here's what the text says. And upon this came his disciples. and marveled that he talked with the woman. Yet no man said, What seekest thou, or why talkest thou with her? The woman then left her water pot , and went her way into the city, and saith to the men, Come, see a man which told me all things that I ever did. Is not this the Christ? Then they went out of the city and came unto him. In the meanwhile his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat. But he said unto them, I have meat to eat, but you know not of. Therefore said his disciples one to another, Hath any man brought him aught to eat? to eat. Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work. Say not that there are yet four months and then cometh the harvest. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes, look on the fields, they are wet already harvest. He that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto eternal life, that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may may rejoice together. And herein is that saying true. One soweth and another reapeth. I sent you to reap that whereupon you you bestowed no labor. reap Other men labored, and you were entered into those labors. Many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him, for the saying of the woman which testified, He told me all that I ever did Now if you think back to yesterday and some of the truths, or excuse me, some of the observations that we had about the Samaritans and their culture. and some of the tensions that were there and how God was working. I think there are several timeless truths that we see illustrated in the text. And so I'd like us to work through them one at a time. The first truth is that God's grace moves us long before our hearts are moved. And we see this illustrated in the text in front of us. A passage that comes to mind is a feature of Ephesians 2. Because in Ephesians 2, it reminds us what we were before we became Christians and what it is that caused us to become believers. And the text says this, in times past you walked according to this world, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of God. wrath even as others. But God who is rich in mercy, for his great lover with he loved us even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ by grace you are saved. Now when we talk about salvation, we know that the work of salvation is all of God's grace. It is Christ's death on the cross, his resurrection, and his righteousness. that give us our position in Christ. But we could also go back further, not just to what Christ has done for us, but how he has worked in us and what we see in a text like this. is that when we were stumbling in darkness and walking in a course that was contrary to God, God went to us and he drew us to himself through the preaching and teaching of the gospel. Well, we see this clearly demonstrated in the text in front of us. We see that God was working with the Samaritans in this way. He was going to them. I must needs go through Samaritan. We see this with the Samaritan woman. He goes and he waits for her to come. And when she comes, he asks her questions and he guides the conversation to a redemptive conversation. This is all the grace of God. He is the initiator in this story. And then we see this with the disciples. The disciples were there and they had opportunity, but they didn't have eyes to see the opportunity. And so God must work in them. His grace moves before we embrace the truth Second truth I'd like you to notice is that his grace consistently selects the most unlikely instruments. Now this is not saying that God doesn't save people. who are rich, who are intelligent, who are educated, who are strong. It's not, that's not what we're saying. But what we are saying is that's not why God saves people. Not because of their intelligence or because of their opportunity, how much access they have to the truth or how strong they are, what they can bring to the kingdom of God. That's not what it is. God's grace selects the most unlikely people. And so in Luke chapter 8, we see another example of this with a man who was demon-possessed. It says, now the man out of whom the devils were departed besought him that he might be with him But Jesus sent him away, saying, Return unto thy house and show how great things God has done unto thee. And he went in his way and published throughout the whole city how great things God had done for him. And it came to pass that when Jesus was returned to the people, they gladly received him, for they were all waiting for him. Now what's amazing about this text is it sounds so similar to what happens in Samaria. In Decapolis, a demon-possessed man becomes the person that God uses to take the gospel into this predominantly Gentile region. And in the town of Sikar, the woman that God uses to bring the gospel into the city is the Samaritan woman whose life was crippled by sin. And so we see this is the way that God works. He is the one who works in ways that we would not anticipate. For instance, 1 Corinthians 15. By the grace of God I am what I am. And his grace was bestowed upon me, and it was not in vain. Who is speaking here? Paul. When Paul was persecuting the church, no one would have ever believed that he would become not a persecutor, but he would become an apostle. Yet this is the way that God worked. For 1 Corinthians 1. 27. God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and he hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things that are mighty. And the base things, and the things that are despised, hath God chosen, yea, things that are not, to bring to naught things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence. presence. God works in ways that we would never have anticipated. We also see that the story of the story of his work in people's lives demonstrates how great he is. And I think about Romans 11. There is a parallel here because when we talk about Romans chapters 9, 10, and 11, this is God demonstrating that the Jewish people have rejected him. He's going to use the rejection to reach into the Gentiles. And as the Gentiles embrace the gospel, he's going to use the Gentiles to provoke the Jews to jealousy to ultimately save both Jews and Gentiles And so when he talks about this grand plan of redemption that involves both Jews and Gentiles and how God will accomplish this, Romans 11 says, O the depth of the wit riches, both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God. How unsearchable Are his judgments and his ways past finding out who hath known the mind of the Lord? Or who hath been his counsellor, or who hath first given, and it shall be recompensed unto him again For of him and through him and to him are all things to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. God 's redemptive plan in the lives of people demonstrates his greatness. The prejudices that these people had could not thwart what God was going to do. The preoccupation of the disciples in temporal things could not thwart what God was going to do. do. Their inability to see the urgency of that moment would not thwart God's plan. The fourth thing I need to mention is that His grace overcomes what is presumed to be immovable. A couple of passages come to my mind as I think about this. Ezekiel 37. And here is Ezekiel and he's prophesying. And God says, look out over this valley of dry bone. Can these bones live? He said, God, only you know. And what does God say? They can live. And in fact, these are a parable to show us what will happen one day to the nation. Or think Matthew 16, where Jesus says, I will build my church, and the gates of hell cannot prevail against it. No matter what takes place from one generation to the next. The failures of people, the attacks of the world and the devil, what does God do? He builds his church in every generation. And then I think of that little passage that we mentioned several weeks ago in Luke 17. He says, if you had faith as a grain of a mustard seed, you might say unto the sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the roots and planted in the sea, and it should obey you What do these things have in common? With man, this is impossible, but with God, all things are possible. And so I ask you this morning. Have you learned these lessons from the story of the Samaritan woman? God reaches into our lives before we embrace the gospel. He works in the most unlikely of people. His grace can overcome any obstacle, and God demonstrates his greatness when he saves people. May that be what we remember as we go through. throughout the day today. Have a great rest of your day. And Lord willing, tomorrow we will meet again as we look at some applications from this text. Bye now.