Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good Tuesday morning. And the text that we're dealing with is Luke chapter 18, verses 18 through 27. Yesterday we talked about the danger of self-righteousness, especially in a very moralistic context. And the man that came to Jesus was a ruler amongst the Jews. He was a scribe, he was a teacher, he was an elder, he was responsible to communicate the word of God, and all this access to the truth. of scripture isn't something that really resonated in his heart and settled in his heart that caused him to repent and believe, but rather it created an attitude of self-righteousness and an attitude of superiority towards others. And so what we're going to do is we're going to look at how Christ responds to this man, and hopefully we can glean some very invaluable tools from that interaction. So let's go ahead and read our Bibles, Luke chapter 18, verses 18 through 27. It says, and a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There is none good save one that is God. Thou knowest the commandments, do not commit adultery, do not kill, do not steal, do not bear false witness, honor thy father and thy mother. He said, All these have I kept from my youth up. Now when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet, lackest thou one thing. Sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven. Come and follow me. When he heard this, he was very sorrowful, for he was very rich. When Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, he said, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God? For it is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. They that heard it said, Who then can be saved? He said, the things which are impossible with men are possible with God. Let's listen to this little excerpt together. Christ could have easily told him, Sir, you're wrong. And I'm going to prove to you you're wrong, and he could have been very confrontational with him. But he gave him an opportunity to come to the conclusion himself. And you might even, I might even add, Christ kind of narrowed it a little bit more each time so that it became more and more obvious that this guy should see this. Now, when I think about this interaction between Christ and the ruler, there are so many things about this interaction that should cause us to go, what's going on here? So if we were to step back and think about the progression of thought that's being laid out in Luke chapter 18, we're going to see that, first of all, Christ gives this parable. to what it says were certain people who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and they despised others. In Christ's parable, he talks about a Pharisee and a publican And the Pharisee talks about how good he is and how he doesn't do certain things, and he's not like this publican who is uh the the worst of sinners in his mind. So what you see in this illustration, in this parable, is that someone who was self-righteous and trusting in himself and condescending towards others should have seen himself in the parable And said, I don't want to be like that. What hope is there for me? I need to humble myself, repent, believe, and be saved. In the very next interaction we see. . Right after that parable . is people are coming to Christ with their children, and the disciples are pushing them away, and Jesus says, No, no, no, allow the children to come, because unless you become like a little child, you will not enter the kingdom of God. So he emphasizes the fact that we enter God's kingdom in a position of humility, in a position of neediness. in a position of unworthiness, yet we are invited because of God's grace. So after hearing those teachings and those interactions, There's no reason for a man to come to Jesus and say, Good master, what good thing can I do to inherit eternal life? But notice what Jesus does. Jesus asks him questions. He asks him questions to awaken his conscience. He asks them questions to point to his inconsistency. He asks them questions to make him think in terms of what is true, not how he feels. And as Jesus asks these questions, he moves in a direction that kind of tightens up this man's conscience. He says, why do you call me good? There's no one good save God Why is he doing that? To say, well, sir, how could you say this? Only God is righteous. You're not righteous. And then he goes on to say, you know the commandments. Don't kill, don't steal, don't commit adultery. He mentions those things because most certainly this young man, or this actually not young man, older man, who's a ruler would understand, I don't keep those commandments But interestingly, Jesus leaves out a few of the commandments. He leaves out the last one, covetousness, which is the one he's going to nail in just a moment, and he leaves out the first part of the law that talks about a love for God more than a love for self. And when this man hears it, how does he respond to Jesus? He says, well, I've done all those things since I was a child. And Christ says, hold on, you lack one. Sell everything you have, give it to the poor, and then follow me. And I'll treasure in heaven. Now why did Christ do this? He didn't do this with anyone else. The reason he did this was he was simply giving the man another opportunity to admit, I am not righteous. I do not keep God's law. You have demonstrated it by giving me a test. And I have failed the test. I do not love my neighbor as I love myself. Is there any hope for me? Now this is the way that Christ deals with self-righteousness. He calls our attention to the law. He points to those laws and says, you know them. Most certainly you do not keep them. And when we continue to cling to our own righteousness, He says, let me give you an example, a test, that demonstrates that in fact you do not keep the law of God. Now this is God's mercy. drawing our attention to the truth, awakening our conscience to our need of salvation. And if you're a Christian, the Spirit of God has done that for you. He has convinced you of sin and righteousness and judgment, and under the weight of that sin and recognizing the brokenness of your own spiritual condition He has pointed you to Christ and you have placed your faith simply in his finished work. That is how God deals with the self-righteous. And you know what? That's how we need to deal with them as well. We need to take the sword of the Spirit, the Word of God, present it in the same kind of way that our Savior Christ did, and let the Spirit of God do his work through the Word. And that's what we can take away from this text this morning. We can take away the fact that we should deal with this kind of a problem by pointing people to the law and asking them the questions and letting the Spirit of God awaken the conscience. May God in his mercy open the eyes of many people who are blinded to their spiritual brokenness and point them to the sufficiency of Christ's work and righteousness. Have a blessed rest of your day. And if you think this could be a help to someone else, take a moment to share that. And pass it along, maybe ask questions if you have any. I'd love to interact with those. And hope you have a blessed rest of your day by now