Good morning and welcome to another edition of our Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good Wednesday or whenever you're watching this video or listening to this. uh episode and today we're going to look at some things we should anticipate as a direct result of how we respond to both God and to the wicked as we go throughout the challenges of this year. And so we're going to look at anticipating some very specific blessings. That are described in these verses. And so let's go to Psalm 37 again. We'll read the text and then kind of break it down as we look at the blessing side that is presented here. Psalm 37, verse 1. Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity, for they shall soon be cut down like the grass and wither as the green herb. Trust in the Lord and do good So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him. and he shall bring it to pass. He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself, because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices. to pass. Now as we look at this passage, we look at an anticipation that is described in these verses, and that is the anticipation of God's hand of blessing on his children. In the midst of all the chaos we may encounter in life and challenges, There is an anticipation of blessing because we belong to the Lord. And so he describes this. The first blessing that's mentioned is the blessing of nourishment from God. In verse 3 it says So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Now this is written in an Old Testament context where the people are in relationship to God through the Mosaic Covenant. And so I understand that we live in a different time. We're not under the Mosaic Covenant. We live in the New Testament, in the New Covenant, the church age. But it is true that when someone belongs to the Lord, that relationship is something that gives them access to the strengthening and nourishing hand of the Lord. So that's what he's describing here. He's talking about safety in the midst of chaos. He's going to talk about nourishment rather than hunger. Second blessing that he mentions here. It's the blessing that he will shape the desires of those who delight in him. I love verse 4, where it says, He shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Now this is not a promise that's meant to be, okay, if you want something from God, then somehow start liking him, start delighting in him, and then he's going to give you what you want. That's not What we're talking about here. We're not talking about a tool to manipulate God. Rather, what he's talking about is how a relationship to God and communion with him, how it shapes us as a person. And as it shapes us as a person, it filters into shaping how we think. And as our thinking is changed by the work of God through that relationship that we enjoy with Him, it also shapes the way that we live. And so you see this connection to relationship, communion, fellowship, shaping the mind, shaping the actions, and ultimately shaping how we pray. He is giving us desires that when we ask him for them, it's the kind of stuff he wants to give us. And so we see that third. Third blessing, he will direct your steps. This is going back to that issue of God's providence. In verse 5, he says, Commit thy way unto the Lord or roll it upon his shoulders, give it over to him, let him work in it. Don't hang on to it and cling on to it yourself. And what will he do? He'll bring it to pass. A lot of verses that talk about God's providence and how he works when we commit our ways to him. Proverbs 16, 1. The preparations of the hearted man, the answer of the tongue, is from the Lord. Or another one, Proverbs 16, 7. When a man's ways please the Lord, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him Or Proverbs sixteen nine, a man's heart deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps. Proverbs sixteen thirty-three the lot is cast into the lap The whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. And what do these verses have in common? People make choices, people have desires, people try to take action. God gives us the freedom to do that. But God works providentially through those choices in those circumstances to bring to pass his purposes. And so we go back to commit your way to the Lord. He will be the one who brings it to pass. Blessing number four, he will vindicate you at the right time. One of the things that we see in these verses is the frustration of seeing evil people prosper The way of righteousness seems to be thwarted, and it seems like people get away with stuff that they shouldn't How do we respond to that? Well, we recognize that God is just, He is righteous, He is merciful and compassionate and long-suffering. But he will deal with sin. He will set the record straight. And so what do we see here? He will bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. In other words, when you do right, even when things around you are chaotic, there'll be a day that God brings to pass, clearly revealing the rightness, the righteousness of the path you have taken. And that's the idea of God vindicating us. So these are blessings we can anticipate if we will do what the text says. To think properly and relate properly to the wicked, to think and act and relate properly to God. And then to see him work in our lives. That's some things to think about. Well, hope you have a wonderful rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through the text and moving along to the end of the week. Have a blessed day now. Bye