Good morning. Welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope you're having a good Wednesday morning or whenever you actually watch this video or listen to this on the audio. And if you've been joining us this week, you know that we're dealing with the parable of the prodigal son. And this morning what we're going to focus our attention on is the contrast between the way that the father responds to his son and the way that the older brother responds to his brother. And In this, we're going to see really the contrast between the way that Christ responded to these publicans and sinners who came to him. And the way that the Pharisees and the Scribes responded to Christ and to these sinners and uh these people who We're known for their sinful their sinful lives. So Luke chapter 15, verses 11 through 32, again, is where we are, and let's go ahead and read the text together. Here's what it says. And he said, A certain man had two sons. The younger of them said to his father, Father, give me a portion of goods that falleth to me. He divided unto them his living, and not many days after the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. And when he had spent all, there arose a famine in the land, and he began to be in want, and he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. And when he fain, when he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him , And when he came to himself he said, How many hired servants of my father have bread enough to spare, and I perish with hunger? I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee. and am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. And he arose and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran and fell on his neck, and kissed him. Now, I want us to focus for a few minutes on the shocking response of the father. And then from that, we're going to look at this other individual. that Christ introduces into the story. So in verses 20 through 24 it says that when the boy was a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and he kissed him. Now as we look at the words of this parable, we see that this father's response is is overwhelmingly shocking. And it is incredibly kind and gracious and is in no way something that this young man deserved. His father goes to him as soon as he sees him. It's not like he's sitting there on on on the porch and he sees his son and then he walks in the house and he says, I can't believe my son's coming again. I haven't seen him all these years and he he's wasted everything and look at him and somebody go talk to him. That's not what he does. He sees the sun and he runs to him. It's as if he's anticipating that the sun 's going to come. And as soon as he sees him, he lovingly embraces his son. Something that would have been a bit shocking when you think about the fact that his son was starving to death. He was willing to eat the slop that the pigs were being fed. And he he would have smelled horrible. He would have been an absolutely filthy wreck. Yet this father comes and he he hugs him And immediately he treats him as his son. Even before the son can get out the words and say, Father, I'm no more worthy to be called your son. Make me as one of your hired servants. Immediately, what does the father do? He says, get him shoes on his feet, and get him a robe, and and and and go ahead and get a debated calf killed, and let's have a feast of celebration. He calls a feast to celebrate his son's return. And so what do we see in these verses? We see grace We see love. We see affection of a father toward his son, even though his son in no way deserves it. Even though his son has disgraced him, even though his son has lived an absolutely horrific season of life, and he's wasted everything that the Father gave him, you see still see the love and the compassion, the grace. But then on the other side, we see the hardened response of the older brother, or the son, who was faithful at home. It says in verse 25, now, when the elder son Saul was in the field, he came and he drew near to the house and he heard music. And dancing, and he called the servants and asked them what these things meant. They said, Thy brother is come, thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe and sound. What does it say next? The son was angry. He would not go in. Therefore came out his father and entreated him. And answering he said to the father, All these years I have served thee, neither transgress I did any time thy commandments. Yet thou never gaveest me a kid that I may make merry with my friends. Now think about the response of this young man. As soon as This thy son has come and devoured thy living with harlots. You killed the fatted calf. What's he saying? This isn't my brother. This is your son. This son who has ruined all this stuff that you gave him, wasted it, disgraced us, you receive him. What does the father say? He says it was meet, or it was appropriate that we make merry and be glad, for this thy brother was dead and is alive again. He was lost and found. What do we see? When he heard this he was angry. He refused to go into the feast. His father comes out to him and he reasons with him about why it was the right thing to do and why he should be happy that His son is back. And he argues with the father and he proclaims his own virtue. And what's Let's not let's not be fools about this. The fact is that there's no way that a son has perfectly obeyed his father in every single situation. That's what the guy says. In some ways it's almost like he's saying, I'm more righteous than you are, Dad. I'm better than you are. I never did these things. And you're giving him all this stuff. It's not right. It's not just. It's not fair. That's what the son is saying to his dad. He treats his father as if the father had wronged him by extending this immense kindness to his brother. And he refused to be associated with his brother. Now, what do we learn from this? What we learn from this is that when people see God's grace and they don't appreciate that grace and they don't see that they personally have received this grace, Their attitude towards God is that he is less righteous than they are. And it's something that bothers them. It makes them angry And so we see in this passage of Scripture that if we're going to love people the way that God does, we've got to see them through his eyes. And so this morning as you think about this, I hope that it'll encourage you. How God views the sinner. How he loves them, how he extends grace to them. He desires them to be welcomed into his presence through the work of Christ. Well, I hope you have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. as we continue to break down this passage of scripture and ask, well, what was the point of what Jesus was teaching? What was his main goal? What was he communicating to his audience? So I hope that you'll join us tomorrow as we dig into This next little piece of the study. Have a blessed day by now