Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. We've been working our way through Luke chapter 19 this week, and yesterday we spent a lot of time talking about how this passage of scripture is really focused on the disciple. And how the disciple has a responsibility to be faithful with what has been entrusted to them as they are waiting for Christ's return. And so that's the primary focus of this passage, but there is a secondary focus that really comes out in this parable and that is the appeal to the unbeliever and the need to repent and believe in the gospel while there is still opportunity. And so let's turn in our Bibles again to Luke chapter 19. We'll read beginning in verse number 11. and then uh dig into this really secondary but also very important theme that we find in this passage of scripture. It says, and as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable, because he was nigh to Jerusalem. Because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear. And he said, therefore, a certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return. And he called his ten servants and delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, Occupy till I come. But his citizens hated him. And sent a message after him saying, We will not have this man to reign over us. Came to pass that when he was returned, having received the kingdom, Then, excuse me, past that, then he commanded these servants to be called unto him, to whom he had given the money, that he might know how much every man had gained by trading. Then they came, the first saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained ten pounds, and he said unto him, Well done, thou good servant, because thou hast been faithful in a little thing. Thou shalt have authority over ten cities. The second came, saying, Lord, thy ten pounds hath gained five pounds. He said likewise to him, Be thou also over five cities Another came, saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound, which I have kept laid up in a napkin. I feared thee, because thou art an austere man. Now, the secondary focus of this parable is the importance, the need, the appeal to repent and believe. And we see this in verse 14. But his citizens hated him and sent a message after him saying, We will not have this man to reign over us. Well, the primary focus is faithfulness. The secondary is the need to embrace the king that is being rejected. In verse 27 he says, Those mine enemies which would not have me reign over them, bring them hither and slay them before me. I want to pause and I want to step away from the text for a moment and talk about something that had been going on in the history of these people leading up to this passage of scripture that most certainly would have impacted what was going on in their mind when Jesus gave this teaching. During the time that Jesus was born, there was a man on the throne named Herod And we know that Herod was a very wicked man. In fact, Herod's claim to fame was his brutality. And one of the brutal things that Herod did is when the Magi came from the east and they were looking for the Messiah, the king of the Jews, And they came to Jerusalem. Those who are working there in Jerusalem told the king, Well, he's not going to be in Jerusalem, he's going to be in Bethlehem. And they read from the prophet Micah. And so he told the Magi, when you find him, come back to me and tell me where he is, because I want to worship him as well. But that wasn't Herod's intention. Herod wanted to kill any rival to his throne. And so when the Magi didn't come back Then Herod sent his soldiers to Bethlehem, and they slaughtered all of the little boys who were under the age of two. And he did this because of his brutality. So the people hated him. Well interestingly, when Herod was trying to establish his rule there in that region in Judea He actually went to Rome and he sought to be established by the Roman governors, the Roman government there. And when he came back, he had the power of Rome behind him. Well after Herod's death, his son rose to the throne, and if you'll remember when when Christ's parents, Mary and then Joseph, his stepfather, brought him down to Egypt when they came back from Egypt They were afraid to go back to Bethlehem because of this very evil man who was now on the throne, who was Herod's son. So that's why they went to Nazareth, because of fear. Well this man, the son of Herod, was very similar to his father, in that he was a brutal man, and he was known for having slaughtered three thousand men in the temple on the Passover. because he was fearful that they were raising up a political insurrection against him. And just like his father went to Rome to try to get the authority established there in Judea, he did the exact same thing The reason I bring this up is to say that this was a part of the history that these people had lived through. And so when Jesus talks about a man going away and coming back, they knew what it was like to have a ruler who did that. And when Jesus talks about a ruler who's going to establish his reign by crushing those who are in opposition to him, they knew what that was like. Now, there is a very big difference between Christ and these kings that they would have had in their mind. Christ is the perfect king. He is a sinless, righteous, just judge. But part of justice is recognizing that those who reject the truth and those who are guilty of violating the law must be held to account entirely. And so when we talk about verse 27, those mine enemies which would not have me to reign over them, bring them and slay them, is it's a reminder that one day when Christ establishes his rule, he is going to judge the wicked And he's going to judge them in perfect, righteous justice. So the question is, what is the intent of this part of the parable? Well, the intent is to remind you of two things. First of all, these people had time. But the time was not indefinite. It was eventually going to run out, and they were one day going to have to stand before the king when he came back. And secondly, if they continued to harbor rebellion against the king they would one day be severely judged for that rebellion. I want to remind you that just like in the illustration, this is what happened, that is what Christ will do one day His point is you cannot rebel against God without consequence. Don't think that you're above the law, that you can get away with it. If you fail to turn to him while there is time, you will suffer irreversible judgment. And that is the very firm and sobering warning of this text. And so I want to remind you Now while we serve a God who is gracious and a God of rich mercy and love, I think of Romans 5 8. When we were without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. God commended his love toward us while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. All of the scriptures speak of the love of God and the mercy of God and the grace of God But we also have scriptures that remind us that He is just. It says that the one who does not receive the Son does not have life, but rather the wrath of God abides upon him. And so if you're hearing this message and you've never turned to Christ and placed your faith in his finished work, I want to warn and encourage you to do this while there is time. You will not escape God's judgment if one day he returns and in fact you're not ready. That's a sobering warning, but there's also encouragement. The encouragement is, whosoever will may come. If you'll trust in the finished work of Christ, he'll save you the moment you do it. So don't delay. Don't push it to the side. Make sure. that you are ready to meet the Lord when your time comes. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow one more time for some final thoughts on this passage of Scripture. Bye now.