Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And we are in Romans chapter 8, looking at verses 14 through 19. And we are going to focus in on the concept of adoption and the fact that we are God's children. And so if you have a Bible, let's turn there. We'll read the text together and then dig into this concept this morning. Here's what it says, beginning in verse number fourteen. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry Abba Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit that we are the children of God, and if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ. If so be that we suffer with him, that we may be glorified together. For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. Now there's a concept in these verses that is very important, and that is the fact that we are God's children. He is our Father And the Bible talks about this concept in a lot of different ways. Notice the way that this text emphasizes it. In verse 14 he says, As many as are led by the Spirit of God They are, not they will be, or they might be, but they are the sons of God. And if we look back into the passage before we come into this text, What we'll see is that he's emphasizing the fact that when a person becomes a child of God, they're regenerated, the Holy Spirit comes and indwells them And the Spirit's influence in this new creature in Christ are going to fundamentally change the way that we relate to sin. And so when he talks about being led of the Spirit, that is really where the concept lies. But when we talk about a relationship to God as Him being our Father, the scripture lays it out in lots of different ways. It basically tells us there's two kinds of people in the world. There are those who are spiritually dead, separated from God, under his wrath, and those who are spiritually alive, God's children. For instance, when we talk about this concept in the New Testament, we can go to Ephesians chapter 2. It says, you hath he quickened, that means made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins Now obviously when he uses the term dead here, he is not referring to someone just simply physically dying, because he's talking about people who are physically alive. These are people who are physically living, but they are dead in the sense that they are spiritually dead. And so he's emphasizing their relationship to God, their separation from God because of their sin. Or we can come to another passage like 1 Corinthians 15, 22. It says, In Adam all die. Even so in Christ shall all be made alive. This is emphasizing the fact that our identification with Adam makes us spiritually dead and separated from God. And our identification with Christ, or our union with Christ, makes us spiritually alive in him, two people in the world. We come to another text. John chapter three, verse thirty six. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. Again, not he will have it, but he does have it. And he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. Not it's going to abide on him, but it does abide on him Again, we see that some have everlasting life, and others are under God's wrath, and that wrath is abiding upon them. Then we go to John 5. 24. He that heareth my words, believeth on him that set me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation, but, I love this statement, has passed from death to life. Again, this is a person who once was dead and now is alive, and they currently possess eternal life So when the Bible talks about two kinds of people, there the the question we should often or we should automatically ask ourselves is, well, what's the difference between these two people? Like what makes The fundamental distinction between being dead spiritually and alive spiritually, being in Christ or being in Adam, being under wrath or being alive in him. The answer to that is it all comes down to what we do with the gospel. There are some that reject the gospel in unbelief. He that believeth not. There are others who hear the gospel, embrace the gospel, trust in the gospel, he that believeth on the Son who has life. And so it all comes down to what you do with the gospel. Those who are in Christ are God's children. Those who are in Adam are separated from God, alienated from God. And so this being in Christ is all about being born again. That's why in John 1 it says, As many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God, even to them who believe on his name. which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. John chapter three He talks about the need to be born again. And in James chapter 1, he says, of his own will he begat us by the word of truth. So a person must be born again to be in Christ. He's going to become a new creature when he places his faith in Christ. If any man is in Christ, he is a new creature. And so Romans chapter 6 reflects on the fact that in fact we have a change of identity so that we will walk in newness of life, not serve sin, and relate properly to God. So when we come back to the beginning of this section where he says, As many as are led of the Spirit, these are the sons of God. If any man does not have the Spirit, he's none of his. It goes back to the fact that our position is revealed by the fact that there has been a fundamental change in our attitude towards sin. And so I want to remind you of this very important truth this morning. If you have placed your faith in Christ You are free from guilt, free from sin, no hunger under wrath. There's no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. You have the Spirit, you're alive in Christ, and you now are fundamentally different in your orientation towards sin. You are God's child. So I want to encourage you, glory in that wonderful purpose of what God has for you. Glory in that freedom that you have in Christ. And of course, have a blessed day. Hopefully tomorrow we'll meet again and I hope that you'll join us. If this has been an encouragement to you, take a moment to share that and encourage others with it. Have a blessed day. Bye now.