Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a great start to your week. And as we work our way through the book of Ephesians, this introduction I hope will be very helpful to you. Because what we're going to do is just kind of give you a good sense of the basic flow of this book. And then as we work through each individual piece of the book, we're going to try to think of it as a part within the whole. And so today we're going to talk about some of the distinctive aspects of the book of Ephesians, the epistle that's in front of us. So if you have your Bible, let's take it and let's turn together to Ephesians chapter 1, and we'll read all the way down to verse 6. It says the following. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the saints which are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus Grace be to you and peace from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings and heavenly places in Christ. According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love, having predestinated us unto adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself. according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. Now, as we think about the book of Ephesians, there's a very simple basic structure to this book. The first part deals with doctrine. And so in verses 1, 1, all the way to chapter 3, verse 21, we see that the focus is on our position in Christ. And we can really see this in how the section opens and how it closes. For instance, in verse 3, after the introduction, the greeting, he says, Blessed be the God and Father. of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in Christ. That statement in Christ is very important because it tells us that it is the position of the believer that's the emphasis. Then we come to chapter 3, verse 21, he says, Unto him be glory in the church by Jesus Christ throughout all ages, world without end. Amen. What you can see is there's clearly a conclusion. to this section dealing with the believer's position and doctrine. From this focus on position, we see practice. And so from chapters 4. 1 unto 6. 24, we see the focus is on how we are to live out the position that we have in Christ. And so we see it opening this way in verse 1. Therefore, I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy or consistent with the vocation wherewith you're called. Because you're in this position, Here's how you're supposed to live. And then at the end in chapter 6, verses 10 and 11, he says, Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. And so you can see that there are these two neat pieces to the book of Ephesians. We also see as we work our way through the book of Ephesians an emphasis on prayer. And we see an emphasis on prayer in the first section. We see it in the transitional period between first and second sections, and then we see it at the end of the book. I want you to notice it this way. In verses 16 and 18 of chapter 1 he says, I do not cease to give thanks to you or for you, making mention of you always in my prayer. that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the Spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him. The eyes of your understanding be enlightened, that you might know what is the hope of his calling, and the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints. So what's he doing? He's saying, God, please open the eyes of these people to understand who they are in you. And then when we come to the middle section, he prays this in verses 14 and 19 of chapter 3. He says, For this cause I bow my knee unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. of whom the heaven that the family in heaven and earth is named, that he would grant unto you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man. that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that you might be rooted and grounded in love, that you may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height, and to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge that you might be filled with all the fullness of God. So what is he doing? He's praying that they'll go from a full knowledge of who they are in Christ to a practice that is consistent with that. and that they would grow in spiritual maturity. And then at the end, in chapter 6, verses 18 through 20, he concludes it this way. After putting on all the pieces of the armor, as we wage that spiritual battle, he says, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. and for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly, that I might make known the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in bonds, that herein I may speak boldly as I ought to speak. And so what is he emphasizing here? Well, again, we are to put into practice what we have heard. We also see that there's a lot of rich theology in this book. And as we look at the the first part of it, what is significant about it is that Paul spent a lot of time at Ephesus. And this was really like a starting location. for all of these church plans. We see that he spends three years there, Acts 20 verse 31. He says, remember by the space of three years, I cease not to warn every one of you night and day with tears. In chapter 18, verse 11, we see by contrast, he was in Corinth, and he says that he continued there a year and six months teaching the word of God among them. So he was at Ephesus longer than he was at Corinth. Or we look at how much time he spent at Rome. Acts chapter 28, verse 30. It says Paul dwelt two years in a house and received all that came into him. So between Corinth and Rome, he spent more time at Ephesus between those other places. Even in Antioch, we see the same kind of thing. And so the second thing I want to mention about this is that despite this long stretch, there's almost no reference to people in this book. What I mean is people by name. We see lots of references to the Corinthian church, people by name, lots of people to the Roman church, people by name. We don't see that in Ephesus. Why is that? Well, because the focus is on theology, not personality. It's more of a general type of book. In fact, some might might even argue that it was a circular letter. It was meant to be presented in lots of different places. to almost provide a very basic theology for Paul. Here is his teaching on who we are in Christ, here's his teaching on how we're to live in Christ. And then it's distributed to all the churches. That is one of the ways that it's often understood. And so we see that it is a rich theological book, one that emphasizes what Paul taught And some of these other passages I want to just kind of mention here, I think are also significant when we think about that that understanding of the book at Ephesus, the book of Ephesians. In Acts 19, verse 9 it says, When diverse were hardened and believed not, but spake evil of that way, he departed from them, separated the disciples, and disputed daily in the school of Tyranus, and continued there for two years So what was Paul teaching? Or Ephesians 1. 3, or 1 Timothy 1. 3, which was written to the Ephesians. He says, I besought thee to abide at Ephesus. that thou mightst charge some that they teach no other doctrine. Or for verse 16, take heed unto thyself and to the doctrine, continue in them, for in doing this thou shalt save both thyself and them that hear thee. Or 2 Timothy 3. 10, you have fully known my doctrine. The reason I bring these passages of scripture up to you is to simply say, if Paul had doctrine that the people understood, then the question is, where was it? Well, the book of Ephesians is a great place for us to start. If we want to know what Paul believed and taught about the believer's position, read the book of Ephesians. If you want to know what Paul taught and believed about the believer's practice as one who is in Christ, look at the book of Ephesians. This book is very, very helpful. Breaks into two simple parts. There's an emphasis on prayer. There's an emphasis on rich theology. I hope that as we work our way through this book throughout the next many months, that you will find it to be extremely practical and helpful to you Well that's what I have for you this morning. Hope you have a great rest of your day. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.