Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflections. Would like to say a couple of things about this week. First of all, This week we will be having Vacation Bible School. So in the morning we'll have teens from 10 o'clock until 12 o'clock. And then in the evening We have uh children's vacation bible school as well. And so I'd like to ask you, if you follow these Anchored in the Word studies, even if you're not necessarily part of our church, Anchor Baptist, um, that you would really be in prayer for our vacation Bible school week. Pray that God will work in the young people's hearts. The preaching of God's word will be very clear and uh very Christ-centered in the uh morning uh teen rallies and then in the evening that the gospel will be presented clearly and that Uh God will just give us a great week and also pray that we would have many families that we'd be able to connect with through our vacation Bible school classes. Also, I'd like us to dig into this passage of scripture together and I think that it's a really encouraging and important truth series of truths for us to understand. So hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into these verses. I hope that you'll share this with folks that maybe could be benefited by it and would find it to be encouraging. And if anyone has questions or need to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that. The text we're looking at is Psalm 48, and we're going to look at the entire Psalm But each week, or each day of the week, we're going to read just the first half of the Psalm. Here's what it says, Psalm 48. It says, Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised, in the city of our God, in the mountain of his holiness. Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, is Mount Zion on the sides of the north, the city of the great king. God is known in her, her palaces for a refuge. For though the kings were assembled, they passed by together, they saw it, and so they marveled. They were troubled and hasted away. Fear took hold upon them as the pain of a woman in travail. Thou breakest the ships of Tarshus with an east wind As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God. God will establish it forever. Selah. Now this week as we look at this passage of Scripture, there are a couple of illustrations I want you to keep in the back of your mind as we dig into these truths. I want you to think about things like gold. How is gold purified? Gold is purified and tested through the hot fire. And so as the fire is heated, the impurities are going to melt out of the gold, and it's skimmed off the top, and so that gold is purified through fire. Or we think about how muscle and how endurance are built. They're built on the track. They're built on the field. They're built in the gym. And it's through the process of strain and struggle and exercise and the body breaking down and building back stronger that muscle is built Well we think about how maturity takes place. It is through suffering and difficulty and through experiences that test us. And as we pass through these waters and as we experience the challenges of life God uses those things to mature us and shape us and build us. I even think about relationships. How are relationships built? Were they built through basic levels of trust? That trust being demonstrated, that trust being tested, working through challenges and difficulty, the resolving of tension. The reason that I bring these illustrations up is to simply show you that a lot of things in life that have great value are developed and purified through heart a heartache and trouble. And this passage of Scripture is going to give us that sense. We're going to see that God's desire is for us to move from a basic academic knowledge of Him to an experiential knowledge of Him, a love for Him, an affection for Him. uh a confidence that is built very strong and can stand the challenges of life. And so join us this week as we look at this passage. What we will see in the text Is that ultimately it's about showing how God uses life's darkest moments to persuade us that He is good, His promises are sure, and His care is personal. As we reflect on these things, I think we'll see that his desire is for us to never forget how he has proven himself. And so join us this week as we dig into this passage of Scripture. Keep us in prayer as we run Vacation Bible School and our teen classes. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll see many of you tomorrow. Bye now.