Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for this week and hope that you have a wonderful weekend and that the passage that we have been dealing with this week is something that has given you some things to think about and ultimately is an encouragement and a challenge. What we're going to do this morning is we're going to read the text one more time and then we're going to look at some final thoughts from this passage of scripture. So Again, that's Luke chapter 16, and we're going to begin reading in verse number 19. There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and feared some Every day, when there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which had laid at his gate full of swords, and desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. Moreover, the dog Came and licked his sores. And it came to pass that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried. And in hell he lifted up And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me. This morning we're going to take all the things we've talked about this week and hopefully condense them to just a few very simple, basic, helpful applications. And so the question of how we apply Christ's teaching, I want to start with this word, conviction. What I mean by conviction is death and judgment are inescapable future realities. There is no way But you and I are going to escape death. We're going to have to face that one day. I do understand there is the preface of those who live during the rapture of the church, but we are all going to experience passing from death to life. The second thing is this Our wealth, the things that we accumulate in this world, they do not have the ability to secure a future. Our ability to stand in the presence of God for all eternity entrance into the kingdom of God Kingdom of God has nothing to do with how much money we accumulate in life. That's what we do with the gospel. The third thing, the most important decision that we will make in this life is what What we do with Christ. Do we accept Him as our Lord and Savior? We place our faith in the finished work of Christ, His death, burial, and resurrection, or do we attempt to work our way to God through our own means. What we do with Christ is the most important decision we make in all of life. Fourthly, there are no second chances Once a person has passed into eternity, the door is shut. They don't have other options. I think about the story of Noah and the destruction of the world in a world Worldwide flood. You know, Noah was building that that large boat for 120 years. But there was a day when God closed the door and the rains began to come down. And when he closed the Close that door, the people's door, uh fate was sealed. And the same is true when it comes to this issue of our death. Next, there's nothing more powerful than the preaching of the gospel. And this is really emphasized in this particular story. When the rich man says to Abraham, Can you send Lazarus back to speak to my family? He says, they have Moses and the prophets, let them hear them. He says, No, but if one came from the Ted, they would hear him. And he says, They have Moses and the prophets. If they won't hear them They will not hear, even if someone was to rise from the dead. And obviously this is a resurrection of Christ. But the point is that the gospel is the power of God unto salvation to everyone who believes. The second application is the word comfort. Life's greatest troubles are at worst temporary. It's very easy for us to focus in on the negative side The fact that the rich man has been separated from God because of his rejection of the gospel and he's facing God's wrath. There's also a positive side. Here is Lazarus, a man who had suffered immensely in life He had nothing. Even his health was broken. He's starving and he's fighting the dogs for table scraps, yet at its worst, it was only temporary. He was going To be in the presence of the Lord forever. Second example: believers who suffer are one day going to experience full eternal comfort. And that is what happened with Lazarus. He experience that comfort. Third thing I want to emphasize is invitation. What I mean by that is that you have a choice to make if you've not placed your faith in Christ. The fact that you're hearing these teachings this week, the fact that someone shared this video with you, is it it's God's personal invitation to you to say, repent and believe. Place your faith in Christ. I asked this question, have you placed your faith in Christ? And if not, then turn to him now. Turn to him while there is time. I asked secondly, have you lost your confidence in the power of the gospel. Remember the words of Christ. That they have Moses and the prophets. As he as he quotes or as he speaks on uh speaks About Abraham. He says, if one rose from the dead, they wouldn't even hear him. In other words, the gospel is the power into salvation to all who believe. And we need to have great confidence in that gospel. Third thing I'll ask is this are you weird in the Christian life? There are people that are. There's a lot that's going on negative in the world. around them. There's a lot going on negative in their own lives. And it's important for us at moments like this to remember there is future glory. There is future comfort. I think about Ephesians chapter 6 when he talks About putting on the whole armor of God, and he says that we are to take on the helmet of salvation. First Thessalonians, he mentions that this helmet is the hope of our salvation. Salvation, future glory. And so as we go through the Christian life and we experience the heartaches and the frustrations of life, which are part of living in a fallen world, we need to be reminded That there is future glory, there is future comfort, and this is what should guard our minds. Well, the last thing I want to say is have a wonderful weekend. I hope the things that we've talked about have been challenged to you, Lord willing. We'll see many of you on Sunday. And if not, I hope you'll join us on Monday as we continue teaching through the book of Luke and the passage that we'll be looking at. I think will be very practical. one helpful to you. Have a blessed weekend. Lord willing, we'll talk again soon. By now