Good morning and welcome to our Thursday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope your week's gone very well. Hope this study has been an encouragement and a challenge. And today we're going to talk about the methodology behind the message and the ministry that the Apostle Paul had. And what we're going to see is the connection. between what motivated him to serve and what motivates the way that he actually preaches and teaches these things. And we see that we're going to see the connection between practice and position. It's all going to be there. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles today and turn to Ephesians chapter 4. And we're going to look at verses 1 through 6 and hopefully really reflect on this this content very, very well today. Here's what it says. Verse number 1. I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you're called, with all lowliness and meekness. with long suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body, one spirit, even as you are called into one hope of your calling And I know that there's more to this passage, but for the sake of time, we'll stop there. Now, as we get into the methodology of the Apostle Paul, it's important for us to go back at something we talked about earlier in the week. In verses 4 through 6 it says that there's one body, there's one spirit, there's one calling, one hope, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father above all. Through all and in you all. Now what is this what is what what is what is stated over and over and over again in these verses? The word is one. So it's emphasizing that a group of people have certain things that unite them. And that's a really important concept for us to consider So we talk about his method and we talk about the foundation of his ministry. These two things are inseparably linked. Here's what I mean by that If you go back to the beginning of the statement, he says, I therefore , and all of this pointed back to the position of the Christian. This is what drives him. It drives him in his ministry. It shapes the way that he gives this message. And this is where it closes. And guess what? A lot of these things that we're going to talk about today are connected to position. And then we have the word calling. He says to walk worthy of the vocation or the calling wherewith you've been called. And so he's looking back at the position and he's looking forward to their ultimate destination. And what does it do? It links the two together. And so when we talk about the Christian life, we're talking about a life that should be distinct, because it is distinctly connected to the gospel and one's position and one's ultimate end. And it's practical because of who I am, because of what God's done for me, because of what I'm going to experience in glory, I need to live practically today the way that He calls me to live. And then there's an emphasis on community. We have been taken from all these different places and united around this one common faith. And that's what he's going to talk about in the following section of Scripture So when we think about this, we see that we serve one God and we relate properly to him, and he emphasizes actually the trying nature of God. For instance, there's one spirit. There is one Lord. That's speaking of Christ. There is one Father. The Father, the Son, and the Spirit are all spoken of together. Each individual person is one person of the same triune God. And he's going to talk about the different aspects of how we relate to God and how we relate to each of the persons of the Godhead. For instance, he says that we are united to him in one body. We as individuals have been placed into one body by the Spirit He says that we have one hope of our calling. We as individuals have all been called to the same eternal hope. We're going to spend eternity with God in glory. He talks about one faith. We as individuals have been saved by placing our faith in one person, the Lord Jesus Christ, who did one thing. He died for us on the cross. who triumphed in one way through the resurrection. And so there are not many faiths by which we come to God. There is one object of faith, and that is Christ the gospel. And then he talks about one baptism. I don't think he's talking about water baptism here. I think he's talking about our union with Christ. We've been baptized into Christ. And so we've all been united into one person, the Lord Jesus Christ. And then we have one father. This is the father who we submit to because he's above all. This is the father who works through us. And that's why he says one father works through all. And this is the father whom we commune with. He's the Father who is in you all. Now what do all these things have in common? They talk about how we as individuals are linked together into one body. We are united to one individual, God. And so the question is, why does that matter? Well, it matters because Christian living is supposed to flow out of what we understand about who we are and who we are as a body. Let me try to put it to you in simple practical terms. We are to grow as Christians in community, not in isolation. Here's what I mean by this It is true that we are saved as individuals. I cannot save you, you cannot save me. I can't make the decision to trust Christ for you, you can't do it for me. We're saved as individuals. We're all going to stand before God by ourselves as individuals. I won't stand with my wife. I won't stand with my children. I won't stand with my parents and my grandparents. I will stand before the judgment seat of Christ on my own. We also know that we are personally responsible for our own decisions. I'm not responsible for your decisions, you're not responsible for mine. Now, there may be areas where I'm responsible to relate properly to you in the midst of your decisions, or maybe vice versa. But your decisions are things that you will stand before God for, not me. So we see the individual aspect, but we don't see isolation. We see community Because we as individuals are called into one body. And we are to walk within community. We're to serve in a body. We're to grow in a body. We cannot be healthy Christians if we neglect the body. And so what is the methodology of Paul's message? The answer is it's the community of the local church. We are to grow and serve and thrive and mature within the context of a body. And so I want to encourage you, don't neglect the body that God has placed you into. In his providence, he's drawn you to a local church. And those are the people that you're supposed to rub shoulders with. Those are the ones who you should be ministering to are going to minister to you. We grow as individuals who are placed into a body and we grow in community, even though we are saved individually May God help us to find the right balance in this. That we don't withdraw from the church that He has given to us for our good, but rather we unite with it and we engage in it. May God help us to do that faithfully and consistently. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts of application. Bye now.