Good morning. Welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And the text we've been dealing with is Luke chapter 18, verses 31 through 34. If you joined us on Monday and Tuesday, We've been dealing with this passage looking at the fact that God's grace is demonstrated in his faithfulness to fulfilling these promises that he made in the Old Testament. And then secondly, we saw God's grace being demonstrated in the nature of how Christ goes to the cross and dies for our sins and how redemption is actually accomplished. Well, this morning what we're going to do is continue to build on that topic of God's grace and how it's demonstrated in our salvation, and we're going to focus in on specifically the Spirit's role in bringing a person to faith in Christ, uh what we would say regeneration or a person's conversion. So this morning we'll focus in on God's grace demonstrated in the Spirit's work. So if you have your Bible, let's turn together and we'll look at this passage, listen to a short excerpt, and then dig into this topic. Scripture says this. Then he took up unto him the twelve, said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem. All things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. For he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated, and spit on, and they shall scourge him and put him to death, and the third day he shall rise again. Here's the statement that we're going to focus in on. They understood none of these things. This saying was hid from them, neither knew they the things which were spoken. Alright, let's listen to this little section and then we'll dig into it. You know what the Holy Spirit does? He says, you're a sinner. God's standard of righteousness is unattainable to you. He's going to judge you. Turn to Christ. That's what he does. He shines the light of the gospel into our hearts. 2 Corinthians 4, 6. God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. I think it's important that when we talk about God's grace and our salvation, God's grace accomplishes our salvation on every single level. If we go back to Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, it says, by grace are ye saved. And then he says, through faith. So it is grace that is the ultimate basis of our salvation. It's by grace we're saved. God connects us to the benefits of the gospel through faith. And when we talk about this concept of repentance and faith and Regeneration and being justified, all of those things are accompanied by the grace of God. It is the grace of God that brings us to that point of repentance toward God and faith alone in Christ And he does it through the Word of God. Now, if we were to go to the book of John and he talks about Christ coming as the Comforter, one of the things that we see is not only that he comes to be the comforter of the Christian, But he is the one who comes to convict or convince and rebuke the world of sin and righteousness and judgment. And so what the Spirit of God does is by God's grace. He draws people to himself, opening their eyes to the significance of the gospel message and the weight of the law. A person becomes awakened to their sinful condition, and that's what he means when he says that when the Spirit comes he will convict the world of sin because they have not believed on me. He opens our eyes to the significance of that. Then when we come to the second aspect, that would be the faith side, repentance and faith, faith is something that God draws us to to as well. He works in us to draw us to that point of willingness to trust in the finished work of Christ. He opens our understanding that we can comprehend the concepts of the gospel so that we will see our need to turn and trust Christ. And so what does he do? The Spirit, through the preaching of the Word, Faith comes by hearing, hearing by the Word of God. He draws us to repent and believe. Now in these verses, the thing that is so significant. Is here are people who had the Old Testament law, they had the opportunity to walk with Christ and see what he did, listen to his teachings, all those things. And yet when Jesus makes this statement to them about the cross and the resurrection, they don't understand it. The question is why? It's because God hasn't opened their eyes to the significance of this yet. And that's not on God, that's on them. That's showing you the callousness, the dullness of a heart that is separated from God. And so what God does in his mercy is he brings the word of God to bear in our souls. He opens our eyes to the significance of our sin. He opens our eyes to the significance of the cross and what Christ accomplished. He convinces us of our need to trust Christ. And then, in humble repentance, a person places their faith in Christ. Why did they believe? They believed because they chose to. They also believed because the Lord Jesus Christ, who sent his Spirit to work on their heart, the Spirit has drawn them, and the Spirit has convinced them, and He has opened their eyes It reminds me of 2 Corinthians, where it says that the God of this world has blinded the eyes of those who do not believe the gospel. And God commanded the light to shine into the darkness, and he has opened our eyes to the significance of the these truths. And so God does this work in us by his spirit. And so the question is what role does the spirit play in our conversion? The answer is all of it. He's the one who is the one who convicts us. And convinces us and softens us and causes us to be willing to humbly repent and believe in the gospel. Do not underestimate the importance of the Spirit's role in conversion. Salvation is a miracle. It's a miracle that is accomplished through the preaching and teaching of the Word as the Spirit takes it and uses it. And so my encouragement to you this morning is a simple one. When you open up the Word of God and you present it to people, you are using the tool that the Spirit of God takes to humble hardened hearts And he takes to draw someone who is unwilling to believe to that point of humility and belief. When you pray, God, open the eyes of this person, he does it. The Spirit of God actually works. And we can take great comfort in that Well that's all I have for you this morning. Hope that that is a challenge to you. Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through some of the concepts in this passage of scripture. If this has been a challenge to you, share that. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. And Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow by now