Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Yesterday we looked at an introduction and today we're going to start digging into the details of the passage. And the way we're going to arrange this uh study this week is we're going to look back, we're going to look forward, we're going to look within, and we're going to look up. And so we're going to look at how the passage describes the relationship of the apostles to the information that Christ will emphasize. So today we're going to look back at God's purpose. And the question is, what was he planning to accomplish? What was ultimately fulfilled? So let's go ahead and read the text together, and then from that start digging into this concept. of what Christ is directing their attention back to. Here's what it says. And he said unto them, these are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you. That all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses and in the prophets, and in the Psalms concerning me. Then opened he their understanding that they might understand the Scriptures. And he said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer, to rise from the dead the third day, and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations. beginning at Jerusalem, and ye are witnesses of these things. Behold, I send the promise of my father upon you, but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem. until you be endued with power from on high. And he led them out as far as to Bethany and lifted up his hands and blessed them. It came to pass that while he blessed them, He parted from them, and was carried up into heaven. And they worshipped him and returned to the Lord with great joy, and were continually in the temple praising and blessing God. Amen. Now, as we look back, I want you to notice these words in verse 44. These are the words which I spake unto you. He's referring back to some things The idea is we have to see the big picture of what God is doing. There is continuity in God's plan, and Christ is directing their attention to this. In fact, this is a statement that's going to correct those apparent disunity concerns between the Old and the New Testament eras. And so there's a connection between both promise and fulfillment seen in the text in front of us. Notice what it says in verse 44. All things must be fulfilled which were written of me in the law of Moses. and in the prophets and in the Psalms concerning me. Christ is looking back at what has been stated would take place. But he goes beyond just looking back at what has taken place and how it was predicted in the Old Testament. He's also going to talk about the significance, the spiritual weight of what he actually did. And we see this in verse forty five. Then he opened their understanding that they might understand the scriptures. There were some things about why he did it that were so very, very important. What we see is in these verses, it emphasizes the absolute necessity of this being done. It behooved Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead. It is an absolutely essential, inescapable component of this message of salvation. And so as we think about why we look back, we look back because we realize that what has been promised has been fulfilled. What has been accomplished had a purpose. There was no other way. And so it had to be through Christ's death and resurrection. And so as we think about the gospel, let's remember that this is a message that was promised, fulfilled, and absolutely inescapably important. May God help us to appreciate the beauty and the glory of this particular story, the story of redemption. And if you've never placed your faith in Christ, if you've not understood that you are a sinner, that is separated from a holy God, that Christ came and he died for your sins and he rose from the dead, and through his death and resurrection you can be saved. If you've never understood that, then I want to challenge you to turn to Christ with a repentance of heart and placing your faith in his finished work. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through this passage of Scripture. Bye now.