Good morning, welcome to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. This week we're going to look at one of the last two uh text that we dealt with during our missions month. And so I hope that you really enjoyed our missions month. I did. It was great to interact with our missionaries. I think we were a blessing to them and I believe that they were a blessing to us. And so I'd like us to review two more texts of Scripture. This week we're going to look at Colossians chapter 3, and then Lord willing, next week we're going to look at 2 Corinthians chapter 5. And so I hope you'll join us for those last two passages before we get back into our Psalm study and then wrapping up our Luke study. So we've got a lot going on over the next couple of weeks. Hope you'll join us for those things. If you have a Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Colossians chapter 3. And we're going to be looking at God's plan for the church. And it is a glorious plan. And so in our introduction, we're going to talk about a couple of things that are going to set the tone for the rest of the week. Colossians 3, verse number 1 says the following If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth at the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth. For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ who is our life shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth, fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness which is idolatry. For which things sake the wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience, in whom the which ye also walked some time, when you lived in them. Now this week we're going to look at actually more than the verses I've just read, but what I want to do is kind of give you some introductory thoughts to prepare the way for this study. The first thing I want to say in introduction is that the church is a beautiful union of two formally estranged peoples. And this estrangement comes really in two different levels. The first is an estrangement from God. And the Bible talks a lot about this. In Colossians 1. 20, it says that through the cross he made peace. through the blood of his cross. By him he reconciled all things unto himself, and you who sometime were alienated and enemies. You have now been reconciled in the body of his flesh through death. So both in Colossians and in Ephesians. Paul talks about this estrangement from God. We are called enemies or at enmity with God. And God has taken action toward us in order to reconcile us unto himself. The second estrangement that's talked about is the estrangement of Jew and Gentile. And so the gospel is what unites people who are very different and at odds with one another. Ephesians actually hints at this a lot more or is a lot more explicit about this concept than Colossians. So I'm actually going to look at the cross-reference in Ephesians 2 and read to you what it says. It says, Remember that in times past you were Gentiles in the flesh. At that time, you were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promises having no hope and without God in the world. But now, in Christ Jesus, ye who some time were up made were afar off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. for he is our peace, who hath made both one and broken down the middle wall of partition between us, having abolished in his flesh the enmity. to make in himself of twain one new man, so making peace that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross So you can see that the gospel is what unites the Jew and the Gentile. And in the first century, there probably wasn't a greater distinction amongst peoples than that distinction of Jew and Gentile. We also see that it is the gospel which the church is built upon, and it is the gospel which basically establishes and strengthens and builds up the church. And we see this in verses 25 through 27. He says, I am made a minister to fulfill the word of God. Even the mystery, which has been hidden from ages and from generations, but now is made manifest to his saints. to whom God would make known unto you the riches of his glory in this mystery amongst the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. And so Paul was a man who was motivated. But what we see in this passage and what we see throughout church history is that every generation, starting at Paul all the way to where we are today, every generation has a responsibility to embrace this ministry of proclaiming the gospel. So Paul did this. And so did the other apostles. They took the gospel to the nations from Jerusalem to Judea, Samaria, to the uttermost parts of the world. Then their disciples, the one who they led to Christ. And they trained and they discipled and they prepared for ministry, those individuals took the gospel to their generation and taught them. And then this generational transfer of knowledge, passing on of the Christian faith, has happened from one generation to the next, all the way up to this up to where we stand today. And so we have this calling as well. Last thing I want to mention is this. This is a motivation that we need to be, this is a this the motivation to embrace this duty is actually found in the text in front of us And it's important for us to consider this. The first thing that the pastor is going to talk about is how we need to understand our union with Christ. And this has been a huge emphasis this past month in our missions discussions. It's because this is the starting point. From that, we need to understand how this new position in Christ, this union with Christ, reorients our life toward Him. And then we should see how we need to long, have this intense desire to see how the gospel can transform not just our lives, but the lives of others who are broken. And so I'd summarized the text we're going to look at this week in the following way. A life united to Christ will be radically transformed by the union that enables them to be used to transform other broken lives. And so when we are united with Christ, our lives are transformed, they're reoriented toward him, and then he is able to use us to reach into the lives of others. We've got to understand our position. We've got to embrace our duties. We are new creatures in Christ who need to live like it. And so I hope you'd join us this week as we dig into this passage together. I'm sure this will be an encouragement, it'll challenge you, it'll build your thinking, so that'll be more and more biblical. And so I hope you'll join us for that. If you have any questions this week, don't hesitate to reach out. Share these videos if you think they'd be an encouragement to others. Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow to start breaking down these concepts by now