Good morning, welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection, and I hope that you are finding this to be an interesting discussion as we're talking about the triumphal entry. Yesterday we talked about Christ going up to Jerusalem. And today we're talking about him coming down from the Mount of Olives. And if you were to look at uh the the the topography of the nation of Israel in this area. What you would see is that Jerusalem is up in the mountains, and if you were coming from the Transjordan, you would go up into those mountains And then you would come to a mountain called the Mount of Olives, which is probably a glorified hill if you really want to talk about it that way. We're not talking about Rocky Mountains, but Um it is a mountain that overlooks Jerusalem, and you look down the valley into what's called the Kidron Valley and then back up into Jerusalem. So Price has gone up to the Mount of Olives, now he's coming down from the Mount of Olives, and that's where we pick up with the triumphal entry this morning So uh look in your Bibles again, Luke chapter 19, verses 28 through 40. We'll read the text together and then dig into this portion of Christ's journey. It says And when he had thus spoken, he went before ascending up to Jerusalem. It came to pass that as he came nigh to Bethage in Bethany, at the mount called the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples, saying, Go ye into the village against you in the which when you're entering you shall find a colt tied, whereon yet never a man sat. Loose him, bring him hither. And if any man s uh it if any man ask why do you lose him, say unto him, because the Lord had need of him. As he went, they spread the clothes in the way, and as he was coming nigh, even now to did the to the descent, and there's this the part that's important for today, the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen. So now he's coming down from the Mount of Olives, verses 35 through 38. And as we work our way, we see several things about the way that Jesus is welcomed. And he is welcomed triumphantly. In verse 35 it says that they cast their garments upon the cult and they set Jesus thereon. Verse 37 it says, At the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen. In verse 38 it says, Blessed be the king that comes in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven, and glory in the highest A little statement at the end is very important because they're actually quoting from a messianic psalm, Psalm 118. I'm going to comment on that a little bit later in our study this morning. But this is the way that Jesus is welcomed. The question is why was this so significant? Let me work our way through a couple of details that I hope will be a help to you this morning as we think about it. The significance of their actions go back a thousand years earlier When David had his son Solomon use the exact same route through the Kidron Valley on a mule to announce his reign. Now, if you study the story of the life of David, you know that there were several times that David went through tumultuous periods in his reign, at the beginning of his reign, where there's a battle between Saul and David. And then in the middle of his reign, or really we'd say towards the end of his reign, when his son Absalom tries to overthrow him and he has to run for his life. Well, at the very end of his life, a few years after Absalom's rebellion We see that his son Adonijah, who was the younger brother to Absalom, Adonijah tried to take over the kingdom as well before his father died. But Solomon was the rightful heir, the one that God's blessing would be upon. And so David is prompted by Bathsheba, his wife, to make sure that he takes this action. And as he takes the action, in 1 Kings 1. 33 it says that the king also said unto them, Take with you the servants of your Lord, cause Solomon, my son, to rise on mine own mule and a ride on my own mule, and bring him down to Gihon. Gihon is actually The Kidron Valley. And so this is the route that Solomon took up to Jerusalem down from the Mount of Olives riding on his father's mule. Very significant. A second interesting statement is from 2 Kings 9. This is later on during the Divided Kingdom. And during this time, you have Jezebel, who's a very wicked queen, who is trying to assert her authority after Ahab's death And God is going to remove Jezebel. She does not have right to the throne. And so he raises up a man called Jehu, and Jehu is anointed by the prophet Elisha. And in second Kings nine twelve it says, Thus saith the Lord, I have anointed thee king over Israel. Then they hasted and took every man his garment and put it under him on the top of the stairs and blew the trumpets and said, Jehu is king. So very similar incident. We're talking about something that happened a thousand years before. This is happening hundreds and hundreds of years before this event Very similar to what we're seeing. There's also significance not just to the actions of the people, but to the very location itself. And I've kind of mentioned a few things about this, but I want to dig into this more. This is the route that David took when he was fleeing from Absalom in 1 Samuel 15. He has been crushed. And he is running for his life, and this is the same way that he comes back into Jerusalem after Absalom's rebellion has been crushed. And then we see another example, what we just talked about in 1 Kings 1, where David brings Solomon into Jerusalem through the eastern gate, down from the Mount of Olives, through the Kidron Valley. riding on his own donkey, signifying that he is the rightful king to the throne. In both situations, the the descent from the Mount of Olives and then the ascent up to Jerusalem through the Kidron Valley is symbolic of the king coming to a tumultuous city, but he is the one who has the right to the throne there. Then we see this passage, Luke chapter 19, Christ at his first coming. He's coming through this route by this route into the city. to run out the corrupt religious leaders who are desecrating the temple, ultimately Christ will be crucified to establish a basis for redemption. And then the last thing I want to mention is his second coming, Zechariah 14. He will come by this route to take his rightful place on the throne of his father David. And his feet shall stand in that day on the Mount of Olives, which is before Jerusalem on the east, and the Mount of Olives will cleave in the midst thereof toward the east and toward the west. There shall be a great valley, and half the mountains shall remove towards the north and half towards the south. And so it's a reference to the second coming. Third por portion that I want to mention is the significance of Christ's words. And this is a quote from Psalm 118, verses 22 to 27. Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. As the crowds are crying this out, they are quoting from Psalm 118, a messianic psalm. What's amazing is that the people understood who the Messiah was, but they didn't understand what he was coming to do. They wanted salvation now on their own terms without understanding God's way of redemption through the cross. In other words, they thought God could save them without Christ dying, and they were wrong. They wanted a kingdom without the removal of guilt and sin. And that's an impossibility. Unless someone is born again, they cannot see the kingdom of God. There must be a basis for people to enter the kingdom. And so that leads me to some of the contents of that psalm that really are laid out very well in this text. In the psalm, we see that it talks of Christ being rejected The stone which the builders refused is to become the head of the stone of the corner. And this is exactly what the Jews were about to do. Secondly, this rejection would be a central component to God's redemptive plan. This is the day that the Lord hath made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Third This salvation could only be possible because of this act. It says, save now, after the cross, we have the opportunity for salvation. And fourthly, the act would be a substitutionary sacrificial death. He says, bind up the sacrifices. So as we think about Christ's descent from the Mount of Olives, we are looking at an integral part of this story. There is significance to the location. There's significance to the things that the people are saying. There's significance to the things that the people are doing. There's a significance to the way that Jesus is riding on a donkey into the city. All of this was ultimately to point to the way that Christ was going to establish redemption through the cross, the stone which the builders rejected He is the chief cornerstone. This is the day the Lord has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. I don't know about you, but that gives me something to be very thankful for. And if you don't understand this, please reach out. I'd love to talk to you about what Christ has done for you, how you can know for certain when you die you're going to heaven. If this has been a challenge to you, take a moment to share that. If you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out. Lord willing tomorrow we'll upload another video as we keep working our way through this passage. Bye now.