Good morning. Hope you're having a great day and uh looking forward to getting into our Anchored in the Word morning reflections this week. Um I know that uh this week's gonna be a little bit weird uh with the snow and the ice and the extreme cold and so I'm pre-recording all of these videos and I'm gonna hopefully be able to get them out depending on our situation with power and all that kind of stuff. Hope that you're shoveling and you're staying safe and everything's going well. As we dig into this passage of Scripture, I pray that it will be a great encouragement to you. And the things that I share, though they are very simple, will be super practical. We are in Ephesians chapter 1 this week. We are looking at verses 15 through 23, and we're talking about the importance of how we pray for the people. in our lives. So if you have a Bible, let's take it and turn together to Ephesians chapter 1. We'll read the text and then I'll give you a couple of real basic thoughts as our introduction and then Lord willing, each day we're going to build on the things that are said today. Ephesians one verse number fifteen. Wherefore I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and love for all the saints, cease not to give thanks for you. Making mention of you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation and the knowledge of Him. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of his calling, and what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints. What is the exceeding greatness of his power to usward who believe, according to the working of his mighty power, which he wrought in us in Christ? Now, as we look at this passage, I would give you the following summary Paul is expressing his deep love for the church, and he's doing it in prayer, by praying fervently for them, as he is gripped with some wonderful gospel implications and wants them to be gripped in the same way. He wants them to understand the riches of the gospel, the implications of the gospel, their position in Christ. And so that's what this passage is all about. It's Paul being gripped by truth, gospel truth. Paul expressing deep gospel truth, and Paul praying that these people would be gripped by it in the same way. And so as we dig into this passage this week, I hope that you will see that God's desire for us is that we'll pray like Paul is. Not because we're trying to pattern our lives after Paul, but because Paul is a spirit-filled man, and as a spirit-filled man, this is what he desires for the people to see. So join us this week as we dig into this passage of Scripture. I'll be praying for each of you as you're digging out and uh praying for our safety and praying that Lord willing we'll be able to uh gather together for worship on Wednesday. It is our desire. depending on the circumstances, um to have a special activity on Tuesday. We want to uh have sledding around three o'clock and then uh chili and uh hot chocolate in the afternoon slash evening around maybe five o'clock. Uh so stay tuned. We're gonna try to put out some emails if we're able to actually make that work out And uh hope that you'll join us. It'll be a great time of fellowship, and uh Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow. Have a blessed day. Bye now