Good morning and welcome to another Anchored in the Word More Inflection. And today we are going to talk about the primary concern that Paul has, and this is central into interpreting this passage and kind of understanding the significance of it. And so if you have your Bible, let's take it and turn to Ephesians chapter 3. We're looking at verses 1 through 13. Again, we're not going to read the whole section because it is pretty lengthy. But we're going to focus on the first part and then kind of the last part because this gives us a clue into Paul's primary concern. Here's what the text says. For this cause I, Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ for you, Gentiles, if you've heard of the dispensation of the grace of God which was given to me to you, Word. How that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery, as I wrote aforehand, before in a few words, whereby when you read you may understand my knowledge and the mystery of Christ. which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit, that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs and of the same body and partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel. So as you look at this passage, Paul's concern is really focusing or is stated in verses 1 and 13. And it almost kind of sets off a bracketing of this entire section, which if you remember yesterday we were talking about how this fits into the main point of the text. Paul is kind of laying out some theological truths. He's going to talk about implications, and it's almost as if he pauses in the middle of his argument and he says, let me address something that I'm concerned about. That's what this is all about. So what is the concern? Well in verse 1 he says this, for this cause, I Paul, the prisoner, important word, of Jesus Christ, 4, another important word, you Gentiles. And then verse 13 he says, I desire that you faint not at my tribulation, which is for you. which is your glory. So what is Paul's concern? Well Paul's concern is that he writing from prison is not going to become a stumbling block to these Christians. He says in verse 1, I am a prisoner of Christ, and I am here for you Gentiles. He didn't want their current the current situation that he was in. to cause these people to stumble. And that's why he says in verse 13, I pray that, or I desire that you will not faint at my tribulation which is for you. Now, why does Paul raise this concern? He raises the concern because he understands that suffering serves a purpose, and his suffering served a purpose for these people. However, He wasn't sure if they understood that. And that's why in verse 1 he says, it is for you. Again, in verse 13, it is your glory. He's saying this suffering serves a real purpose And that purpose is ultimately for your good. And because it serves a purpose, and because it is for your good, you don't need to stumble at it. You need to see my suffering with a biblical perspective. And the reason that Paul states this is because there's the simple truth that God uses struggle and he uses suffering for our good. And in this situation, not just for Paul's good to mature him and grow him. But he was going to use Paul's suffering as an instrument through which he would strengthen these other Christians. So it was for their good as well. And this is a significant truth all over Scripture, especially as Paul addresses several places in 1 and 2 Corinthians this topic of suffering. Let me give you some examples. 2 Corinthians 4. He says, our light affliction, which is for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. What's he saying? Our affliction in light of eternity is short. Our affliction in light of the weight of glory is very small. And so we need to see it from God's perspective. Another example, 2 Corinthians 1 verse 4. He says, Blessed be God who comforts us in all of our tribulation. For what reason? so that we may be able to comfort those which are in trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. For as the suffering of Christ abounds in us, so our consolation also aboundeth by Christ. Whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation. So you can can you see what Paul is saying here in 2 Corinthians 1? He's saying God comforts us so that what we learn can become an instrument through which He comforts you. You are benefited. by the way that God works in our lives. What an amazing perspective. But then I want to give you a third text that I think also develops this. Again, 2 Corinthians chapter 4, this time verse 8. He says, we're troubled on every side, yet not distressed. We are perplexed, but not in despair. We are persecuted, but not forsaken. We are cast down, but not destroyed. Always bearing about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus. that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our body, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our mortal flesh. So then death worketh in us, but life in you. What a tremendous perspective. And this is the perspective that we need to have as Christians. It's not just about our race, but it's about how our race affects the races of others And so Paul is saying, I understand that God allows me to suffer so that he can strengthen me personally and he can use me to strengthen you. That's why he wants them to understand the situation. He says, you don't need to faint at this. You don't need to be discouraged or disheartened. God isn't unkind. He's not cruel to me. He's actually using this for good And so as we think about this issue of suffering, this topic is not to diminish the pain or maybe the duration of suffering. It's not to diminish that. It's simply to say we need to look at it from another point of view. We need to see that suffering in the light of eternity. We need to consider the weight of suffering versus the weight of glory, the length of our temporary affliction versus eternal. Life that we will enjoy as a result of what God is doing through those circumstances. And so may God help us to think biblically about these issues. If you're in a season of struggle, Step back and let God show you his full perspective. Ask him for strength. Ask him to help you endure. He'll do that. He'll give you the strength that you need. But also realize that he may be using this to use you to be a channel to reach in the lives of others. May God help us to have this perspecti Well, have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep digging into this passage of scripture. Also, please don't forget we are doing special meetings at our church. And so if you're local and you have the free time, we would love to have you join us at 7 o'clock tonight. We have one more service, 7 o'clock on Wednesday night as well. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. By now