Good morning and welcome to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a great Wednesday. If today is when you're actually watching this video. And um today's going to be a very important topic because we're talking about the cost. of our salvation. And we talk about salvation, salvation is a gift. It is a free gift. But when we talk about it being a free gift, it's not free to Christ. It's free to us. And so the recipient of the of the gift, the recipient of God's grace, is the one who pays nothing. But in fact, it did cost Christ everything. And we're going to talk about that for a few minutes this morning. So if you have your Bible, take it and turn with me to Ephesians chapter 1, and we're going to read verses 3 and following And focus in on the cost of our redemption. Here's what the Bible says. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ, according as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world. that we should be holy and without blame before him, in love having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself. According to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace, wherein he hath abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence. What amazing verses. Well these verses speak of the cost of our salvation. And notice what he says in verse number seven. It was through his blood that we have the forgiveness of sins, and it's according to the riches of his grace. So when we talk about the cost of salvation, we see that it is through his blood and according to the riches of his grace. Well, what are the implications of that statement? Well, the first thing I want to mention is that that implication one is that he actually took on human flesh. And this is the focus of the Christmas season. In fact we're getting ready to celebrate Christmas. And when we celebrate Christmas and we actually think about what it's about, it's about God taking on flesh, the incarnation, the miracle of God with us. And lots of scripture talks about this. Galatians 4. When the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son made of a woman. We talk about his deity and his humanity. John 1. 14 The Word, the same one who was the creator of all things, by him everything was created in heaven and earth. The one who the Bible says in the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God. The Word was God. The Word was made flesh. When he dwelt among us, we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father. Or Philippians 2. 7 He made himself of no reputation, and he took upon himself the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of man. Now that verse is not teaching that Christ stopped being God. that somehow he unveiled himself uh of his deity. No, he continues to be God. His divine nature was unchanged But now he is God and man. He is fully human and he is fully divine. And so when we when it talks about him making himself of no reputation, taking on the form of a servant, it's basically saying that Christ humbled himself. And he goes to the cross in humiliation, though he is still God. What an amazing concept. He takes on human flesh. You don't have the gospel without God in the flesh. The second aspect is that he shed his blood as he died for us. And this is the focus of the Lord's table. When it says, This is my body, which is given for you, this is the New Testament and my blood. As often as you drink this, you remember the Lord's death until he comes. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sins. And so it's the shedding of Christ's blood That is the focus of this redemption and this remission of sin. Hebrews 9. 22 says, without shedding of blood is no remission of sin. It was therefore necessary that the pattern of things in the heavens should be purified with these. So he's talking about the fact that the Old Testament system pointed to the need for a Savior and Him to shed His blood as our sacrifice Hebrews 10. 4. It's not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should could take away sin. And so verse 10 says, we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Christ once for all. And so his blood was shed so that we could be redeemed. Hebrews 9, 26. Now once in the end of the world, he has appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many. What do all these verses tell you? That Christ shed blood. The focus of the Lord's table, the focus of this text in front of us, is how we have our sins removed. Third thing is that the nature of his death was a substitutionary death. He died in our place. And this is a critical element to the gospel that Christ took our place and he was punished in our place. And he can forgive us because of what he did for us. And there are two prepositions in the New Testament that are used to describe the nature of this substitution. The first is the preposition who pair Which has the idea of he died on our behalf. And there are a lot of verses that use this fact. This is probably the most common way that this concept of substitution is expressed. 1 Corinthians 15. 3. Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures on our behalf. Or Romans 5. 8. God commended his love toward us while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us on our behalf. Same word there. Or 2 Corinthians 5. 21. He hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. These three verses use that word who pair, meaning Christ on our behalf, goes to the cross, takes our sin on himself, is punished in our place. But there's a second word that's used that's even stronger than who par, and that is the word anti. He died instead of us. We're the ones who deserve to die He died instead of us dying. He received God's wrath instead of us receiving God's wrath. This is an amazing, important concept for us to understand. Matthew 20, 28. The Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. That word for many there, that phrase, is anti in our place. Instead of us, instead of us being the ones, who are going to die, he dies. We see another example, 1 Timothy 2. 6. He says he gave himself as a ransom for all to be testified in due time. And so when we talk about Christ's death, there is a substitutionary element to it. He is taking our place. He's dying instead of us. He's dying on our behalf. And through his sacrifice and the shedding of his blood, we have forgiveness of sins. And so when we talk about the gospel, we remember that the cost of our salvation is infinite. If Christ was not willing to do what he did, if Christ had not gone to the cross and died in our place and shed his blood and borne the wrath of God against our sin, we could not be saved. It would be impossible. And so let's praise God that Christ did exactly what the Father required of him. He humbled himself. He became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. It's a lot to process. Thank God for the gospel. Have a wonderful rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through this text. Bye now.