Good morning, welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good Tuesday morning or afternoon, whenever you're listening to or watching these videos. And today what we're going to focus in on is the wisdom side, how Christ navigates this interaction with the religious leaders. So if you have a Bible, let's take them. And please turn to Luke chapter 20, and we're going to read verses 20 through 26 again. Here's what the text says. And they watched him, and sent forth spies, which should feign themselves just men, that they might take hold of his words, that they might deliver him under the power and authority of the governor And they asked him, saying, Master, we know that thou sayest and teachest rightly, neither acceptest thou the person of any, but teachest the way of God truly. Is it lawful for us to give tribute to Caesar or no? But he perceived their craftiness and said unto them, Why tempt ye me? Show me a penny, whose image and superscription hath it They answered and said, Caesar's. He said unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which be Caesar's, and unto God the things which be God's. And they could not take hold of his words before the people, and they marveled at his answers and held their peace. Now, as we see these words again, we're going to focus in on the wisdom of the way that Christ dealt with these men. We see this in verses twenty-three and twenty-four. When they came to him it says that he perceived their craftiness, and he said unto them, Why tempt ye me? Show me a penny, whose image and superscription hath it. Now let's notice the progression of what's been going on with these religious leaders and their feud with Christ. If we were to go back to the beginning of Christ's ministry during the time of Nicodemus coming to Jesus, I think at this time the religious leaders are primarily intrigued by Christ. Now not all of the religious leaders rejected him. Nicodemus becomes a disciple. Joseph of Arimathea becomes a disciple as well. But when when Nicodemus comes to Jesus, it's interesting how he puts this. He says, we Know that you are a teacher from God. No one can do these miracles except God be with him. Now what is that telling you? There's a lot of discussion about Christ amongst these men. And so they choose Nicodemus to go and talk to Christ because they're they're interested in knowing some things about him. And of course, when Jesus talks to Nicodemus, he's very f very firm with him and he says, unless you're born again, you cannot see the kingdom of God. And so When he came back, I'm sure that that intrigue would have gotten into another level. Well that never that next level is more of an irritation. And we see this in Luke chapter 7, verse 39. When Jesus is invited to a man's house, and it says that when the Pharisees who had bidden him saw it, meaning Jesus is having his feet washed by the hair and the tears of a woman from the street It says they spake with with he spake within himself. This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner woman this is that touch him. She's a sinner What are they saying? They're saying, who is this guy? He should know better. If he really was from God, he wouldn't do this. He wouldn't permit this. And so now it's going from an an interest and an intrigue to being more of an irritation. Then it moves to an aggressive confrontation. And that's really what we're coming in chapter 20. They say, by what authority do you do these things? Or who is he that gave you this authority? This is when Christ overthrows the money changers and he says, My father's house will be called a house of prayer. Now they're saying, Who do you think you are? You have no right to do this. Well then we move to where we are today, and that is plotting to eliminate Christ. In verse 20 it says that they watched him and they sent spies to to feign themselves just men that they might take hold on his words, deliver him unto the authority of the governor. It says they were doing this that by craft they might put him to death And so the the progression has gone from from irritation and intrigue to plotting to eliminate Christ. And so here is their plan. They're going to send people to Jesus who are going to watch him, see his every move. They're spies. That's the way that the text reads. And they're going to pretend that they're just men. In fact, when they come to Christ, they they really try to flatter him. And it's it's interesting that they try this because obviously Christ is a righteous man and he's He's not going to be duped by their flatteries. He is a sinless, righteous man. But these men were very susceptible to pride because they cared about what people thought of them And this comes out in the way that they approach him. But what they're doing is they're looking for grounds to accuse Christ to Rome. It says this was done that they might deliver him to the power and the authority of the governor. Well, then we see the wisdom of Christ and how he deals with them. It tells us, first of all, verse 23, he perceived their craftiness. He knew what kind of people they were, he knew what their intention was, he knew what they were trying to do. And so he begins by confronting them and saying, why are you tempting me? Why are you asking this question? Why are you trying to trap me? He calls them out. He then uses illustration. He says, give me a penny, give me a coin, a day's work of work, a a day's wage, give me that coin. Well it doesn't seem that they had to look far and long to find this. They They had it right there. They just pull it out of their pouch. What does that show you? Well, they're using Roman currency. They had accepted this as a part of the system. So they're trying to accuse Christ, but they're actually benefiting from the system. Even their power that they have, lots of it was preserved by the Romans. And so Christ very wisely asked them for this because he is showing through their actions that in fact they are using Rome for their own purposes. Then you ask them the question: whose image is on this coin? Obviously it was Caesar's. And when they answer, he now has them where he needs them. What it shows you is the wisdom of Christ. Christ knew exactly how to deal with them. He knew exactly how to navigate those issues. And I will tell you this, the wisdom of Christ that gave him the ability to handle those situations the way that he does is the same wisdom that guides how he governs the universe. and how he works in our lives. And we can trust him. We can trust him to do right. We can trust him to do best. And by the way, we should learn to follow his pattern. We need his wisdom. I'm reminded of Proverbs chapter 2, where he says that if you want wisdom you have to ask for it and seek for it, and you have to listen to what the Word of God says. And so may God help us to do that. Have a blessed rest of your day, we're willing, we'll meet again tomorrow by now.