Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. Hope that you've enjoyed the study this week as we've been working our way through 2 Corinthians 5. I love this passage of Scripture because it talks about the great need for people to be reconciled to God. It talks about our position in Christ and how out of that position God calls us to a ministry. It talks to us about our commissioning as representatives, ambassadors for Christ. And it tells us about the message that we proclaim. That's the gospel. The work of the Father, the work of the Son, justification by faith alone. I'd like us to take everything that we've talked about this week and kind of put it into some final thoughts. of application. And so if you have a Bible, let's take it. Let's turn together to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. We'll read it and then look at those application thoughts. Here's what God's word says. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. And all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. and hath given unto us the ministry of reconciliation, to wit that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God, for he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin. that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. We then, as workers, together with him, beseech you that you receive not the grace of God in vain. As we think about this passage of scripture, we think about all the things we've talked about this week. I'm going to break down the application into two parts. As I often do. One would be to the unbeliever, the non-Christian, the other to the Christian. How should someone who's never placed their faith in Christ respond to teaching like this? I think the answer should be pretty self-explanatory You need to be reconciled to God. In the same way that this passage compels the Christian to appeal to people through the preaching of the gospel, be reconciled to God. That's what I'm doing this week. is I'm I'm trying to appeal to you that you are a sinner who is separated from a holy God and God has done everything for you to be reconciled to him in Christ. Christ died for your sins and he rose from the dead. And if you'll place your faith in Christ as a sinner who has repented before God, he will give you eternal life. You need to be reconciled to God. He's calling to you to repent and believe in the gospel. Turn to him today. Embrace his offer of salvation. Don't sit on that. Don't ignore it. Don't treat it lightly. Don't act like you know you have more time. None of us knows the day or the hour that will be our final. And so we need to respond to the Lord now, today. The second group is to the believer, the Christian. When we think about our position, I want to remind you that you are a new creature in Christ. Not that you should be. You are a new creature in Christ. And because of that, there are certain wonderful implications that are part of that. You and I have been called to represent Him, and we're to do that in every sphere of our lives, whether it's the sphere of being parent. The sphere of being neighbor, the sphere of being coworker, the sphere of being whatever area that we find ourselves in, God has planted us there to represent him. We've been entrusted with the gospel, and we need to take the gospel to those who have never heard it. We are people who have been fully equipped to function in the calling that God has for us. And God has given each of you unique gifts and abilities and opportunities, and those are not a mistake. Those are part of his purpose for you. He has uniquely fitted each of us to touch the lives of others. The way that he's wired me is different than the way that he's wired you. The opportunities he's given me. Is it different than the opportunities given you? We have unique fittings to reach people that God wants us to reach into their lives. And so when I think about where I've been placed, When I think about my background, my personality, my strengths, my weaknesses, maybe even some of the struggles that we deal with in our lives, all of these things are part of how God works through us in the lives of people. Our children have been given to us for us to give them the gospel, our workplace, the season of life that we're in. We've been planted there for this time, for a reason. Our friends, our neighbors, the people that we rub shoulders with on a regular basis, the people that our kids play sports with. This is not an accident. God wants us to reach into their lives. And so our desire should be to look around and to open our eyes to see what God has for us. There are opportunities all around. The question is, do we see them? Do we embrace them? Are we willing to engage in them? We should set aside time to pray for those who are involved in missions, who are involved in actively reaching the lives of others. We can uphold them and strengthen them, be a part of what they're doing in prayer. We should support missions financially. Our local church tries to do the best we can to partner with good missionaries who are trying to do the work well. And we should all do that. We should take time to write, let people know we're praying for them, try to be an encouragement. We should invest in the next generation. We should invest in their growth and their maturity. We should make sure that we're in a position to actually be a good example for them. And so I want to leave you with those practical thoughts. Be engaged in the work. Look at the opportunities that are around you. Don't look past the ordinary aspects of life where God may be planting you to work in the life of another person. I hope that's given you some things to think about this week. I hope you have a wonderful weekend. We hope that we'll see many of you on Sunday, this Lord's Day. That'll be a great time of encouragement and fellowship. I hope that if you have the opportunity, you might be able to join us for the Lit conference on Saturday. Either you can you can tune in and watch what we're doing, or maybe you can even join us in person. And uh it's gonna be a great weekend. So we hope that you can join us for some of those things. Well, have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing, I'll see many of you either on Saturday or on Sunday by now