Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope that you're having a great day. I'm assuming that you're watching this either on Wednesday in the morning or maybe in the afternoon, evening time. And so hope that your week has started well and it is moving in a good direction. And this week we've been looking at a topic, and that is the mysterious Growth of God's kingdom. And today what I'd like to do is I'd like to begin two parts where we're going to look at the doctrines that point to why the kingdom of God is something that grows like a mustard seed into a tree or spreads like leaven in uh yeast, you could say in dough bread. And uh so let's go ahead and read the text again together. It's Luke chapter 13, verses 18 through 21. Here's what the text says. Then said he, unto what is the king? kingdom of God like. And whereunto shall I resemble it? It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and cast into his garden, and it grew and waxed a great tree. And the fowls of the year lodged in the branches of it. was leavened. Now, as we look at this passage of scripture, the first doctrine we're going to address is the doctrine, the teaching from the Bible that there are two kingdoms in conflict. The first that we see in the scripture of these two kingdoms in conflict is found in Genesis chapter 3 verse 15. It says, I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed. Now in these verses , basically God is giving the instruction the prediction where he's promising. that there's going to be a seed individual who comes from the woman who is going to crush the serpent's head. But he also refers to a a f a conflict between the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent. And that is referring to two different groups of individuals. One are those who are what we'd say the kingdom of darkness and those who are who are brought out of the kingdom of darkness and are placed into Christ. And this is a concept that's developed in other passages of scripture. One of them that I think is very helpful. Is Colossians chapter 1, verses 13 through 21. Here's what it says. Christ hath delivered us from the power of darkness. and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear son. You see that there is a kingdom that we have been, we have brought out of, delivered from, and a kingdom we have been placed into. He says, in whom, being Christ, we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, having made peace through the blood of the cross, by him he has reconciled all things unto us to himself by him. And I say that there be things in heaven, things in earth, and you that were sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind. Another passage that gives us insight into this is Ephesians chapter 6. It says, brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, against the rulers of the darkness of the This world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Therefore, take into you the whole armor of God that ye may be able to withstand. Again, this passage of scripture talks about there being two kingdoms and the fact that there are principalities and powers and rulers of the darkness of this world. Our struggles in this world are not just physical struggles between individuals, but there is a realm of darkness a kingdom of darkness that is governed by Satan himself, that is at war with God's eternal kingdom. We see the same concept in John 15. Jesus said, if the world hates you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. Now when he uses the word world, the question is, what is he referring to? The answer is the Kingdom of darkness. He says, You're not of this world. I've chosen you out of the world. Therefore the world hateth you. Remember the word that I said unto you, the servant is not greater than his Lord. If you then are per if they then persecuted, neither going to persecute you. And Jesus goes on to develop this concept. This struggle is also highlighted in Christ's letter to the seven churches in Revelation. And each of these passages are very revealing on this. topic. Let me give you some examples. Revelation 2 verse 9. He says, I know the works, thy works and tribulation and poverty, thou art rich, and I know the blasphemy of them which that say they are Jews and are not, but are of the synagogue of Satan. Fear none of them that cast you into prison Now Jesus is referring to in these verses to persecution in this city that is through the Jewish persecution, the Jewish uh synagogue in that particular community. And what's fascinating about it is he emphasizes that it's not just these people that are your enemies, but it's actually Actually, these are people who are being used by Satan. He calls them the synagogue of Satan. They say they are Jews, but they're actually of the synagogue of Satan. Or another passage of scripture. Revelation chapter 2 verse 13, he says, I know thy works and where thou dwellest, even where Satan's seat is. The idea is he rules in this place. And now thou hold fast my name. You have not denied my faith, even in those days where an Antipas, my faithful martyr, who was slain among you, where Satan dwelleth. Again you see. The kingdom of darkness is at work. Revelation 2. 24. As many as have not this doctrine. which have not known the depths of Satan as they speak. Hold fast till I come. He that overcometh and keepeth my word And to the end to him, I will give power over the nations. We see a kingdom of darkness and God's eternal kingdom. And then again in Revelation chapter 3. three. I know thy works. Behold I set before thee an open door and no man can shut it. For thou hast a little strength and hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name, behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan which saith. They are Jews and are not but lie. Behold, I'll make them to come and worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee, because thou hast kept my word of my patience. I will also keep thee from the hour of Of temptation, which shall come upon the world, to try them that dwell in the earth. Behold, I come quickly, hold fast that which thou hast, that no man take. Thy crown. The question is, what do we take away from this? What we take away from this is that there is a kingdom of darkness. And this is a kingdom that we need to be wary of and aware of, and we need to take seriously. And the fact is that God is at work in this world, but there is a struggle between these two kingdoms. You and I are caught in the midst of this. So as we are trying to serve the Lord faithfully in the raising of our church. and the strengthening of our marriages and the advance of the gospel through the local church and the making of disciples. And we see friction and tension and difficulty And we see hardships that come. The question is, where do those things come from? Even we see the turmoil in our own society today, in our country, and the struggle between good and evil, even within our own society. government. Where does that ultimately come from? The fact is Satan is at work in the world disrupting God's work. And so I'd like us to go beyond that first doctrine because the next two are built upon it. And so I hope you'll join us tomorrow as we continue developing this concept looking at doctrines two and three on the kingdom of darkness and the Kingdom of our Lord Jesus Christ. Have a blessed rest of your morning. Lord willing, we'll talk to you tomorrow. By now