Good morning. Hope you're having a great Wednesday morning or whenever you're watching this video, and I want to welcome you to another Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. We've been working our way through 1 Corinthians this week, 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verses 21 to 22. And we've been talking about the greatest moment, most significant moment in history, and that's the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. And so we've talked about this being the watershed issue when it comes to the Christian faith. We talked about the fact that this was a claim that was made by people who were eyewitnesses. And now we're moving into the actual content. of 1 Corinthians 15 beyond the fact that he's saying that this is an event that was witnessed and has been testified to. And let's go ahead and read the text again together this morning, and then we will get into this focus on the significance of this moment, the theological significance specifically. First Corinthians 15, 12 says the following. Give me my give me a second here. Now, if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead How say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? But, if there be no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also vain, and we are found false witnesses of God. Because we have testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom He raised not up, if so be, that the dead rise not. For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised, and if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain. ye are yet in your sins. Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the first fruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. What a great text of scripture. I feel like every time we read it, I'm just reminded of the weight and the significance of those truths So yesterday we talked about the fact that this is an historical event. This morning, what I'd like to do is I'd like us to focus on the fact that this is a theological fact as well. And the theological fact is this. There is no hope if there is no resurrection. And we could put it in really two ways. There's no hope if there's no resurrection from the dead of people like you and me. And there's also no hope if there's no resurrection from the dead of the Lord Jesus Christ. It is the fact that he died, that he rose from the dead. and that he conquered death and triumphed over it, that you and I have a secured confidence that there is a resurrection, not just of Christ our Savior, but also of we his people. And so Paul begins by stating it this way in verses 17 to 9. If Christ be not raised, your faith is vain. Ye are yet in your sins. then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable I want us to break down what Paul is saying in these verses. The first thing that we'll notice is that he's beginning by arguing the significance of the resurrection by posing a consideration of what would happen if this had never taken place. He says, if Christ did not rise from the dead, then these things are going to be true. And so let's move through them one at a time. If he's not raised, fact number one, your faith, your belief, is meaningless. Verse 17, the way he puts it is, your faith is vain. It's empty. It has no value. One of the things that people seem to think is that the fact that we have faith of any kind is ultimately a good thing. And the fact that we have faith, a personal faith, is something that somehow is going to give us something. But the fact is, it's not your faith that is the ultimate issue. It's the object of your faith that's the ultimate issue. If my faith is in something that is not sound, if I'm trusting in a lie, then there are huge consequences to trusting in that lie. And so his point is, if Christ has not risen from the dead and you're believing that he has risen raised from the dead, then your faith is empty because it's it's based on something, rooted in something that is empty. The second statement is your sin debt is still hanging over your head. In verse 17, he says, you are yet in your sins. Now, Paul has made a point in 1 Corinthians 15 earlier that there are people who once were involved in terrible sinful practices. And he says, You know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God. And then he makes a statement, and such were some of you. But you are washed and sanctified and justified in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. God has taken your sin. He has washed it away. He has set you apart to himself. He's declared you righteous. So Paul is saying those things are true about you, church, at Corinth. But In verse fifte or chapter fifteen, if the resurrection has not taken place, if there isn't a r resurrection from the dead, well then the fact is my statement about your sins being washed and you are sanctified and justified, they're not true. You're still in your sins. The fourth thing I'll mention is that the apostles, in Paul's view, would have been the greatest fools who had ever lived. Notice the way he puts it in verse nineteen. He says, We are of all men most miserable Now I tend to think of it as over the years as I've read these verses that he's saying, well, all Christians are miserable if they're believing that there's a resurrection, but indeed there's not. And that could be what he's saying. But I think it's actually stronger a stronger point to suggest that he's made this claim that that the apostles have witnessed to the resurrection of Christ and they've given up everything for it. And they've gone all around the world, the known world, the Roman world. And they've preached the gospel that Christ died and he rose from the dead. And he's saying, if it's true that we are preaching a lie , then we are the most miserable, foolish people that have ever lived. We're living a delusion. We're we're we're embracing something and sacrificing for something and even willing to die for something and give up everything And our lives for something that's completely meaningless, we are leading people astray. And so I think that's the sense of what he's saying there So you say, well, Joel, what is the conclusion of all this? Well, the conclusion is what he states in these verses. But now Christ is risen from the dead. His point is that actually Christ is alive. And because he's alive, everything that I've mentioned that would not be true if the resurrection were a myth is actually true. So he affirms that it did actually happen. Therefore, the following statements are true. Statement number one, our faith is rooted in the gospel. And this is the gospel that actually, really, genuinely saves people from their sins. Our sin debt is really gone. It's not just I can feel good about myself, but literally the sin that stood between me and a holy and righteous God has been completely resolved. And now I'm cleansed and forgiven, and I can stand in the presence of a holy God through the work of Christ. Thirdly The apostles suffered immense loss in life, in this life, to proclaim the gospel message, the greatest message that has ever been preached. And guess what? Their sacrifice was worth it. It was not a waste of time. It was not a waste of their energies. It was not a worthless thing. In fact, it is something that is the most important and most significant sacrifice anyone other than Christ could have made And so I ask you this question. Are you rejoicing in the work that Christ has done for you? Think about what you would not have had it not been for the resurrection. But indeed there is a resurrection. We are redeemed and forgiven. Our sin debt is removed. And in fact, the sufferings of this present world that a person may receive as a result of proclaiming the gospel is worth it. That's the point. of the passage in front of us. Well I hope that gives you some things to think about this morning. If this put an encouragement to you, please take a moment to share that. And if you think it would be a help to somebody else, take a moment to share that with them as well. And have a blessed morning, Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now. So