Good morning and welcome to another Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you've been enjoying this study and we've been talking about 2 Corinthians chapter 5 verses 17 down into chapter 6. And we've talked about our position in Christ. We've talked about a commissioning that we have as God's people. Today we're going to look at the message that we are to proclaim. And that message is the gospel. It's the proclaiming of the ministry of reconciliation. And so this is a really important topic for us to address this morning. I hope that you will really be attentive to the details of what we're going to talk about because this is the heart. of the Christian message. So 2 Corinthians chapter 5, we'll read it and then we'll dig into what the text is talking about. Here's what it says. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ and hath given unto us the ministry of reconciliation, to wit that God was in Christ reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now then, we are ambassadors for Christ. As though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's stead. Be reconciled to God. For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. We then as workers together with him beseech you also that you receive not the grace of God in vain. Now as we look at this passage of Scripture, we're going to focus in on the details of the text that talk about the message And we find that in verse number 21. It says that he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. There are actually three focused pieces to this statement. The one would be the first he, he, made someone, he, that would be Christ. to be sent for us. What exactly is Paul getting at when he talks about this kind of language? Well what Paul's talking about is the gospel. And so I'd like to break it down a little bit at a time and I'd like us to look at it specifically from Isaiah 53. Because all of the elements that we find in 2 Corinthians 5, we also find in Isaiah 53, but they're expanded a good bit in Isaiah 53 So the first thing that we see is we are to preach the Father's work in our redemption. That's what he means when he says he hath made him to be sin for us. The Father sent the Son to do something on our behalf. And when we go to Isaiah 53, we see the work of the Father. It says that the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. The Father placed on Christ our sin. Or in verse 10 it says that it Who is the one that is inflicting the judgment on the son? The answer is it's the Father. Or again in verse 10 it says that he has put him to grief. Who is the one that is putting someone to grief? It's the father. This is what the father's doing. Who is the one who presents The soul of Christ is an offering for sin. It's the Father. He is the one who's doing this action. And then verse 10, it says that it is the pleasure of the Lord that's going to prosper in his hand. So what you see consistently in all these verses is that the Father is sending the Son to do something on our behalf. He is looking on Christ, he is seeing the agony and the travail of his soul, and he's satisfied. Christ was sent, and our sin was placed on him. The second aspect is the work of the Son, and we can see that in those verses as well. It says that we are to preach him who became sin for us, the one who did not know sin. It's talking about Christ. In verse 4 of chapter 53 of Isaiah, it says that he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Now this is referring to the son 's work and our redemption. Our sin was placed on him. Our griefs were poured out on him. He bore those things. Or verse 5. Five, he was wounded for our transgressions. He was our substitute. He was punished in our place. That's what verse five is saying. Or verse five again. He was bruised for our iniquities And the chastisement of our peace was on him. Verse 8, for the transgression of my people was he stricken. Verse 11, My righteous servant will justify many because he will bear their iniquities. Verse 12 He was numbered with the transgressors, bare the sins of many, made intercession for the transgressors. So we, when we preach the gospel, we preach that the Father is sending the Son. When we preach the gospel, we are saying that the Son took our sin upon himself, that he was punished in our place, that he bore our guilt and our shame. He was dealt with as guilty, though in fact he is innocent. But the third piece that we preach is what we could say is justification by faith alone. We are declared righteous in Christ. And we see this in 2 Corinthians 5. It says that the Father did this so that we might be made the righteousness of God. And here's the statement, in him. Our union with Christ is what gives us that just verdict. Lots and lots of scripture talks about justification by faith alone. For Romans chapter 321 is, I think, one of the greatest texts. It says, But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the righteousness of God which is by faith unto all and upon all them that believe. Justification by faith alone. God's righteousness imputed to us. Or another passage, Romans 3. 24, we are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that's in Christ Jesus. You see that in Christ language again Or Philippians 3. 9, being we are to be found in him not having our own righteousness, which is by the law, but the righteousness which is through faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. What is consistent in all these verses? Our justification is found in Christ through his righteousness, and we are connected to that righteous verdict by faith alone. I'd expand the point this way When we look at this concept in verses 6 and 7 of chapter 4, the verses before, we see that God commands the gospel to come to us and through us and through the preaching of the gospel. We see people drawn to him. It says that God commanded the light to shine out of darkness. He's given the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ Jesus. We have this treasure, the gospel, and vessels of earth, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. How does this message of the gospel work of Christ, the work of the Father, justification by faith alone. How does it come to us? It comes to us by God sending it to us. He was never passive when we were in this predicament. He sent the gospel to us. He accomplished the work on our behalf. That's how people are saved. And we see that in several passages. He takes action on our behalf, 1 Peter 1, verse 18. We were not redeemed by corruptible things, but rather by the precious blood of Christ As of a lamb without blemish and without spot, he was foreordained before the foundation of the world and manifest in these last times for us Who is the one who sent him? It's the Father. Who is the one that issues the command for the light to come out of darkness? It's God. And we see this in verse 6. He commands the light to shine out of darkness. He is the one who calls on us through the preaching of the gospel to believe on the gospel. And we can't believe unless we hear. We won't hear unless someone preaches. We won't hear a preacher if someone doesn't And send it, and what does God do? He sends the messenger, they preach the gospel, we hear the message, and faith comes through hearing the word of God. That's how people become Christians. He issues the command, people preach it, and then we respond. And that's what he means in verse 6 of chapter 6, where it says that he hath shined in our hearts. the glorious gospel of Christ. Or he does this to give light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. He is the one who gives the word, and he is the one who draws us, and he is the one who is glorified in our salvation. You say, why does this matter? Well, it matters because if you have been called to the preaching of the gospel, you have repented and believed. and you are alive in Christ, you are in a position of alive, forgiven, cleansed, God's child. From that position, you've been given a commission. to proclaim the gospel as an ambassador who is calling people to be reconciled to God. And three, you have been entrusted with the glorious message of the work of Christ. He died for our sins. He rose from the dead. The work of the Father. He sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. Justification by faith alone. If you do not understand the gospel, you've never placed your faith in Christ, please don't hesitate to reach out. I'd love to be an encouragement to you any way that I can. If you think this would be a blessing and help somebody else, Take a moment to share that. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we look at one final series of applications as we go into the weekend. Have a blessed day. Bye now.