Good morning. Welcome back to our force anchored in the word, morning reflection. And if you've been following us this week, we're looking at the significance of the cross. and specifically the wisdom of the cross and the power of the cross. And I'm really looking forward to closing this out tomorrow. And especially with it being Good Friday, a day that we remember the death of Christ, the significance of the cross. Also, I want to mention that we'll be having a special service at Calvary Baptist Church in Westminster. And uh folks from our church will be going up there and um they're hosting it and there'll be other uh churches there. And it's always a great time for us on a Friday night during this time of the year to pause and reflect on the significance and the importance of the cross. And this even this this morning, as we dig into the text, and then tomorrow evening, as we look at several passages of scripture And we're really driving at this important point that the cross is both the wisdom of God and it's the power of God. And the question is, well, what is the difference between this accomplishing salvation for someone and a person continuing in their sins. Notice at some point in the text earlier when we were looking at this It says that to those who are saved, it is the power of God, and to those who are lost, it is not. What is the difference between those two? And so we're going to kind of focus our attention on that. So let's read the text again, and then I want us to notice what is the watershed between these two positions. It says 1 Corinthians 1. 18, For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But to us which are saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For after that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified Unto the Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Greeks foolishness, but unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than man, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. Now, we want to talk about The watershed, the distinction between those who the text says are perishing and those who are saved. What is the difference? The answer is what people do with the cross of Jesus Christ. And I want you to notice a couple of details in this statement, verse 18. But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. Now that first word, but tells us that there's a contrast between two positions. He said earlier that the preaching of the cross is foolishness to those who are saved, or to those who are perishing. But, it says, to them which are saved, it's the power of God. Now why does he use the word but there? It's to emphasize the fact that there are some people that view the cross as a foolish thing, and there are some that see it is the one and only means through which a person is saved. And so the distinction is how do you respond to the cross? The second thing I want you to notice is that this is a personal matter. It's a decision that has to be made by the individual. He says it is unto us that are saved. The idea is I cannot make this decision for you, nor can you make this decision for me. I cannot respond to the cross on your behalf, and you can't for me. You have to personally recognize it's not foolishness, it's wisdom. It's not weakness, it's power. It's not something I should scoff at and reject. It's something I must trust in. The third thing I want you to notice about this is the immediacy of salvation. Now, when we look at these verses in verse 18, he says, it's foolishness to them which are perishing, or which it it's foolish to them that perish. And the idea is that this is this is the direction they're going. This is where they're ultimately going to end up. But he says to those which are saved It's the power of God. That's a present condition. I don't wait to receive eternal life. The moment that I'm I'm I'm saved by the gospel, that I trust Christ as my Savior. that that moment I receive eternal life. I love the the statement in John where it says that a person passes from death unto life. And Jesus says that whoever believes on him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. And so the emphasis of Scripture is that eternal life starts the moment we trust Christ. And then it's something that we have for forever. It's a life that never ends. The fourth thing that I want to mention is the transformational element to the gospel. It says that it is the power of God. Now, the emphasis of the preaching of the cross for most of us most of the time is emphasizing how the cross accomplished our redemption. in giving us forgiveness and cleansing, and now we can be justified. But there's another dimension to the saving work of the cross and the power of the cross. And that is that the power of the cross not only gives us a position, but it gives us new life where we begin to walk in newness of life. And we can actually walk in the light of the position that we have in Christ. Think about in Romans where it talks about that we are buried in the lightness of his death and we're raised to walk in newness of life. What's the point of that? The point of that is that we are to reckon ourselves to be dead to sin and alive into God through Jesus Christ our Lord. which isn't which is really talking about the the way that we live in the light of our position in Christ. So the cross has that element as well And then the last thing I'll mention is that it removes all right of boasting. Verses 27 to 29, he puts it this way. God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things that are mighty. And the base things of this world, the things that are despised, hath God chosen, and things which are not to bring to naught things that are, so that no flesh will glory in his presence And so what is the end result of this? It is to humble us. And to say, I have no room to boast yet in the cross of Christ my Lord And so I want to leave that with you this morning. What do you boast in? Are you proud of your position in Christ? Don't do that. You didn't do anything to accomplish it. You didn't do the work. God did the work. You are simply the recipient of God's grace, and that's something that should humble us and make us appreciative of God's goodness and cause us to be a very grateful people. So let's think about those things, and then Lord willing, tomorrow we'll look at the final thoughts, which I think will be very, very, very, very helpful for us. Have a blessed morning, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll meet again. Bye now.