Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope that your Friday morning is starting well, and I hope you have a wonderful week. weekend. The text we've been dealing with is so practical and so important for us to understand in putting this issue of being a disciple of Christ into perspective. perspective. And so let's take our Bibles again and turn there and look at Luke chapter 17. We'll read that first section again one more time and then look at some final practical thoughts. Again, Luke chapter 17, verse number one says this. Then he said unto his disciples, It is impossible, but that offenses will come, but woe unto him through whom they come. It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck. and he cast into the sea, than that he should offend one of these little ones. Take heed to yourselves, if thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him. If ye repent, forgive him. If he trespass against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day he turned again to thee, saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him. The apostle said unto the Lord, Increase our faith. Now as we've worked our way through the passage, we have seen a lot of practical teaching. We've seen teaching on the issue of external pressure, when we think about persecution, we've thought about interpersonal issues and how they can be very, very difficult to deal with. We've seen the importance of faith and the importance of humility. Let's put it all together in what I hope is a very practical thing to consider. are going into the weekend. So first of all, the word that I want us to remember is the word preparation. It's all about perspective. It's about thinking ahead about what we're getting into. And when Jesus talks about discipleship, He says things like, you need to count the cost, consider what's involved before you take the step. And so when we think about following Christ, we need to be committed with open eyes to what's in front of us. of us. The Christian life at times will be hard. And even though it is hard, and even though it may be lonely And even though we may feel vulnerable and we may even feel targeted, and perhaps we are vulnerable and we are targeted, there is hope. God is working through those things. We will even experience friction with people that are close to us. It could be our family members, could be the people we work with, could be people that we go to church with. It's not even that people are trying to be offensive to one another. The fact that we are different people and we are sinners and sometimes we don't have all the facts means sometimes there'll be friction. And Satan works in the church to disrupt what God is doing. We're going to have to navigate challenges sometimes. We've got to do it with endurance. We've got to do it with wisdom. We've got to do it with grace. Preparation is very important. Second word is the word encouragement. And this is a big focus in this passage of Scripture. The task before us and the obstacles that we're going to encounter in God's work can be very daunting. The advance of his kingdom, where we live, may appear to be very slow. And very weak. And as we think about our community, and it seems like churches are not necessarily growing and thriving, maybe like they were 50 years ago. And in our perspective, it seems like there's a massive decline. Well, the fact that you feel that way doesn't mean that that's what it's going to be ten years from now or twenty years from now. The fact that that may be going on in the community that you live in doesn't mean that that's going on everywhere in the world. God is building his church. God is accomplishing his purpose. purposes and his kingdom continues to advance even when it seems slow and weak. We may be tempted to doubt what God is doing in us, through us, and around us. But we can be encouraged that in fact he is working in us and he is working through us and he is working around us. Even the smallest faith, when placed in the right source, God Himself and His Word will enable us to be involved in God's great work in building his eternal kingdom in all ages. You and I are a part of a story. We're just a little piece of it. We only live for a short period of that time, but we're a part of God's eternal kingdom that He is building that is going to last forever. And that's an amazing thing for us to consider. There's a lot of reason to be encouraged. Nothing can overthrow his work. We have the privilege of being a part of it. The third word that I want to remember is is the word reminder. Remind yourself that when we experience success, we should never become proud as a result of it. it. God builds despite us. When God works through us, it's not by our power, not by our might, but by his spirit's power. When we think about the Christian life, we need to remind ourselves that endurance and faithfulness are to never become credentials that we present before other people. Like we lift ourselves up and say, well, look at me, I've endured all of these things and I've been faithful through all these things. That should never be the spirit of a disciple of Christ. We must diligently perform our duties with a heart that is humble, a heart that is happy, and a heart that delights in the great privilege of serving the one who gave everything. When we think about this issue of Christian discipleship, there's a lot to process. And so as we go into the weekend, I want to say have a great weekend. to see you on Sunday and I hope that you really go back and reflect on these things and that they begin to shape you just a little bit more to become more like Christ so that you'll be a faith Disciple than the years that he gives you on this planet. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again next week or on Sunday. By now