Good morning, welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection, and I hope that yesterday's episode was something that was very helpful as we looked at what we could say is the negative side and uh being able to identify this concept of self-righteousness and not comparing ourselves to God's perfect standard. And this morning what I'd like to do is kind of look at the other side of that, not the negative side, but the positive side. as it relates to this passage of scripture. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn together to Luke chapter 18. We're going to read verses 9 through 14. We'll listen to an excerpt from the sermon. And then uh we'll talk about that concept a little bit. So here's what the text says. And he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves, that they were righteous. and despised others. Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee and the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the publican standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For every one that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Let's listen to this little section. You become a Christian by saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner, and you look to Jesus and you trust in his death and his resurrection and his righteousness is in And you stand righteous and forgiven and cleansed in his death, his resurrection, his righteousness, not yours. This is how people become Christians. Repent and believe. Turning to God in humility, recognizing you have nothing to bring to Him and you look only to His righteousness. And only to his sacrifice, only to his mercy, only to his grace. As we think about what was just stated in that little section This is the opposite side. So yesterday we talked about the negative. We have to recognize when our standard is off. And if you look at the parable that we're talking about this week, here is this man. He's a Pharisee. He's very very religious, he's very zealous, he's very he's very diligent in in the parable, he talks about the things that he doesn't do He says, I'm not like other people, I'm not an extortioner, I'm not abusing my authority, I'm not unjust, treating people uh in a way that is a violation of God's laws, I'm not an adulterer, unfaithful. And he says, just like this publican over here, he's comparing himself to the publican. He's telling God, I don't do those things. And then on the positive side, he's saying, but here's what I do. I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of everything that I possess. So he is comparing himself to other people by his own standard. And as we talked about yesterday, the Apostle Paul was a classic example of this. And he says, the things that were gained to me, these I counted loss. And here's where we want to look today. For what purpose? For the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. He says, so that I can be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is by the law, but the righteousness of God, which is by faith. The righteousness of God by faith. Romans chapter 3 talks about the same concept. It says, by the deeds of the law no flesh can be justified in sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. But now the righteousness of God apart from the law is revealed, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. Even the righteousness of God, which is by faith, it is unto all, and it is upon all them that believe These three passages of scripture together, the Romans passage, the Philippians passage, and then this parable, they're all stating the same thing. They're showing you that when you turn from unbelief in self-righteousness, depending on our own righteousness and works, we turn from that to what? To faith alone in the finished work of Christ. his sacrifice, his righteousness, his death and resurrection. And so that's what this man in the parable is doing He is recognizing he has absolutely no way to present to God his own righteousness because he's morally bankrupt. He is spiritually broken. All he can say is, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. And you know what? There's good news. God has been merciful to us by sending his son. And in Christ, we can be forgiven. and cleansed and justified, and we can be delivered from the judgment that we deserve. And so what's wonderful about this parable is while it points to the problem of the Pharisee, you are self-righteous. You must turn to God from your sin of self-righteousness and unbelief. It has a positive. God can, He will, be merciful to even this publican, who was a broken and a vile man and recognized it. And so you see the negative And you see the positive. And I want to remind you that whenever we're giving the gospel to people, we've got to start with the bad news. We've got to show them that the Bible says they're condemned and there's no hope in themselves. But then we show them the good news. When the heart is humbled, and a person is ready to say, God be merciful to me, a sinner, you point them to the death of Christ, the resurrection of Christ, the righteousness of Christ. And you say, turn to him from your unbelief to belief. Turn to him from your self-righteousness to dependence on the righteousness. of Christ. And whosoever will, will be saved. And that is the way that God saves sinners. And so I'm thankful for this passage of scripture that is going to point to the problem, but also encourage us in in in relation to the solution. Well, I hope you have a great rest of your day as we reflect on those things, and Lord willing tomorrow we're going to go back to this passage of scripture, go back to another clip from the sermon, and uh and kind of expand it and lean into it a little bit more. Have a blessed rest of your day, stay warm, it's really cold this week, and uh Lord willing will meet again tomorrow by now