Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope it's been a great week and I hope that the things that we've talked about throughout the week have been an encouragement to you. They've given you some things to mull over in your mind. And more than anything else, I want to leave on a very positive note, and that is emphasizing how the simple truths of the gospel and the basics of what make a person a Christian ought to be things that when we reflect on them and we regularly reflect on them, they bring us tremendous joy, tremendous encouragement. And so that's where I'd like us to kind of end this morning. Going into the weekend. If you have your Bible, let's turn together to Luke chapter 18. We're going to read it. And then after that, we'll listen to another little excerpt and then focus in on the details of those thoughts. Here's what the text says. And they brought unto him also infants, that he would touch them. But when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them unto him and said, Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not For such is the kingdom of God. Verily I say unto you, whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein. Let's listen to the little section together this morning. Don't get over the cross. Don't get over the resurrection. Don't get over the basics. Don't get over Christ died for my sin. Don't get over the basics. This should bring us joy and comfort and encouragement every day of our lives. We should never lose our ability to articulate the basics on the level of a child. You know, when I think about what I just said there in that section of the sermon, the passage that regularly comes to my mind is Ephesians chapter 2. And Ephesians chapter 2, it tells us who we were before our conversion and what God has done for us and what ultimately is the difference between being who we were and who we are. It says that he hath quickened us. Okay, in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1, it says that we once were dead in trespasses and sins. We are walking according to the course of this world, the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that worked in the children of disobedience. We all had our conversation in times past, fulfilling the lusts of the flesh and of the mind, and we were by nature the children of wrath. But then the text transitions and it says, but God, who is rich in mercy For his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead, he hath made us alive. By grace through faith we are saved. And that's what the passage tells us. And so whenever we think about the gospel, it should bring us tremendous joy and comfort and security. And one of the reasons that some Christians sometimes question whether or not God loves them, or whether or not God is good, or they begin to doubt God's grace, it's because they've gotten their eyes off the gospel. I would encourage you every day when you open up your Bible and you read the Bible, read the Bible through the lens of someone who's on this side of having been converted. And always go back to the basis of your conversion, the grace of God demonstrated through the person work of Christ. And think about his suffering. Think about his sacrifice. Think about how his blood was shed so that our sins could be removed. Think about how he bore the shame and the wrath. of God's justice against our sin. Think about his power and his triumph over sin and death in the grave. Think about how God was willing to come to earth, take on human flesh for us. The Lord Jesus Christ took on the limitations. and the humiliations of humanity. He took on human weakness. He was tempted in all points like as we are, yet without sin. He was forgotten. He was beaten. He was mocked. He was misunderstood. He was maligned. He was betrayed. All of those things are things that Christ did. So that we could be redeemed. And what do those things tell you? They tell you that God's purpose to redeem our souls is a purpose that He accomplished. And it was his love and his mercy and his grace and his compassion and his pure goodness, not anything in us. all entirely the goodness of God that was the supreme motive for him accomplishing all of those things. And so I remind you that because of what Christ has done for you, Because of who Christ is, now that we are united with him, we are, as the scripture says, accepted in the beloved. God accepts us. In Christ as forgiven, redeemed sinners. We are saints because of who we are in Christ. And so may that be something that gives us tremendous comfort, tremendous joy, tremendous sense of encouragement and security as we enter into the the weekend. Remind yourself regularly of the mercies and grace of God that have accomplished our redemption. Have a blessed weekend. And I bless the rest of your day. I really hope that if you live here locally, if you're a part of our local church that we'll see you on Sunday, and that that service will be great blessing to you and uh if this has been an encouragement to you perhaps take a moment to share that if you think it would be a help to someone else who could use that uh share that with them so that they can benefit from these short little uh thoughts That are meant to encourage in the day. Have a blessed day by now