Good morning and welcome to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And as we dig into this passage of scripture today, we're going to focus on the actual content of the message. that Paul was communicating to the church. Tomorrow our plan is to look at Paul as a unique messenger of this message and a tool that God used and why his life and the message he was proclaiming were there was such a significance to the two things. So hope to join us not just today but also tomorrow and then Friday as we work on the application. But if you have your Bible, let's take it and turn to Ephesians chapter 3. We're looking at a large section verses 1 through 13, but we're not reading that entire section today as we've not done as we have uh done the last couple of days. So let's go ahead and turn our Bibles again, Ephesians chapter 3. I'll pick up in verse 1. For this cause I, Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ for you Gentiles, if you've heard of the dispensation of the grace of God which is given to me to you, word. How that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery, as I wrote afore in a few words, whereby when you read, you may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ. which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men, as it is now revealed unto us, his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. But the Gentiles should be fellow heirs of the same body, partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel. Okay, so let's kind of break down what Paul is saying here, his message. What was the content? Well, there are a few things that we can pick out of it. The first is this. When we talk about Paul's message, Verses 2 to 6, you see this word dispensation. Second word that really stands out is the word mystery. And so it says, if you heard of the dispensation of the grace of God, there's that word. how by revelation he made known unto me the mystery as I wrote in a few words when you read. So we're going to talk about the importance of those two words. The first word is mystery because dispensation is an explanation of the nature of that mystery. So what is a mystery? in the Bible. Well when we talk about a mystery, a mystery is not some spooky thing we're supposed to try to figure out. It's talking about how God has progressively revealed information to us through his word. And in verse 5, he actually states it that way. He says, In other ages this was not made known unto the sons of man, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. So that little phrase, as it is now revealed, is very important. It means that it's always been there. It's just not been revealed as thoroughly back then as it is today. So a mystery is a spiritual reality not fully revealed in the past like it is now. And so when we talk about revelation, it is progressive. Let's let's think about the gospel, for instance. In Genesis 3. 15, after the fall, God tells Adam, Behold, the seed of the woman is going to crush the serpent's head. I mean that isn't that It's not the gospel fully fleshed out. We don't know who the seed of the woman is and how he's going to do this. And there are a lot of question marks. Or when we come to um the Abrahamic covenant, God tells Abraham he's going to make him a great nation, and through his seed, all the nations of the earth are going to be blessed. And in the New Testament, he says he was preaching the gospel to Abraham in that statement. So he's not explaining fully this concept. He's simply giving a portion of it. And so as we read the Old Testament, we see that God reveals a little at a time, He makes fuller our understanding of these things And so new revelation is not in conflict, it's not contradicting the old, it's simply explaining it more thoroughly. It's expanding. It's explaining the partially veiled. And so that's what Paul means when he says, I made known unto you the mystery. And much of Paul's teaching centers on this concept of further developing what has already been given and veiled. The second thing about this text that's important is that the mystery is describing the way that God will rule or administrate his eternal kingdom. And so when we use the term dispensation, the dispensation of the grace of God given to me, That word dispensation means an administration. How does God administrate rule in his kingdom? And in verse 6 he says that God is going to give Jew and Gentile believers equal status in this eternal kingdom So there were people in the Old Testament that thought, well, y you have to be Jewish to be a part of God's kingdom. Yes, you have to be a believer, but you have to be a believing person who has converted to Judaism as it understands looking for the Messiah. And when we come to the New Testament, what we see is that it's not about your culture, it's about faith alone in Christ. And so in verse 6 he says, the Gentiles will be fellow heirs of the same body and partakers of the promises in Christ by the gospel. Notice the components of that, fellow heirs. Just like the Jewish believer is going to inherit the kingdom, so will the Gentile believer. Same body. There aren't two churches. Jewish Church and the Gentile Church, there is the body of Christ, Jew and Gentile placed into this body. And they're going to be partakers together of the promises in Christ. And so this is the mystery that Paul is unpackaging, that the Jew and the Gentile are going to be a part of God's kingdom and he's going to administer it where they both are heirs, fellow heirs. They're both a part of one body, and they all partake in the promises found in Christ. The third component to this is the unique fitting of Paul to expound this very important reality. So when Paul talks about himself in these verses, he's emphasizing the fact that God had a very particular role for him as an individual. Verse 3, by revelation he made known this unto me As I wrote before in a few words, God hand-selected Paul to be a unique individual for this specific role. He was a rising leader amongst the Pharisees. Everybody knew him. In fact, I'm not going to get fully into this today, but Lord willing, tomorrow, we're going to talk about the fact that that was significant for Paul. He was zealous. for the law, for the traditions, the standards that were expected in first century rabbinical Judaism. He knew those things. He employed them embraced them, he taught them, he worked very hard to diligently preserve those traditions. And so Paul is a unique individual because of his background. And we could even say it like this, he is the last person that anyone living at the time would have thought would be willing to embrace Christianity. And not just embrace it, but actually be an outspoken evangelist proclaiming this message all throughout the Roman world and of all places in the Gentile portions of the Roman world. This is a very important part of this discussion in front of us. His conversion and his appointment into this ministry is a powerful testimony. to the gospel's ability to transform the life of anyone. And so Paul was a uniquely fitted individual. Now, I want to pause here and say that tomorrow we're going to break this down a lot further. But before we get to tomorrow, I want you to really think about it in these terms. In the same way that God had a unique fitting for Paul. He was an apostle, we're not. God has unique fitting for your life and for mine. Your background, your interests, your strengths. The things that you've learned over the years, your experience. God can take all of those things, even the even the things that we we really would look at as not good things, okay? Not that it was okay for us to do those or experience those. We're not to diminish the hurt or the pain of those things, but God can use all of that to minister in the lives of people. Our lives bear the evidence of the power of the gospel , the evidence of God's grace, the evidence of his kindness, and so we can be used in a very unique way. in his purposes. And so the question is, in what way has he fitted you? Where has he placed you? How does he want to use you in his eternal kingdom work? And so, Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to talk about that a little bit more thoroughly with Paul, but I want to leave you with the question, what about me? How am I supposed to respond? as one who has been uniquely fitted for his purposes today in this time. May God help us to be a people who realize the purpose he has for us, and then we embrace it and we serve in the light of it. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.