Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another session section of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And this week what we're going to do is we're going to go back to kind of the older format that I used to do. Instead of listening to just an excerpt from the sermon and focusing in on that, we're going to work through the entire sermon, all of the content that was there. I think it gives us a more thorough understanding of what's in front of us And I think in the end it'll be actually a little bit more profitable. So I hope that you'll join us as we work our way through this passage this week. I hope that it'll be an encouragement to you, a challenge. The things that we talk about will bless you. and that you will be able to share those with others who can be encouraged by them as well. The text we're dealing with is Luke chapter 19, verses 1 through 10, and we are looking at the miraculous conversion of a man named Zacchaeus. He was a publican, he was very wealthy, and ultimately God saved his soul. And uh what a what a wonderful passage of scripture. So that's what we're going to deal with this week. Uh let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to Luke chapter 19, verses 1 through 10. And then we will jump into the text. It says, And Jesus entered in and passed through Jericho. Behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans, and he was rich. And he sought to see Jesus who he was, and could not for the press, because he was little of stature. He ran before and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was to pass that way. When Jesus came to the place he looked up and saw him, and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, come down, for today I must abide at thy house. He made haste and came down and received him joyfully. And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying that he was gone to be the guest with a man that is a sinner. Zacchaeus stood and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord. Half of my goods I give to the poor. If I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house, for as much as he also is a son of Abraham For the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which is lost. Alright, well let's get into the introduction a little bit this morning. First of all, I want to highlight how this passage is kind of like the final piece of four miracles that have been performed by Christ in Luke chapters 13 through 19. And if we're looking at this section, we realize that this is Christ going up to Jerusalem ultimately to die on the cross and then to rise from the dead. And so it's not like these are the only miracles that Christ would have performed during this time period, but these are the ones that Luke selected that were pertinent to the argument that he's making. And so the the sequence, how he lays it out, it's all very, very important. And also the things that he records, not just about what Christ did But what he said after he did those things is very important to what Luke is showing us. So what I want to do is I want to work my way through those things in our introduction. The first miracle that we look at is in Luke chapter 13. In this passage, we see that Christ heals a woman who is spiritually oppressed and physically infirmed. And so it appears that she was actually being plagued by some kind of demonic oppression that was affecting her physically. And Jesus heals her on the Sabbath day. And then it creates a tremendous stir in that synagogue. And so Jesus takes that moment to highlight something that's very important. This is what he says in verses twenty eight to thirty. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth when ye shall see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, and ye yourselves are thrust out. And they shall come from the east and from the west, and from the north and from the south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of God. There are last which shall be first, and there are first which shall be last Christ is drawing this distinction between those who are a part of the kingdom and those who are outside of the kingdom. And it appears by the way that Jesus is teaching here that he believes that those critics who are critical of what he's just done They are the ones who are going to be outside of the kingdom and they will be looking in at people who they thought did not have the right to be there, but instead They are there rather than the critics. The second miracle performed was him healing a crippled man. And this is again a miracle performed on the Sabbath. And it uh uh at a at a man's house, uh, one of the Pharisees invites him. It appears that he's using this man as kind of a prop. Because he wants to see what Christ is going to do. And what does Christ do? He heals the man and he demonstrates that he's Lord of Sabbath. And in verses 21 to 24 of that chapter, this is what he says. He says, Go out quickly into the streets and the lanes and the cities, and bring in hither the poor and the maimed and the halt and the blind. Go out into the highways and hedges and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled. For I say unto you that none of those which were bidden shall taste of my supper. Now this is the end of one of Christ's parables, and the point of the parable was to say that I've extended the invitation of my kingdom to to you, the people that are critical of him. And you've rejected it. Yet there are people that are outside who do not appear like they are good uh good people to be in the kingdom, the the last that you would think of, and he talks about poor and maimed and halt and blind. And he says, those are the people that are going to end up in the kingdom, and you're not. And all of those who have rejected are going to be excluded. And so he emphasizes that as well. The third miracle is going to be a little bit different. Those first two miracles, those people did not come to Christ. Christ went to them. But the last two miracles are people that came to Christ. And this is the healing of a Samaritan leper who was one of ten other ten men, nine others, and out of the ten, he is the only one that came and thanked Christ. At the end of that statement, Jesus highlights the fact that his faith is why he's been saved. And that salvation is not just speaking more than likely of the physical. But actually the spiritual, he has been saved through faith. And so in verses 17 and 18, he says, were there not ten cleansed, but where are the nine? There are not found that return to give glory to God save this stranger. His point is that this is a man who is a Samaritan, he was an outsider, he was the last you would have expected. And again, he's highlighting the fact that he reaches out to those who are needy, those who are unlikely. The fourth miracle, he heals a blind man who saw the identity of Christ and was saved through faith. He's a blind man that's all. He was physically blind, but spiritually he had the ability to see. And we see that because he calls him the son of David, and we also see that Jesus says your faith hath made you whole. He emphasizes the fact that he's been saved by or through his faith. And so in chapter 18, Jesus says the following: How hardly is it that they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God? It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. They that heard it said, who can be saved? He said, the things which are impossible with men are possible with God. Now the point that we're going to drive to Is that this passage of scripture that we're looking at today kind of takes all of those things that we've looked at and it brings it to a head where all those concepts come to bear in one man's testimony? And so it's going to talk about how a man who is wealthy, who is unlikely, is actually saved through faith, and it's a demonstration of God's power. All those things are going to be a part of this story. But there are three themes that I want to highlight before we close this introduction that come out in these passages. The first theme is that God is a merciful God, and his mercy is toward those who are destitute. The second is that because he's a merciful God, especially towards those who are destitute, he pursues people, and he pursues even the outcast, the blind, the poor, the maimed. the Samaritan, the Pharisee, the publican. He goes after those people. And the third thing is that he saves and transforms broken lives. Here are people whose lives are physically broken. And now they are spiritually transformed. Not just physically, but also spiritually transformed. Their lives have been changed forever. But this man that we're talking about today, Zacchaeus, or throughout this week, this man is like the crowning jewel of them all. His life is masterfully transformed by the power of the gospel. So I'd summarize it this way. Luke records Zacchaeus' conversion to provide comfort to those who appear to be on his grace. And he wants us to take comfort in how merciful God is towards unlikely people. That's what I have for you this morning. I hope that you have a great start to your week. Hope that you'll join us as we work our way through this passage of Scripture. I hope that the truths that we di that we dig into will be very helpful to you. And ultimately they will demonstrate the mercy of God, the grace of God, the love of God, the power of the gospel. in how God pursues sinners. And even those who seem like they could never be saved, he saves them. May God help us to be encouraged this week. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Find out