Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And looking forward to our week, the passage that we're going to be dealing with is a vivid reminder of the fact that we will all spend eternity somewhere and this passage has both a very positive and a very negative uh application and it is positive or negative based ultimately on what what we do with the gospel. And so as we dig into this passage of scripture, I'm going to tell you it will be a heavy topic, but it's an important topic, and it's one that I hope that you will uh give a lot of time Pondering and reflecting on. Well, the text in front of us is Luke chapter 16. We're reading verses 19 through 31, and I'm not going to read the entire section because of the length of it, but this morning We're gonna kind of set the stage with an introduction and we're gonna look at the the startling difference between the two people that Jesus tells us about in Luke chapter 16. So here's the text, let's read it and then dig into the detail. details. It says there was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day. And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at the gate full of sores, desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. Moreover the dogs came and licked his sores. It came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died, and was buried, and in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me. Now as we look at this passage of scripture, I want to give you two statements that kind of summarize the text and then I want us to look at the difference between these two people as they live their lives. What we see is two men who had radically different lives, who faced The same temporal fate, which ultimately led to a shocking reversal of circumstance for them, and it was an eternal reversal. That God wants us to prepare for eternity wisely. And that is really the intent of the text in front of us. So let's look at these two men and consider the radically different life experiences that they had. We see this in verses 19 through 21 with the following statement. There was a certain rich man, and there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, who was laid at his gate with sores. As we think about these story, we see that there is a vivid presentation in these verses. Christ was telling a story that he describes in the most personal details you can imagine. He talks about a very tragic human experience. And this is an experience that a lot of people would have understood in the first century. They knew what it was like to see people back. They knew what it was like to see people who had massive disparities when it came to the way that they live their lives. People who are extremely wealthy, people who had Absolutely nothing. People who are masters and people who are slaves. We see this massive difference. And this story really presents that. Gospels that I can remember where Christ tells a story about someone and it is personal enough that they would actually be named. And so this sets it as distinct from the parables that we see when Christ is teaching. Some would say this is a parable, but the fact is he uses a name and he never does that in any of the parables. So I take this as a literal story about a man who lived and the people would have even known who these people were. They would have known who the rich man was, they would have known who Lazarus was, and Jesus relates the story as if that's exactly what we would have expected. So let's notice some of the details. First of all, the rich man. He is described as being very wealthy. In verse 19, he's rich. He dresses in elegant clothing. In verse 19, it also says that he He was clothed in purple and in fine linen, and so he had the ability to dress nicely, he had the ability to accumulate a massive amount of wealth. He also had the the ability to feed himself very very well and in verse nineteen when it says that he fared sumptuously every day the idea is he has this overabundance of food it's a person who um Every time he sits down to eat in his own home, he's eating this massive banquet. And so um you can assume that this is a person who had excessive waste in his life because of how much he had. And then we know he lived in a gated home. We see that in verse 20 because it says that this man Lazarus was laid at his gate. So this is the man who lives in in insecurity. He lives uh with abundance, he lives in the nicest of clothing, he lives with a massive amount of wealth. But then we See this other person that's described. His name is Lazarus. He's described in a very detailed way also. He was described as destitute in verse 20. It says that he was a certain beggar. It also says that he was Wicked, weak, sickly. In verse 20 it says that he was laid at his gate and he was full of sores. So we think about Lazarus. He was a person who didn't have the ability to work. He didn't have the ability to work to enter into people's homes. He had to beg on the streets because he was an outcast. He lived really a terrible life. He was a man who experienced Pain and hunger. Verse 21. He desired to be fed with the crumbs that fell from the rich man's table. And then in verse 21, it gives us another fascinating detail. It says that the dogs came and licked his sores. So here's a man who literally has to fight the dogs for the crumbs that fall from this man's table. And so you could see that this massive disparity, this massive difference. One is rich, one is poor. One has more food than he can imagine. The other is eating the table scraps that come from the man's house and the dogs are fighting him for it. One man appears to be healthy, lives in a gated home, he has security. The other person lives on the streets. And he is very sick, he is very weak, and he is literally living based on the mercy of the people around him. And so when we think about these two men, it's important for us to put it into perspective, not just how we would respond to it as people living in the 21st century, but how people living at the time of Christ would have responded, because that is his original audience. And these people would have had a mindset that was very consistent throughout. And we see this in the Bible. For instance, because this man was rich, most people would have assumed That this is the kind of person I would want to be like. They would have even envied him. They would have coveted his position and his possessions and all those things. They would see that his life of ease and affluence was set up something that came from somewhere. And their assumption would have been, well, if he's wealthy and he has all this stuff and he lives an easy life, it must be because God has given him great blessing and favor and he must be a person that is in God's good graces. That would be the assumption. Whereas Lazarus, on the other hand, lived this pitiful life. When people looked at him, their their assumption would not have been, well, he has received God's favor, but that he was a person who was under God's curse and there must have been something in his life or something in the life of his parents, some decision that he made that leads him to be into s into such a difficult position. Well the scripture addresses this wrong thinking quite a bit and I just want to draw your attention to a few of those examples. The verses from the Book of Job. My view is that one of the great purposes for the book of Job is to combat this thinking that everything in life is easily predictable. And if a person is wealthy, it's because they're wise. And if a person is poor, it's because they're foolish. Or because a person experiences ease, it's because uh they are doing the right thing. And if a person experiences heartache and hardship, it's because of some secret unknown sin that they have. This is very common thinking. It was common thinking in those days. It was common thinking in the ancient Near Eastern times. And we see this come out in Job chapter 8, where one of his friends says this if you were pure and upright, surely now he would awaken for thee and make Well what does he say? Well, Job, there's no way that you're doing what's right because God wouldn't allow you to suffer like this if you were living a good moral and upstanding life. You must be hiding something from everyone. That is the assumption. Or we see when Jesus is with his disciples and they see this this poor man who is begging and blind. It says as Jesus passed by, he saw the man who was blind from his birth and his disciples asked him saying, Master, who did sin? This man or his parents? That he was born blind? Well what does Jesus say? Well it was neither, but that the glory of God would be revealed in this man. Or we even see the False teachers in Ephesus, who Paul warns Timothy to be on guard about. In 1 Timothy 6. 3, he says, If any man teach otherwise and consent not to wholesome words, even Supposing that gain is godliness from such Withdraw yourself. And so as we open up this passage of scripture and we read it, we need to not just look at the details, but we need to ask The question, why did Christ present the details the way that he did? Why did Luke record this for us at this point in the book? What was the response that the people would have had to these things? The answer is Jesus presents a story of two men, real men, who lived and died and are now in eternity. And he presents this story contrasting their lives to really target a thinking amongst the people that is common today. And that is that good things happen to good people and bad things Things happen to bad people, and that is an absolute rule in life. And in fact, what we see is here is a poor man who has everything in eternity, and a rich man who has no nothing. And so let's take time this week to really reflect deeply on this passage and to see what is the ultimate determining difference between these The difference is going to be the gospel. So as we think about these things, I hope that you'll have a great rest of your day. And Lord willing, tomorrow, I I hope that you'll join us as we dig a little bit deeper into this passage of scripture and we look at what they had in common. Have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.