Good morning. Welcome to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And this week I will probably take a little bit to get some of the early ones out because I'm playing catch up from last week. And last week I took My son Nathaniel down to South Carolina. We went to a football game and just had a really good time together with family. And so this week I will hopefully get these up eventually. Early morning to mid-morning and then our normal time. But I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage of scripture that we looked at when we were finishing out our missions month. And I love this text of scripture. Today we're going to just give an introduction and then start digging into some of the various pieces of this passage of scripture. 2 Corinthians 5 is where we are. So if you have a Bible, why don't you take it and let's turn together as we talk about the ministry of reconciliation and how that is to impact our lives. 2 Corinthians 5, verse 17. It says, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. And all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. and hath given unto us the ministry of reconciliation, to wit that Christ, God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself. not imputing their trespasses unto them, and have committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now that we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you, by us we pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God. For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. We then, as workers, together with him, beseech you also that you receive not the grace of God in vain. Now as we dig into this passage, it's important for us to appreciate some of the background information that really leads to this passage of Scripture. 2 Corinthians is a book that is written, really a letter, written to a church that Paul had a tumultuous relationship with. Now that's not to say that he didn't love the church. In fact, he loved them dearly, but he dealt with a lot of challenges. And so I'd like to highlight a little bit of Paul's relationship to the church as we think about the text. and the context around it. The story of the birth of the church at Corinth is a fascinating testimony to God's providential work. Unlike churches like Rome and Colossae, Paul actually spent time at Corinth and was personally involved in the discipleship, the plant, and the early training of the people in the church. Romans, he writes the epistle to a church that he's not yet visited. Colosse, he writes an epistle to a church he's not visit yet visited. That's different with 1 Corinthians and 2 Corinthians. He's writing to a church that he knew very, very well. And to kind of highlight some of the interaction with Paul, he spent 18 months at the beginning of this church plant, actually giving the gospel, discipling these individuals, and working with those early church leaders. In Acts chapter 18 he says, it says that he continued there a year and six months, teaching the Word of God among them. And then we see that Paul had a continuing interaction with them during a time of internal crisis. He goes and he visits the church, and he references this in 2 Corinthians chapter 2. He says, I determined this with myself that I would not come again to you in heaviness. like he did the first time. He also received letters from this church where they had questions about theology and practice. And in 1 Corinthians 7. 1 he says, concerning the things whereof you wrote unto me. It's good not for a man to touch a woman. And then he expands on this answer based on questions that they asked the people. We also see beyond that that he wrote other epistles to the church that were not included in Scripture. They're non-canonical. And some of these were about practical issues, and some of them were about things that were very personal. 1 Corinthians 5. 9, I wrote unto you an epistle not to keep company with fornicators. Or 2 Corinthians 2. 3, I wrote this same unto you, lest when I come I should have sorrow for them of whom you ought to rejoice, that you might know the love which I have more abundantly unto you. So Paul interacted with them a lot. He also writes 1 2 Corinthians. We have scripture there. And the reason I bring this up is to say that Paul was deeply invested in this church. He loved them dearly. He was passionate about their their growth into Christ's likeness. But it didn't change the fact that in fact his relationship was challenging. Despite all the deep personal investments, there were people in the church that were his enemies. Not because Paul had set himself against them. But because they wanted to undermine his credibility. They didn't like the things that he was teaching, the things that he was writing. And so this text is an important part of Paul trying to defend his ministry. and to articulate the heart of this work. It's really about how gospel ministry should be done. So as we dig into this passage, I want us to begin with a summary statement. As Paul writes these verses, he's writing to Christians who have been reconciled to God, and he is calling them to embrace a ministry. of representing God to those who need reconciliation. As we dig into the passage, we're going to see the need to faithfully represent Him to the lost. And so I hope that you'll ask yourself this simple question, how do we do this? The answer will be presented throughout the week. Lord willing, tomorrow, we're going to start by talking about our position in Christ. And before we get into practice, we start with position. We start with theology. We start with understanding who we are, and from that talk about what we are to do. So I hope you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage. Hope you have a great rest of your day. I know it's not warning when you're going to get this, but I hope you have a great rest of your day. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.