Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And this is Vacation Bible School Week, and we've had a really, really encouraging week. And I wanted to give you a short update uh before we dig into this text one more time and I share with you some final thoughts. First of all, thank you for keeping us in prayer. And that's not just the kids who Who are coming, but also the workers, and we have had a great group of workers. In fact, we've had over 50 workers who were involved in our vacation Bible school. This uh this week. We've also had just shy of 200 young people who have come through the program. That's I think it's 199, something like that. Just one shy of two And we've had a really good time. In fact, last night was the largest attendance we had for our kids' program, and it was water night, so we had the water slide out, and we're very thankful that the Lord came Kept everyone safe, both coming and going, and then at our activities. And we're especially thankful for how God's been working in our young people's hearts through the preaching and teaching of God's Word. And this week we've had between 15 and 20 young people who have been dealt with for salvation. Some of those young people trusted Christ, some of them we've had conversations with their parents. and just shared with them the the questions that their kids had and we don't know how the seeds are planted and how God is going to work in those lives and there are some young people that were dealt with for assurance of salvation. As well. So thank you for keeping these young people in prayer. I know that tonight's the last night. I won't be giving you an update on that. because this is our anchor to the word for Friday. But uh on Sunday uh we'll have a a little little portion uh before the service starts where you get to see a little bit of what happened this week. And so we're thankful for all of that, thankful for God's blessing and his spirit working in lives. Well, let's go ahead and turn our Bibles together to Luke 14 as we look at this text one more time. time and I share with you a couple of closing thoughts on this topic of how God who is good confronts us when we have pride in our hearts. And so here's the text. Let's read it together. It says, and it came to pass as he went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees to eat bread on the Sabbath day, that they watched him. And behold, there was a certain man before. For him which had the dropsy. And Jesus answering spake unto the lawyer and Pharisee, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath day? And they held their peace, and he took Took him and healed him and let him go. And answering said to them, Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fall into a pit, and will not straightway pull him out? out on the Sabbath day. They could not answer him again to these things. Now as we've been digging into this passage of scripture, what we've been seeing is a pattern for how Christ deals with And so the application that I want to leave you is three before I leave you some final thoughts. As in just some words. To remember. So, first of all, we need to have a sense of how important truth is. It is inescapably important. And when we talk about an issue like the gospel, there is nothing That is going to have greater weight and significance on a person than what they do with the gospel. So if a person is embracing lies about the gospel, there are times that we are going to need to engage that individual. Or maybe we're going to have to engage that individual for the sake of others who are listening to that conversation. And we may have to do it repeatedly. That is really the sense of what Jesus is doing here. to feel the weight of what is in front of us. And this issue of pride and of self-righteousness is something that causes people to have a lot of animosity towards The gospel and those who proclaim the gospel. And I'm not encouraging us as believers to proclaim the gospel with any kind of edginess or in a way that is uh abrasive and aggressive. But we should be bold in our witness. We should have a compassion and a fervency and a willingness to speak the truth, even if it's It's going to put us in a tough place. And so the pride and the self-righteousness of the generation that we are living with, which which frankly is no different than any other generation, if we're to look at it on the heart level is something that doesn't give us an excuse to shrink back and to act like, well, I don't have to step forward because the times that I'm living Living in our too hard. We've got to be willing to engage this generation. And the people that live around us, that we rub shoulders with, interact with us, we need to Be a gospel witness to these individuals. And God has put us in the world at this time, in this place, for a reason, and that is to engage people in the gospel. And we're to do it after Christ's example. So here are the four And I hope that they'll be a help to you. And I hope that this is something that the Lord will bring to your heart over and over and over again to help you You to be faithful in this area. The first word that I want us to remember is the word courage. We need to overcome our emotional apprehensions. I had a Conversation with a young person yesterday, and we were talking about this issue of emotions and how how we feel can sometimes drive the choices that we make. And some Sometimes how we feel can drive us to make decisions that are foolish. And so I gave them examples of have you ever gotten up in the morning and didn't feel like getting out of bed? But you had to do it. Because school was starting. Or have you ever had some activity that the family was going to go on? And it would have been a fun activity, but you didn't feel like it would be fun at the beginning. And so you were you were holding back and you weren't stepping forward. You were allowing Allowing your emotions to move you in a direction that you should not be going. Well, this issue of courage is something that we need to consider. There are times that we feel timid And shy, and we're fearful to step forward and do what we need to do and say what we need to say. Courage is not the absence of those emotional struggles, it's the willingness To overcome them. It's the decisive action that we take despite how we might feel in our hearts. And so that word courage is extremely important. The second word is the word knowledge. We need to know the truth. We need a good working knowledge of the scriptures, especially issues in relation to human nature, the gospel, the law, God's justice, and God's righteousness. And so I really encourage us to not just be tied down to two or three verses, but that we should have such a working knowledge of the gospel that whoever we're encountering, whatever their questions are, We're able to go to the scriptures, we're able to lay out what those texts are saying, and we're able to do it in a way that God can use to really get into the heart of that individual. So courage, knowledge. Third word is the word patience. Patience has the idea of endurance. We must be willing to endure the frustrations and the disappointments that we we are most definitely going to encounter as we work with people and interact with people. You may have a person that that you know is in your family, a person that you work with. someone that you've been friends with for years, you become a Christian, and you continue to have interaction with this person. But the truth is that that's been strained because of your new faith in Christ and how that has really given you a totally different allegiance. I want to encourage you to endure the frustrations and the difficult disappointments and continue to Don't force the issue when it is clear that this person has no desire to hear it. But when the Lord opens the door, question comes. situation arises. Plant those seeds and water those seeds and see what God does. Be patient. And then the fourth word that I want to leave you with is the word confidence. God's word will not return void. I think of Romans chapter 10, where it says, How can they call on him whom they've not heard? And how can they hear without a preacher? Nature, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. The reason that people believe on the gospel is because the Word of God is presented to them. And God uses the word to break down those walls of hardened rebellion and self-righteousness, and he uses the word to soften the hearts so that they recognize it is Christ and Christ alone. And it is the preaching and teaching of the Word of God that ultimately brings a person to faith in Christ. And what is the word? The object of one's faith. So you say, what do I take into the weekend? Well the first thing I'll say is have a wonderful weekend. Get the rest you need, especially if you've been working at Vacation Bible school. I leave you with this encouragement. God's given us a great week And we're very thankful for his abundant blessings. And lastly, we hope to see you on Sunday. Hope that you'll join us if you do not have a church that you attend in this area or if you're a part of our church. We hope to see you on Sunday. And even though we're tired, we need to gather and fellowship with the body. We need to hear from the Lord. We need the word of God to be expounded to us. And so I hope Hope that we will see you this Sunday. Have a great weekend and Lord willing we'll talk to you later. Bye now