Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And as we always do on Fridays, we take time to look at application Not to say we don't talk about application throughout the week, but this is our most application-focused series, part of the series. And so if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Turn with me again to Luke chapter 19. Or I keep saying Luke. Acts 19, and we're reading verses 8 through 10. Again, that's Acts 19, verses 8 through 10. Here's what the text says. And he went into the synagogue and spake boldly by the space of three months, disputing and persuading of things concerning the kingdom of God. But when divers were hardened, and believed not, but spake evil of that way before the multitude, he departed from them, and separated the disciples, disputing daily in the school of one tierness. This continued by the space of two years, so that all they which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. Now as we think about this passage, I want to leave you with a couple of principles and then applications. First of all, on the principle side, the first thing I really take away from the text is that God's timing is perfect. When I think about the fact that Paul wanted to go into Ephesus, he wanted to go to Asia Minor, that was the foremost city in that region. And God forbid him. The reason God forbid it is not because he somehow didn't love the people at Ephesus and didn't want them to be converted. That his timing really mattered. He was going to take Paul all the way through Macedonia to Cai. He was going to be influential and seeing churches established. He was going to have people added to his ministry team. And so the timing of them coming to Ephesus was exactly what God wanted. Second principle, preaching the gospel changes everything. These were pagan cities. These were cities that were filled with idolatry and darkness. Yet when the gospel came, what did God do? He transformed people's lives through the gospel. And that's what it does. Third thing we see is that regeneration and a new worldview visibly transform people. It's not just that these people were changed internally, they were. That's where it starts. But it doesn't stay internal. It actually changes them on the outside as well. These people spontaneously were willing to take all of All of this money that they had invested in materials that were involved in witchcraft, and they took those things and they burned them and they destroyed them. And the question is, why did they do that? Well, they did it because they hated the darkness and they wanted nothing to do with it. Fourth principle is that young Christians want to tell others about Christ. Why did the gospel go to these other cities of Asia Minor? Is it because Paul had this grand scheme? The answer is it's because people wanted others to hear the gospel. They were motivated. Paul didn't have to browbeat them into going. They wanted to go. It was something that they were moved by. And the fifth principle is that focused discipleship really works. When we invest deeply in people and we see them grow, we see them mature, we see them become strong, guess what God does? He compounds the work and we can trust him to do it. So I'll leave you those five principles before we get into the application. Now, some application. First of all, the word I want to think about is perspective When I say perspective, I mean this. As we think about this, we need to be honest about the times we live in, the spiritual darkness around us. But that honesty shouldn't cause us to despair. It shouldn't cause us to think that there's no hope, because in fact there is hope. If God is going to work, And God has given us his word that we should trust him to work through his word. Secondly, be confident in the power that God gives and his provision. If we will take the word of God to the nations, God will work through it. If we will take the word of God into our communities, God will work through it. God is a sovereign God who works in these ways. We've got to get back to the basics. We've got to get back to preaching Christ, making disciples, developing leadership from the bottom up. That's how God works. Second word I want us to remember is the word providence. When we say providence, we mean this. God is sovereign. And we need to plead with him to send a real spiritual revival to his church. That the church would be awakened, that it would be vibrant and healthy so that it's able to reach into the community. And we need to plead with God to draw people to himself. God is in the business of saving people, but he does it through means. He does it through instruments. He does it through people like us. May we be faithful. Third, we need to plead with him to raise up strong and principled leaders. If the church doesn't have leadership, the church is in trouble And so we need to pray that God will revive the church, draw people to himself, and raise up strong, principled leaders. And as a sovereign Lord, he'll do it. The third word is the word responsibility. We talk about responsibility. Let's be a church where people can become spiritually grounded. where they can become well equipped to take the gospel to the nations. Let's not sit on the sidelines. Let's not lament the times that we live in. Rather, let's get to work doing what God has called us to do. Let's be committed to the tools that he uses. He builds the church through those tools. Let's be in completely invested. in the kingdom work that he has for us. Let's be motivated about what matters eternally, what brings him the glory. The last word I want us to remember is worship. God wants us to be worshipers who delight in the transforming power of the gospel. As we think about Missions Month, I pray that these words, these principles, will really resonate in our hearts. Well, if this has been an encouragement to you, I hope that you will share that with others. If you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out, ask those questions, and Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday or on Monday when we pick up with our next Anchored in the Word series. Have a blessed weekend. Bye now.