Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And the text that we're going to deal with this week is going to be a little bit of a change from our typical Sunday morning focus. And we are going to actually look at a passage that we looked at on a Sunday night, and that is because I think that this is a text and a topic that's Extremely helpful, extremely practical. And for several weeks in a row we were dealing with the issue of the day of the Lord, second coming of Christ, the Olivet Discourse. And so rather than going back to that again, we're going to look at this 1 Kings passage, and I hope that you'll join us for this study this week because in fact it will be very, very helpful. If you have your Bible, let's go ahead and turn there to 1 Kings chapter 19. I'm going to read the first portion of this passage of scripture and then give you some thoughts and introduction. Here's what God's Word says. And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and withal how he had slain all the prophets with a sword. Then Jezebel sent a messenger unto Elijah saying, So let the gods do to me and more also, if I make not thy life as the life of one of them by tomorrow, about this time. And when he saw that he arose and went for his life and came to Beersheva, which belonged to Judah, and left the servant there. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, and came and sat down under a juniper tree. And he requested for himself that he might die, and said, It is enough. Now, O Lord, take my life. I am not able. I am not better than my father's Now as we look at this passage of Scripture, there are two texts that I want to kind of present at the beginning in our introduction that I think will be very helpful for breaking down throughout the week. The first passage is Lamentations through. twenty-two. It says that it is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. The second passage I want to mention is in Psalm 103. It says, Like a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. He knoweth our frame, and he remembereth that we are dust. The reason I present these two passages of Scripture is because this text that we're going to look at this week shows us very transparently a very low and broken point. in Elijah's life. And it's a little bit surprising that this is taking place because if you think about it, at Mount Carmel, this is one of the high points of his ministry. The 400 prophets of Baal who were false prophets were all killed. And God has just demonstrated his power, and all the people recognize that Baal is not the one true God. In fact, Baal is an idol, and the God of Israel, the Lord, he is the one true and living God. And so you would think this would be a high point in his ministry, but in fact it's not. It's a low point. It's a point where he's very broken and weary and beaten down. We're going to talk about what we can learn from this passage this week. But the thing that I really want to emphasize in the beginning is how God looks at a person who is in such a state. And the answer is he looks at them with mercy. With pity, with compassion. It's of his mercies we are not consumed. His compassions do not fail. They are new every morning. He is faithful. As a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. And so we're reminded that he is a compassionate God. And this text about Elijah is going to really demonstrate that. So I'm going to summarize the passage in the following way in our introduction. First of all, this passage reveals that God does not abandon his servants when they stumble. He is there. He pursues them. He goes to them and lifts them up, and we're going to see that in the text. And so as we break it down, we need to be a people who are humbled by our weakness. And we rejoice in God's grace when we stumble. That is what we're going to look at this week. So I hope that you'll join us this week as we work our way through the passage of Scripture. We're going to talk about spiritual burnout. and what it looks like and how we are to respond to God and what we can learn about Him in those moments. So I hope that you'll join us. Perhaps encourage others to watch these videos or listen to these recordings because they will be very, very helpful to them. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we start breaking down this text of scripture by now.