Good morning. Welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and hope that you've had a great week. And the passage that we've been dealing with is one that has been so important for us to think about. And no matter what's going on in your life, I hope that this passage of Scripture has really been something that God's used to minister to your soul. And as we dig into this passage one more time and look at some final thoughts, my prayer is that the Lord will really use this. as we think about kind of the summary of everything we've talked about. So let's read the text one more time together at Psalm 38, and then we will jump into a couple of final thoughts. Psalm 38, verse 1. O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. For thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger, neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin. For mine iniquities are gone over my head, as an heavy burden, they're too heavy for me. My wounds stink and are corrupts because of my foolishness. I am troubled. I am bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day long. Forsake me not, O Lord. O my God, be not far from me. Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. Now this week as we've dug into this passage, I could pretty much summarize the whole week with this this statement. Christ, and I'll say Christ alone, he is the only sure hope for a troubled soul. And sadly, lots and lots of people, they have trouble in their souls and they're looking for answers, but they're looking in all the wrong places. They're looking down roads that are going to lead to dead ends, roads that may end in greater misery. And so we've got to remind ourselves that the only sure hope for a troubled spirit is God. And in Psalm 38, verse 2, he says, make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. God is the one who brings people out of difficulty. And who gives stability and comfort to the soul that is wearied. So, what can we learn from David's experience? Well, what I'd like to do is kind of just remind you of the things we've talked about this week. For instance, Like David, we sin. We struggle. We get weary. Like David, when we sin, we're going to suffer emotionally and physically. And there is this connection between the physical and the emotional. We are body, soul, and spirit. We are not just bodies. We're not just souls. We are body, soul, and spirit. And God created us this way. We have a moral awareness, a conscience. And so when we are physically struggling, it affects us internally. When we're internally struggling, it affects us in our bodies. Thirdly, sin's going to take a heavy toll on our souls. When God tells us not to do something, it's not because he's cruel and it's not because he wants to make us experience some kind of misery or miss out on some kind of joy that would be great for us. He says, no, don't do it, because sin is detrimental. It's destructive. It not only misses the mark, but it destroys people. and it destroys the people around them. Fourthly, we've got to look to God in these dark moments. Rather than looking in and always being introspective and going deeper and deeper into this sense of of brokenness and this sense of uneasiness and this sense of misery and this inability to get back up. We've got to turn our eyes to God. We've got to look to Him. and these dark moments and find strength in him. Fifthly, when we do this, we will experience a fresh self of his comfort and renewed fellowship. Even when we have stumbled and we have sinned against God and we've sinned grievously against God. He is there calling out to us to lift us up out of our misery and to lift us up out of these troubles. and to turn our attention back to him. He wants to give us a renewed, fresh sense of his comfort and fellowship. We've also learned this week that there are no quick fixes. There are no easy fixes. It's not like you can flip a switch and all of a sudden everything's cleared up and it's all different now. It doesn't work that way. The way out and the way up. is a slow and steady process, but God is the one who accomplishes it. And this healing and growth and the ups and downs of this process are going to lead us to a sweet end. I think about Romans 8, it says that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose, for whom he foreknew, he predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. How do those things work together for good? God uses them. to draw us to himself, to mature us and to develop us into people who know God, love God, walk with God, and we reflect his character. God is the one who brings comfort. And God is the one who brings maturity. And God does it. in his own time. Psalm 40, verses 1 to 5. I love these verses because these are the summation, these are the endpoint of what we talked about this week. David writes, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me. He heard my cry. He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and he set my feet on a rock, and he established my goings. He hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise to our God. Many shall see it and fear, and shall trust in the Lord. Blessed is that man that maketh the Lord his trust and respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn again unto lies. Many, O Lord, are thy wonderful works which thou hast done. And my thought and thy thoughts which thou hast toward upward, they cannot be reckoned in order unto thee. If if I would declare it and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. Think about what David is saying there. I waited and God listened and he lifted me up and he established my goings. And he put a new song in my heart. And when I look back at that, I can't even begin to recount all the various ways that God has been kind and merciful to me. to me. Think about that for a few minutes. Well, my last word that I want to say is have a wonderful weekend. I hope we'll see you on Sunday. And if this has been a challenge to you, take a moment to share that. If you think that these uh this series this week, these episodes have been an encouragement to you, I'm sure there's others who can be encouraged by it, consider sharing it with them. And if this has been helpful or you have any questions, you need to reach out, don't hesitate to do that. I want to be an encouragement any way that I can. Well, have a blessed weekend. Lord willing, we'll see many of you this Sunday. Bye now.