Good morning and welcome to our Wednesday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Today we're going to move from the unlikelihood of this origin of a spiritual movement. to looking at the tremendous battlefield that took place at Ephesus. And when I use the word battlefield, I don't mean a physical battle. We're talking about a spiritual battle, spiritual struggle. And whenever God is doing a work, and whenever people are engaged in that work, they are going to see the evidence of spiritual struggle, and that will come out in the text in front of us. So If you have your Bible, please take it. Let's turn to Luke chapter 19. I'm going to read the passage and then dig into this concept a little bit this morning. Here's what God's Word says, Luke chapter Acts chapter 19, verses 8 through 10. And he went into the synagogue and spake boldly for the space of three months, disputing and persuading of things concerning the kingdom of God. But When divers were hardened and believed not, but spake evil of that way before the multitude, he departed from them, and separated the disciples, disputing daily in the school of one tierness. And this continued by the space of two years, so that all they which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. As we think about the context that we are examining, the planting of the church at Ephesus, it's important to recognize not just that the spiritual battle that we read about is in Ephesus, but this is something that we all encounter. Conflict in the spirit in the Christian life is a regular part of our Christian experience. 1 Peter 5. It says, Be sober, be vigilant, your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Obviously, we're in the midst of a struggle. Or Ephesians 6. 12. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, powers, the rulers of the darkness of this world, spiritual wickedness in high places. You see the concept of wrestling and struggling, the flesh against the spirit, and we see this great battle. And then we see Revelation 2. 13. He says, you dwell even where Satan's seat is. And you hold fast to my name and hast not denied my faith, even in those days when Antipas was my faithful martyr, who was slain among you where Satan dwelleth. Each of these passages show us the concept of spiritual struggle. So this is not just an Ephesus first century issue. This is something we deal with today, all of us do. The conflict at Ephesus was an intense one, and there were several different aspects to it, and I want to just highlight those things so that we can see that this is not just a one-dimensional issue One aspect of this would have been dealing with slander. Chapter 19, verses 8 and 9. He went into the synagogue and spake boldly by the space of three months. But when divers were hardened, and believed not, they spoke evil of that way before the multitude, and he departed. When he says they spoke evil, it means they slandered them. Here he's preaching the truth. He's trying to to win people to the gospel and he's being slandered. We see demon possession. We r we remember it's a very dark city. There's a lot of idolatry and paganism. Shouldn't surprise us that this would take place. But In verses eleven and twelve it says God wrought special miracles by the hands of Paul, and the disease depart from them, and the evil spirits put out of them. So what do we see? Demonic possession. Or in verses fifteen to seventeen. He says, the evil spirits answered and said, Jesus I know, Paul I know, but who are you? The man in whom the evil spirit was leaped on them and overcame them and prevailed against him. And so we see that he faced demonic uh oppression and people who were demon-possessed. A third thing we see is just straight idolatry, verses 23 to 29, there arose no smallster. About that way the whole city was filled with confusion. And then greed. Verses twenty-three to twenty-nine And if if you remember back a couple of days ago, we said that this was a city in decline and that it went from being kind of a traditional place where there is commerce coming and going into being a place where they're selling trinkets and idols and those kinds of things. It says a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, which made silver shrines for Diana, brought no s ball gate to the craftsmen, called together them which were workmen of like occupation, and said, Sirs, you know that this craft we have By this craft we have our wealth. And so, out of greed, the people wanted to get rid of Paul. And then we see that he faced opportunis Certain vagabond Jewish exorcists took them and called them that had evil spirits. And they said, We adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preacheth. And the seven sons of Skeva, a Jew, a chief of the priests, which did so, they jumped upon them and chased them out. We see people trying to imitate him. And then later on, we see false teachers took place there in the Ephesian church, 1 Timothy 1. 3. He says, Timothy, I besought thee to abide in Ephesus that thou mightest charge them that they teach no other doctrine, neither give heed to fables or endless genealogies, which mender questions, which minister questions, rather than godly edifying. And so what we see is that there was a great spiritual battle at Ephesus. And whenever we get involved in the Lord's work, we should anticipate that we are going to see and experience these struggles. Why do I bring it up? Well it's the reality, but two, it reminds us we need to be on our knees and we need to be dependent on the Lord. This is the Lord's battle, not ours. We're engaged in it, but we're engaged in it by His power and through His enabling. I hope that gives you some things about some things to think about this morning. If you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through this text. Bye now.