Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for this week. And if you joined us yesterday, I know it was a very brief introduction, mostly just thinking about some of the hymns that we sang. and then reading the text. But this morning what I'd like us to do is I'd like to dig into the historic setting of this event as we em as we are marveling, hopefully, this week. in the depths of God's grace. So if you have a Bible, let's turn together to Luke chapter 13. We're reading verses 31 to 35 together, and then we will dig into some of these Here's what the text says. The same day there were certain of the Pharisees saying unto him, Get thee out and depart hence. For Herod will kill thee. And he said unto them, Go ye and tell that fox, Behold, I cast out devils, and ye do cures today and tomorrow, in the third day I shall be perfected. Nevertheless, I must walk today and tomorrow and the day following, for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which which killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent out sent unto thee. How often would I have gathered thy children together as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings? And ye would not. Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. Now, in order to understand Christ's words, we need to understand them. them in the light of this moment in history. And a very simple observation about Bible study is that in order to interpret a passage correctly, we have to think about where it is in the flow of the book. That we're looking at. And so I'm trying to kind of step back and get a bird's eye view of what's been going on leading up to this moment. And so one of the things that we see is found in Chapter 13, verse 31, it says the same day, meaning that there were a whole bunch of things going on, and then he makes this person comes up to him with this statement. It says, The same day there was a certain Pharisee saying to him, Get thee out, depart hence, Herod will kill Now, when we read that, it could almost appear, just from a quick and casual reading, without considering the context of before and what will go on later in this section. That this Pharisee is kind of looking out for Jesus. He's trying to help him out so he doesn't get killed by Herod. But the fact is that's not what's going on here. We can see that as we step Back and look at the big picture. Christ's earthly ministry had been moving toward its ultimate end. And you say, well, what is that end? The end is to accomplish redemption. And so And so he's been teaching publicly for three close to three and a half years at this time. And as he is teaching, his ministry is being validated through numerous examples of prophecy. Being fulfilled and miracles validating those things that Jesus is saying. And so the religious leaders of that day have had the opportunity to observe him In action, seeing the miracles to verify they're true, listening to his teaching and how he connects it back to the Old Testament and hearing the authoritative statements that he's given. And so all of these things are building. There's momentum moving in a certain direction. In the midst of that teaching comes repeated confrontation. The religion Religious leaders were excessive in the burdens that they put on people's shoulders. And they were hypocrites. They were not genuine in what they were doing. They were ultimately taking the pure message of the gospel. Of the kingdom, where people were to be looking for the Messiah who would establish a basis of redemption, and they were covering it with all of their rules and all of their rituals and all of their Superficial self-righteousness. And so Christ is continually confronting them in this situation. And you can see that there is tension building and in the immediate Context of this passage, the tension is building more. There is this animosity between the religious leaders in Jerusalem and Christ. And we see this in Luke chapter 11, verses 52 to 54. By the way, I could have gone to many more examples than what I'm going to share with you in just a moment, but we see this statement. He says, Woe unto you, lawyers. These are are the legal scholars. For you have taken the key of knowledge, and ye enter not in yourselves, and them that were entering in ye hindered. And he said unto them these things. And the scribes and the pharaohs Pharisees began to urge him vehemently and to provoke him to speak of many things, laying wait for him, and seeking to catch something out of his mouth that they might accuse him. Looking for any opportunity they opportunity they could to go after Christ. And then in chapter 13, earlier, before this passage that we're dealing with, and we're talking about the immediate verses, like I said earlier. Verse 31, he says, that same day, it says Jesus uh Luke writes, Jesus states, strive to enter in at the straight, narrow gate. Many I say unto you will not I will seek to enter in and shall not be able to. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth when you will see able Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God and you yourselves thrust out. You want to talk about confrontational? He's saying you're keeping people out of the kingdom by your teaching, and you will be thrust out and you will miss this. So you can only imagine the animosity that's building. And then we look at Christ's response. In verse 32, where he says, You go and tell that fox. It's very obvious that from Jesus' perspective, this people were being sent by someone and the one that was actually sending them wasn't wasn't actually Herod. And so you see this tension building. You can see that the way that Jesus looks at this is he's looking right through the Pharisees' words and thing of a proverb that really hits this, Proverbs 26, 26, whose hatred is covered by deceit, his wickedness. Shall be shown before the whole congregation. That is exactly what Jesus is looking at here. He knew they despised him, and that ultimately they would do anything they could to destroy him. And ultimately to kill him. And you can see this later on on the other side of this passage. So if you were to keep moving through the book of Luke, it's building towards the end in chapter 20 it says it came to pass on one of those days as he taught the people in the temple and preached the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes came upon him with the elders and spake unto him And then later in the same chapter it says that they watched him and sent forth spies which should feign themselves just Well what do you see there? You see that there's dishonesty. So it wouldn't surprise us that when a Pharisee comes to Jesus and pretends as if he's looking out for his best interest, that Jesus looks through this and he says, I know what's going on. I know what kind of a person you are. We also see how later on in chapter 20 this really exposes. them where Jesus says, Beware of the scribes who devour widows' houses and for a show make long prayers. They're going to receive a greater Condemnation. But the one that really takes that really confirms for us what's going on is in chapter 23 where we see Jesus before Herod. And the religious leaders who are basically his tormentors. Jesus as the religious leaders. It says the whole multitude of them arose and led him to Pilate, and they began to accuse him. And Pilate heard, when Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were a Galilee. And as soon as he knew that he belonged under Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who himself was also in Jerusalem at the time. And when Herod saw Jesus, he was glad, for he was desirous to see See him of a long season, because he had heard many things of him, and hoped to see some miracle done by him. Then he questioned him with many words, and he answered nothing. And the chief priests and the scribes stood and vehemently accused him. Now, what does that passage show you? I mean, it shows you that the real enemy wasn't Herod, it was the religious leaders. So here's the question: what can we learn from this study this morning? Well, if we want to understand the Bible correctly and we want to interpret Scripture correctly, we've got to dig into context. We will not appreciate what Jesus is saying here, why he's saying what he's saying, if we don't consider the context. And so my encouragement to you is when you read a passage of scripture, don't just read it and be dumb. With it. Read it, understand the words that are in the text, read the context leading up to it, read what follows it, and ask the question: what is open ultimately going on here. Step back, get a big picture view before you start drilling down into the details and trying to apply a text of scripture. So I know it's a simple principle that we should learn, but it's It's one that's important for us to remember. Dig into the context, know what's in front of it, know what's behind it, know where it's going, and how that piece fits in before you seek to apply Interpret and apply. And so that's my challenge to you this morning. Let's interpret the Bible as carefully as possible by digging into the details and applying it within the context. text in which it was given. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing tomorrow we'll continue developing the themes of this text of scripture. Bye now.