Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And hope it's been a good week. I know we're going back. We've already celebrated the resurrection. We're going back to Palm Sunday. But this passage of Scripture, I think is really really helpful even as we reflect back on what we have been through over the last couple weeks in our church. And so today as we always do on Fridays, or unless I do a Saturday recording, We're going to talk about application. How do we take all of this and apply it personally? So let's go ahead and take our Bibles and read this one more time. John chapter 12, verses 12 through 19, and then we'll look at a couple of thoughts of application. It says, on the next day, much people that were come to the feast when they heard that Jesus was come to Jerusalem took branches of palm trees. They went forth to meet him and cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel that comes in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereupon. As it is written, Fear not, daughter of Zion, behold, thy king cometh sitting on an assus colt. These things understood not his disciples at the first, but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they these things that were written of him and that they had done these things unto him. As we think about the final thought of application, I think there are several layers of application in this passage. The first is really the main one, and that is it is impossible to be neutral with God. When we think about the Lord Jesus Christ and the exclusive claims of the gospel, It's impossible to say, well, I'm just neutral towards this. Either you embrace it or you reject it. It's that simple. And so if you've never placed your faith in Christ, my encouragement to you is a very simple one. My appeal to you is a very simple one. Repent and believe in the gospel. Turn to Christ and place your faith in Him alone. The second thing, which I think is secondary but certainly not an inferior thing, is that it shows us how great And how incomprehensible the beauty of God's grace really is. And we see in this portion of the book of John a lot of portraits of troubled people who God shows his grace to. He graciously pursues people who stumbled and people who rejected him. Peter, Thomas. The Apostle Paul. The list goes on. Some stumbled and some rejected angrily. And what does he do? He goes after them. No matter where we've been in life, we can turn to God. We might be at a very low point right now and we say there's no way that God would accept me. There's no way that God cares about me or loves me, that I can be saved. That's just not true Believe this text in front of you. God pursues sinners. God pursues broken people. God's grace is beautiful. No matter where you've been, no matter how you've stumbled in the Christian life. You can get back up and God can use you. And these passages prove that. A third area of application is it shows you how precise and how meticulous God's care is. This is an issue of God's providence. Against tremendous obstacles, God weaves together to the very day the details that are necessary to accomplish his plan of redemption for us. We can trust him to take care of us. We can trust him to work in our lives. That's the kind of God that he is. He is attentive to detail. If he would put all these things together in his plan of redemption, don't think that somehow he has a different nature when it comes to how he works in your life and mine. Your life, my life, our lives are upheld and shaped by the sovereign hands of Almighty God, who's our Father. The last thing I want to leave you with is that it shows you how complete the revelation of Scripture is. When we come to the Bible, we should study it. We should be attentive to all of those details As we start to unpackage those details, we should delight in the care that God has taken to do what he does, to communicate what he has communicated, and to give us everything that we need to walk with him And so I want to leave you with that this morning as you go into the weekend. I hope you have a wonderful rest of your day. Hope to see many of you on Sunday. Pray for us as we'll be traveling. And uh we we are looking forward to being back in Maryland. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again on Sunday. Bye now