Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And yesterday the topic that we addressed, obviously the overall overarching topic is putting discipline Into perspective. But yesterday we talked about the concept of external pressure, persecution, and how that affects us as disciples of Christ. Well, this morning what we're going to do is we're going to look at a different kind of of struggle that Christians who are disciples uh what they experience and that is how to deal with interpersonal disputes. And that the Church of God is a wonderful concept. It is God's institution. He created this body. He brings us together in his providence. And the church is an amazing thing that God uses to help us. to grow and to develop. But the fact is that the church is made up of sinners. Sinners saved by grace. We all have differences of opinions in areas. We have different of personalities and backgrounds and experiences. And what that does is that creates the potential for two things. One is the potential for immense growth as individuals. And it also provides the opportunity for a lot of disputes and conflicts and difficulties and challenges that we'll encounter. And also mention that because God is working through the church, Satan hates the church of God. God. And he does everything in his power to disrupt the work that God is doing, both in the church, in individuals, and through the church. And so this issue of disputes is something that Christ needed to to address. And this is not the most thorough thorough address of this topic. I think that the Matthew text in dealing with this goes even into even greater detail. But the things that we're going to talk about this morning are extremely practical. and I hope that they will be a help to you. So if you have your Bible, please take it and turn with me to Luke chapter 17. We're going to look at verses 1 through 10 together, focusing in on the first half of that section. Here's what the scriptures say. Then said he unto his disciples, It is impossible, but that offenses will come. But woe unto him through whom they come. It is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck. and he cast into the sea, than that he should offend one of these little ones. Take heed to yourselves, if thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him. If he repent, forgive him. If he trespassed against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day he turn again to thee, saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him. And the apostle said unto the Lord, increase our faith. Now as we look at this passage of Scripture, the second piece that we're going to examine this week is the fact that we should be prepared to encounter interpersonal distress. And there are several very simple principles that Jesus addresses without really any qualification that will help us as we work our way through challenges that we encounter. Here's what it says in verses 3 to 4. Take heed to yourselves. If your brother trespass against thee, rebuke him. If he repent, forgive him. If he trespass un against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day you you turn and he turn again to thee, saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him. And what is Jesus saying? The first thing he's saying is That we need to guard our hearts. Notice how he starts this section. Verse number three. Take heed to yourselves. Now, if we were to go to Matthew, we see that when Jesus talks about the issue of dealing with conflicts with other people in Matthew chapter 7. In the Sermon on the Mount. He says that we are to not judge other people until we have first looked at ourselves. And he says, before you go to address the issue in your brother, cast out the beam that's in your own eye. So that you'll have the ability to see clearly to help your brother remove the speck that's in his eye. The idea is before we address an issue. We've got to look at ourselves. We've got to ask the question, are are is is my wisdom being followed or is biblical wisdom being followed here? Are my motives pure or are they self-centered? Do I actually desire to help this person or am I just doing this because I'm angry. And so we think of verses like Galatians chapter 6, he says, those who are spiritual restore one in a spirit of meekness, considering ourselves, lest we also be tempted. And so it makes sense that Jesus would begin by saying, take heed to yourselves. Guard your heart. The second thing we're going to see is that he commands us to address bitterness. And verse number three says, if thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him. Now I have to make this statement because it would be easy for us to misunderstand what Jesus is saying. When a person has made us angry and we lash out at them in anger, we're not obeying this text of scripture. Jesus is giving a command to someone who's not responding impulsively in anger, but rather they're internalizing their anger and they're refusing to address an issue that is between them and another person and they're allowing a root of bitterness to spring up in their heart and to take root And so he's talking about not go up go address your brother in anger. He's saying don't internalize bitterness. Instead, resolve the matter between you and another brother. person. This is exactly what Jesus says in the book of Matthew, where he says, if your brother has trespassed against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. And if he hears you, you've gained your brother. Why does he say that? Because it's easy for us to internalize anger rather than to address anger. Third thing, willingly forgive other people Verse number three it says, if he repents, forgive him. Now I don't think that what he is suggesting here. Is that we put these stringent rules on people and we say, when you meet all of my expectations, then I'm going to grant you forgiveness. That is not what he's suggesting. He's making the suggestion that when there's a wrong between two people, and the person who has been wronged guards their heart, approaches the person in the right way. addresses their bitterness rather than internalizing it, there should be this expectation or there should be this um this this thought that the person is going to humble themselves Like it says in Proverbs, that a soft answer turns away wrath. Rather, grievous words will stir up anger. The idea is that a person's going to be humbled when you approach them. the right way. They're going to be repentant. They're going to desire forgiveness. And when they ask, give it to them. That's the point. Willingly forgive. The fourth thing that he addresses is that we need to refuse to catalog our wrongs. In verse 4 he says, if he trespassed against thee seven times in a day, And seven times in a day he returns again unto thee, saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him. Now Jesus is not encouraging people who wrong other people. He's not telling them it's okay to abuse people's willingness to forgive you. That is in no way what he's saying. This is not instruction giving to the one doing the wronging. It's instruction given to the one who has been wronged. And the reason that he states it this way is to simply say, don't keep record of all the times people wrong you. In fact, when we look at the story of Peter, Peter comes to Jesus and he says How many times shall I forgive someone? Seven times in a day? And Jesus says, how about seventy times seven? Now, there's a reason that Peter brings this up. It's because in his mind he was following Christ's teaching. And what it shows you is that Christ's point was not to keep track of how many times and on the eighth time crush them or on the fiftieth time crush them. His point is don't keep record of what people are doing. And this is an important thing for us to understand. We have to learn to look past people's faults. And someone will say, well, if we are willingly forgiving people over and over and over. over and over and over again, are we not basically encouraging people to sin and sin and sin and sin? And the answer is that's a complete misunderstanding of what Jesus is saying. Jesus is addressing the heart of the one who has been wronged, not the heart of the one who's doing the wronging. And the fact that I'm willing to forgive an individual doesn't mean that God is going to remove all of their consequences that come as a result of the wrongs that they they've done. And the fact that I'm not going to hold bitterness in my heart doesn't mean that God's going to let a person off the hook. He's the ultimate judge, not me. It's simply me acknowledging the fact that I'm not in the position of God, he's in the position. I'm not the ultimate judge. He is the ultimate judge. And I think of the story of Joseph when his brothers come to him. And basically he says to them, am I in the place of God? That's what forgiveness is. It's me saying I'm not in the place of God. I'm going to forgive you and let God handle the matter on his own time in his own way. I'm going to trust him to do right in the situation. He says, you meant it for evil, but he meant it for good. The reason that God permitted this injustice is not because he likes injustice. It's because he was permitting it to ultimately accomplish something in the big picture that was far bigger than this offense that would ultimately get resolved in the right way. And so we see these four specific commands. Guard your heart, address bitterness, willingly forgive, refuse to catalog wrongs. As we think about this, we need to recognize that we're going to face interpersonal conflicts. And when we're striving to serve the Lord, these things are going to happen. These conflicts should motivate us to take personal inventory. These situations that we encounter, we can't allow ourselves to sit on grievances and let them fester in our hearts. When people genuinely desire forgiveness, we've got to be willing to grant in it. We cannot allow ourselves to keep this list of times that people have wronged us. We've got to do what's right in this issue of Well I know that's a lot for us to process. I know that this is a heavy topic, but I do hope that you have a great rest of your day Certainly if you have questions and you need to reach out, don't hesitate to do that on a teaching like this. If you're dealing with a very specific thing and you say, I want to honor the Lord in that situation. and I don't know the best way to do it, don't hesitate to reach out. And I'd love to be an encouragement to you any way that I can in that issue. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow by now.