Good morning and welcome back to our Tuesday Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. Yesterday we looked at a kind of a brief overview of the storyline that we're reading in Luke chapter 22. And this morning what I'd like to do is kind of look at the focal point of the narr the narrative, and that is what was the significance of this particular Passover. And so if you have a Bible, let's take it and turn together to Luke chapter 22. We're talking about the Passover, the Cross, and the New Covenant. And today we're going to look at the focus of that story. So, Luke chapter 22, and we're going to pick up in the middle of that section and read what we're going to look at today. It says, and when the hour was come, he sat down. And the twelve apostles with him. And he said unto them, With desire I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. For I say unto you, I will not any more eat thereof, until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. And he took the cup and gave thanks, and said, Take this, divide it amongst yourselves. For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God shall come. And he took bread and gave thanks, and brake it, and gave unto them, saying, This is my body which is given for you. This do in remembrance of me. Likewise also the cup after supper saying, This cup is the New Testament and my blood, which is shed for you. Now as you read through this passage, we see a statement that's in that's very important in verses 14 through 16. He talks about the significance of this particular Passover. And there's several details in the verses that kind of highlight why this Passover is a significant one. The first one is an issue of timing. In verse 14 it says, when the hour was come. You say, well, well, what hour are we talking about? It's not like they had clocks and they're sitting there watching, okay, we're now at the hour. But what he's talking about is that time when Christ is going to be betrayed. And the clock's going to start ticking ultimately where he's going to be taken captive. He's going to stand before all these different religious leaders and Roman leaders. And then ultimately he's going to stand before Pilate. And he's going to be delivered to be crucified. And so the timing of this particular Passover is significant. We also see the focus of it. And what I mean by focus is what was Christ's focus on it. In verse 15 he says with desire, I have desire to eat this Passover before I suffer. Now if you remember last week when we talked about the Passover , We saw that at each of the Passovers that Christ celebrated with his disciples, there's a statement made at some point when there's controversy between him and the religious leaders. that his hour had not yet come. It's stated multiple times in the book of John. However, when we come to the moment where Christ comes down from the Mount of Olives and then up into Jerusalem during the triumphal entry , It says that the hour has come and now is. And multiple times throughout the week, John records that this hour is now at hand. And so what we see is that Christ is focused on the fact that he was desiring to celebrate this Passover because this is the Passover that is ultimately going to be fulfilled with the cross. We see a third thing, and that is the word fulfillment in verse sixteen. He says, I will not anymore eat thereof until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. What this is telling you is that the Passover was a picture, not just pointing back to what took place in the Exodus, but also pointing forward to what Christ was about to do. And so Christ's crucifixion is the completion. It's the fulfillment of the picture that is demonstrated in the Passover. And so what we see is there's a timing issue, there's a desire issue, there's a fulfillment issue. But there's also another dynamic that's very significant about this. And that is that there's now a change in focus, that now this event is not going to be Passover, but the Lord's table. And now the predominant association will not be looking back at what took place in the Exodus, but rather looking forward, and now back for us to what Christ has done. And we see this in verses 17 through 20. He breaks the bread and he says, this is my body, which is given for you, this due in remembrance of me. As he breaks that bread, he's saying, this is now a picture. That points to the body of Christ given for a purpose. Then we see that he passes the cup of the wine or the juice. And he says, This cup is the New Testament in my blood, which is shed for you. This blood was going to be shed for them for reason. And so now we see the shift in focus from a Passover lamb to now the cross of Christ and what was accomplished there. And then also his blood was shed to establish a new covenant. It is the ending of the old with the death of the one who established the covenant. And it's now the establishment of a new covenant through Christ's action. And so we see in verse 20, this cup is the New Testament in my blood. And so when we think about the focal point of this, the focus is on how this is now not looking back but forward and now the establishment of a new covenant ordinance, the ordinance of the Lord's table or the communion. And so as we think about this story, we're going to see the significance of that. And really what we're going to talk about from here on out. is what is pictured in the the bread and what's pictured in the juice and why the body of Christ and the blood of Christ being shed are so significant So I hope you'll join us for this as we work our way through it the rest of the week. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. I'd love to be an encouragement any way that I can. If you think someone else would be a challenge or encouraged by it, take a moment to share that. And uh Lord willing will meet again tomorrow as we keep breaking down this text. Why now