Good morning and welcome to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a really good day. And as we dig into this passage, we're looking at a second concept, and that is the concept of The fact that we are now part of a family, and that is God's family. He is our Father. And we see this in Ephesians chapter 2, verses 19 through 22. So please take your Bible. Let's turn there and look at what the text says and then Break this down a little bit further. Here's what it says. Now, therefore, you're no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints. and of the household of God, and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself, being the chief cornerstone And whom all the building fitly framed together greweth unto a holy temple in the Lord, and whom ye also are buildeth together in habitation of God through the Spirit Now the the statement that I really want to notice or kind of draw out to you is the statement and of the household of God. Now yesterday we talked about the fact that we are part of a kingdom, we are citizens of a kingdom. But when we talk about the difference between a kingdom citizen and one who's a part of a household, I would say one has more of a focus on a realm, that being citizen of a kingdom. And the other has more of a focus on relationship. Because when we talk about a household, we're talking about one of the most intimate of interactions. These are the people that we live with. These are the people where our lives are the most connected. And so he's going to something that is far more personal when he says we are a part of the household of God. So let's kind of take a moment to think about what a household was like in those days in the first century. What was the Roman household like? Well some details that I came across in my study. The first statement that I want to mention is that when we talk about the family, we're talking about the most important piece of society. We're talking about the building blocks that make the structure of a society. What makes it strong? What makes it vibrant? How are people's lives being shaped on the most personal level? That's what happens on the family level. And in the first century, the household was a good bit more comp complex than what we think of when we talk about a modern nuclear family. Mom, dad, kids. We're talking about a group that lives together in this almost like a compound in some situations where there is an owner and there's a wife and children and people who work in the home and people who work for the home and It's a place that is really the center of industry on a on a on a local level. And so we talk about religious issues. legal issues, how people were educated. All of this happened on the level of the home. Each member of the household was bound together, and this was in one of the most personal levels you could imagine When we talk about who's the head of the household, it's the father in this situation. And he's the one who feels the weight of responsibility. He's the one who carries the greatest authority. almost absolute legal authority in the Roman world. And this is the one who has the responsibility to care for and to provide for the family. And so when Paul uses the term household, this is the way that people would have thought. When a person places their faith in Christ, Through Christ, we are planted in a household, the household of God. Think about what it says in Ephesians 3 Where Paul prays for the church that they would understand the affection and the love that God has for his people. He says, For this cause I bow my knee unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. who for the whole family in heaven and earth is named. Notice words like father, family, that he would grant to you know the riches of his glory, that you would be strengthened with might by his spirit in the air man. That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that you may be rooted and grounded in, here's an important word, love, that you may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and the length and the depth and the height. and to know the love of God which passeth knowledge, that you might be filled with the fullness of God. So you see terms like family, father , Understanding, comprehending the love of God, why does he use that language? It's because we're part of a family. We talk about the church. The church is our family, brothers and sisters in Christ. We have the same father. And he loves us dearly. And so this text of scripture really emphasizes the fact that we are a part of a household, the household of God. We have a father. We are family together with him. And so I leave you with this thought. Despite all the turmoils and the struggles and the difficulties of life that are around us, we're part of God's family. And this should give us stability and security. We belong to him. He loves us and he keeps us safe in his arms. Well, it gives you some things to think about this morning. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. Hope that it's an encouragement to you, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow to look at a couple more thoughts from this passage of scripture. Bye now.