Good morning. Like to welcome you back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope that your week is going well. And uh this passage of scripture is very practical, it's very hard-hitting, and I hope that as we work our way through Through the passage, it is a tremendous help to you. Again, the topic we're addressing is a disciples' enduring commitment. Today we're going to focus in on the concept of our identity. I'd ask you to take your Bibles and let's turn together to Luke chapter 14, and we're reading verses 25 down to verse 35. Here's what it says. And there went great multitudes with him. And he turned Turned and said unto them, If any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters, yes, in his own life also He cannot be my disciple. And whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. For which of you intending to build a tower sitteth not down first and counteth Thus happily, after he hath laid the foundation, and is not able to finish it, all but behold it begin to mock him, saying, This Now, as I mentioned earlier, identity, identity, identification is the focus of this study this morning. Our identity must be entirely lost. Did you catch that lost in him? And we see in verse 27 a very hard-hitting statement. He says, whoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Now, when we hear that statement, bearing a cross, coming after him and being his disciple, we should ask the question, what is the significance of The cross was not just an instrument of death. The cross represented several things that were very, very offensive. In the ancient world. First of all, it was meant to instill terror in the people who were being ruled by the Romans. When they crucified I don't want to die in such a shameful and pain. Painful and miserable way. I don't want to be identified with that. It also was meant to humiliate people. They were stripped naked, they were suffering immensely. And ultimately, they would die in a way that would be very public and horrific. It was meant to identify them as being cursed by the state. And so as Jesus was hanging on the cross between two thieves, though the thieves were hanging there, and one of them was railing against him and mocking him. And the other said, Hold on a second, we deserve to be here He does not deserve to be here. Or I think about the statement in the Old Testament where he says, cursed is everyone that hangs on a tree. The idea is that when Peter Saw someone hanging on that cross, they said, They're under the curse of the law, they are guilty people. And so when we think about this issue of the cross, we need to recognize This was an instrument of death that was meant to terrorize people and was a miserable and horrible way to die. And so the statement is anticipating three specific facts. The first fact is this. Christ was going to go to the cross. This is why he came into the world. And we see this in Matthew 16. He says, I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven. From that time Jesus began to show unto his disciples how that he must go to Jerusalem, and he must suffer many things of the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and he must go be killed and he must be raised the third day. Now what's the point? The point is if Jesus says, Come after me, deny yourself, take up your cross, he's anticipating that he himself is going to go to the cross. But there's a second Piece to this. His his followers should recognize that they would be in danger of the same fate because they were being identified with Christ. And John chapter 15 verse 18 he says, If the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. Remember the words that I said unto you You. The servant is not greater than his Lord. If they had persecuted me, they will also persecute you. There's a reason that Peter Denied the Lord three times. He did not want to identify with Christ at that moment because in fear he did not want to face the same fate. There's a reason that the disciples were high Hiding in the upper room after the crucifixion and the day that Jesus rose from the dead, they were still hiding because they were afraid that the Jews were going to come after them next. And so this is Anticipating not just the way Jesus would die, but the fact that it would be dangerous to be identified with him and to follow him as a disciple of Christ, because the world will hate you in the Here's the third statement. Christians and their most significant identification with will be rooted in their union with Christ. And there is so much scripture that talks about this concept. Galatians chapter 3. As many of you as been baptized into Christ are being pledged. There's neither male or female. You are one in Christ Jesus if ye be if And what is he saying? Does he say is he saying that when a person gets saved, if they were if they were rich, now they're not rich anymore? If they were poor, they're not poor anymore. If they were a man, they're not a man anymore. That's not what he's saying. He's suggesting that their primary identity is not those things It's Christ. We see the same thing in Colossians 3. He says, You have put on a new man where there is neither Greek or Jew or circumcision or uncircumcision, barbarian. Cynthia and bond or free, but Christ is all and in all. And maybe one of the best passages about this is 1 Corinthians 6. He says, Know ye not that the The unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God. And he lays out all these different types of unrighteousness that people will be known for if they practice them. And this is what he says he says and such were some of you but you are washed and sanctified and justified in the name of our Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. Now what's he saying? Your old identity has been washed away, and your new identity is set apart in Christ, sanctified. And you've been declared righteous. And so the person that you were and the person that you are is now different. It's all about identification. And so the question we should ask ourselves this morning is, why What does this matter? What do we take away from it? Here's what you take away from it. If you're a Christian, your primary identity is in nothing but Christ. And and the The fact is, there are lots and lots of things that we have the potential to glory in and to actually elevate to a level that is far higher than what it should be. You know, I love my country. And the bottom line is I'm thankful to be an American. But I am a Christian before I am an American. And the fact is, if you want to talk about m my political views, I am a conservative. And and I'm unashamedly a conservative in my political views. But that's not that's not my identity. My identity is not rooted in where I come from in the country or what language I speak, or what I do for a living as a pastor, my identity is in Christ. And that is the most important thing about me. Not who I am, but who I am In him. And so I want to challenge you this morning. Be a person who recognizes that your most significant form of identification is your Your union with Christ. Nothing higher, nothing more valuable, nothing more important. May that be the thing that absolutely defines our lives more than anything else in the world. the world. Well that gives us some things to think about this Wednesday morning. Hope you have a great rest of your day and Lord willing tomorrow we'll continue working our way through this text. Bye now.