Good morning and welcome to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for this week. And we have been talking about the betrayal and the injustice that the Lord Jesus Christ experienced in those moments leading up to the cross. And so today we're going to focus on just the series of unjust acts toward Christ that led ultimately to the crucifixion. And the the purpose of that, obviously this is highlighted in these passages But it's to just give us a greater sense of the weight of what Christ has done for us and what we are celebrating ultimately this week as Christians as we remember the death and the resurrection of Christ. So if you have a Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to John chapter 18 and we're reading beginning in verse number one. Here's what it says. When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Kidron. There was a garden into which he entered and his disciples. Judas also, which betrayed him, knew the place, for Jesus oftentimes resorted thither with his disciples. Judas then, having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, Cometh hither with lanterns and torches and weapons. Jesus therefore, knowing all things that should come upon him, went forth and said unto them, Whom seek ye. They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus saith unto them, I am he. Okay, as we look at this passage, I want to kind of burrow down into the astonishing examples of injustice. and hypocrisy and manipulation and coercion that are demonstrated in these trials. And so let's just work our way piece by piece through this so that we can highlight them. First thing I want to notice is the hypocrisy. In John 18, verse 27, it says, Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment. And it was early. They themselves went not into the judgment hall, lest they should be defiled, but that they might eat the Passover. What an amazing statement. So here 's what you have here is Christ stands before Ennis, who does the preliminary investigation. Then he stands before Caiaphas and the Sanhedrin. Where ultimately they decide we're going to ha we're good we gotta get rid of Jesus, we gotta kill him. And they know they don't have the power to do that, so they take him to Pilate, who is the Roman governor. The problem is They are doing this in the middle of the Passover. And so people have just eaten the Paschal meal, and there's a Sabbath day coming up very, very soon. And then they're going into the Feast of Unleavened Bread. And if they go into this Gentile location, they're going to be unclean for the rest of the festival. They will not be able to participate in all the festivities. that are that are remaining of the Passover week. And so out of pure hypocrisy they say, we'll deliver him to you, but we won't enter in because we don't want to compromise our ability to continue doing what they're doing. We see the corruption in verse 29. Pilate then went out unto them and said, What accusation bring ye against this man? By the way, can you imagine Pilate? He's sitting there going , These guys wouldn't even come into my courtroom because they don't want to defile themselves. So I'm gonna go out to them. Okay, what's going on here? What accusation do you have against this man? And they said, well, if he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up unto you. And it's almost as if Pilate says, question again. What are the charges? The answer is we don't have any. Can you imagine this? Pilate's like, you are disturbing me in the middle of the night. You won't even come into my judgment hall, and you don't have real charges. But you want me to kill this man? And the answer is yes, that's exactly what they wanted. We also see a lot of irony in this text. We see that the Jews didn't have the authority to do what they wanted to do. And so in verse 31, they go to Pilate and they say, Take him. He says, take this man and judge him according to your own laws. He's like, he hasn't violated any of our laws. And they said, Hold on, it's not lawful for us to put a man to death. What does that show you? They didn't want to judge him according to their laws. They wanted him dead. And not just dead, they wanted a particular kind of death. A death that would be very offensive to the Jewish people. The death of crucifixion. This is the death that is given, the capital offense that the Romans gave for those who were the worst of the worst, the prisoners who had no right to live, and they wanted to make an example of them. And that's what they wanted to do to Jesus. And Pilate knew who Jesus was. It's pretty amazing to think about. In verse 37, Pilate says unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus said, Thou sayest I'm a king. What's he saying? He's saying, you know who I am. You've discussed my case before. It wasn't a secret thing to Pilate and Herod and these other people. They knew about Jesus of Nazareth who was walking around and preaching and teaching and baptizing. They had heard the stories of Christ. They heard about the miracles. They heard about the claims. They knew that there was a lot going on. He was a point of discussion. And Jesus says, you know who I am? To this end I was born into this world. For this cause came I into this world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Everyone that is of the truth heareth my voice. What ironic words. We also see that there was great animosity on the part of the people. Verse 39. He says, You have a custom that I should release to you one at the Passover. Will you therefore that I release unto you the king of the Jews, Jesus? They cried again, Say not this man, but Barabbas. Barabbas was a robber. Here these people had so much hatred for Jesus that they were willing to release a man who was guilty of murder. A very, very violent man. They were willing to release him back into the public because he was offered. They would rather kill Jesus than let this man out who is a very dangerous man. And so we can see some of the animosity there. Then we see the political maneuvering. And by the by the way, there's a lot more that I'm going to bring out here. But just a couple of things. Verses 1 1 to 3 of chapter 19, it says, Pilate took Jesus and he scourged him. And the soldiers plated a crown of thorns. put it on his head and they put on him a purple robe and said, Hail King of the Jews, and they smote him with their hands. Now what's going on here? Well Pilate actually makes several attempts to try to release Jesus because he knows that Jesus is innocent. So first of all, when Pilate meets Jesus for the first time, he knows that he's innocent, and so he tries to punt him off on Herod. And then Herod doesn't take up the case. Ultimately, Pilate has the case again. And then he says, I know this man's innocent. I don't want to kill him. I don't want to crucify him. So if I beat him and I mock him and and he's been absolutely humiliated and I present him to this mob, perhaps they'll they'll they'll be appeased by that and then I'm going to be off the hook. So that's what he's trying to do. And That's not what happened. Verse 6, when the chief priest thereof and the officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him, crucify him. Pilate said, Take him and crucify him yourselves. I find no fault in him. What is Pilate doing? Everything in his power to get out of this. But he he goes ahead and he compromises anyway. And that's what we see expressed really by the combination of what he states in verse 38. Says, Pilate said unto him, What is truth? He went out again unto the Jews and said, I find no fault in him at all. Pilate publicly admitted that Jesus is an innocent man. Yet in chapter 19, verse 12, what does it say? From henceforth Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out saying, If you let this man go, thou art no friend of Caesar. Whoever makes him a king speaketh against Caesar. And he delivered him therefore unto them to be crucified, and they took Jesus and led him away What does all this show you? It shows you that when Christ was crucified, he was crucified by people who knew who he was. And they did everything in their power to force this man Pilate, who knew he was innocent, to go ahead and authorize his crucifixion. And the question is, why did it come to fruition the way that it did? Ultimately, it was because it was according to the predetermined counsel and foreknowledge of God. that that he would be delivered by the Jews to the Romans to be crucified and ultimately he would go to the cross for our sins. Christ died for our sins, according to Scripture. That's what it's all about. So as we think about this the rest of the week, I hope that you'll chew on that, recognizing what Christ was willing to do. for you and for me. Well have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we look a little bit further at the weight of the cross and why this moment in his Street is so significant. Have a blessed day by now.