Welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and good Wednesday morning to you. The text that we've been working our way through is Luke chapter 18 verses 15 through 17. So If you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to turn there with me. I'm going to read through the passage and we're going to listen to a short excerpt again and then jump into that topic. Luke 18, 15. And they brought unto him also infants that he would touch them. But when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them unto him and said, Suffer little children to come unto me. Forbid them not, for if such is the kingdom of God. Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein. Let's listen to this. Excerpt together. This is the watershed of Christianity. What do you do with Christ? Why do you need him What did he do? Who is he? We have to act on what we know to be true about the Lord Jesus Christ. He says that whoever does not receive as a child will not enter the kingdom. And the one who does receive as a little child will enter the kingdom. It's the watershed This means that we've got to take action on what we have heard. There is no such thing as neutrality with Christ in the gospel. That last statement is so important. There is no such thing as looking at the gospel and being neutral toward it. When we talk about Christ, we talk about the gospel, we have to make a decision about it. Now, Lord willing tomorrow, the portion of the sermon we're going to look at is laying out and articulating the details of the gospel, but I'm just going to kind of use it as a general statement. The gospel is the watershed. What you do with Jesus is the watershed. I gave this illustration in the sermon when we were working through it, and that was going into Colorado and seeing what we call the Continental Divide. And there at the Continental Divide, you have the parting of the ways. If snowpack falls on one side of the continental divide, as that water seeps down into the soil and it runs into rivers and runs into streams, eventually it's going to get out to the Pacific Ocean. And if it falls on the other side of the continental divide, it's eventually going to filter down from those mountains into the ground. and move toward the Atlantic Ocean. And so whichever side of the continental divide you land, that's going to take you a long way away from the other place. And so when we're talking about the Christian life, a person has to recognize that they have to make a choice about who Christ is. You know, what is his nature? Is he God in flesh or not? Is he the righteous God man? Did he really die on the cross for our sins? Did he really rise from the dead? Is he truly an historic person that that lived and died and rose from the dead and salvation is only through him. These are the questions that a person has to grapple with. And what they decide to do with that information, how they go with it, is going to determine eternity. And so this sermon is very, very important because it calls us to action. You have to receive the kingdom. as a little child. You can't come in in pride and arrogance. You can't come through your own righteousness and your own labors and look at my credentials. You have to come humbly in dependence upon the work of Christ. And so I ask you this question this morning. What have you done with Christ? That's the watershed. What have you done with the gospel? Have you humbled yourself like a little child? Depended on the finished work of Christ? Or have you stubbornly held on to your own righteousness? As it says in Isaiah 64, 6, the filthy rags of our righteousness, all of our righteousness, is as an unclean thing. And so may God help us to respond properly to his word and the gospel. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow as we dig into this passage a fourth time. Bye now.