Good afternoon. I'd like to welcome you to our second Anchored in the Word, more reflection for the week. And I apologize for getting this out so late, but have had a lot going on early this week. And uh hopefully throughout the rest of the week we'll have these out in the morning. But if you have your Bibles, I'd like to ask you to take them. Let's turn together to John chapter 4. And we are looking at the passage dealing with the woman at the well and uh yesterday we dealt with some introductory things today what I'd like us to do is just dig into a couple of observations that will help us to understand the focus of the passage in front of us. So again John chapter four and we'll And the woman then left her water pot and went her way in the city, and saith the unto the men, Come, see a man which told me all things that I ever did. Is not this the Christ? Then they went out of the city And came unto him. In the meanwhile the disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat. But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that you know not of. Therefore said the disciples one to another, Hath any man brought him aught to eat? Jesus saith unto them, My week My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work. Say not, There are four months, and then cometh the harvest. Behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they are white already unto harvest. He that reapeth receiveth wages, gathereth fruit unto eternal life, that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together And herein is that saying true. One soweth, another reapeth. I sent you to reap that whereupon you bestowed no labor. Other men labored, and ye enter, you're entered into that labor. And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman which testified, He told me all things that ever I did. Now as we focus on, or as we look at the passage and we consider the focus of this narrative in front of us, I want to give you a series of observations that I hope will be helpful. The first thing we notice in this passage is that Christ purposed to do a mighty work amongst unlikely people. And we look at verses three to seven. There are a couple of phrases that really stand out under this. point. Jesus said that I must go through Samaria. And then it says that when he was wearied from his journey, it was about the sixth hour, he goes to a well, he sits down and there he meets a Samaritan woman who is drawing water. Now there are a few questions that should come to our mind when we think about this. The first question is who are the Samaritans and why does this even matter? in the passage that we're dealing with. And the answer to that question has to be built out with an understanding of 900 years of history. And so I want to give you a couple of fascinating details I hope that maybe you're familiar with, but maybe you're not about the Samaritan people. As I said, the story goes back 900 years, and in 945, that would be BC, not A. D. the nation of Israel split into two kingdoms. The northern kingdom. basically separated from the southern kingdom Judah and David's descendants were on the throne in the southern kingdom and then you had other kings who were in the northern kingdom. Well for the next two hundred years the Northern Kingdom did not have one example of a godly king and does not have one example of a genuine spiritual awakening. Even though there were people like Elijah and Elisha who ministered in this region. It was spiritually dead and cold. Well, in 722, the Assyrians, who were at the north of Israel, feared people, very fierce people, laid siege on the city of Samaria, which was the capital of the northern Israel. region. And when we read the story of that Samaritan sea or that Assyrian siege on the city, it was absolutely horrific. the things that the people experienced. Basically, the the city was just wiped out. People were killed, people starved to death. And those few survivors were brought back as slaves into the Assyrian Empire. And so for the next 200 years, the Jewish people lived as exiles. The northern kingdom and then uh In 586, the southern kingdom was basically brought into exile as well in waves. And so for 200 years, the nation of Israel, which had split into two kingdoms, is now an exiled people. At the end of that time, God in his mercy and in his providence sent people back to the land. Well, some people went to the southern kingdom. of Judah and they re-established worship in the temple according to God's commands, but the northern kingdom did not do that. These ex Who went to the northern region rather than going and worshipping in Jerusalem as they had been commanded to do, they stayed in the north and they basically assimilated into a new culture called called the Samaritan culture. These were Jewish people who returned from the exile and intermarried with the people who had been planted there during the Assyrian occupation and then the Babylonian and then Persian occupation. And so this is a completely different group of people than the Southern Kingdom. Yes, they have Jewish ancestry. Yes, they have knowledge of the Levitical system. and temple worship and the law and all those things, but they have a dix culture. And so for 900 years, this group of people living in the north of Israel experienced apostasy. and estrangement. And the Jews living in the South resented the Samaritans on a lot of different levels because of this history. And so this is fascinating for us to understand because this is an unlikely group of people to be the focus of Christ's attention. The second thing I want you to notice here. is that he purposed to accomplish that work in an unlikely location through unlikely people. And I think about the Samaritan woman There's a reason she goes to the well in the heat of the day. In fact, when we go to verses 16 and 18 of the passage, Jesus says to the woman, call your husband. He did that because he knew the story of this woman's life. This woman was not currently married, though she had been married five times and been divorced five times, and now is living with someone who's not her husband. The idea was that this is a woman who had lived a very difficult life. She'd experienced intense heartache. She had sinned, she had been sinned against, and she was someone who was an outsider in the community. The last person Jesus you would think Jesus would reach out to in order to reach into the city. And then when when the disciples come, they they They see this woman alone with Jesus talking. And then she goes back into the city and she says, come see a man who told me all that I ever did. This is an unlikely person to actually be the one that reaches into the community, but this is who God used. The second thing I want to mention is the disciples. The disciples were a people that were very unlikely to be used by by God too. God. They had this built-in resentment towards the Samaritans. They had an attitude towards her as a woman. Had they known the story of her life, these people would not have been likely individuals to take the gospel into the region. Yet what does God do? He uses them. And you think about the story in verse 9 where he says the Jews have new dealings with the Samaritans. Well That was true of the disciples. And in verse 27, when they see him talking to this woman, they marvel because they don't understand why he's doing this. The disciples were typical first century Jewish Who thought politically and culturally like most of the people of their time. The third observation I want to make is that his work in the lives of all these people It's a powerful testimony of how good he is, how patient he is, how wise he is, and how powerful he is. In verses 35 through 38 it says, My meat is to do the will of him who sent me, to finish his work. Say not that there are yet four months, and then cometh the harvest. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes, look on the fields. They are white already to harvest. Now, what does this passage tell us? It tells us that Jesus wanted to reach these people and he wanted to do it through the Samaritan woman and through the disciples themselves. The fourth observation that I want to mention is that despite the huge obstacles, he did what he promised and purposed to do. Verses 39 to 42 it says, Many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him, because of the saying of the woman, which testified, he told me all things that ever I did. So when the Samaritans were come unto him, they besought him that he would tarry with them. He abode there two days, and many more believed. not uh believed because of his word and said unto the woman, Now we believe not because of thy saying, we have heard him ourselves. and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Savior of the world. Think about the obstacles that stood in the way of that powerful moment in the life in many of God. Ministry of Christ. Despite all the prejudices on both sides, he accomplished his work. Despite 900 years of painful historic tensions He accomplished the work. Despite the religious confusion of this woman and the Samaritans. And you could even argue the disciples themselves, the apostasy of those people, he accomplished his work. Despite the estrangement that was very painful, the sin of this woman and her five-filled marriages, he accomplished his work. Despite the distraction of the disciples and their complacency, he accomplished the work. You say what can I take away from this? What you can take away from this is if God desires to work through people like the Samaritan woman, and God desires to work in the lives of people like the Samaritan people. And he desires to work through the Samaritan woman's life and through the disciples and partner with these people to do this great work. then what is he able to accomplish in your life? What is he able to do through your life? You you may feel that you've been wounded so many times there's no way God could work through you. You may feel that you're an outsider and that God would not have this kind of love and warmth and desire to work in your life. But then when we look at the Samaritans, we're reminded that these are the ways that God works. And so I want to leave you with a great encouragement. This is the God who we serve. The same God who loved the Samaritans, the same God who loved the Samaritan woman, the same God who loved the disciples, loves you, and we wants to work in your life and through your life. Well, I hope you have a great rest of your day and Lord willing, tomorrow we will get this out in the morning and throughout the rest of the week. And that we'll have some things to really just dig into and hopefully be encouraged by. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.