Good morning. Welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you've had a really good week, and I hope that as we've dug into this passage of Scripture, you found it to be very encouraging. What I'd like us to do is pull it all together and look at some final thoughts of application. And just to remind you, this week has all been about praising the Father with all of our heart. because of how he has worked for us and who he is, what he's done in a general sense, and then how he has very specifically worked for our good and our benefit and specifically in the issue of the security that we have as believers. So if you have a Bible, take it. Let's turn together to Ephesians chapter one. We're gonna read verses one through six together and then dig into this text. Here's what it says. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the saints which are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace be to you, and peace from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself according to the good pleasure of his will, wherein he to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. Now, as we think about this passage of Scripture, the emphasis has been on the security that we have as Christians. And it is ultimately the Father who has predestined us to the adoption, and that is something that we have looked at all week. So the first thing I want to do as far as application is remind you of the need to passionately worship God. with all of our heart. Why do we do this? Well we do this, first of all, because of who he is. We should purpose to grow in our understanding of his character. The more we know him the more we will desire to praise him. Secondly, we should purpose to grow in our comprehension of his grace. And this is something we will never fully grasp or comprehend. We will never come to the place where we fully appreciate his grace as we should. But we can grow in it. And so it's not just about his character, but it's about his grace, his benevolence, his kindness toward us. And then we need to reflect thirdly on who we are in Him. Because of what Christ has done for us, because we've been united with Him, we should reflect on the position that we have. And those things should press us to worship Him with all of our hearts. We also should recognize that we are secured in that position. And this is something God keeps us in. Second thing I want to notice in application is that we need to rest in that security that we have in Christ. The first part is rejoicing, it's worshiping, it's praising. Now it's resting. finding our confidence and our comfort in the position that we have in Christ. And so I want to remind you that when we stumble, and it will happen, We need to look to Christ. We need to remind ourselves what he's done for us. We need to rest in the position that we have in him. when our conscience condemns us. And by the way, our conscience is not infallible. We shouldn't violate our conscience, but we should recognize it's possible for us to have a weak conscience, an unhealthy conscience, an unbiblical conscience And so when our conscience condemns us, we need to turn to Christ, remind ourselves who he is, remind ourselves what he's done, and rest in the position that we have in him We can't escape our weakness and we stumble and we fail and we see all of our limitations and the struggle that we experience in the Christian life. What do we need to do? Turn to Christ. Rest in the position that we have. We are accepted in the beloved. We are saints. We are justified. We will experience all the benefits of being his adopted children. Thirdly, we need to know God. We need to know Him personally. We need to comprehend to the best of our ability and go deeper in that comprehension of his greatness. I used an illustration at the beginning of the week about my wrestling coach and how he was such a blessing to me and really left a huge impact on my life. What I didn't say at the beginning of the week was that I actually grew up on the same street as the man who ended up being my college wrestling coach. When when they moved when his family moved from Minnesota to Pensacola, um, I didn't really appreciate the man at all. I I didn't understand uh what he accomplished as an athlete. I didn't know him as a person. I just knew him as a neighbor down the street. We used to play football at his house. with all the kids in the neighborhood I'd never appreciate. In fact, in some ways I was a little bit dismissive of of him as uh a a person, not as an individual, but but really I didn't I didn't appreciate him personally until I became an athlete on the team. And then when I began to learn and to train under this man and spend time hearing him teach devotionals and challenges as wrestlers, and encourage us. All of a sudden, I began to appreciate him as a person because of what he had accomplished, because of the kind of man that he was, but but really because of how he invested in my life. And the truth is that the reason that people don't praise God is because they don't know God. And another reason they don't praise God is because they don't think deeply about how kind He's been to them. And so I want to challenge you. Don't be like that. Don't be a person who is dismissive of our great God Who doesn't think about who he is, doesn't think about his goodness, and doesn't think about how deep his grace and his love has been toward us. You and I are in this position of forgiven and cleansed and justified only because of God's grace. And so let's never get over that. Let's worship him and praise him and rest in him. Well that's what I have for you this week. I hope you have a wonderful weekend. We hope to see many of you on Sunday. I know there's possibility for some weather, so Stay tuned for updates, but more than likely unless there's a lot of snow, it's just going to be a normal Sunday. But we look forward to seeing you then, all things considered. And if not, then Lord willing, Monday we'll keep digging into the Word of God together with our next To anchor in the Word series. Have a blessed weekend by now.