Good morning, welcome to our Tuesday, Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And as we started yesterday, we were dealing with Psalm 51, a very well-known psalm. that talks about David's repentance before God, him expressing the pain of dealing with a troubled conscience, and ultimately how he found comfort in the Lord. And by the end of this discussion throughout the week we're going to work on, eventually you'll see that it's ultimately David's confidence that's rooted in the gospel promises of a coming Redeemer. And so let's go ahead and open up our Bibles again this morning to Psalm 51. And as we turn there, we're going to read through the first portion of the Psalm as we start looking into this a little bit more today. Scriptures say, Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness, according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquities and cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me. Against thee, thee only have I sinned, and done this evil in thy sight, that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. Behold, I was shapen in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward part, and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear of joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice Now as we dig into this passage again this morning, we're going to look at David expressing the painful experience of being in a troubled conscience. in a troubled state, how his sin affected him in a very painful way. And so as we look at this concept, we're going to see first of all that when David is crying out, he's expressing pain. And that pain is directly related to David's sin. issues of conscience, issues of the effects of sin. Those are the kinds of things he's talking about. But we also see in this psalm that it's very important to emphasize. is that though he's expressing pain, he's not expressing it as someone who is shifting the blame. He understands that God is not the one who has uh made the decision to do what is wrong. He's the one who's made the decision to do what's wrong. In fact, you could almost say that a lot of what David is experiencing isn't directly a result of punishment, though we do know that God did punish David. But a lot of what David is experiencing is really the natural consequence that flows out of sowing to the flesh. So he's not blaming he's not blaming God for what he's done. He's not blaming other people for what he's doing. He's owning it himself. He recognizes he's guilty. He's the one who sinned. And he's looking to God for the remedy. He's looking to God to bring healing and forgiveness and cleansing and all of those things. So as we dig into this passage, we're going to notice the way that David describes the internal pain that he's experiencing because of his sin. First thing he says. And verse number two is that he desires for God to wash him thoroughly from his iniquities and to cleanse him from his sin. Now why does David say that? It's because David understands that when you sin, it's something that defiles you. Sin is uncleanness. And so David is recognizing that he is dirty, he needs cleansing, and only God can do it. In verse number three, he talks about the fact that his sin is ever before him. What this is an expression of is this continual experience of misery. As his conscience is defiled, he can't escape his sin. He knows it's there. And so he's expressing to God that in fact he's in a miserable state because his conscience is troubling him and he can't stop thinking about his failure and his willful disobedience. And verse 40 says, It's against thee and thee only that I've sinned. Now David's not trying to minimize this sin in any way. He's not saying, Oh, I didn't sin against Bathsheba, I didn't sin against Uriah, I didn't sin against the people that were aware of this, and that I pressured them so that they would conceal this. That's not what he's saying. What he's recognizing is if you look to the top of who is the ultimate judge over all things, it's God And so my sin is before him more than any other place. All these are the places where I have sinned against other people, they're under his jurisdiction. And so he knows that there's no one higher than God. And so he's ultimately saying, I have presumed arrogantly against you. And you're the creator and you're the judge. And that troubled him deeply. Verse 5, he says something very interesting. He says, Behold, I was shapen in iniquity, and sin did my mother conceive me. What's David talking about here? David is expressing how the brokenness that has contributed to his sinful choices. Where temptation begins is the heart. David is recognizing that it's not like he became a sinner, he's been a sinner And he's been a sinner since the moment he was born. When Adam sinned, death came in, sin came into the world, and death by sin, and death passed on all men for that all sinned. And all of creation now is under the curse of sin. And David is expressing that he is defiled and he is troubled and he is a sinner even from the moment that he was given life. David also goes on to talk more thoroughly in verse number 8 about the fact that he's lost joy, the fact that his bones are broken, and he's experiencing internal trouble. What's he talking about? The loss of joy, a wearied body because of a weird conscience. These are the effects of sin. Verse 13, he recognizes that the ministry that he had as one who instructed people in the Word of God has now been compromised because of his actions. because of him concealing his sin, because what he's done is presumptuous. He says, once I'm forgiven And once I'm cleansed, and once my fellowship with you is restored, and once I experience the joy of renewal again, then at that moment I will be able to teach transgressors again your ways. and sinners will be converted unto you. And so David is expressing that he's lost that ministry. It's been undermined because of his sin. And then verse 15, he says, Open my lips, and my mouth shall show forth thy praises. He recognizes that his desire to worship has been suppressed because of his sin. Now why do I go through all these things? I go through them to simply show you this is what happens when we sin. Sin causes us to be hypocrites. Sin suppresses our desire to worship God. Sin is high-handed rebellion against God and presumptuous presumptuous activity. It steals us of our joy. It wearies us in our bodies. That's what sin does to us. And so I conclude with this simple thought. Nobody can get help unless they go to the right source. And the right source is Christ and the gospel As we look at this passage of Scripture and we think about how David expresses what he's feeling, you're going to notice that his orientation toward God is to take comfort in God's loving kindness. God's loving kindness is really a statement about his promise as a covenant-keeping God and his commitment to faithfully follow through with everything that he said. And so the reason that David is going to find comfort by the end of this psalm is because he knows that God is faithful. He knows that God is promised. He knows that the gospel has been promised to take place, and he's looking forward to that day as a believer. He's looking forward to the coming Savior. And so this morning, as we think about what sin does in our lives, don't walk away and feel like the end is here and you can't do anything about it. The truth is you can. You can turn to God. And God can give you healing, and God can give you forgiveness, and God can give you cleansing, and God can restore what has been broken. The gospel is the reason for that. And so I hope that you'll join us tomorrow as we keep working our way through this as we start unpackaging that concept of how the gospel is where our ultimate source of hope is. and where forgiveness and cleansing and restoration are all found in what Christ has done for us. I hope you'll join us for that as we keep working our way through it. Have a blessed rest of your morning, Lord willing. We'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through this passage. Bye now