Good morning. Welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope that you've had a great week. I hope that you had a good holiday yesterday. And perhaps you're watching this not from your home, but from Some place out of town. And we pray for your safety as you're with family, friends, on the roads coming and going. And hope that you have a great weekend. What I'd like to do this this morning is I'd like to give you a couple of Couple final thoughts as we have reflected on the importance of marveling at the depths of God's grace. And specifically, we've looked at a text that reminds us of Christ. Christ's understanding of the animosity of the religious leaders, what was going to happen in the end, where they were going to reject him, and then the ultimate judgment that would come as a result of that. Yet his extension of forbearance and grace. And so let's read that text of scripture one more time together. That is Luke 13, 31 to 35. And then I'll give you some things to think about hopefully into the weekend. Here's what the Word of God says. The same day there came certain of the Pharisees saying unto him, Get thee out, depart. Hence, for Herod will kill thee. And he said unto them, Go ye and tell that fox, Behold, I cast out devils, and I do cures today and tomorrow in the third day And I shall be perfected. Nevertheless I must walk today and tomorrow and the day following, for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which which killest the prophets, and stonest them that are sent unto thee. How often would I have gathered thy children together as an hand doth gather her brood under her wings, and ye would not Behold, your house shall be left desolate. My encouragement is very simple. We need to live practically in the light of who God is and his grace. And so I want to give you some thoughts to think about first. We've got to stop and marvel at the infinite grace that is so rich and so deep and so uh rich His dealings with us are always a demonstration of his grace, and it goes beyond our comprehension. So um earlier this week I just mentioned that every single person, no matter their circumstances, is recipient of God's grace. And when we talk about someone who's lost, it is God's grace that gives them more opportunity. Who got saved when they were very young? It is God's grace that gave them access to the gospel when they were little, a person who gets saved later in life. It's God's grace that gave them opportunities later in life. For someone who's gotten saved and they've drifted from where they should be and they come back, it's God's grace that continues to pursue pursue them. The fact is that God deals with us in grace on every And to the one who comes to see this for the first time, I'm going to tell you, you need to turn to this grace by repenting and believing. Could be that as you've been listening to These lessons throughout the week that you never understood the gospel, that Christ died for your sins, he rose from the dead, that salvation is a free gift by grace alone, through faith alone. And so if you have just come to understand this, I encourage you turn to Christ, trust in his finished work. To the one who thinks that God's abandoned them and would never want to save them. I tell you, his grace is telling you to reject these lies. And don't allow yourself to think this. It's not true. True. Repent and believe. To the one who's proud and skeptical, and you see the Christian life is a joke, and there's no Jesus who died on a cross. The resurrection is a joke. I tell you, the offer of salvation is still on the table for you. And his grace is saying there's still time. Don't hold back in arrogance and pride. Turn to him now and trust him as your Savior. I also think about someone who has looked at God as if he's cruel and whimsical and he's tyrannical and he's irrational in his his wrath against people. He just wipes Them out. Maybe they read Old Testament passages and they say, I can't believe God would destroy a city like Sodom and Gomorrah, or he would actually destroy the world in a flood, or that there's going to be real eternal destruction. He must be an irrational and whimsical guy. I tell you, that's not true at all. He is just, and his wrath against sin is pure and righteous and good and right. But he's still loves people who are sinners and he still extends his mercy to them and he calls them as they rebel and so his grace says reject the lies Repent and believe. And think about a little child whose earliest memories are the basic truths of the gospel. You say, Well, how has God's grace been rich in my life? Well, it's been rich because you had access to it. To the truth when you were little. You trusted Christ when you were a little child. And he has preserved you from so much difficulty. To the backslidden Christian who's drifted from the position that You should be having and how you live. May you turn back to Him. May His grace say, Turn back and enjoy the position that you have. And to the one who has turned back to God, but wondered If God really has accepted them, I tell you, His grace says, Don't trust your feelings. Trust His written word. The point is that living in the light of this infinite grace, Is in fact a very practical thing. And God has demonstrated this grace to all of us on so many levels. And so I say, if you're unsaved, it's no accident, you're here. This message. Repent and believe. And if you are cold and complacent, it is no accident that you're hearing this message. Digest the truth. Let it flood your heart with an over Overwhelming sense of gratitude and humility. If you doubt his love and the goodness of his ways, consider his forbearance and compassion on people who he knows will reject him. And he still is kind to them. Consider his patience and the numerous opportunities that you have seen and heard, and how you've had the opportunity to handle the truth. Live, practice, practically in the light of these things. And so I live you with one simple thought. Let's be a people who delight in this grace. If you are not saved, you can't delight in it until you've embraced If you're saved, you should not only delight in it, but it should grow day in and day out. Have a wonderful weekend, Lord willing. I hope to see many of you this coming Sunday. Bye now.