Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I know that today is Wednesday, and typically this would be our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. But I was not able to record on Monday because of the holiday and then having traveled as with our family. And so I do plan to do uh five episodes this week going into Saturday, and so I hope that uh you'll be able to benefit from these. And the text that we dealt with is a very familiar passage, especially if you grew up in church, you went to Sunday school as a child, and that is the story of Blind Bartimaeus. and how Jesus gives sight to this man who is outside of Jericho. And today what I want us to do is I want us to focus in on a little part of this story that is very significant and that is when Jesus asks him a question, what do you want me to do for you? And so with that in mind, let's turn in our Bibles to Luke chapter 18. And we'll read verses 35 through 41 together, listen to a short excerpt from the sermon, and then dig into that little topic. Here's what God's Word says. And it came to pass that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the wayside begging. Hearing the multitude pass by, he asked him what it meant. And they told him, that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by. He cried, saying, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. And they which went before rebuked him, that he should hold his peace. But he cried so much the more, thou son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus stood and commanded him to be brought unto him, and when he was come near he asked him, saying, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? He said, Lord, that I may receive my sight. Jesus said unto him, Receive thy sight. Thy faith hath saved thee. Immediately he received his sight and followed him, glorifying God, and all the people when they saw it praise uh gave praise unto God. Let's go ahead and listen to this little section. How do you view yourself? There are lots of people who are very religious, and if you ask them who is Jesus, they give you the right answer. They really do. But when it comes to how they see themselves, that's where the problem is. They view themselves as good, moral, upright. If you were to ask them why should God accept you, they say, well, I'd give you twenty reasons why God should accept me. Now as I mentioned um in our first video, and I also really emphasize this. when we were dealing with the introduction to the sermon on Sunday, I talked about how when we look at these four miracles that are that are performed by Christ, And then the capstone of all those miracles is the story of Zacchaeus' conversion. We see that there is a unity amongst these four miracles. And they're kind of building towards something. And what they show you is that in the first two miracles, Christ goes to someone. He shows compassion on them, and it's to demonstrate his power and his authority. The second two, the people come to him. And interestingly, at the end of those two miracles, the third and the fourth, he says that these people were saved. And so the difference between those two was that these are people who went to Christ, and you'd have to assume that the reason that they went to Christ is because they had already believed on him and who he actually was. But there is another piece to this story that I think is really important. And that is it's not just that these people understood who Christ was. But they also understood who they were. And for in that in fact, if someone is going to become a Christian, they can't just have an Orthodox view of Christ. They need that, obviously, if you don't understand who Christ is. and you don't believe that he is the one and only savior who died for your sins, rose from the dead, then obviously you can't be safe from your sins. But the second component to that is you have to actually believe that you need to be safe from your sins. sins, that you need God to actually wash your sins away, that you needed a Savior who would die for you and rise from the dead. And interestingly in this interaction, we see that component come out. And the reason that we see this component come out is in the way that Jesus responds to this man when he comes. So the man is crying out to Jesus. Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. They say, hey, quiet, leave him alone. It appears that Jesus has gone into Jericho and now he's coming out of Jericho. And so This guy has been thinking about this and crying out to him for quite a while and it's been really bugging people. And when the guy finally gets Christ's attention, Jesus sends people over to him and says, bring him to me. And when the man comes, he asks him, he says, what do you want me to do? Now that's really interesting. The man is blind. He's asked Jesus to have mercy on him And interestingly, Jesus asks him to identify why he needs this mercy. Do you notice that? And it should have been obvious to everyone. I mean it it was obvious to everyone that the man was blind. It would seem obvious to everyone that what he wanted most was to be able to see, but Jesus wanted him to actually verbalize that. He wanted him to communicate that. That was his need. Interestingly, the man did not say, I want to be safe from my sins. You say, well, why is that significant? It's significant because he already was. And when Jesus says your sins are it says you are saved, in the Greek text it actually is in the perfect tense, which has the idea of you have already been saved. And that's because the man had believed. His faith had saved him. But his other need that he had was a physical need. And he needed to communicate it. He needed to establish that this is this is what I need. And what does Christ do? He heals him. Now the reason that I point this out, other than to say it's in the text, is to say that sometimes God has to do that with us too. What do you want? What do you need? What is your greatest problem? And we need to be able to willingly admit that. And in the text, the blind man says, I want to see. When we talk about this issue of salvation, the person who is the sinner needs to say, God be merciful to me. Sinner, I have sinned against you, I have broken your laws, I'm separated from you, and I need you to redeem me from my sins. What does the scripture say in Romans chapter 10? It says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. How do they call on him whom they have not believed? So when a person calls, says, God save me, God be merciful to me a sinner, God wash my sins away, he's calling because he's already believed that in fact this is the one that can do this And so we see that element coming out in this passage. And so I want to encourage you this morning, when you have need, verbalize it to God. If that need is to be saved from your sins, maybe you've listened to this video, someone has shared it with you, or you watch these from time to time. You just happened to come across it on Facebook or YouTube. Then cry out to God. Say, God, be merciful to me a sinner. Admit that you are a sinner who is separated from the holy God. Recognize that you recognize that Christ died for your sins and rose from the dead, and He is the only one that can save you And say, God, based on the fact that Christ has died for my sins and risen from the dead, I ask you to wash that sin dead away. And to give me eternal life, and he'll do it. That's exactly what he'll do. God will save those who believe on him. And maybe you have some other need, a great need, a heavy need. Verbalize that to God. Admit that great need. Cry out to Him and see how He will work on your behalf in this situation. So that's my challenge to you this morning. Be willing, like the blind man, to admit when God says, What do you need? He says, Lord, that I would see again. Well, that's what I have for you. I hope that that'll be a challenge to you this morning. Lord willing, tomorrow we will meet again as we keep working our way through some of the concepts that are there in this passage of scripture. If you think it's been an encouragement to you and you think it could be to someone else, take a moment to share that with them. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out and ask them. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.