Good morning and welcome to our Thursday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope your week's been going very well, and I hope you've enjoyed these studies. We're going to be looking at a fourth concept, and that is the concept of how our union with Christ that completely reorients us toward Him and radically transforms our affections. It frees us to pursue God with all of our heart, how it completely transforms us as people. And then really from that, the question is, well, what about those that don't have access to the gospel? What transforms them? The answer is it's the same gospel that's transforming us, and we need to take it to them. And so let's go ahead and dig into our Bibles again this morning as we think about this concept. Colossians chapter 3 verse 1 If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth, fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness. which is idolatry. For which thing's sake the wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience, in the which ye also walked some time when ye lived in them. As we think about the result of godly affection, that godly affections produce transformed living Think about Romans chapter 12. He says, present your body a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto God, which is reasonable service. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed through the renewing of our minds. And so transformation comes through a renewed mind and restored affections that are oriented toward God. And so in verse 11 it says, kind of closes out this section. It says that the result of this is that there's neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian, Synthe, Bond, or free. But Christ is all and in all. Now, why do I focus on this last verse? Well the answer is that a person's identity is radically changed when they become a Christian. It doesn't mean that they all of a sudden lose their ethnic identity and they're not who they used to be. uh when it comes to you know if you did a DNA test you'd still know if someone was a Jew or a gentile or whatever the scenario or a first century Christian who uh had had had been a household servant and couldn't necessarily change that status simply because they became a Christian. Now that was something that legally they couldn't change. So what does he mean by that there's neither Greek or Jew or circumcision or uncircumcision, bond or free? What does he mean by that? Well it means that your identity isn't those things anymore It's something new, it's something different. It's you being in Christ, and Christ is all and in all. So what he means by that, That the gospel transforms and reorients or reorders the core of our identity. And this is something that we should be so very grateful for. As we grow and as we more fully realize who we are in Christ, we will begin to reflect the reality of that transformed identity. We're image bearers, not animals. We don't have to live by our gut, by our bellies. We can live with a mind that knows God and loves God and desires to walk in his ways And so we're image bearers, but we were, as unbelievers, enslaved to our sinful passions. So we didn't lose that identity as an image bearer, but we weren't living according to who we were created to be. These enslavements were things that were destructive to us. They were destructive to the people we interacted with. They were entangling, dehumanizing. Think about Romans chapter 1. It says that when man knew God and did not glorify him as God, he became vain in his imagination, his foolish heart was darkened, professing himself to be wise, he became fools. And he begins to talk about how people lived according to their fleshly passions in a way that was truly dehumanizing. What does the gospel do? It transforms a person, it changes their identity. It causes the one who was falling short of their God-glorifying purpose to actually live in a way that's consistent with their God-glorifying purpose. The gospel transforms what is broken in us. And so that's what it does. It is a transforming gospel. And the things that used to identify us before our conversion, they fall to the side. They are either secondary or we see them as sinful aspects of our identity and we reject them. And let me give you some examples of what I mean by that. Our ethnic identity. Chapter 3 verse 11. There's neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian or scythian. Hey, I'm an American and I'm thankful to be American. I love an American. But I'm not an American Christian. I'm a Christian who happens to live in America. And I want to be a faithful Christian so that I can do good for the society that I live in. You understand the difference between those things. And so our ethnic identity is secondary. It doesn't matter. What matters is who we are in Christ. Or we think about our social identity. In verse 11, he says there's neither bond nor free. In the early church, there were people who were very powerful in Roman society and people who had had absolutely no rights. There are people who are masters, there are people who are servants, there are people who were in very difficult circumstances, and when they came into the local assembly, what were they? They were brothers, they were sisters in Christ. The fact that they were bond or free didn't matter in the church. What mattered is that they were redeemed to God and they were now brothers and sisters in Christ. This third one's a really big deal. Our sinful passions don't identify us anymore either. In 1 Corinthians 6 he says, such were some of you, but you are washed. and sanctified and justified in the name of our Lord Jesus by the Spirit of our God. Now He gives all kinds of sinful identities that would have that would have been characteristic of people who lived in the first century and these individuals in the church, some of them had been saved out of these very sinful lifestyles that once defined them. And he says, that's not who you are anymore. You are now in Christ. You have been washed from that life. You have been sanctified, set apart to God. You are justified. You were declared righteous in Christ. And so who you were is not who you are. You see, transformation is the result. And so wherever people lack access to the gospel, they stumble in spiritual darkness, and that transformation stays on the wayside because the only thing that can change a person from the inside out is the gospel. And so we're reminded of a text like Ephesians 2. He says, you at the quickened who were dead and trespasses and sins. In times past you walked according to the course of this world. You fulfilled the desires of the flesh and the mind. You were by nature a child of wrath. That's who you were, and that's who you will stay if the gospel does not come to you. And so the question is, how does that change? God moves his people to take the light of the gospel into the darkness. God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. You and I at one time were stumbling in the darkness and God sent people to us who prepared claim the gospel to us and we heard it and we embraced it and now we stand in the position of those who came to us and God sends us to people in the darkness who he will reach into their lives to the preaching of the word And so that is what he means by that. My question is, is your life being transformed in such a way? And do you see the weight of the need to take the gospel into these dark regions? May God help us to have a love for Him. May we see our lives being transformed by the gospel. And may we long and may we be active in taking the message to the places where it is needed most If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. I want to be an encouragement any way that I can. If you are waiting for our next thing tomorrow, we'll give you some final application thoughts. And I hope that they'll be an encouragement to you. But take a moment to share this, take a moment to leave some feedback, take a moment to ask questions, whatever you need. Want to be there to be a help. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for our final thoughts. Bye now.