Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope your week is starting out very well and looking forward to our second piece to the storyline that we're working our way through and that is Christ's conversation on the road to Emmaus. And today what we're going to focus our attention on is the attempt of these two disciples to process what was really incomprehensible to them. And there's an interesting detail in the text that I'd like to kind of expand a little bit. And the question would be, why was it so incomprehensible for them to actually understand what had taken place? So with that in mind, let's go ahead and dig into the Word of God together. Again, Luke 24, beginning in verse 13. And again, we will not read through the entire text, just the first portion that's really pertinent to the focus of our study today. It says, and behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs. They talked together of all these things which had happened. It came to pass that while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. But their eyes were holding that they should not know him. He said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad? And one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering, said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem? Hast thou not known the things which are come to pass there these days? Now, as we dig into this passage, we're going to look at their attempt, their, we could say failed attempt to process the incomprehensible. And we see the focus of that verse in between verses 13 and 16. It says, Two of them that same day, so this is Sunday, the first day of the week. They've only had uh maybe twelve hours or less to process what had taken place. In fact, they probably are looking at maybe like six hours or eight hours to process what had taken place They're traveling to a village called Emmaus. And as they're traveling to this village, they're having an intense conversation. It says they talk together of all these things which had happened. And it came to pass while they communed and reasoned, Jesus himself drew nearer and went with them. And notice the next little statement. It says, But their eyes were holden that they should not know him. Now, a couple of details here that are worth noting. The first is they had a lot of time to talk. The distance that is mentioned is about seven miles. In fact, it's actually a little more than seven miles And I'm not exactly sure how fast they would have walked. If you're walking a really brisk pace, you're probably walking close to four miles per hour. But Just to be generous, I would say that maybe they're walking for about three hours. Okay? So this is a significant period of time. This is uh probably half the amount of time that they've had to even process the information that they've had uh that they've been you know had access to. So let's say they hear about this at three o'clock, um, or maybe they heard about it at noon. Um if they heard about it at noon, they're probably um talking about this around three, four o'clock, going into the evening. And so they've not had a lot of time to process what's going on, but they're talking through it. And as they're talking through it It's very clear that they don't understand the significance of what's going on. And there's this little statement that is important. It says that their eyes were holden. Literally, they were restrained from being able to recognize Christ. Now, if you were to take that word that's translated Holden and you were to look at how it's translated in other places in the New Testament, what you'll discover is this is a word that tends to be used of someone who's been put in prison. In other words, they have been put into a dungeon, they can't get out. They have an inability to free themselves. It's a really interesting word. So It appears that they have been stopped from being able to recognize who Christ is. And so it's more than just a natural phenomenon. They couldn't recognize him because he looked radically different. It's that that they literally had an inability to see him. The question is why? Well the answer is because it's the mercy of God that's going to open their eyes to their ability to see. And there are some things that are going to be presented to them in this passage that are an important part of God opening their eyes to not just recognize he's alive, but to ask the question, why is he alive? Why does this even matter? And so interestingly, if you go back to verse 31, a little bit further on it says that their eyes were later opened. And this would be the idea of like being released from prison. So you have someone being imprisoned and then you have someone being released from prison. What what it's what it's coming down to is they don't have the ability to see And now they do have the ability to see. God has given them this ability. And interestingly, Luke actually makes this a major theme in his book. There are several times that he talks about people's inability to see what is right in front of them. The the the spiritual discernment that they don't have because God has to mercifully open their eyes. They've been blinded by the darkness of their own hearts. So for instance, we see in Luke 8 It says, unto you, the disciple, it's given to know the mysteries of the kingdom, but to others in parables that seeing they may not see And hearing they may not understand. And so those who did not have a heart to know the truth, they were not truly desirous of it. They were unwilling to embrace the information that was given. The parable served to veil the information, whereas the parable served to illustrate the information to those who who had a heart to hear it because they would they would wrestle with it, they would ask questions, they would listen to Christ's explanation. And then that that wrestling with the information and the illustration would ultimately cause it to stick. Or another example in Luke 9, he says they understood not this saying, it was hidden from them, and they perceived it not. They feared to ask him that saying. So they didn't understand it. And rather than just saying to Jesus, we don't get it, he it says that Their pride kept them, their fear kept them from asking the question, and that's where they needed to go. They needed Christ to give them an explanation Luke chapter 18, verse 34. They understood none of these things, and this thing was hidden from them, neither knew they the things which were spoken. So three times in Luke it records for us that there are people who could not see something that was right in front of them. And it's because they didn't have spiritual discernment. Three times leading up to this passage. So I would summarize it this way. Unless God mercifully intervened on their behalf, they would be unable to see what was right in front of their eyes. And this is true for all of us. The fact is that there are people that have access to things like the gospel. Maybe they sit in a church service week in and week out because their parents take them to church. And they they study the scriptures, they read the Bible, but for some reason they never grasp what is there. They never internalize it, they never personalize it. And then one day God opens their eyes. The Spirit of God breaks their callous heart and draws them to himself. This is what the people needed. And so it is the mercy of God that opens the eyes and he is careful in the timing because there's something that needs to be communicated to them before their eyes are open. And this will be significant later on this week. So I hope that you'll join us as we keep working our way through. Hope that gives you some things to think about. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Have a blessed rest of your day. Bye now.