Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I'm glad that you can join us and getting in the fall spirit with the flannel this morning. So anyway, the text that we're going to be dealing with this morning week is the passage that we dealt with in our first Sunday of Missions Month. And we were looking at 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 1 through 12. So If you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it. And let's turn together and we are going to look at the concept of showing forth his praises. And this will actually be the focus of our missions month So again, 1 Peter chapter 2 verses 1 through 12. Let's go ahead and read it together. Here's what it says starting in verse number 6. Behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone. Elect, precious. He that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe, he is precious. But unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, and a stone of stumbling, a rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word. being disobedient, whereunto also they were appointed. But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that you should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his mark marvellous light, which in times past were not a people, but are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which were against the soul, having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. I would summarize the passage with these two statements. First, Peter is contrasting the stumbling of a disobedient world with the glorious ministry of the church. He's doing this so that we will faithfully function. to point people to Christ as He has given us this this ministry, this responsibility. God wants us to understand who we are in Christ and from that faithfully point people to him. And so the first thing we're going to address in this text of Scripture is that this passage describes the contrast between Jewish-Christians and those who rejected the Messiah. In verse number seven he says, unto you which believe he is precious On the other side, he says, but to them which are disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, he is a stumbling stone, a rock of offense. And so you see that first contrast. But there's also another thing that he chose here. you. And that is the function of the church in the world, how it is a contrast. In verse 5 he says, you also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house. a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Verse number nine, you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation a peculiar people. For what reason? So that you might show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous life. So the emphasis is on the contrast between these two groups of people. And then he's showing them who they are and then how they are to function. And so that is really the driving focus of 1 Peter chapter 1. verses or excuse me first Peter chapter 2 verses 1 through 12. Now I'd like us to kind of dig into this concept of the spiritual darkness of the world as we set the stage for what we're going to look at the rest of the week. What exactly is the the state of the world around us? Well it gives you two different concepts to this. In verse 8, he says, 7 and 8 he says, unto them which are disobedient, the stone which the builder is disallowed, the same is made the head, the cornerstone, a rock of offense. even to them which stumble at the word being disobedient. He looks at two aspects of this disobedience to Christ. The first aspect is that these people are a contentious people. And it's not just that they're a contentious people, but we were once a part of that contentious people. And so in the passage, he says there's certain things that we're to lay aside. For instance, malice, personal animosity Guile, dishonesty or craftiness, hypocrisies, the idea of putting on a mask to play a role that is not genuine, envies, lusting after other people's possessions or positions. or reputations, evil speaking, defaming other people. When we think about who we were and who the world is, we were and they are a people who is very self-absorbed by which leads to contention. On the other side, we see that they're also disobedient to Christ in the sense that they reject him. He is the chief cornerstone, but their attitude towards the chief cornerstone cornerstone is one of disobedience. They say he's not worthy of our submission. Or the word disallow means that he is repulsive to the world. He's a stone of stumbling. When they hear his authority, they hear his instructions. It triggers them. They say, I don't want to do this. I don't want to submit to this authority. He's described as a rock of offense. The idea is that he is offensive to the world. We were once a part of this world. That was once how we viewed him. In Isaiah 53, he talks about Christ as one who was going to be to be rejected. He says, he will grow up before us as a tender plant and as out of a root out of a dry ground. And when we see him, we'll see him as having no former comeliness. And there'll be no beauty that we should desire him. He will be despised and he will be rejected. He will be a man of sorrows. He'll be acquainted with grief. We'll hide our faces from him. We will despise him and not esteem him. This is the way the world responds to Jesus. And then in Ephesians chapter 2, he looks at the other side. That when we were dead in trespasses and sins, we walked according to the course of this world. According to the prince of the power of the air, the children of disobedience. We had our time our conversation, times past fulfilling the lusts of the flesh and the mind, and we were by nature the children of wrath. And so when we think about who we were and who the world is, it would fall into those two categories. Either one, a rejector of Christ's authority, or number two, a lack of submission to his instructions And so I ask you this morning, before you look down on the world, don't forget that's who you once were. Before you uh start to think that of of yourself higher than you ought to think, realize that it is but by the grace of God. That you and I are who we are and we live the way that we do. It is all of the grace of God. And so this morning I want to say, have a great rest of your day and reflect on the fact That that's the world around us. That's who we were, but that's not who we are anymore. May God help us to live in the life of the new position that we have in Christ. And Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to talk a little bit about it. Have a blessed day. Bye now.