Well good morning and I'd like to welcome you back to our final Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection for the Week. And as you've joined us this week, I hope that the things we've talked about have been both encouraging and they've also helped you to think about this issue very biblically. What I'd like to do today is just pull it all together and give you some practical final thoughts of application. So let's turn in our Bibles one more time to Luke chapter twenty. We'll read it and then dig into some application. It says they washed him and sent forth spies which should feign themselves just men, that they might take hold of his words, so they might deliver him under the power and authority of the governor And they asked him, saying, Master, we know that thou sayest and teachest rightly, neither acceptest thou the person of any, but teachest the way of God truly. Is it lawful for us to give tribute unto Caesar or no? But he perceived their craftiness and said unto them, Why tempt you me? Show me a penny. Whose image and superscription hath it? They answered and said, Caesars. He said unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which be Caesar's And unto God the things should be God's. And they could not take hold of his words before the people. They marveled at his answer and held their peace. Now, as we think about this passage of scripture, we want to be practical about how to live in the light of truth. And so let me give you a very basic application. As we think about these truths, we are called to rest in the wisdom of the same Lord and Master who navigated the situation perfectly. He is good. What he has purpose to do is going to be established. It will be accomplished, and we can trust him And so there are a couple of different ways that we can do this. First of all, we can focus in on the wisdom side of this. We talk of God's wisdom. We need to be careful that we don't get duped by flattery and allow our pride and our ego to get in the way. As Christ handled these people, one of the reasons he was able to handle it wisely is because he could perceive the kinds of people that they were, and he could perceive the intention of their heart, and he was in no way diged by it. And we can learn from that We need to be careful about how people frame questions and maybe how we are feeling compelled to have to answer those questions. I think this is especially true when it comes to apologetics. A lot of times in people uh who are very aggressive in their viewpoint, um they're they're very contrary to scripture in their mindset They'll back Christians into a corner and ask them questions that frankly are not fair questions. They begin with an agenda. They limit the options. And Christians need to learn not to get backed into a corner. and answer questions the way they're framed if in fact they're not appropriate questions. And so we also should not not only should we learn how to handle others in those situations, but we need to be careful about the questions we're asking. Are we beginning with a bias? Are we beginning with pre with presuppositions that are not valid presuppositions? Thirdly, we need to accept the answers that God gives. And we also need to accept his silence scenarios. God is not obligated to answer all of our questions exactly how we demand them. There are some things he's silent on, and we need to learn to trust him with the silence. The second thing we're gonna ruff ru we're gonna look at is not just the wisdom side, but the teaching side. What I mean by that is what Christ actually said. We need to be faithful to fulfill all of our ordinary duties. That's true when it comes to relationship to government. That's true when it comes to relationship to authority in the church context. That's true when it comes to issues of authority in the home, husband to wife. children to parents, when it comes to employer to employee, employee to employer. Our relationships are instructed by God how we're to relate to one another, and we need to do it faithfully. We need to develop discernment to recognize the limitations of these institutions. Sometimes Christians get back to into a corner And there are things that they frankly should not obey. And they need to learn how to how to look at those things objectively, how to have discernment, and how to choose to do what is right and to submit to the higher authority. When government tells us to do something that's wrong, we don't submit to government. We submit to God. This is even true in a house, in a home context, and this can happen at times. So we need to be very, very cautious about this issue. We need to put God first in everything. I think about that verse where Jesus says, if you don't hate your father, your mother, your wife, your children, your own life also, you can't be my disciple. What is his point? Not that he wants us to despise people, including ourselves. It's that the highest authority is always God. We must submit to him supremely. Thirdly, we're going to look at this concept of providence. We need to learn to rest in the absolute rule of God over all things When circumstances are outside of our control, when things get complicated and frustrating, and we don't know how they're going to play out, we need to just simply do what is right. And we need to trust God with how those things are going to ultimately follow through. He is working all things together for good. We need to learn to trust him to do that. He's going to complete what he started and it's going to be good in the end. Well that's a lot for us to process this week. I hope you have a great rest of your week. If this has been an encouragement to you, share this with people who can be blessed by it I hope that we'll see many of you on Sunday as we gather for worship. Have a blessed rest of your day. And Lord willing, we'll see you next time. Bye now.