Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word morning reflection. Hope you're having a great Friday morning and I hope that this text of scripture has been a challenge to you. I hope that as we've worked our way through this text and talked about it each day, that it's given you a little bit better insight into how to understand the text and how to apply the text and really understanding what Christ is getting at. And I'd like us to zero in on one of the last things that's stated in this passage of Scripture. And so in order to do that, let's go ahead and turn our Bibles again to Luke chapter 18. We're looking at verses 18 through 27 together And when I get to that section, I'm going to highlight it, and then we'll listen to a little excerpt from the sermon and then talk about it. It says, A certain ruler asked him, saying , Good master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? None is good save one that is God. Thou knowest the commandments, do not commit adultery, do not kill, do not steal, do not bear false witness. Honor thy father and thy mother. And he said, All these I have kept from my youth up. And when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet, lackest thou one thing Sell all that thou hast, distribute unto the poor, thou shalt have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me. When he had heard this he was very sorrowful, for he was very rich. When Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, he said, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God? For it is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. They that heard it said, who then can be saved? And here's the statement that we should not forget. The things which are impossible with men are possible with God. Let's listen to a little excerpt and then dig into it. When you evangelize and you're giving the gospel to people, trust God to work like this. Because that's who he is. That's how he works. It's not our skill. It's not our ability. I'm not saying we should be haphazard in any way with the gospel. We should be We should be as careful and cautious as possible. Cut it straight. But the power is not in us. It's in the Word. It's the Spirit's work. This is such a critically important concept for us to understand. When we do any kind of ministry work, whether it is preaching the gospel for evangelism. or whether it is discipling a young Christian, or whether it's appealing to someone who has uh been encumbered by sin, or maybe it's to come alongside and encourage someone who has who is discouraged and bearing their burdens with them. In all of those situations The power for people to change is not in the one giving the message. The power for someone to change is in the spirit of the of the word of the spirit of God working through the word of God. And what's amazing about this passage is it shows you, here is a man who when the Bible calls him rich, the question is, in what way was he rich? Well, he was really rich in two ways. In one way he was rich that he had material possessions. And when people have material possessions, it gives them a sense of security. They don't feel like they have need. They don't feel as if they're vulnerable because the material possessions give them that sense of security and protection. But he was also rich in a second sense. He was rich in his own eyes in righteousness. He believed that he did not need God. He believed that he was good. It reminds me of Matthew 5, where he says, Blessed are the poor in spirit, theirs is the kingdom of God. Not blessed are those who are rich in spirit, yet this is what this man was. He didn't believe that he needed salvation. He didn't believe that he needed Christ. And when it was pointed out that he did, he was unwilling to admit it. He was trusting in his own righteousness, the riches of his righteousness. Rather than seeing that they are the rags of his own righteousness, he needs the righteousness of Christ. Well, you know, there's a classic example of this in the New Testament, and that's the Apostle Paul In fact, the Apostle Paul says, it is by the grace of God that I am what I am. He says, formerly, I was a blasphemer. I was a persecutor of the church. I was injurious. I was an evil man who was throwing God's people in prison. Yet God in his mercy and his grace confronted me and he did what with man is impossible, but is possible with God. He converted this sinner who was so filled with self-righteousness and he made him a saint who was humbled and was proclaiming the gospel that once he persecuted. And that's what we mean when the Bible says with man, this is impossible. With God, all things are possible. The gospel is a miracle. Conversion is a miracle. Regeneration is a miracle. When a person comes to repent and believe the gospel, it's because of the miraculous, gracious, merciful work of God through the preaching of the gospel to bring them to that point of humility. and brokenness and dependence on Christ, taking God simply at his word. And I'm reminded again of what Paul says in Philippians chapter 3 He says, if anyone could have had confidence in the flesh, I the more. And he lays out all these reasons that he had the right to have confidence in the flesh. And then he says this. Those things which were gained to me, these I counted loss for Christ. I count them all but dung that I might win Christ. and be found in him not having my own righteousness, which is by the law, but the righteousness of God by faith. The righteousness of God, which comes through faith alone. Salvation is a gift. Salvation is free, and salvation comes when God interrupts our lives. and brings us to this point of brokenness and this point of dependence. And so I want to remind you of this very simple but important concept. That you and I do not have the power in and of ourselves to change people, to save people, to make them be the people that they want that that God wants them to be. But what we do have is the promise of God that his word will not return void. And we know the character of God, that he is persistent, and he is tenacious, and he is merciful, and he brings people to their knees. And what is impossible with man is possible with God. And so if you want to see God work, you've got to get involved in the work that He's doing. He does His work through means. Faith comes by hearing. And hearing comes by the word of God. How can they hear on him of whom they have not believed? How can they believe without a preacher? God sends people out. We need to be involved in this work. I pray that as you are engaged in attempting to reach people with the gospel, that you would go with a complete dependence on God. and let him do the work that indeed he will do. Have a blessed rest of your day. Have a blessed weekend. And I hope that on Sunday we'll see many of you. Take care. Bye now.