Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we are going to keep pressing into what we discussed a little bit yesterday. And that was the uh introduction to Psalm 52. And today we're going to go to those two passages of scripture that or the the section of 1 Samuel that talks about how David deceived Ahimelech and then what the ultimate consequences of that deception was. This is an important part of the story that we're looking at in Psalm 52. So if you have your Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Psalm 52. I'm going to read through this Psalm together and then dig into the background a little bit this morning. Here's what it says. It is to the chief musician, Mashal, a psalm of David. When Doak the Edomite came and told Saul and said unto him, David is come to the house of Ahimelech. Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? The goodness of God endureth continually. Thy tongue deviseth mischiefs like a sharp razor, working deceitfully Thou lovest evil more than good, and lying rather than to speak righteousness. Selah. Thou lovest all devouring words, O thou deceitful tongue. God shall likewise destroy thee for ever He shall take thee away and pluck thee out of thy dwelling place and root thee out of the land of the living. Siva Now as we look at this psalm and we go back to the passage of Scripture that is the background of this psalm, we need to go to 1 Samuel 21 and 22. And in these verses, we find about the deception of David and then the high-handed, uh, just terrible actions of a man named Doach. And so when we go to this passage of scripture, what we're going to see is that David is running from Saul. The reason he's running from Saul is because Saul wants to kill him. Saul is jealous of his son-in-law. and he's plotting to kill him and he's doing everything in his power to do this in a way that's subversive and that doesn't work. So he goes from the subversive attempt to now the very direct attempt. He wants to kill David. And as David runs, he doesn't realize this, but he's going to be a fugitive from Saul for the next eight to ten years of his life. And that would be a very low point in David's life, but it would also be a period of time where God is testing him, he's building him, he's maturing him, he's making him the man that he's ultimately going to become. as the king. So this is an important part of his life, but it's a very difficult period of his life. So as David is running, we see that the very first place he goes is to a place called Nob And there he meets a priest whose name is Ahimelech. And it's important for us to recognize how Ahimelech responds to David when he first sees him. And the reason for that This is an important part of the deception that Doeg is going to present, that's going to lead to the death of this man. And so we see in chapter 21, verse 1 of 1 Samuel. When David comes to Nob to Ahimelech the priest, Ahimelech was afraid at the meeting of David. And he said unto him, Why art thou alone? And no man is with thee. Ahimelech can see that something is off. Now he knows or believes David to be an honorable man. He believes that David is in the good graces of the king. He can't imagine that David would be doing something unsavory. But he doesn't quite understand why David is coming the way that he does. And so then we see that David out of Pragmatism deceives the priest so that he can preserve his life. Rather than explaining the situation and then letting the priest make a decision about whether he will aid David or not He simply lies to him. And this is what he does in verse 2. He says, The king hath commanded me a business, and he has said unto me, Let no man know anything of the business whereby I send thee. What I have commanded thee, I have appointed my servant to such and such place. And David assumes that Ahimelech is an honorable man, and he's not going to ask any more questions. And David's assumption is correct. And so David deceives him, even using the fact that he is an honorable man to keep this uh situation under wraps. Well, as he runs, there's a man there who sees what takes place, and his name is Doak. Doeg is loyal to Saul, and he witnesses the interaction, but he doesn't present it to Saul when he has the opportunity to in an accurate way. It says in the text, just a little subtle statement in verse 7. A certain man, a servant of Saul, was there. He was detained before the Lord, and his name was Doag, and then there's another little detail. He was an Edomite Now the Edomites were the descendants of Esau, and the Edomites were constantly in conflict with the land of Judah and the nation of Israel. And so this guy Doeg, though it's not stated what he's going to do, it's almost like in the text it gives you this indication, this is a sinister individual. He's going to do something that he shouldn't. And if that's what you're thinking, you're correct. He would. We then see that when Saul finally realizes that David has run and he's starting to track David, Saul comes there to Nob, and his behavior is absolutely rational. And he his behaviors irrational on several levels. First of all, he accuses those men of trying to consort with David to basically overthrow Saul. In verse 8, it says Saul says to his man, All of you had conspired against me. There is none that showeth me that my son hath made a league with the son of Jesse. There is none of you that is sorry for me, or showeth unto me that my son stirreth up my servant against me to lie in wait as it is this day. Now, it is true that Jonathan was loyal to David, but that loyalty was not an unsavory loyalty. That loyalty was not out of a desire to overthrow Saul. It was simply recognizing David is innocent. And so what Saul does is he basically says, either you're with me Or you're my enemy. You can't be good to me and good to David, who's also an innocent man. You have to be 100% on my side, or I'm completely against you. And I'm going to lie about you and I'm going to misrepresent you. And so that's what Saul's doing. He is an extremely blinded man, extremely self-centered. He is full of his own devices. And so we see the first accusation. The second thing is he has an unsubstantiated accusation toward Ahimelac. In verses 16 and 17, the king says, surely You will die, Ahimelech, thou and all thy father's house. And the king said unto the footman that stood about him, Turn and slay the priest of the Lord, because their hand is also with David Because they knew when he fled and did not show it to me. Now here is the truth. Ahimelech did not understand what was going on. Ahimelech was an innocent man. He had no ulterior motive. He wasn't trying to destroy Saul. He wasn't even trying to help David run from Saul. For all he knew, David was a man on a mission who was being faithful to the king. And so Saul is bringing all these charges against the Himelech, and they're not accurate. They're entirely unjust. And so we see this behavior. But then we see the treachery of Doag, because Doag is an important figure in Saul being able to say the things that he's saying without anyone resisting him. This is what Doag says in verses 9 and 10. He says, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nab. That's true. He came to Ahimelech, the son of Ahitab. That's true. He inquired of the Lord for him. That is not true. And he gave him victuals, that is true. And he gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine. That is also true. So most of what Doeg is saying is true. Save one thing. He is accusing him of inquiring of the Lord for him. He did not do that. But what he does not do here is he does not give context. He knew full well that this priest did not know what David was doing. He didn't know that the king was trying to kill him. He was an innocent man. But Doag doesn't care. Doag has some kind of treachery in his heart, and he's willing to lie and conceal and misrepresent the situation. so that Saul can be hardened in his heart against David. And then we see that Doueg has this disdain for him. He says, Then Ahimelech answered the king and said, Who is as faithful among all the servants as David? which is even the king's son in law. And he goeth at thy bidding, and is honourable in all thy house. Did not I then did I then begin to inquire the Lord for him Be far far be it from me. Let not the king impute anything unto his servant nor to all the house of thy father, for thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more. Now what's he saying? He's saying, Saul, I had no idea this was going on. For all I knew, David is an honorable man who's in your good graces and he's doing something on your behalf. But Saul would not hear it. And we even see that Saul's own men recognize Saul's in the wrong here. This man is innocent. There's no reason for him to die. So as Saul commands his men to kill him, this is what it says in verse 17. The servants of the king would not put forth their hand upon the priest of the Lord. The question is why? Because they were honorable men. They knew it was an injustice and they wanted no part of it But then the last thing we see is that Doag goes and murders this innocent man. And not just him, but and his entire family. In verses 18 and 19 it says, Then Doag the Edomite turned and fell on the priest and slew that day four score and five persons that would did wear the linen ephod. And Nob the city of the priest smote he with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and suckling. Now when we see this, what we can see is a man who is hardened. who is evil, who is calloused, who could care less about truth and justice. He simply slaughters this man's house. By the way, just a side note , This is a fulfillment of prophecy that was given all the way back to Eli. When Eli did not have his house in order, God predicted that his entire house would be cut off. And that's exactly what took place. But the actions that that took place on this day were clearly unjust. God predicted it It's true that that household was going to be cut off, but the way that these people took action was completely unjust. He was an innocent man of such a terrible atrocity. But there's one final detail I want to leave with you before we close this morning. And that is how David responds when he hears the whole thing. Obviously David is grieved, but his grief is not just because of the injustice and because of Doeg 's high-handed murderous rebellion. It's also David's deception that played a small part in this. And when David hears what has taken place in verse 22, he says to Abiathar, I knew it that day when Doeg the Edomite was there. that he would surely tell Saul, I have occasioned the death of all the persons of thy father's household. You might say, well, why do you stop with that last detail? It's because as we look at Psalm 52, what we're going to see is David is trying to process a very delicate, a very painful, a very troubling circumstance. He's trying to process how God did not preserve this man's life, how God allowed Doag to do what he did, how Doag could have such a high-handed arrogance toward God and seemingly get away with it. And yes, even David's own deception played a part in this. This is something that's going to bring David to a very low point. But out of this is going to come a psalm of comfort. And so I hope that you join us the rest of the week as we look at this, as we see how David processes his grief and the painfulness of that situation and how ultimately he finds his hope in the Lord alone. Well that's what I have for you this morning. I hope that'll give you some things to ponder. After all, it's a mashur. Have a blessed rest of your day, Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we dig further into this text by now.