Good morning and welcome back to a new week and another season or another series of Anchoring in the Word Morning Reflections. And the passage we're going to deal with this week is one that I know I got a lot of Feedback on a lot of people were really blessed by this passage of scripture. It's very comforting, it's very encouraging, and I think it'll be a great help to you. So I hope you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage of scripture. And we look at how God is both our refuge and our strength and how we are to respond to Him in time of great difficulty. If you have your Bible, let's turn together to the book of Psalms. We're going to read the the 46th Psalm together and then look at some introductory thoughts on this Psalm. Here's what it says God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore will we not we fear though the earth be removed, though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea? The waters thereof roar and be troubled, and the mountains shake, and shall with the swelling thereof. Selah. There is a river, the stream whereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the most high God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved. God shall help her in that right early. The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved, he uttered his voice, the earth melted, the Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge, Selah. The last part says the following Come, behold the work of the Lord, what desolations he has made in the earth. He makes wars to cease and to the ends of the earth, he breaketh the bow, and cutteth the s spear asunder, he burneth the chariots in fire. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth. The Lord of hosts is with us, the God of Jacob. is our refuge. Selah. This past Sunday that we dealt with this passage of scripture, one of the hymns that we sang was, A mighty fortress is our God. And I love that hymn. In fact, that hymn has a lot of parallels to Psalm 46. It appears that that Luther was probably thinking about this Psalm when he wrote uh this this hymn. But what we read about from the writings of Luther is that Psalm 14 uh Psalm 46 is one of his absolute favorite Psalms. Many times when Luther was in in dire straits and difficult situations, he was dealing with heavy burdens, he would sing the 46th Psalm. We know that Luther was a person who was prone to bouts of depression and discouragement. And that man with that temperament needed the strength of this psalm. In fact, I want you to notice some of the the themes that are a part of the the 46th Psalm, and also we find them in the mighty fortresses are God. One of the things that we see in a mighty fortress is our God, is that God is our fortress. In fact, that's how this the song starts. It says, A mighty fortress is our God. He is a bulwark, never failing. It also emphasizes that Satan is a strong and evil foe. He says our ancient foe doth seek to work his woe. His craft and power are great and armed with cruel hate. On earth is not his equal. A third statement of theme that we find in this song, and also we find it in the psalm that we can't overcome h him in our own power and strength. Did we in our own strength confide, our striving would be losing. We're not the right man on our side, the man of God's own choosing. God, not Satan, is the sovereign of this universe. That word above all earthly powers, no thanks to them abideth. The Spirit and the gifts are ours through him who with us sideth. And then we think about this section where it emphasizes our future salvation and how it is unshakably certain He says, Let goods and kindred go. This mortal life also, the body, they may kill. God's truth abideth still. His kingdom is forever. I love that hymn, a mighty fortress, is our God. And we see a lot of similarities between the themes of the hymn. and the themes of Psalm 46. So let me give you a couple of summary statements and then I hope that this will whet your appetite for the things that we will dig into this week and I hope that you will share them with others who can be benefited by that. First of all, to summary, God's people should trust Him and glory in His unchanging protection. We must rest in His care. Glory in our future hope. So the question is why should we do this? Well, we will answer that from Psalm 46 this week. So I hope that you'll join us as we dig into the Psalm. It will be an encouragement. a blessing, a challenge to you. Have a blessed rest of your day. If this has been an encouragement, take a moment to share that. Perhaps pass it along to someone else who can be benefited by it. Lord willing, we'll dig into the contents tomorrow. Bye now