Good morning and thanks for joining us this past week as we've been looking at Psalm 37. I hope that as we've talked about practical wisdom for the new year, that these things have been an encouragement to you and that you've been able to take some little nuggets and that those nuggets are things that you can seek to apply right away in your Christian walk. What I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to take everything that we've looked at, step out of Psalm 37, and just kind of apply this in a New Testament context. And so we're going to talk about what is written in Hebrews 11 and 12. and how it relates to the text that we've been dealing with this week. So if you have a Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Psalm 37. We will read it again and then look at some application for some final thoughts this week. Psalm 371 Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass and wither as the green herb. Trust in the Lord, and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord, and trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. As we've looked at this passage, we've talked a lot about the Christian life, and the analogy that pops to mind is the analogy of a race. Your race is unique to you. But it's also very similar to races that have been run in the past. And there's a tremendous amount of wisdom for us to glean from the past. And so the passage that pops into my mind is Hebrews chapter 11 and Hebrews chapter 12. What's interesting about Hebrews 11 and 12 is what the writer of Hebrews does is he talks about those who have seen the strong hand of God, those who have experienced tremendous weakness and limitation and suffered And how both groups demonstrate what it means to walk by faith and the faithfulness of God. And so I remind you of this one simple fact: when God's hand is strong, walk by faith. and learn from the way that he worked in the lives of people in the past. Hebrews 11, 32. What shall I say more? Time would fail me to tell of Gideon and Barak and Samson and Jephthah, David and Samuel, and the prophets. who by faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched violence. Escaped the edge of the sword. Out of weakness were made strong. Women received their dead, raised to life again, and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance that they might obtain a better resurrection. Do you see how this passage splits into two groups? Those who saw the strong arm of God, who worked in miraculous ways, and those whom God strengthened in their weakness. When God's hand is strong, walk by faith. When we are weak, let Him strengthen your hands And others had trials of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonments, they were stoned, they were sawn asunder, they were tempted, they were slain with the sword, they wandered. And sheepskins and goatskins were destitute, afflicted, tormented, of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and caves of the earth. Now what do we take away from this? Sometimes we walk by faith because we see the strong hand of God. Sometimes we walk by faith as very weak people, and we draw from that daily strength of grace. These people did that What is the common link between the two? Well the common link is they walk by faith. These all had obtained a good report through faith. They received not the promise, God having promised, provided better things for us, that they without us should not be made perfect He says, if these people could walk by faith, how much more can we, who are on the other side of those redemptive promises? They had to walk by faith, we have to walk by faith Their faith was tested. Our faith will be tested. Their good report came out of a willingness to trust God when they were tested, and the same will be said to be true of us. And so I remind you with the final, I remind you of one final thing. We need to walk this year, enter this year, and go through this year walking in wisdom. The wisdom that's described in Hebrews 12. Seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, those people that are talked about in Hebrews 11, let us lay aside every weight, the sin which so easily besets us, and let us run with patience the race set before us. You and I don't choose the race. You and I don't choose everything that's going to come into our lives. But we have a God who gives us all the tools that we need to patiently and faithfully endure. May God help us to do that, not just today, not just this week, but throughout this year. Have a wonderful weekend, and Lord willing, we will meet. this Sunday as we dig into the Word of God together. If not, I hope you'll join us for our next series of Anchored in the Word studies that we'll have on Monday. Have a blessed weekend. Bye now.