Good morning, welcome back to our third Ingram in the word morning reflection. And we've been working our way through the passage of kind of following the progression of going up to Jerusalem, down from the Mount of Olives. Now this morning we're going to examine him going up into the city and some of the interaction that goes on as he comes into the city. And so let's go ahead and turn in our Bibles again to Luke 19. We'll begin in verse 28. It says this. When he had thus spoken, he went before ascending up to Jerusalem. And it came to pass, when he had come nigh into Bethfj in Bethany, at the mount called the Mount of Olives. He sent two of his disciples, saying, Go ye into the village over against you, and the which, when you're entering in, you shall find a colt tied, whereon never a man sat. Loose him, bring him hither. If any man asks you, why do you loose him? Thus shall you say to him, Because the Lord is in need of him. As he went, they spread their clothes in the way. And when they are come nigh, even after the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen. Now as he's coming up into the city, we see these words in verses 39 and following. Some of the Pharisees, from whom the multitude said unto him, Master , uh from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke your disciples. He answered and said unto them, I tell you, if these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out Now this is a census rebuke. And I want to make a couple of comments. When he uses the term, when they use the term master, it didn't necessarily have to be Uh i it it it's uh I don't want to say it's a generic term or a a neutral term, but the term could be talking about someone who's simply just a religious leader who they're being dismissive about, or it could be someone who they view as a rabbi, a teacher. The way to know the way that they view that term master is in the second part where he says, rebuke your disciples. The idea is they're saying, listen, you are not the Messiah. These people have no right to say what they're saying. They are categorically rejecting his claim to be Messiah and their claim that he was the Messiah. They wanted him to literally validate their view. Which was contrary to the people's words and his own words and actions in the rebuke to his disciples. The significance of this rebuke is that their attitude as religious leaders was was really a typical attitude of the people toward God throughout their history. We think about this, there was a consistency of the rejection of the Messiah. We go all the way back to Moses. We think about Stephen when he's preaching, uh when he's about to die, he's being martyred, he's about to s uh about to to die and go be with the Lord. And he he preaches this sermon. about how they have consistently been this way. Peter preaches a sermon. They have consistently been this way. And Acts chapter 7 And verses fifty one to fifty two really capture this. It says ye stiff necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, you do always resist the Holy Ghost, as your fathers did, so do ye Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? And they had slain him that was sh and they have slain them which showed before of the coming of the just one of whom you have been now the betrayers and the murderers. What is this passage saying? It's saying this is how they have been from the beginning. And so as Jesus is coming down from the Mount of Olives, the people are praising him. As he comes up from the Kidron Valley into the city, the religious leaders are disdaining him. And they are deriding him. And they're saying, don't let them say what they're saying. This is going to come to a head, and we're going to talk about this a little bit more throughout the rest of our study and then especially in the next week where Christ talks about the destruction of Jerusalem because of their rejection of the Messiah. But I want us to to to walk away with a very careful, encouraging warning. that when we think about these people, all the access to truth that they've had, we've had a lot of access to truth too. And every time you come in contact with the truth, there's a response Notice the response of the people before Pilot. They said when pilots could not prevail The tumult was made. He took water, washed his hands, said, I'm innocent of the blood of this just person. And the people answered and said, His blood be on us and our children. That's cold and callous. John 19, 15. They cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. He said, Shall I crucify your king? The priest answered, We have no king but Caesar. Now what do these passages show us? Hardness of heart. Access to truth is going to turn you either to be softened or to be hardened. And so may I challenge you this morning, anytime you come in contact with the Word of God and the truth, submit to it, embrace it, soften your heart toward it May God help us not to be as these people. Have a great rest of your morning. Lord willing. We'll upload another video tomorrow as we work our way through this text. Bye now.