Good morning. Welcome to a new week, another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And this week we are going to be dealing with Psalm 44. which is a text of scripture that when we dealt with it on Sunday morning, really got a lot of feedback from that sermon. There were a lot of concepts that were dealt with in the sermon. that I think people found to be very helpful. And so I think that this week will be a great week of study as we dig into some of the concepts that were addressed in that Sunday morning sermon on Psalm 44. This is a Psalm of Lament, and so we're going to start out the week by talking about uh the concept of a lament and why this is such an important thing for us to uh to understand when we're dealing with Psalms that we would consider to be lament psalms. So if you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. We're going to turn to Psalm 44. We're going to read the first portion of that psalm. We're not going to read the whole thing because it is a very lengthy psalm. But then we're going to look at a video excerpt from the sermon, and then I'll dig into that concept with you. So let's read the text together. Psalm 44, beginning in verse 1. We have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us what work thou didst in the days and the times of old, how that didst drive out the heathen with thy name, with thy hand, and plantest them How thou didst afflict the people and cast them out, for they got not the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them. But thy right hand, thine arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou hast favor unto them. Thou art my king, O God. command deliverance for Jacob. Through thee we will push down our enemies. Through thy name we will tread down them that are that rise up against us. For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me But thou hast saved us from our enemies, and hast put them to shame that hated us. In God we boast all day long, and praise thy name for ever and ever. Selah. Let's go ahead and listen to this little section. The text in front of us is a fascinating passage of scripture. A lot of times when we read through a passage of scripture, we'll sometimes focus in on the things that we really understand. And the things that really resonate with us, and then we just kind of like, yeah, skip over the parts that don't, and then we move on to something else. And Psalm 44 is one of those Psalms that I think we need to take the time to really dig into the totality of the psalm in front of us and to really think about the setting for when a psalm like this would be very appropriate and in fact would be very helpful to us this morning. Now when we talk about a psalm of lament, what we're talking about is a psalm that was written at a time when the psalmist is experiencing tremendous uh frustration, um sometimes incredible pain. Uh maybe they are experiencing injustice. Well sometimes this is a a a person who is experiencing deep guilt and they are at a very low point in their life because of what's going on internally. And lament psalms are not the kinds of psalms that are going to lift you up and make you feel very happy, but in fact what they are is examples of showing you how godly people, people who love Christ, people who are striving to walk with Him and serve Him, how they can find themselves in very dark seasons of life The question is, when a person finds themselves in that very dark season of life, how do they process that pain? How do they process that suffering? How do they process the doubts and the confusion and the questions that pop into their minds. How do they relate to God in that time? And are there any kind of patterns that we can see? Are there any sections of Scripture that can provide us with comfort and encouragement and hope and help and direction? in those times. Well, these lament psalms would be psalms that are written for those kinds of events. And the section of the Psalms that we were dealing with the last several weeks is actually the second book of the Psalms. If we're reading through the Psalms, we see that there are 150 Psalms, but there are actually five books, it's almost like a five-volume series if you want to call that of books of Psalms. And the last couple are the beginning of the second book of Psalms. which in the Jewish uh tradition would have uh gonna been associated with the book of Exodus. And we know the book of Exodus is a book that begins with God's people being enslaved in Egypt. And they have been treated horrifically, and they are questioning whether or not God is with them. In fact, it doesn't even seem that the people are looking to the Lord. They're simply crying out They are moaning, they are groaning. And what does God do? He sends Moses to be a deliverer. And so the book of Exodus is the story of God's deliverance of his people out of slavery in Egypt. And then these same people actually become God's covenanted people out Mount Sinai. And it's a time of great triumph. It's a time of great comfort. And so this second book of Psalms kind of starts out in a dark place, and then by the end of this section of Psalms, it moves into a triumphant place. And so over the last several weeks we see passages like, Why art thou cast down, O my soul, and why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God. I will praise him who is this help of my countenance. And then we see this passage of scripture. We have heard these things, and we have trusted in you. Yet we've been put to confusion and it seems that our armies are going out and they're falling apart and God my face is in the dust and I'm simply crying out to you and saying, have mercy on me. That is what Psalm 44 is all about. And so it's important for us when we're studying the Bible as a pastor, when I'm preaching the Bible, that when I come to these kinds of passages, that I don't skip over them. Or I don't just deal with the positive portions of those psalms and then I kind of ignore the heavier and the darker and the more difficult portions of the psalm, but rather deal with the whole thing. Because this is where people find themselves sometimes in life. Circumstances can be harsh and difficult and painful. And a psalm like this is going to instruct us. So I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into Psalm 44 and we deal with a lot of the concepts that we find in this Psalm. And when you come to those lament portions of scripture, those darker, difficult portions of scripture, don't just pass by them. But dig into them and really wrestle with what God is saying, what is being communicated, and allow those passages of Scripture to prepare you for times when you will need them or to minister to you when you find yourself in those places. So I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this psalm. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, tomorrow I will upload the next video, and I pray that it'll be a great encouragement to you by now.