Good morning. Welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And out of all the Anchored in the Word studies we've done this week, this one will be the most technical. but maybe the most profitable as well. And so we've talked about the story, we've talked about the focus, we've talked about uh several of the details. in the background and today I'd like us to talk about the significance why this picture matters so much. So if you have your Bible, let's take it, turn to Luke 22, we'll read that section and then dig into some extremely important details in relation to the picture of the Passover, the ordinance of the Lord's table, and then ultimately the purpose of the cross. Here's what it says, Luke chapter 22. And when the hour was come, he sat down and the twelve apostles with him. And he said unto them, With desire I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. For I say unto you, I will not any more eat thereof until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. And he took the cup and gave thanks, and said, Take this, divide it amongst yourselves. For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God shall come. And he took bread and gave thanks, and brake it, and gave it unto them, saying, This is my body, which is given for you. This do in remembrance of me. Likewise also the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood, which is shed for you. Now as we look at this passage, I want us to focus in on two statements. The first statement is the statement, my body given for you. The question we should all ask ourselves is, what does that mean? What does he mean his body is given for us? Well, as we think about this statement, there are a couple of things that we need to recognize. One is that something actually happened to the body of Christ, and it was done by God, and it was for us. And so the question is, what was done by God for us? Well the answer to that question comes in two parts. The first is our sin was actually placed on Christ. There are several scriptures that talk about this. 1 Peter 2, verse 24 is one of them. It says, who his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree, that we being dead to sins should live unto righteousness. The verse is literally saying as Christ was nailed to the cross, our sin was placed on him. He bore it on our behalf. Or Isaiah 53. 11 says that he will see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. Why? By his knowledge, my righteous servant shall justify many. How? because he will bear their iniquities. Another passage of Scripture gives us the same concept in Isaiah 53, 12. He shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he hath poured out his soul unto death. He was numbered with the transgressors. and he bare the sins of many. Hebrews 9. 28. Christ once suffered to bear the sins of many. So when he says, this is my body, which is given for you, we know it was given to bear our sins. But then the second question we should ask is, well, if he bore our sins, then what happened to those sins? And the answer is that those sins were dealt with on the cross and Christ was punished in our place for our sins. He was treated as if he were the guilty one, though in fact he was not. This is called substitution. Christ became our substitute. And this is the heart of the gospel And that's what he means when he says that his body was given for us. Again, back to Isaiah 53. It says that he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. The question is who wounded him for our transgressions? Who bruised him for our iniquities? The answer is it was God. He was punishing him for us. That's why we see the word chastisement. The chastisement of our peace, what brought peace between us and God, was placed on Christ. We see a second verse in Isaiah 53, that's verse 10. It says that it pleased The Lord to bruise him. The question is who bruised him? Well it was God. It wasn't death. It wasn't Hell, it wasn't Satan, it wasn't the Romans, it wasn't the Jews, it was God. It pleased the Lord to bruise him It didn't say it pleased the Lord to watch him be bruised. It said he bruised him. Very, very important. He is the active one doing this. And it says, he hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. So what we see is it's not just that our sin was laid on Christ's shoulders, but in fact he was punished in our place. We see this extremely clearly in Galatians chapter 3, where it says, Christ redeemed us. from the curse of the law being made a curse for us. And the question is, who is the one who curses the one hanging on a tree? The answer is it's God. Very clear in the Galatians passage. It's also very clear in the cross-reference from the Old Testament. And so when he says, my body is given for you, it means that our sin was laid on him, and he was punished in our place. But there's a second piece to this. It's not just a focus on the body, but it's also a focus on the shedding of his blood. And it says, this is the New Testament in my blood which is shed for you. And there are two sides to this issue of the shedding of Christ's blood. The first is that his blood remitted our sin. In fact, the scripture uses the word remission of sin. over and over and over again. And the question we should ask is, well, what does it mean when it says our sin was remitted? Well there are two words in the New Testament, Greek terms, that are used and translated remission. The first one is the Greek term aphesis, which means forgiving a debt through an acceptable payment made on one's behalf. It's not just the forgiveness of a debt, but it's the forgiveness of a debt through a payment that is made on behalf. And we're going to see that because there are several passages of scripture where it's very clear that this ephesus, the forgiving of a debt, comes through the payment. And the payment is the shedding of the blood of Christ. And then we see a second word that's used, and that's the word paressis, which has the idea of a passing over an offense until it can be dealt with later. These two words are used in the New Testament to describe this concept of our sin being removed or washed away, forgiven. And they're both translated remission in various passages. For instance, let me show you some examples. The word Ephesus is translated. . Forgive or remission of sin in Matthew 26, 28. This is my blood of the New Testament, which is shed for many for the remission of their sins. or Colossians 1. 14. Here's where we really see the concept of the forgiveness or remission of sins through the payment of a price. We see in whom we have redemption. There's the payment of a price through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. And that's where that word remission is, Ephesus. Forgiveness. of sins. Or in Hebrews 9. 22 it says, almost all things are by the law purged with blood. Without the shedding of blood is no remission. Now Once in the end of the world hath he, that is Christ, appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself, so Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many. So what you see is that he puts away our sin through the payment of a price, through the sacrificing of himself, through the shedding of his blood, his once and for all bearing of the And so we see that word Ephesus being used in these various contexts. But then we see that second word that is used. And this one really captures the concept well. And that is the paressis, which is the passing over an offense until it can be dealt with later. The verse that we should go to for this word is Romans chapter 3, verse 25. Listen carefully to what it says. It says, in whom God hath sent forth, being Christ, to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness. for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. Now this verse is fascinating because what it's showing you is that the cross was about demonstrating the righteousness of God. Or we could even say it this way. God was vindicating himself at the cross. And you say, well, in what sense was he vindicating himself? Well in the Old Testament, when God forgave sinners, And God gave people eternal life, people like Abraham and Moses and David, we have to recognize that their sins were not yet paid for. The sacrificial system did not have the ability to wash away their sin. All it did was provide atonement or a covering for their sin. And so what what Paul does is he uses the word paresses here, in other words, saying he declares his righteousness for the paresses, for the passing over of an offense, remission of sin, so it can be dealt with later through the forbearance of God. In other words, when God forgave sin in the Old Testament, it was only a righteous and just thing once the cross took place. And so what does this show you? What it shows you is that God cannot forgive sin without compromising his justice unless he actually begins to deal with our sin at the cross. And so when Christ goes to the cross, he is literally paying the penalty for our sins, and God's justice is being satisfied. He is forgiving our sin on the basis of a righteous payment of debt on our behalf. And so Christ is offering himself freely so that we can receive remission of sin through the shedding of his blood. We also see, I'll put it like this, to conclude that statement, without the cross and Christ's blood, God would have been unjust to forgive our sin and to treat the sinner as if they'd never sinned But there's a second part to this, and that is that the blood of Christ established a new covenant, and this is talked about in Hebrews 9 and 10. Here's what it says. The old covenant served an important function, but that function was inadequate to deal fully with sin. And we see this in several passages in Hebrews. Hebrews 9:9. It was a figure. for the time then present. Chapter 10, verse 1. It was a shadow of good things to come. It was not the image of the thing. So it pointed to something that was better. It could not cleanse the conscience. And what we mean by that is it didn't have the ability to wipe away sin. It only covered the sin. And it didn't actually deal with the sin entirely. And so in 9-9 it says, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices that could not make him that did the service perfect as pertaining to the conscience. It only provided temporary, here's the word, purification. And so in verse 13 it says, the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of an heifer, sprink sprinkling the unclean. Sanctifies the purifying of the flesh, not the conscience. What's the point? The point is that there's a deficiency with the old covenant system. And so the new covenant on every level is better. And in Hebrews 9, he lays it out in verses 11 through 15. Listen carefully to what he says. Christ being come, and high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, by his own blood, he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. If the blood of bulls and of goats and the ashes of a heifer, sprinkling the unclean, sanctify to the purifying of the flesh, how much more Shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, and purge your conscience. For this cause he is the mediator of the New Testament. that by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance. Christ's death and the shedding of his blood ended the old and established the new. He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second. By the which will we are sanctified to the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. That's a lot for us to process. But I want to , I'll just put it in the simplest terms I can. We have forgiveness and cleansing, and God in no way compromise his justice. And forgiving our sin because Christ paid for it at the cross. Aren't you thankful that the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from every sin? that through the through the shedding of his blood we have forgiveness and remission of sins, that his body was broken for us. And he has provided the one and only way of salvation. Let's thank God for that. Let's never get over the incredible blessings that we have by grace through the finished work of Christ. Have a blessed rest of your morning. Lord willing, we'll look at this passage one more time tomorrow to just give you some final thoughts of application by now.