Good afternoon. I welcome you I'd like to welcome you back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I know that typically these are put out in the morning, but we are in the middle of our VBS week and And because of all of the things going on this week, I wasn't able to get the recording up until the afternoon. But I did want to give you a short update on what's going on with Vacation Bible School before we look at this issue of the setting of the passage in front of us there in Luke chapter 14. So first of all, this week has been a great start to our Bible School. We're doing two programs. We're doing one in the morning for the teenagers and we're doing one in the out in the evening for our kids. And between the two programs, we have about 140 young people who came out on the first day. So around 35 of those are teenagers and then the rest are kids. And um really excited about how God Is working in the hearts of our young people and uh thankful for the the way the gospel is able to be given on the first day and the seeds that were planted, and um just looking forward to an opportunity to minister to these families as well, not just their young people. So pray for us. Pray that God will continue to give us safety. It's pretty hot and there's a lot going on. In fact, we're even having to change up um our format a little bit in the evening to accommodate how many young people we have and it's more than what we've had uh in past years in fact I I don't even know the last time there would have been this many young people at a vacation Bible school. So please keep us in your prayers as we uh make some adjustments tonight uh to our schedule. format and as we just just hope to really be a blessing and work with these young people. Well the text in front of us this morning or this afternoon is Luke chapter 14 verses 1 through six. So I'll read it and then make a couple of comments as we think about where this fits in the story of the life and ministry of Christ in the book of Luke. So Luke chapter 14. And it came to pass as he went into the house of one of the chief priests to eat bread on the Sabbath day, that they watched him. And behold, there was a certain man before him, which Which had the dropsy. And Jesus answering spake unto the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath day? And they held their peace. And they took him and healed him and let him go. Go and answered them, saying, Which of you shall have an asteroid ox fall into a pit, and will not straightway pull him out on the Sabbath day? They could not answer him again of these things. To understand the significance of this moment, it's important to recognize that this is an event within a story. And the story, as Luke is telling it, has a very definite structure to it. When we look at the Gospels, each of the Gospels was written, obviously guided by the Holy Spirit. This is this is the word of the Lord, not just The word of Luke or Matthew or Mark or John, but there is a very definite structure to what they're trying to present. So in the first four chapters, he's introducing Christ as the Son of Man. And then from there he seeks to demonstrate that in fact the claim is true. So the next five chapters are detail after detail after detail from the ministry. Of Christ that's validating the claim. Then we come to the next ten chapters, and we're going to find this text in the center of that portion of the book. And this is Selected selective examples of a stunning rejection of Christ from the Jewish leaders. And so we find that here in these verses. This text is in the middle of this Building opposition to Christ. It really comes to a head at the end of the section where Jesus laments Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who slew the prophet. How often would I have gathered you as a mother hen gathers her chicks, but you would not? And so Jesus laments what's going on in the city. So that's kind of the setting. Now a couple of the details that I think are important about this that will help us appreciate what's going on. The chief priests uh invit uh the chief Pharisees invitation to Christ appears to be a setup. And the reason I say that is because of these details. In verse 1 it says, he went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees to eat bread on the Sabbath Sabbath day. Nothing unusual about that. But then it says, and they watched him. What are they doing? Usually when you invite someone into your house, you just enjoy the meal with them. You have fellowship with them. Them. That's not what they're doing. They're analyzing him. The next statement is fascinating though. It says, Behold, there was a certain man before him which had the dropsy. Now this is an illness. That affects the legs and causes them to swell, and it's a person who would not have been able to get around because of their health. And so it appears that what's going on Is that they bring this man into the setting to see what Jesus will do. You say, why did they do that? Well, they knew that Jesus had a pattern of dealing with situations On the Sabbath day, healing people on the Sabbath day, and being fairly confrontational about it to demonstrate who he is. And so it appears that that's what they're doing here. And so here's how the confrontation goes. They know exactly who Christ is, what he's going to more than likely do, and Christ knows exactly how they're thinking, why they're doing. This and what does he do? He rises to the challenge and approaches it directly. He asks in verse number three, is it lawful to heal in the Sabbath day? The answer that the scholars give And then he goes in verse number four and he heals this man and he lets him go. Why did he do This. He did this to bring the issue to a point. And he asked them a follow-up question in verse 5. Which of you, having an ass or an ox, fall into a ditch, will not straightway pull him? Why does Jesus do this? He's trying to make them think. And the answer, they don't give it. Verse number six, they could not answer him again Again of these things. Now, why do I take the time to give you these details? It's to help you to realize that even though Jesus knew that there was a Building opposition. And even though he knew what they were doing, he was not afraid to address the issue. And this is something that some of us may be called at To do. There may be times that we are forced to address an issue, and that's not going to be in our best interest in the immediate. But what does Christ do? Truth matters, so he goes to the point. The second question we should ask, I'm not going to answer that one today. I'm going to answer it tomorrow, Lord willing, is well, what was the So you've got to come back tomorrow to see what we have to say about that. So I hope that you'll join us tomorrow as we dig into this text again and we start looking at what Christ Christ's primary focus was why he was so concerned about confronting this issue and standing on the side of truth. Well, have a blessed rest of your day. You'll probably get this Late in the day, in the afternoon. But please remember to pray for us tonight as we are doing Vacation Bibles. We'll pray that we'll have energy and strength. Pray that the preaching and teaching of God's Word is clear Pray for safety, pray that God's blessing will be upon it. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll talk tomorrow. By now