Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the week. And my desire is that this would have been a great week of studies for you, that you would have been encouraged by it. And if you were encouraged by it, I hope that you'll share these things with those who can also be encouraged by it. And I'm thankful that I get to take the passages that we preach through on Sundays. And just break them down and deal with them one piece at a time. I think it allows us to digest the information a little bit more. Well what we're going to do today, as we typically do on Fridays, is we're going to look at the application side of these truths. We have seen who Christ is We have seen what he was coming to do, and we know that he has done this. And so this morning what I want to do is ask, well, how do we apply this? How do we actually take what we have seen in the text? and then apply it in the light of the rest of Scripture and very practically in our lives. So let's read the passage one more time today, and then we'll dig into those applications. It says, and it came to pass that on one of those days, as he taught the people in the temple and preached the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes came upon him with the elders and spake unto him, saying, Tell us. By what authority doest thou these things, or who is he that gave thee this authority? He answered and said unto him, I will also get tell you one thing, and answer me, the baptism of John Was it from heaven or from men? Or of men. They reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say from heaven, he will say, Why then believed ye not him? But if we say of men, all the people will soon us, for they are persuaded that John was a prophet, and they answered that they could not tell whence it was. Jesus said unto them, Neither tell I you but what authority I do these things. So there are four principles that I see that are directly applicable out of this passage of scripture. The first principle is this. You and I will never see what we don't want to see. This is an important principle. When we have a disagreement with another person , Sometimes it's very helpful to have someone outside of that who's not emotionally attached to the situation or not emotionally upset about the situation. to kind of look at it objectively on from the outside because we have bias based on what we either want to see or don't want to see It's very important. If you come to the Bible not wanting to see something, you will probably not see it every time you do. And when you go to the Bible wanting to convince yourself it says something, you probably won't see it. That's why these people were unwilling to admit who Christ was. It was because they didn't want to see it. And it's really important that we understand that dangerous bias potential. The second thing that I'll mention is what you love will cloud or enhance your judgment. When the Bible talks about wisdom, it says wisdom is the principal thing with all thy getting, get understanding. Love her and she will promote you. Now what is the point? If you want wisdom, you start with Loving God and loving wisdom itself. You want to learn, you want to be confronted, you want to grow, you want to change, you want to see things from God's perspective. And so your affection positively is going to enhance your ability to see the truth. Or when you come to the Bible with the conviction of what it is, it's God's Word. Who it's from, a perfect, good, righteous, loving God, and you are convinced that He is good, when you read the Word of God, you're going to understand it far more, far quicker than if you have this distrust of God. Or you come to the scriptures with a love for sin, or a love for some position or viewpoint that has become an idol in your heart. And so you will love Something that will cloud judgment, or your love may cause you to have enhanced judgment. A principle is very important. It doesn't just affect the Bible, it actually goes into lots and lots of areas. Thirdly A humble disposition toward God and His Word is a prerequisite for understanding. What does it say in Proverbs? The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the holy is understanding. God resists the proud, but God gives grace to the humble. Open my eyes that I might behold wondrous things out of your law. These statements remind us that a prerequisite for understanding is humility toward God, submission to Him, and to his word. And we see that the reason that these people did not get it is because they would not submit to the true authority. Fourthly, I'm reminded that it is the grace of God That humbles the heart and reveals the truth. What's amazing to me is at Pentecost, as Peter, as Peter is preaching in the temple, There were people that said, what can we do? And what does Peter say? Repent. Be baptized and save yourself from this untoward generation. Now what does that tell you? There are people in Jerusalem, as Peter is preaching. That are humbled and recognize we killed Christ. We rejected the Messiah And we need to come back and repent and embrace him and trust in what he's done for us. And the question is, can we still do that? And Peter says, of course. Repent, be converted, be baptized, save yourself from this generation under judgment. What causes people to be humbled like that? Grace. The grace of God I love the statement of Isaac Newton, twis grace that taught, not Isaac, John Newton, twas grace that taught my heart to fear. Very, very important passage. So I want to remind you, there's nothing that's more important than the gospel. The gospel is at the heart of this. Christ came in the flesh, he dealt with our sin. We see this in John 1. The word was made flesh, he dwelt among us Philippians 2, 7. He made himself of no reputation. He took upon himself the form of a servant. He humbled himself. He became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Christ came in the flesh to deal with sin. 1 John 3, he was manifested to take away our sin. That's why he came. That's why he came in the flesh. And not only did he come for that purpose, but he did it. He accomplished that purpose. He dealt with our sin in the flesh. And the Bible has a lot to say about this. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. He hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, so that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. He did it. 1 Peter 3, Christ also once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, so that he might bring us to God. He did it. Galatians 3:13. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. He took on our debt. He took on our sin. He was treated as if he were the perpetrator, when in fact he was not, and he did it willingly, because he loves us. Isaiah 53, 5, he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities, his soul was made an offering for sin. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. And then he didn't stay dead, but he conquered death in the resurrection. It says, thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. That is the capstone on everything that Paul says about the resurrection in 1 Corinthians 15. He states the fact Christ died. For our sins, according to the scriptures, he was buried and he rose again. He lays out all of these living witnesses to the resurrection and then gives all these implications. Both to the positive and to the negative. If there's no resurrection, this is true, this is lost. Since there's a resurrection, This is what we have, and this is what God will do. He makes all those arguments and he says, thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. He conquered death and the resurrection. But there's one final thing I want to say He dealt with our sin in the flesh to give us certain wonderful benefits. And if you are a child of God, these are all true about you. You are redeemed and forgiven. We have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. Not we might have it, we hope to have it, we will have it, we have it, we have redemption through his blood. We have been reconciled to God now that our sins are behind us. 2 Corinthians 5. God has reconciled us to Himself by Jesus Christ. Now we hope He does. He might, he will, he has. That's what it says. We see second or excuse me, Ephesians chapter 2. We are now at peace with God. But now, in Christ Jesus, ye who sometime were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ He is our peace. We have it. Now he's going to be. He is. Now and forever. I think about another passage, Romans 8. We are now free from condemnation. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus In Ephesians 1. 6, we are accepted in him. He hath made us accepted in the beloved. Nothing Can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord? I ask this question as we go into the weekend Are you resting in this gospel? Are you resting in the forgiveness that you have? The future that is secure? The fact that you've been accepted in the beloved, that there's now peace between you and God, no condemnation. It is all rooted in Him and what He's done for us. If that's not your confidence then reach out. I'd love to take a Bible. And whether it's over the phone, whether it's through emails, whether it's in person, I'd love to take a Bible and show you what Christ has done for you. And show you how you can place your faith in him so that all those things that were just stated in those last few slides, all those things Can absolutely be true of you right now and forever. Have a blessed weekend, Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday. Bye now