Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week in another edition of our Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection and hope that you had a wonderful weekend. And I'm looking forward to digging into this textbook. with you, which is a continuation of what we talked about last week. So last week we were in 2 Timothy chapter 2 and we were talking about the importance of passing on the baton from one generation to the next generation. And this is going to continue that that concept going into chapter three. So if you have your Bibles, let's take them together, please. Let's turn to 2 Timothy chapter 3, and we'll begin reading in verse 1. And then I'd like to give you some introductory thoughts this morning. This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents. Unthankful and holy without natural affection, truce breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers Now as you read these verses, we're actually going to deal with uh a fairly large chunk of scripture because this is only a portion of what Paul is saying. And so before we do that, where we talk about sort of the overview of that section, I'd like to remind you what we've been talking about the last several weeks. during our missions missions month and technically our missions month is over at the church and we'll have one more we'll have one more week will you will you'll get anchored in the words after we have our missions month. But I'd like us to kind of focus in on the the the the flow of thought that we've had as we look at this topic. First of all, a summary statement of the text in front of us. Utilizing the pressure of the times that we uh that we are living through should drive us to be faithful and enduring rather than distracted and discouraged. And that will be the focal point. Though there will be pressure in the last days, because we have the word of God. Those pressures, instead of discouraging us, should motivate us, should press us into a faithful reliance on the Word of God. God wants us, when the pressures come, to be driven And so that'll be the the focus of the entire week. But before we dig into that, let's talk about where we've been. So the first thing that we did uh our first week of missions was focusing in on the fact that we are saved for a reason. Not just to have insurance from eternal destruction, but we're saved so that we will show forth his praises to the nations. And we were in 1 Peter and we were talking about the fact that we have been called from darkness into light. We are a kingdom of priests, a holy nation, a peculiar people. people who are to show forth his praises to the nations. The second week, we talked about the fact that we can't allow ourselves to miss the opportunities that God puts right in front of us. And I think a lot of times Christians Christians get very focused on what's going on around the world during a missions month, and they fail to realize, or they forget sometimes, or they overlook sometimes that God is working in their local church. families. God is working in their workplaces. And their opportunities sitting right in front of them and they often miss those opportunities. And so we talked about the the woman at the well and how Jesus needed to go through Samaria to reach into this community and he used the woman. woman whose life had been wrecked by sin and and so many challenges. Third thing we talked about, and this is what we talked about last week, is that we need to think practically about making disciples and passing on the faith from one generation to the next. generation. So we were in 2 Timothy 2. Well this week we're going to build on that and see that we need a strong commitment to the tools that God has promise to use to build his church. The fundamental tool is the scripture and specifically the gospel. And so this will be the focus of what we will look at throughout this week. Second thing I want to do this morning is I want to give you an overview of the structure of the text in front of us. And the passage that we're looking at actually begins in chapter 3 verse 1 and then it moves all the way to chapter 4 verse 5. So it's a lengthy passage of scripture. Now we just read the first couple of verses to kind of kind of set the tone for where we'll go. But I think by stepping back and seeing the first thing that he states in the section and the last thing that he states in the section that you'll have a good sense of what the passage is really trying to be So first of all, how he opens. He opens with a warning. He says, know this also in the last days, perilous times shall be And we are going to break down those perilous times from the text of Scripture, Lord willing, tomorrow. He then closes with an exhortation Because this is true, in verse 5, watch, endure affliction, do the work of an evangelist, and make full proof of your ministry And so from chapter 3, 1 to chapter 4, 5, everything that he states is going to lift up and support his overall purpose, and it's going to drive us out as a motivator to this end part of watching enduring affliction, doing the work of an evangelist, and making full proof of our ministry. And so that will be the focus of our week. Everything between point one and point two. should drive us to faithful endurance. I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage of Scripture. My prayer is that the things that are shared would be tremendously encouraging and helpful to you. And that they'll be motivating to you where you are today. And ultimately we will be better equipped to do the work that God has for us as His disciples. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow. By now