Good morning. Welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I want to remind you of the topic we're addressing and that is proclaiming the gospel like Christ. And this week we've been looking at some introductory thoughts. We kind of looked in two parts at the truths that are being laid out in this passage of scripture. Yesterday, we looked at some of the marks of preaching and teaching the gospel like Christ. Well this morning what I'd like to do is further develop that and look at more marks. Yesterday when we were talking about the marks, we looked at the fact that the gospel is the most important thing, and then secondly, the exclusive nature of the gospel. And so let's read the text again, uh, together this morning, and then we will dig into uh a couple more truths. So Luke chapter thirteen, verse twenty-two says this. And he went through the th the cities and villages teaching and journeying towards Jerusalem. Then said one unto him, Lord, there are few that be saved. He said unto them, Strive to enter in at the straight gate, for many I say unto you, will seek When once the master of the house is risen up and hath shut the door, and ye begin to stand without and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us, he shall answer, and say unto you, I know you not. whence ye are. Then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in the presence, and have taught in your stre in the you have taught in our streets. But he shall say, I tell you, I know you not whence ye are depart from me. All ye workers of iniquity, there shall be weeping and gnashing when you shall see Abraham and I Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, and you yourselves thrust out, and they shall come from east and from west and from north and south, and shall eat in the The kingdom of God, or sit down in the kingdom of God, and behold, there are lasts which shall be first, and there are first which shall be last. Well, I'd like us to pick up with Mark number three. The preaching and teaching of the gospel like Christ will stress the tragedy of self-righteousness. And it is my belief that this is one of the greatest hindrances to people in the world. embracing the gospel. Sometimes people stumble at the person of Christ. Is he God in flesh or not? Sometimes people will will stumble at whether or not there's a God who they're answerable to. But this one right here is a big one. People stumble at the righteousness of Christ and the righteousness of man. And they strive to make a basis to enter into God's presence. through their own labors. And this will end tragically in condemnation. We see in Galatians chapter 2, he says says I do not frustrate the grace of God if righteousness can come by the law, then Christ died in vain. The idea is that Christ didn't need to die if I can earn my way to him. Or Romans chapter 319. This is probably one of the greatest texts in all of Scripture dealing with this issue. He says, we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before before God. No excuses , no secondary means that we can work through to get there. We're all guilty and there's no hope outside of Him. But then he says this. He says, therefore, by the deeds of the law no flesh will be justified in his sight. By the law is the knowledge of sin. Well, in the next verse, he says. He says, But now the righteousness of God apart from the law is revealed, being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ, unto all and upon all them that believe. There's no difference. And so Romans chapter 3 and Romans chapter 4 and Philippians chapter 3, these are some of the most important scriptures that deal with this Issue. Another one is Romans 8. He says what the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh. And for sin, condemn sin in the flesh, so that the righteousness of the law could be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. He says the carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. Then they that are in the flesh cannot please God. What's the point? You can't earn your way to God through keeping the law. You can't earn your way to God through your own righteousness. It's unacceptable. You can only come through the righteousness of Christ And so that leads us to what we read earlier yesterday. He says that the Jews had a zeal for God, but not a zeal. According to knowledge. They were ignorant of God's righteousness, trying to establish their own righteousness and not submitting to the righteousness of God. He says Christ is the end of the law to everyone who Who believes. So when we try to embrace the kingdom through our own righteousness, we will fail tragically. And so the preaching of the gospel should emphasize that there is only one way, and that is through Jesus, and it is through his righteousness. The fourth mark is that it will strike The danger of complacency. There are lots of people who have access to truth and have been lolded to complacency. Their eyes have become heavy, their ears have become dull of hearing. And this is the problem with the people in Jesus' this day. And verses 25 and 27 of Luke 24 he says, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and entered into the glory? And beginning at Moses and all of the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Or again in Acts 13, Peter preaches, you denied the Holy One and desired a murderer to be granted unto you. He says, you did this in ignorance, those things which God hath showed by the mouth of his prophets, that Christ should suffer and are fulfilled. He says, repent and be converted, that your sins be blotted out. Why does he have to say this? Well, the people became dull of hearing as they heard the message. But the passage that really captures this is Acts 28, where he says, My heart's the heart of this people are waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes have they closed, lest they should should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their hearts and should be converted and I should heal them. Well what is the point of all these verses? It's to say that when you have access to the truth and you don't respect Respond to the truth, you're in danger of becoming desensitized to the truth and becoming dull to it. The last is the mark that stresses the universal availability Jesus said in John 10, he says, I'm the good shepherd, and I lay down my life for the sheep. My Father knoweth me. And I am known of him. He says, Other sheep have I that are not of this fold. I must bring them. They will hear my voice, and they shall be one fold and one Shepherd. What's Jesus saying? Well, there were people that heard his voice who were already believers. You say, well, how'd they become believers early? Well, they had the prophets. They were believers in the Old Testament. And when they saw Jesus, they understood who he was and they accepted him. But he said, not only are the people who are believers now who are accepting me A part of my people. But there are people who are not at this fold right now. There are Gentiles. There are people that have not understood the gospel yet and they're going to be saved. Well, what's the idea? The gospel's for everybody. And he calls people to himself. Romans 11 breaks this down as well. He says, Brethren, I would not that you were ignorant of this mystery. Blindness has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles. Gentiles, and then God will bring in them, that he might have mercy on all. And so the gospel is not just for select It's for everybody. Anyone that can hear the gospel message has an opportunity to embrace the gospel message. So we need to preach the gospel message. So the question is, well, what do we learn from this? Well we learn from this that one day there would be people from every kindred, tribe, and nation worshiping at his throne. And so it says it this way in Revelation. 5. They sing a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take up the book. Thou hast redeemed us unto God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and tribe and nation. And has made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. Folks, that's us. We're going to be a part of that innumerable multitude. You might say, Well, I don't know Christ as my Savior. How can I become a part of this group of people? It's very simple. Repent and believe. Turn to Christ. Trust in his finished work. Well, what do we take away from this today? The simple takeaway is this: if we're going to preach the gospel like Jesus, We need to have these marks. The marks that say the gospel is for everybody. The marks that say it is a stunning failure to embrace a message that says, I come to God through my own right. righteousness, we must preach the gospel like our Savior. And so I hope that's what you're doing. I hope that's what you will do. I hope you'll make adjustments if need. needed. Well, Lord willing, tomorrow we'll close out our week by looking at some final thoughts. I hope this has been an encouragement to this week, and so I hope that tomorrow we can really uh go into the weekend with some things that we can think about and try to apply. Have a blessed rest of your day. We'll talk again tomorrow, Lord willing. Bye now.