Good morning and welcome to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And out of all the different parts to this passage that we're going to look at this week, this is probably to me the most interesting, and that is the focus on We, the people of God, being not just a family and a part of a kingdom, but we are the temple of God. And this is a really profound concept. And I think after we work our way through this, I hope that you'll find this to be extremely encouraging. So let's take our Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter 2. We're looking at verses 19 through 22 together. And we're going to look at this topic together. Here's what it says. Now therefore, you are no more strangers and foreigners. but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God, and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone and whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto a holy temple in the Lord, and whom you also are built together for an habitation of God through his Spirit. Now the part that I want us to notice carefully today is this statement about us being the temple of God. In fact, we see it like this. In verses 20 through 22, he says, we, the church, are built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. He's referring to the Old Testament and the New Testament and the role that these two have together in laying out the doctrine and teaching of the church. But then we talk about how the church is focused on a person. It says, Jesus himself, the chief cornerstone, in whom the whole building fitly framed together groweth unto a holy temple in the Lord. in whom you also are built together in habitation of God through the Spirit. What an amazing statement. We are the temple of God. And so let's talk about the concept of the temple. What was the purpose of the temple and what was the thinking about people of people during this time period of the temple? So, first, this is the location where the pla or the place where God met with his people. Now we know that God is omnipresent. It's not like he is confined to a location, but this is the place that he appointed to be where he meets with his people. And this is to establish a constant reminder of several things about God. One, he's holy. Two, we do not have the right to come into his presence because we're sinners, but God has established a means through which sinful people can come to him through the provision of a sacrifice. And Hebrews 10. 14 it says, The law having a shadow of good things to come, not the very image of those things, can never with those sacrifices which were offered year by year continually make the comer served to perfect. In those sacrifices, there is a remembrance, that word's important, of sin every year. It is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats could take away sin. So the point is that the sacrificial system was to cause the people to remember the holiness of God, the sinfulness of man. That we can only come through a sacrifice, and it was pointing forward to a very specific sacrifice, the sacrifice of Christ But then we go beyond what the temple was supposed to be to what it became at the time that Paul's writing these things. In the first century, temple worship was different in many ways than what God instituted in his word. There were distortions to that picture. that were established in the law pointing to Christ. And some of these distortions that were created were created by the rabbis. These additions. visibly distorted the picture that was supposed to be there. And one of the things that is very prominent in this time is how there was an exclusion of Gentiles from the temple and there was also a distinction between male and female in the temple. And so there was a court of Gentiles, there was a court of women, and the question is, where do we find that in the scriptures? Answer? It's not there. So this is a man-made edition that actually distorted the picture. And so Paul has already highlighted the power of the cross and how it abolishes these unjustifiable man-made barriers. He talks about the enmity being removed by Christ, the middle wall of partition that separates us, being removed by his death. So we see in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 13, it says, now in Christ You who sometimes are far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. And he has made both one, and has broken down the middle wall of partition between us. He has abolished in his flesh the enmity. Very powerful statement. And so when we think about this exclusion, think about what it says in Galatians 3. He says, you're all the children of God. By faith in Christ Jesus. And he goes on to be very specific about it. As many as you have been baptized into Christ and have put on Christ, there's neither Jew nor Greek. There's neither bond nor free, neither male nor female. We're all one in Christ Jesus. If you be Christ, then you are Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. Now what is Paul saying? Is he saying that when people get saved they stop being male or female? The answer is no. He's talking about the distinction that was made in the temple, a court of Gentiles, a court of women Those distinctions that created the separation, they're abolished by the cross. Christ literally removes them. And so through Christ's sacrifice, those who are once excluded from the temple They are now the temple of God. That is the point of the passage we're looking at. So we see this in 1 Peter 2. You as lively stones are built up as spiritual house. a holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices that are acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Or 1 Corinthians 6. 19. What? Know ye not? Your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you. You are not your own. You are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and your spirit, which are God's. So we belong to Him. And we are the temple of God. And so I conclude with this very important little thought. It's not just that we have access to God. We do. But we now are the people whom he indwells. And so those who once were excluded are now the temple What an awesome thing for us to think about. As we gather together for worship on the Lord's Day, the Spirit of God is in our midst. As we get alone with the Lord and we get into the Word of God, we meditate on it, spend time in prayer. Spirit of God indwells us. We are his temple. And so God wants us to really reflect on that because you know what? That's one of the great blessings and benefits that come as a result of this reconciliation. an overwhelmingly amazing thing for us to ponder. That's what I have for you today. Hope you have a great rest of your day and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts of application. Bye now.