Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word morning reflection for the week. And typically we do this on Fridays, but this week, because I got started late, we're doing this on Saturday. But I hope that this study has been a blessing to you as we've looked at how the gospel gives us more than just reconciliation. It gives us certain blessings and benefits that are a direct result of that reconciliation. We are part of the kingdom of God. We are part of a household. He is our Father. He loves us. And we're just we're reminded of these wonderful truths. We are the temple of God. And it's not just that we have access to him, but he literally dwells within us. And so these are incredible truths. The question is, how do we practically apply what we talked about? So I want to give you four things to think about as we uh go through our weekend. And I hope that many of you will be able to join us on Sunday as we gather together for worship. And we also have special meetings this week with the Gellis family, so we will have them with us on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. And our services on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday night are at 7 o'clock. And we go for one hour. We have a couple of songs that we start with, and then we go right into the preaching. And um the children will have a special class in the back. So it's really a good time of spiritual refreshment being challenged just enjoying uh the ministry of God's word. So I hope that you'll join us for that as we uh as we think about that together. But let's talk about the application. Ephesians chapter 2, verses 19 through 22. I'll read it again, and then we'll talk about these four points of application. Here's what it says. Now therefore you are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God, and are built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets Jesus Christ. himself being the chief cornerstone, in whom all the building, fitly framed together, groweth unto an holy temple in the Lord, and whom you also are built together for an habitation of God through the Spirit Now, as we think about this passage, four applications come to mind. The first is really one about marveling and glorying. in the power of the gospel. I want to give you some scriptures that I think really capture this. The first is Isaiah 19. It says, The Lord shall be known in Egypt. The Egyptians shall know that the Lord shall know the Lord in that day. He shall be entreated of them and shall heal them. In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt. with Assyria, even a blessing in the midst of the land, whom the Lord of hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel my inheritance. Now could you imagine at a time when there was tremendous geopolitical tension between Egypt and Assyria, and then the Babylonian Empire is is is getting ready to rise before too long. That that the Isaiah would write that it's not just Judah that will be God's people, but Egypt and Assyria And they will be one, a part of one people. You say, how is that possible? One answer is, and only one answer, is the gospel. People from these people groups will turn to the Lord and be converted. Or here's a second example, Romans 11. He says, have they stumbled that they should fall? God forbid. But rather through their salvation. Salvation, through their fall, salvation has come to the Gentiles. Now, if the fall of them be the riches of the world, and the diminishing of them the riches of the Gentiles, how much more their fullness? I would not, brethren, that you should be ignorant of this mystery. Blindness, in part, has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles become in. So all Israel shall be saved. Ye in times past have not believed God, yet you've now obtained mercy through their unbelief. Even so, have these also now not believed that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy. For God hath included them all in unbelief, that he might have mercy on all. What's the whole point of this passage? Is to simply say that God's going to have Jew and Gentile be a part of the same body And the reason that he's going to do this is for his glory. And so we should marvel at the power of the gospel, doing something that only the gospel can do. Second thing I want to emphasize is an issue of priority. We need to prioritize the kingdom of God. And I made this point when we talked about the fact that we are citizens of the kingdom. We are to be faithful citizens in this realm, but also we are to live with a greater passion. for that realm. And so our citizenship, above all else, is in the heavenlies with the Lord. Third point of emphasis is identity and purpose. We talk about our identity and our purpose. Everything around us could be out of control, could be complicated and a mess. But the place that we can go to find stability in a rock is Christ. In him, we have our value. In him, we have our identity. In him, we have our purpose. We are complete in him. And so let that be the place where we find our value, our identity, and our purpose. The last thing I want to mention is one of worship and praise. And I know that's it seems like it's redundant. It's like I'm saying the same thing that I said at the beginning again. But we should praise the Lord for what he has done. We should worship him. We should live a life that is centered on him. 1 Corinthians 6 points out that we are the body, or our body is the temple of God. And we are not our own. We are bought with a price. We are to glorify him in our body and in our spirit, which are his. This passage draws attention to two aspects. in which we are to be responsible. One would be in our personal lives. Every day, whether we eat, drink, whatever we do, or to do all to the glory of God. In our personal lives we need to be committed to walking in his ways. And then in the corporate context, the church, we should prioritize and enjoy the sacredness of the local church. This is a special place. It's a place where we are united with one common faith and one common purpose. We are the people of God. And so that's what I want to leave you with as we think about this Saturday morning. May God help us to apply his word. Have a wonderful rest of your weekend, and Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday. Bye now.