Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection this week. And yesterday we talked about the darkness of the world and In 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 1 through 12. This morning what I'd like us to do is look at the other side, because the text in front of us is in fact contrasting the world in its position and its ultimate end and the believer, the church, and their position and their ultimate end and the function that we have in the world. And we're all driving, this passage is driving at a mission. emphasis focus and the need for us to show forth his praises. So if you have your Bible, let's take it. Please let's turn to 1 Peter chapter 2. We're going to read through verses 6 through 12 again, and then we're going to dig into this passage a little bit more. looking at the second part. Here's what the text says. Behold, I lay in Sion a chief cornerstone, elect, precious. He that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe he is precious, but unto them which be disobedient the stone with the which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner. and a stum stone of stumbling, a rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient once whereunto they were also appointed. But ye are chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his his marvelous light, which in times past were not a people, but are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which were against the soul, having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. Now, as I already mentioned, yesterday we talked about the darkness side. What is the position of the world? What is the practice of the world? What is the world's relationship to Christ? This morning what we're looking at is the contrast. We have been saved out of the world to a new position, to a new function, and ultimately to a glorious end. And we're going to see that this morning. So what we see here is that we have been mercifully awakened to the beauty of Christ. In verse number seven, he says Now I want to remind you of the way that we once viewed him. the way that the world continues to view him today. Words like unworthy, repulsive. triggering, offensive. These were the words that described the attitude of the Christian before his conversion. He says, you he hath quickened who were dead in trespasses and in sins. But we see this massive contrast into who we are today. But now we see him as he is. And so we see him as the Messiah. He is called the chosen of God. We see him as a glorious savior. We now see him as precious. We once disallowed him. We saw him as repulsive. Now we see him as precious We see him as the foundation of every spiritual blessing that we have. He is the chief cornerstone. And we see this contrast all throughout Scripture Think about 1 Corinthians 1 verse 23. It says, we preach Christ crucified. Now, how does the world view him? Well, unto the Jews he was a stumbling block. Unto the Greeks, foolishness, but unto them which are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. So when the world looks at Jesus, they see him as foolishness and a stumbling block. But we who are in Christ, who have been called and have been humbled and have believed in the gospel, we are a people who see him as wisdom. and as strength, and we see him as a glorious Savior. We also see this in Ephesians 2, where he had talks about we once walked according to the course of this world and we we had our conversation in times past, fulfilling the lust of the flesh. He says, but God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loves us Even when we were dead in sins, he hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace ye are saved. And so we see this wonderful contrast. We were, now we are. And the focal point of who we were and who we are now is how we view Jesus. We see him as he is. He is one who we have received as Savior, and we glory in him as our Lord and our master. And so we see this in Second Corinthians chapter four, verse six. He says, God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. I ask you this morning, how do you view Jesus? Do you view him as a glorious Savior, as the Lord who you treasure and you desire to submit to? who is the center of everything? Or do you see him as a cruel tyrant, someone who is in fact offensive to you? Who do you see Jesus as? Well, Lord willing, you see him as a glorious savior. I hope that you have a great rest of your day. And if you see him as a glorious savior, it's because of God's gracious word. in you and you ought to thank God for his salvation that you have experienced personally. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing we will meet again tomorrow. Bye now.