Good morning and welcome to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. We're looking at practical wisdom for 2026. And today we're going to look at the big picture in Psalm 37. Almost taking all of the different pieces. What we talked about throughout the last couple of days, just putting it together. I know it's not, it's it sounds a little bit like an application uh presentation. We'll actually do that tomorrow, Lord willing. But this does kind of take all of the different details and and sort of summarize it. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to Psalm 37. We'll read the beginning of the Psalm and then look at those big picture components. Here's what the text says. Fret not thyself because of evildoers. Neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass and wither as the green herb Trust in the Lord, and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, thy judgment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself, because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. Now as we think about the big picture, I want to give you each of those components that are laid out in these verses. The first piece, verses 7 through 8, says the following. Rest. Wait patiently, fret not. See those statements? Rest, wait patiently, fret not. Cease from anger, forsake wrath. Yet a little while the wicked shall be no more. This is really giving you a big picture summary of this whole section. And so notice the first part. Have a settled heart. Rest in the Lord. What I mean by settled is that you're not restless. You're not fretting You're not striving to work it all out in your own strength. You're not consumed with worry and anxious thoughts. It's about a heart that is disposed toward rest. The second response is to learn to maintain that settled heart. What we're saying here, when it says in verse 7, wait patiently for him, means that it's not something you just do one time and then it's over with. This is supposed to be a way of life. This is something we have to do over and over and over again. It's part of a lifelong process If I was to use this analogy, it's like the difference between lifting something really heavy one time versus running a marathon. It's impressive when you can lift a lot of weight, but when you can continue to push and to push and to push and not to give up. And to maintain that steady pace, that's what he means when he says, wait patiently for him. We need to maintain this settled disposition toward God. Thirdly, don't get angry. Cease from anger, forsake wrath. It's so easy for us in life when we see injustice to be consumed with anger. We might be angry at God. We might be angry at people who have wronged us. We might be angry at those who didn't step in and resolve an issue when it was within their power to do that. And so what does he say? Don't be angry. Fourthly, take time, or excuse me, don't take matters into your own hands. Verse 8 says, fret not thyself in any wise to do evil. I mentioned earlier that that word fret has the idea of something burning inside. The idea is that you need to make sure that you're not a person who's consumed with the issue and you're just mulling it over constantly in your mind and that you're doing this because you are so consumed with that issue Now, this is not telling us to be passive and to do nothing about our problems. When we say fret not, it's not saying don't be responsible, don't make wise decisions. This doesn't eliminate our duties. We do have them. There's another level to this. It's telling us that when following our godly duties and doing things God's way, can't we can't take it any further. We shouldn't follow worldly wisdom and try to take matters into our own hands contrary to what God's purposes are. And that's the idea. We always have limitations. There's our duty, but there's a side where there are things we cannot accomplish. We have to let the Lord do it. And so that's what he means when he says, don't fret, and any wise to do evil. So I break it down like this. Two major components. One is, God's going to judge the wicked. Two, God's going to vindicate the righteous. Those two pieces are side by side. Evildoers will be cut off, but those who wait on the Lord will inherit the earth. A little while and the wicked shall be no more. Yea, thou shalt diligently consider his place, and he shall not be. However, the meek they'll inherit the earth, and will delight themselves in the abundance of peace. You see the contrast? So we think when we think of this big picture, we need to remember God does right in the end. And everything is moving toward that end. Well, may God help us to have such a big picture of you in this new year. Hope you have a wonderful rest of your day. If you have any questions, please reach out. Love to hear from you. Love to be an encouragement any way that I can. Have a blessed rest of your day, Lord willing. We'll meet again one more time this week, tomorrow, to pull us all together with some final thoughts of application. Bye now.