Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good Tuesday morning. And the text that we're going to be dealing with this week is Psalm 50. And so if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to turn there. We're going to dig into this text a little bit this morning with giving some background information that's going to help us to really appreciate the focus of Psalm 50. So if you have your Bible, let's turn there and we'll read the text together. Just reading the first section up to the first Selah where we pause and we reflect. And then I want to talk about some background thoughts to prepare us for this text we're dealing with. Psalm chapter, or Psalm 50, the 50th Psalm, says the following. The mighty God, even the Lord, hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined. Our God shall come, He shall not keep silence. A fire shall devour before him, it shall be very tempestuous round about him. And he shall call to the heavens from above and to the earth, that they may judge his people. Gather my saints together unto me, those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice. And the heavens shall declare his righteousness, for God is judge, himself Selah. Now as we dig into this passage of scripture, we're going to see that the text really focuses in on two fundamental problems. One would be those who are true believers who are not living consistent with the position that they have. And of course, this is believers in the Old Testament context. But the second would be those who profess to be believers in the Old Testament context. They're a part of the covenant community. But in fact they're unregenerate. They're not true believers. And so the focus of this passage of scripture is going to deal with those two groups, and it's going to be an appeal to both of them. to recognize their position and then to turn practically and genuinely to the Lord. But before we dig into some of those details throughout this week, I want us to consider two thoughts in the background. The first thought is one dealing with human condition. And the human condition is a desperate condition. When we talk about human nature, we're not talking about people as being generally good or basically good, but in fact humans are morally depraved. We are yes, we are image bearers, we have a conscience. It's true that we have rational thinking ability and we have the ability to make moral choices right and wrong But at our core is a brokenness, a sinfulness, a a depravity that infects every single aspect of who we are. There are a lot of scriptures that talk about this, and I think that this is at the root of what we're going to see in Psalm 50. The first passage I want to draw your attention to is Jeremiah 17, 9. He says, The heart of man is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked who can know it. I remember when we served overseas in Ghana, West Africa, we had this little book that talked about eternal life. And one of the questions that was asked in the booklet was. . What is the most . deceptive thing in all of creation or something like that? I don't remember exactly how it was put, but we would go to this verse, Jeremiah 17, 9, and say, the heart is deceitful above all things. And people would say, Really? The human heart? And the answer is yes. From my heart comes all kinds of evil, and from your heart as well. Or another passage, Romans chapter 1, which talks about human nature. It says that when people knew God, they did not glorify him as God, but they were unthankful. They became vain in their imaginations, their foolish heart became darkened. And they professed themselves to be wise, and through that they became fools. They changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like unto corruptible men. And so what do we see? The deceitfulness of the human heart, ingratitude, when people have access to truth, they suppress the truth, they turn from it, they create idols. So what is this ultimately telling us? Well, all people are naturally, by their own hearts, having a diminished view of God's holiness. When they think about the holiness of God, when they think about the greatness of God, the power of God, their view of him is too small. We naturally have a deficient view of God. And this affects everything about us. It affects how we worship Him. It affects what we believe is right and wrong. how we believe that we should appeal to him, all of those things are affected by that. But one of the most dangerous things about the human condition is not just that we are by nature bent in rebellion against God, but we also have this tendency to take what is good and then to twist it and corrupt it. And one of the clearest examples of this is what people do with religion. That word religion is a word that that really can be looked at as either a positive or a negative thing. If we talk about religion in the sense of an absolute commitment to walking with God and living in the light of our position in Christ, having a vibrant relationship with God that actually manifests itself in a real genuine walk before him. Well, in that sense, pure religion undefiled before God and the Father is this, uh, keeping oneself unspotted from the world and ministering to the fathers and the widows in their affliction. When we talk about religion in that sense, well that's a good thing. But when we talk about religion in the sense that we typically think of it, it's actually a very negative thing. And that is people trying to earn their way to God. People trying to use their approach to God as a means of expressing themselves, and we could say maybe establishing their credentials with other people. I mean that's the way people tend to look at religion. And one of those passages that comes to mind is in the book of Matthew. Listen to what Jesus says to the most religious people of his day He says, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You make clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they're full of extortion and excess. Thou blind Pharisees, cleanse first that which is uh in the cup And then he said, you're like whitewalled sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful in the outward, but within are full of dead men's bones and all in cleanness. Even so you also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within you're full of hypocrisy and iniquity. And what's the point of this? In the background, we're preparing us for this Psalm 50 passage. What it shows you is that it's very easy for people to assimilate into a religious system and then to use that religious system in hypocrisy to present themselves in a way that in fact is not true. And so what does that lead us to? Well, this text really warns us about the danger of being religious but unregenerate. And so as we work our way through this passage, I think it's important for us to recognize that this passage isn't calling us to be moral people or to be religious people. It's calling us to be a regenerate, redeemed people Who live in the light of the position we have in Christ. And so I want to encourage you with that this morning. May we be a people. Who are not just moral, who are not just religious, but are regenerate. We are alive in Christ and living in the light of that position May God help us to be that people. If you do not understand what I mean by regenerate, redeemed, reconciled to God, born again, living in the light of that position, please reach out to me. I'd love to take the time to answer any questions that you have, go through the scriptures and show you exactly what I mean by that. Well, I hope that gives you some things to think about this morning. Lord willing tomorrow we'll keep working our way through this passage of scripture as we start getting into some of the details of the text. And again, if this has been an encouragement to you, share that. If you have any questions, reach out. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.