Good morning, welcome back to our fourth anchored in the word, morning reflection. We've talked a lot about the content, we've talked a lot about the background. Now what I'd like us to do is look at the foundation that was ultimately driving the response that Christ had. And so this week, or this morning, we're going to look at several key principles that were driving Christ's response in the passage in front of us. So if you have your Bibles, let's take them. Let's turn again to Luke chapter 19. We're going to read verses 41 through 44, and then we will look at some of those principles that were at the foundation of what Jesus was doing. Here's what it says. And when he was come near, he beheld the city, and wept over it, saying, If thou hast known, even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belong unto thy peace, but now they are hid from thine eyes. For the day shall come upon thee, that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, encompass thee round, and keep thee in on every side, and shall lay thee even to the ground. and thy children within thee, and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. There are four principles that I want to emphasize that I think are at the foundation of why Christ responded the way that he did. The first principle is this. God is just, and we are responsible to embrace the truth. The reason that Jesus says what he does is because God is a just God. If that generation was going to reject their Messiah, that generation was going to face the judgment of God. In the same way that the nation of Israel, at times when it was rejecting the Mosaic Covenant, being unfaithful to it, when the prophets came over and over and over again and warned them. You need to repent and turn to God. When they refused, there was judgment that came. The second principle is that since he is just And since he punishes evil, he will punish it with perfect righteousness and justice. I think of Romans chapter 2, verse 2, he says this we are sure That the judgment of God is according to truth. God doesn't judge any whimsical way. God is very calculated. He's very measured. He's very proportionate. In fact, he really is even very forbearing, but he will judge maturely. Third principle. When God punishes evil, and this is important, he does not delight in the destruction and the misery of the wicked. Notice what it says in Ezekiel 33, 11. It says, As I live, saith the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way and live. Turn ye, turn ye from your evil ways. Why will ye die, O house of Israel? This is a very important principle for us to understand. Now when we look at this issue of justice, justice is good. When God punishes evil, that is the right thing to do. It is a good thing when evil is not continually going on unchecked, but in fact God deals with it. But when it comes to God's attitude towards those whom He has created in His image, It says he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. What does that mean? It's the desire of God not to punish people, but rather to save them. When we think about the passage of Scripture where Paul in in the pastoral epistles says that we're to pray for kings and all who are in authority, that we might lead a quiet and peaceful life in all godliness, it says For God desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. So when we think about God's disposition towards the wicked, though there is enmity, though his wrath is about to be poured out on them, in his justice. God desires their salvation. God loves them. He is compassionate towards them and kind toward them I think about the passage in the Gospels where it says that he makes his his rain fall on the just and on the unjust. God is very benevolent to those who are rejecting him. And so we're reminded of this, that though he punishes evil, he does not delight in the destruction of the evil, of the wicked. Principle four. You and I, no one can afford to reject these calls to embrace the gospel. Romans chapter 2, verses 3 to 6. It says, Despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? But after thy hardness and impenitent heart treasurest up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath and the revelation and the righteous judgment of God, who will render to every man according to his deeds. What does this tell you? If you reject the gospel, even though God has no delight in your destruction, You will be punished. You will be judged. And so it reminds us that the stakes are very high. We must embrace the truth while we have time. God desires us to be saved. And so this is very practical for us to think about. It's practical for us when we think about other people who are lost. And we desire their salvation. It's practical for us when we think about God's attitude toward us if we're not believers and how He desires us to be saved. May God help us to understand the way that our God thinks about us. Well, I thought I have for you this morning. Lord willing, tomorrow we'll meet again one more time. to kind of wrap up everything and I hope present some things that are very practical and helpful to you. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.