Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And as we always do, Friday is an application focus. Not to say that we don't have any applications from the other days, but this one is extremely focused on application. And so if you have a Bible, let's take it one more time to John 21, dig into this passage, and then really reflect on how to take it and put it into practical use. John 21. After these things, Jesus showed himself again to his disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. And on this wise showed he himself. There were together Simon Peter and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathaniel of Cana and Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples. Simon Peter saith unto them, I go fishing. They say unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth and entered into a ship immediately, and that night they caught nothing. But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. Then Jesus saith unto them, Children, have ye any meat? They answered him, No. He said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship. You shall find. They cast their four, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of the fishes. As we think about Peter's failure, Christ, God's grace. I want you to see how God's power was demonstrated through a man that was very weak What is the rest of the story? There are three things I want to point out before we get to these last applications. The first is this. Peter, after this event, was like a totally different man. We see in Acts chapter 2, he preaches at Pentecost, and then in Acts chapter 4, we see another event where Peter preaches and thousands of people are converted. And it says, as they spoke unto the people, the priests and the captains and the Sadducees came being grieved that he taught the people and preached through Jesus the resurrection of the dead, they laid hands on them, put them into the prison until the next day. Howbeit, many that heard the word believed, and the number of men was about five thousand. Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, They marveled and took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. Same man. Just a few weeks later. But what's he doing? He's preaching with power because God has gotten a hold of his heart. Or a second example. I think about his shepherding legacy, 1 Peter 5. And this is very significant. When we think about what Jesus says where he goes, feed my sheep, feed my lambs, he writes the following, the elders which are among you I exhort, who am also an elder. and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed. Feed the flock of God. Sounds exactly like what Jesus told him to do. Taking the oversight, not by constraint but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind, neither as being lords over God's heritage, but examples to the flock. And when the chief shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. Peter got it. He was passing on the baton And then we see thirdly at the end of his ministry, before he dies, he's writing this final bit of scripture, and he says the following. 2 Peter 1. I will not have you be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things. As long as I am in this tabernacle to stir you up by putting off of putting you in remembrance, knowing that shortly I must put off this tabernacle, even as our Lord has showed us. Moreover, I will endeavor that you may be able, after my decease, to have these things always in remembrance. We have not followed cunningly devised fables, and we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus. We were eyewitnesses of his majesty. What's the point? Here's the point. Though Peter had failed and stumbled, he got back up. Christ re-established him. He spoke powerfully through him. He was a faithful minister of the gospel as a pastor. And then as an apostle, he pens the last scripture that he's going to pen before his death, and he finishes well. What does that tell you? God can work through people like Peter. And so that moves us to the application. God always uses flawed instruments, no exceptions That's all he has. We're all flawed people. And so when we think about this, we need to recognize several things about this. We're going to stumble like Peter. I'm not saying it doesn't matter. I'm not saying there aren't consequences. But just like Peter, we are going to stumble. We're going to go through vulnerable moments. And in those vulnerable moments, we will learn he is faithful. And his grace will shine the brightest in those seasons. His grace will call us. His grace will sustain us. His grace will pursue us when we're down. His grace calls us into fellowship with him and he re-establishes that fellowship that has been broken. He reminds us that his purposes don't change. He tells us, get up, move forward. I'm not done with you. God always uses people who are flawed. And so don't allow your failure to define you Don't wallow in those miserable seasons. Get up. Recognize he has a purpose for you. Walk with him and let him work through you. Delight. in his presence. Enjoy the Lord with all of your life. Purpose to be faithful wherever he has planted you. That's a lot for us to process as we go into the weekend. I hope you'll take these things and I hope you'll live in the light of them. Have a blessed rest of your day, a blessed weekend. And Lord willing we'll meet again on Monday as we dig into the Word of God together by now.