Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Thanks for joining us this week as we've been working our way through this text dealing with a great missions topic, and that is how God and His providence works through the power of the gospel. This morning what I want us to do is look at some final applications as we try to digest everything we've talked about throughout this week. And so let's turn in our Bibles one more time to Acts chapter 18. We're going to read through the passage, and then after that, we're going to dig into those applications. Here's what God's Word says. After these things, Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth, and found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius, lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla. Because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome. And he came unto them, and because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, and wrought, for by their occupation they were tent makers. And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks, and when S Silas and Timotheus, which were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in his spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. Now, as we've dug into this passage of scripture, we've seen a lot of focus on God's providence and how God works through difficult circumstances. And so what I want to do is kind of boil it down to some final thoughts The first thought that I have is this. There is no place that is too dark for the gospel to penetrate it. Now, we tend to think that we're living in the absolute worst times ever in history And there are certain things about this period in history we live in that are very unique and very dark. But the simple fact is, where we live today is nothing like Corinth or Ephesus or some of these other very pagan cities. There are lots and lots of churches in many of our communities. The problem many times is not a lack of churches, it's a lack of healthy churches. Now, not to say that we don't need more churches, we absolutely do, but we're talking about a city with no church, with no Christians, with no gospel witness. That is deeply rooted in paganism. That was the world that the Apostle Paul lived in. And so he takes the gospel, and even though it was even though it was a dark time, what does God do? He works through it. We might be thinking that we're observing a field that's absolutely impossible. The fact is that God can work even when we think that He can. We see that the gospel transforms people's lives. Wherever it is preached, it's going to take root in lives. It's going to save people from sin, and it's going to transform them as new creatures in Christ. Second comment. God accomplishes his work through all kinds of different situations. There are no things that God doesn't have the ability to use in some way for good. Again, not saying that it becomes good, but that he uses it for good. Frustrations, setbacks, these are things that we all experience, but they don't stop him from doing what he's going to do in the world. We are all imperfect people. Yet God works despite our imperfections. He uses us despite the limitations that we all encounter. He works despite great obstacles. And so we recognize that God accomplishes his work in all kinds of different circumstances. Thirdly, his providence superintends both the ordinary and the extraordinary Some of the things that we've talked about this week are things that when we think about how God's worked through them, they are extraordinary. Others, they're just normal, ordinary things. A lot of times people would take for granted the fact that God is working through those things What do I mean by that? He takes things like persecution and he uses it as a catalyst for good. That's the way that he works. He intervenes at the critical moments that were essential in these churches being planted in the lives of the people, and he intervened for their good in those moments. We need to see that he, we need to purpose to be involved in what he's doing. And that might seem like ordinary work at times, but it's extraordinary when it comes to how God uses it. We need to learn to trust him and what he's doing that is outside of our control. Anytime we're engaged in a gospel work, that work is going to be bigger than we are. Thirdly, he works through committed servants who are willing to suffer and persevere through the difficulties they encounter. I want to kind of focus in on each of those words. The first word is the word committed. These are people who have something pressing them internally. They are willing to put their lives their wishes, their desires, their plans, they're willing to set it on the line and they're willing to do what God has. The second is the word servant. These are people that don't see themselves as in charge and God working for them, but rather they are working for him. Servants. We are under his leadership, not vice versa. Third, willing to suffer. Not desiring to suffer, but willing. Whatever God may cause us to go through, allow us, permit us to go through. We are willing to do that. And so if we're caught in a decision where it's going to be difficult if I do what's right, I'm going to do what's right because I know what is right and I'm committed to that. And then fourthly, we have the word persevere, the idea of carrying this load and continuing no matter the circumstances. I want to encourage you, as we think about this passage of scripture and think about how God works, that those are the principles that should guide us and shape our worldview. Well if you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. If this has been an encouragement and you'd like to share that, please take a moment to do that. That feedback is always encouraging. Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday. If not, Lord willing, we'll meet you again on Monday as we dig into more of God's Word. Have a blessed rest of your day, a blessed weekend, and we hope to see you soon. Bye now