Good morning and welcome to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the week. And I'm planning to get this out just around noontime. and uh hope that it'll be an encouragement to you. Uh because we had issues with our first video, I re-recorded it today, and so I'm putting out two videos. Um so I didn't record the second one or I didn't do the same one twice today. This is the first one was actually for yesterday. But we've been talking about what it means to walk by faith, what it looks like. And today's passage is going to, or today's study is going to be very, very helpful in helping us to realize that walking by faith is not a passive thing. It's something that involves obedience. walking in wisdom, being proactive. And so I think as we work our way through this text you'll see that very clearly being illustrated here. So if you have a Bible, take it, and let's turn together to 2 Chronicles 32. And we're going to begin reading in verse number one. Here's what the text says. After these things and the establishment thereof, So Nacrib king of Assyria came, and he entered into Judah, and he encamped against the fenced cities and thought to win them for himself. And when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come, and that he was purposed to fight against Jerusalem, he took counsel with his princes, and his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains which were without the city. And they did help him. So there was gathered much people together who stopped all the fountains and the brook that ran through the midst of the land. Now, as we look at this passage, we notice that as soon as Hezekiah realizes that there is a problem brewing, as soon as he foresees the evil, he hides himself, or we could say he prepares for battle. And so walking by faith is not a passive thing. It's something that involves wisdom. Notice what he says in verse 2. When he saw that Sennacherib was come and purposed to fight. He took counsel of the princes and the mighty men to stop the water of the fountains which were without the city. And they did help him. So there were gathered together much people who stopped all the fountains of the brook that ran through the midst of the land, saying, Why should the king of Assyria come and find much water? He also strengthened himself, built up the wall that was broken down, raised it up to the towers, and another wall without. Now let's break down the details just so that we can see the kind of action that he took when he saw there was a problem The first thing that we see is that he was circumspect. He's looking around and he's trying to discern what's going on around him. He's not naive. He's not simple. He has true wisdom. And so as he sees that Sennacherib is moving systematically, methodically, town after town, city after city, conquering and expanding his influence, and then he comes to the doorstep of Jerusalem. He's not just looking at him going, oh, certainly he'll stop here. He understands this is a very dangerous situation. He recognizes it and he begins to prepare immediately. The second thing that we see that he does is that he takes counsel. Scripture says in the multitude of counselors there is much safety. And so what he does is he takes the best experts that are available to him and he says, what do we do? You see the problem. How do we prepare ourselves? And we see that in verse 3, where he took counsel of the princes and the mighty men, the people that had authority, the people that had wisdom, the people who knew how to fight, the people who knew about vulnerability in battle. These are the people that he talks to. The third thing that he does is he takes decisive action on what he's heard. Sometimes people get counsel and then they sit on it. That's not what Hezekiah did. He got that information and he said, let's get busy to work right away. And so they go to stop the water of the fountains that were without the city. Now this is an important little detail that I think is fascinating. There is an aqueduct that goes from a portion of Jerusalem, and Jerusalem is is in a hilly country, it's in the high country. And if you were to go to Jerusalem, there is a valley called the Kidron Valley. And that Kidron Valley used to have streams that ran through it that were fed from a place called the Gihon Springs. And what was going on is during this time, if people were in the city and there was a siege, they would be in trouble because they didn't have internal water sources that were consistent. Their water was outside the city, and so they would have to go outside their walls, they'd have to go fetch water from the streams and from the springs, and it left them vulnerable. And so Hezekiah's men counseled him to deal with two problems. One is, let's remove the water source from our enemies who are encamped around the city. And two. Let's make sure that our water source is in the city so that we are less vulnerable. And so they they stopped up the spring. They built an aqueduct, and at the bottom of the aqueduct within the city, there's now a pool called the Pool of Siloam. And you can actually go today And you can find this aqueduct that was built in those days. It's thousands of years old and it's still there. It's an amazing feat. And it's something that took a lot of engineering and a lot of labor. And so they did that. He takes that quick action right away. Fifth thing that we see. Is that he assembles a team that is motivated? Verses 3 to 5. They did help him. They gathered much people together, and they stopped all the fountains and the brooks that ran in the midst of the land, saying, Why should the king of Assyria come and find much water? And so this is obviously something Hezekiah cannot do alone. He needs a team. He needs managers. He needs laborers, he needs people that are skillful, he needs people that will be motivated and can motivate people, and when he does that, they're able to get the work done very quickly. The sixth thing is he builds up the defensive positions. In verse 5 it says he strengthened himself, he built up walls that were broken down, he raised up towers, and repaired Milo, the city of David. So he looks at the city and and obviously these cities encountered warfare a lot, and there were certain sections that were broken down. They needed to be rebuilt, they needed to be strengthened, the towers needed to be manned. And so they're prepared for battle by securing their defensive positions. Seventhly, he builds his military capabilities. And to me this is important as well. Not just let's build the walls, let's remove the water source, but let's make sure that we have the equipment we need. And let's make sure that we have the coordination that we need. And let's make sure that the military is properly structured so it can do what it needs to do. In verses 5 and 6 it says, he made darts and shields in abundance. and set captains of war over the people. So he's ramping up production. He's making weapons. He's making shields. He's establishing leaders who are going to be over the military. He's doing all of these things, and I want to make this simple point. It's all being done by faith. Someone might say, well, hold on. How could you say it's being done by faith? Being done by faith would be just trusting God. Well, trusting God while you do what He's called you to do. The fact is, if he was being passive, he'd get run over. Or if he was being passive and he was capitulating, he would have just paid some kind of a bribe to Sennacherib so he could take control of the city. So he's standing firm and he's preparing for battle, but he's doing his job. He's making sure that that the nation is ready for war. But here's the final thing that I think is very important. He understands the importance of morale. In verse 6 it says that he encouraged the people, he strengthened them. comfortably to them. And so all of this was done by faith. Now to translate this into our lives, we need to recognize that walking by faith is not a passive thing. If you have a responsibility, you need to do your responsibility. Let's say a person needs a job. Should they pray that God provides it? Of course they should pray that God provides for the job. But if they're going to ask God to provide the job, they need to have a resume And not only should they have a resume, but they ought to make sure that the resume looks good. And they ought to seek contacts as much as possible and put that information out there. And if they have an opportunity for a job interview, they ought to make sure that they look sharp and go to that interview and conduct themselves with grace and do it to the best of their ability. And keep working at it until you actually get the job that you need. Now, walking by wisdom and walking by faith is not and they're not against one another. They actually work together. Or let's say that a person's raising a family. Should we pray that God gives us wisdom in the raising of our children? Absolutely. Should we pray that they get saved and that They they grow in discipleship and that they live for the Lord all the days of their life? The answer is absolutely we should do that. But we shouldn't do that and just sit on our hands. We should open up our Bibles and teach them the Word of God. We should be a faithful example. We should make sure that they're at church and Sunday school. We should make sure that they're plugging into the opportunities that are in front of them. We need to have conversations with them about what they're learning. the influences that they have in their lives, their that the friends that they have, we need to be actively involved in their lives, teaching them how to work through conflicts and struggles and difficulties. In other words, we pray and we trust and we labor in wisdom as God has given us responsibility. And so that's what I have for you this morning, or afternoon, depending on when you get this I hope that gives you some things to think about. This walking by faith is not a passive thing. It's an obedience thing. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow, and I'll have the videos out at our typical time. Bye now.