Good morning and welcome to our midweek study, our Wednesday edition of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. We've been talking about the cross and how the cross is a triumph, and yesterday we spent a lot of time digging into that concept. Today what we're going to do is look at the actual gifts that are given to the church. And I use that word authority because the standard for which the church is built is going to be talked about in these verses. And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn there to Ephesians chapter 4. We're going to pick up in verse number 7, read through the text, and then dig into those gifts that are given. Here's what the text says. Unto every one of us is given grace, according to the measure of the gift of Christ. Wherefore he saith, When he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive. and gave gifts unto men. Now that he ascended, what is it but that he also descended first into the lower parts of the earth? He that descended is the same also that ascended up far above all heavens, that he might fill all things. And he gave some apostles and some prophets and some pastors and teachers for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. Now we talk about the authority that is given, these gifts that are given, they all are focused in on the instruction of truth. Every single one of them. And I want to begin with a couple of thoughts as sort of an introduction here. In verse 11, when he talks about apostles and prophets and evangelists and pastors and teachers, the question is why do we need these people Why do we need these gifts? Well, we need these gifts because of the progression that's shown in these verses. These are given to the church in a very distinctive way. When we talk about what the church needs, the church needs a standard. What is the authority of the church? The church needs something that is timeless and outside of itself. The church needs something that is absolutely certain and true. Not only does the church need that standard, but the church needs to be actually a body of people who are reconciled to God. We are sinners and we need to be drawn to Him. And so we need the law, which is going to point us to the fact that we are lost and we need salvation. We need the gospel, which is going to show us how we can actually be reconciled to God. We need someone to actually call us to repent and to believe, to tell us what God has done for us. And so we need someone to show us how to be reconciled to God. Thirdly, we have to grow into Christ-likeness. What I mean by that is we need people to teach us who we are in Him. And how are they going to do that? They're going to go to that standard. They're going to appeal on the basis that we have been reconciled to God. We need to be taught how to grow. What what does God use to actually shape us and mature us into the image of Christ? We need to be shepherded. We need to people to actually look out for us and to shepherd our souls. And so That's what we need. All of those things are going to be mentioned in the text in front of us. Well, what is that shore standard? That shore standard is the apostles and prophets that are talked about That sure standard is what they gave us. Ephesians 2. 20 tells us a little bit of information I think helps to make sense of this. It says, we are built on the foundation of the prophets and the apostles, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. Now, what did God use prophets and apostles to do? He used them to give us the Bible, to give us the standard that is objective, that is true. Every word of Scripture is breathed out by God. The prophecy came not in old time by the will of men, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. And so that's what he's talking about. That's the standard. Secondly, we have the ministry of reconciliation. How do we know about it? Well, there are people that herald and preach the good news, evangelists. And so in 2 Corinthians 4. 5, Paul talks about how he was an evangelist. He says, we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake. God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness hath shined into our hearts. to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. So in 2 Corinthians 4. 5 we see that Paul was an evangelist 2 Corinthians 5. 18, he says, All things are of God, who has reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and given unto us the ministry of reconciliation, and hath committed to us the word of reconciliation. Now then, we are ambassadors for Christ. As though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's stead be reconciled to God. And so we see this issue of the evangelist. And then we see, thirdly, those who shepherd the souls of people, pastors and teachers. And we see what it says in 1 Peter 5, where he says that the elders are to feed the flock of God. They are to take oversight, not by constraint, but willingly, not as lords, but as examples. That idea of shepherding is something that is built into the great need of the church. Or 2 Timothy 2. 24. The servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle, apt to teach, patient, and meekness instructing those who oppose themselves. If peradventure God will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth, that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, who are taken captive by him. at his will. And so what you can see is the gifts that God has given are all focused on the authority of Scripture. Those who give the Scripture, the prophets and the apostles, those who proclaim the Scripture and tell people how to be saved, evangelists. And those who go back constantly to the scriptures and use it to shepherd the souls of people, pastors and teachers. And so aren't you thankful that God has gifted the church in these ways? We should be thankful for that. Well, that gives us some things to think about. Hope you have a great rest of your day. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we look at this passage two more times, Thursday and Friday. Have a blessed day. We'll see you soon. Bye now.