Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for this week. And to remind you, the text that we're looking at is Luke chapter 13, verses 22 through 13. And the topic we're addressing is proclaiming the gospel like Christ. Yesterday we dealt with some introductory material and we looked at a couple of simple truths that are are being taught in Christ's passage that we're looking at. And the conversation that he has with an individual says, why are there so few that are saved? And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles out, let's read the text together, and then And we will dig into this passage again as we keep looking at the truths that we find in the text. So Luke chapter 13, verses 22 through 30. And he went through the cities and villages teaching, and journeying toward Jerusalem. Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? He said unto them, Strive to enter in at the Straight gate, for many I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able. Then once the master of the house is risen up, and hath shut the door, and he begin to stand without and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us. And he shall answer and say unto you, I know you not, from whence ye are, depart. Then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in thy presence Thou hast taught in our streets. But he shall say, I tell you, I know you not. Whence ye are, depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth when ye shall see Abraham. And Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, and you yourselves are shut out. And they shall come from east and from west and from north and from south, and shall sit At the kingdom of God, and behold, there are last which shall be first, and there are first which shall be last. Now, yesterday we looked at two statements or two truths that we find. The first is that they are to strive to enter in. And the idea is that everything else in life should be secondary to this pursuit. of the kingdom of God. The second statement is the statement the straight gate. And this is an emphasis that you enter into the kingdom one at a time, one by one. Like a person entering into a football Stadium through a turn signal. You go in one at a time. And that one individual who is the way into the kingdom is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the door, and it is through him that we enter in. Well, this morning I'd like us to develop more truths that we find in the text. And so the next truth we find is that many will strive to establish A basis to enter God's kingdom, and they will tragically fail. Now, in the passage we see verses 24 and 25, he puts it like this. He says, Many I say unto you, will Now the Greek term for seek and strive are actually different terms. The first term, strive, has the emphasis Of lay everything to the side and focus on this alone. Seeking here, I think, has a little bit more of a sense of trying to build up a basis to be able to enter in And so he says, Many are going to seek to enter in, and they'll be unable. They will not have the ability to do it. And when the master of the house is risen and hath shut the door, And you begin to stand without and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us. He will say, Depart from me, I never knew you. Now in verse 23 , This observer says, are there few that are saved? In verse 24, Jesus doesn't really answer his question. He says, strive to enter in. But you're not going to be able to. So we see in verse chapter 11, verse 52, why Jesus would say what he did. He says, woe unto you lawyers. You have taken away the kingdom or the key of knowledge, and you enter not in yourselves. And then and them that were entering in you hindered. The reason that Jesus talks about people who are to strive to enter, and they are seeking to enter and unable, is because in Jesus' day the primary teachers of the the synagogues were not understanding. that a person comes to the kingdom of God through the Messiah, his death and resurrection. Instead, they were teaching that you enter into the kingdom by following the rules that were established by the rabbis. And so as they taught this legalism that you enter the kingdom through your keeping of the law, they were actually taking away the knowledge of how one actually is to enter the kingdom of God, and that is through the Messiah. And those who understood this, they were hindering them in the sense that they made it more difficult. For them as they were living this life, as those who were believing in Messiah. They were teaching things contrary to the truth, and it was affecting those. In Matthew chapter 5, verse 20, we We see Jesus talking to these people who are in this position of seeking and striving. And this is what he says, except your righteousness exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, you will in no case enter the kingdom of heaven. He is simply saying that you have to be better than the religious leaders. Your righteousness has to be higher and it has to be purer than their righteousness. And the natural thing that someone would have said was, well then, can anybody be saved because there is no one more righteous than a Pharisee? The point is that Jesus is going to teach that you have to have God's righteousness, not your righteousness. And so that leads us to Romans 10, where Paul laments. The condition of the Jewish people. A condition that had been his before he met Christ on the road to Damascus. He says, Brethren, my heart's desire in prayer to God for Israel is That they might be saved. He's saying they're not believers. He says, I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. Now, Paul would have put himself in that very category. before his conversion. And here is the zeal without knowledge. He says, being ignorant of God's righteousness and going about to establish their own righteousness, they have not submitted themselves unto God to the righteousness of God. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone that believeth. Now do you see this progression here? When Jesus says many are seeking to enter and are unable, and then in Luke 11, where he says, Woe unto you, you've taken away the key of knowledge. And then in Matthew 5, he says, accept your righteousness. Exceeds the righteousness of the Pharisees and the scribes will not enter. What he's basically saying is you cannot enter through the system that's being presented to you. to you. It's a system that is ignorant of God's righteousness. It's a system that's teaching people to establish their own righteousness. And it's a system that's missing the one and only means through which we end So when he says that many strive to enter by establishing a basis and will fail, he's describing a lot of people today too. The vast majority of people that are religious but don't know Christ would find themselves in such a category. The fourth truth that we find In these verses, is that it's not about who you know, it's about who knows you. And so in verses 25 to 28, he says that he's going to answer and say, I know you not Then they will begin to say, Well, we have eaten and drunk in your presence and hast taught and thou hast taught in our streets. And he will say, I know you not. Depart from me, workers of iniquity. Iniquity. What is Jesus saying? He's saying that these are people who knew who he was, but he didn't know them. I gave this illustration on the Sunday that I was preaching. And it's like a person going to a ballgame. Maybe you have season tickets and you watch the players play and you watch them warm up and watch them practice and you feel like you know these people personally But the fact is if you yell out to them, well, you're just another person in the crowd. But if you were their brother or their mother or their father or their grandfather or their uncle, and you called out to them, they know your voice Voice. They know your name. They know you. And so Jesus is saying it's not about who you know, your familiarity with the truth. It's about who knows you. You have placed your faith in Christ. And you're God's child. The statement, I know you not, is mentioned twice in this text. He's emphasizing that while these people knew who God was, they were not known to God because They were excluded from him outside of the kingdom, having not placed their faith in Christ. When he says you have eaten and drunk that that that we we have seen you we have eaten and drunk in your presence and you have taught in our streets. means they had access to Christ's ministry, but they were observers, not believers. And when he says you shall see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, he's saying, you know what the scripture teaches. If he'd have said that to Gentiles, I'd say Abraham who? Isaac who? Jacob who? The prophets, we don't know these people. These people knew it, but they had not embraced it. The fifth truth that we find in these verses, and this is one that's very comforting, is that the gospel is for everybody. This is not a gospel that's just for a couple of people. Not just for the Jewish people, it's for all people. I'm reminded of 1 John chapter 2, where he says that Jesus is the propitiation for Or in Romans chapter 3 he says that the righteousness of God is available to all But unto all and upon all them that believe. And so the gospel is available to us. In verses 29 through 30, he says that they will come from the east. From the west and the north and the south, and sit down in the kingdom of God. And behold, the last will be first, and the first will be last. What is Jesus saying? He's saying it's not just Jews who are going to be in the kingdom. It's going to be Gentiles. And some of the people had the greatest access to the truth, and they had all the opportunity in front of them. They miss it. And those who had little access and received access later, they embrace it. Remind yourself again of what he saw in verse 23. The follower says, hey, there are few who are saved. In verse 24, Jesus doesn't really answer his question. He says, Many are striving and they won't be able to enter. And then in these verses, what does he say? He says the kingdom is going to be full of people who are from every kindred, tribe, and nation. North, South, East, West, people who are outside of the Jewish people, the gospel is for everybody. Reminds me of Luke chapter 2, where Simeon is holding the baby Jesus. Jesus and he says, Now let your servant depart in peace. Mine eyes have seen thy salvation which thou hast prepared the f before the face of all people, a light to lighten the Gentiles and the Or in Matthew 4, 16 he says, The people who sat in darkness have seen a great light. And them that sat in the region of the shadow of death, Light has sprung up. You might say, well, Joel, what do I take away from this? Here's what I take away from this. The gospel and the preaching of the gospel is going to follow this pattern in front of you. of us. It's a message that says you better be uh serious about this. There's nothing more important than entrance into the kingdom. It is it is a a a salvation that comes individually through the person of Christ Christ. It's a salvation that is for everybody. It's a salvation that sadly many will strive to receive by establishing a basis through their own righteousness. and they will miserably fall short. It's a salvation that says it's not about who you know, it's about who knows you. And so it leads me to this question, do you know God? And does he know Have you placed your faith in the finished work of Christ? Are you standing in his righteousness and coming to him through his sacrifice? Or do you believe that you're coming through your own righteousness and by your own works? May God help us to understand where we Stand before him. That we are not just knowing who he is, but he knows us because we have entered the door, the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, that's the gospel. I hope you've embraced it and I hope that you share it. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, tomorrow we will meet again as we continue developing these truths. Bye now.