Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our second Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and hope that your week's going well. And this passage is a bit on the heavy side, at least as it starts out, but as we work our way through uh to the end of it we're going to find uh some great encouragement and some great challenge. So this morning the topic we're going to look at is the hypocrisy of the religious leaders. And so it is a heavier topic, but it is an important topic. So I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles. Let's turn together to Luke chapter 16. We're reading verses 14 to 18. And then we're going to dig into uh the next thing that Jesus Jesus has to say in this text. Here's what it says. And the Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard all these things, and they dreaded him. And he said unto them, Ye are they which justify yourself yourselves before men. But God knoweth your hearts. For that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God. The law and the prophets were until John. Since that time the kingdom of God is preached, and every man presseth into it. And it is easier for heaven and earth to pass than for one tittle of the law to fall. Whosoever putteth away his wife Wife and marrieth another committh adultery. Whosoever marrieth her that is put away from her husband committeth adultery. Now, as we dig into this passage, we're going to look at the Heart of the people who Jesus is confronting. And he's confronting people who were teachers of the law, people who are masters of concealing the true motives. Now, as we look at this, we see in verse 15 that Luke makes this statement. Or excuse me, Luke records this statement that Jesus makes. Ye are they which justify yourselves. before man. First thing I want you to notice is how the people responded to Jesus when he taught them. And if you go back a week ago in your mind you'll remember That Jesus was teaching on the issue of riches. And Luke makes the comment that these are people who were covetous. The way they responded to Jesus was with utter disdain. That word disdain, or as this this word deride, means that they sneered at him. They had this intense disdain for him. Another example of this term being used in In another context is in Luke 23, 35. It says, the rulers also, when they saw him, they derided him. He saved others. Let him save himself. If he is the Christ, the chosen of God. Now, this statement that they derided him means that as they saw Jesus hanging On the cross, they had no compassion. They absolutely despised him, and they literally mocked him as he hung on the cross. So this is kind of the level of animosity That is between these people and Christ. These were religious men who presented themselves as righteous people. We fear God. Yet inside they harbored them. This intense hatred for Christ and his teachings. And this hatred for Christ that they were able to conceal early in Christ's ministry was something that would become more and more apparent the later Later on that Jesus would interact with them. And eventually it's going to culminate with the cross because they they present Jesus to Pilate as someone who Pilate knew that Jesus was And so we see that coming out. The second thing we see is that Luke comments on the ultimate source of their disdain. And the ultimate source is that they were covetous. Now the word that's used here is a little different than the word that's commonly used in the New Testament for covetousness. The word comes from a compound word, which literally means people who love money. And so he's emphasizing that fact that these people are greedy. They want to become wealthy. The same word is used in 1 Timothy 6. 10. It's actually technically a a cognate of this word, but it it's in the same family. One being a verb and one being a noun. But he says in 1 Timothy 6. 10, Paul writes that the love of money is the root of all evil. And He's talking about how greed and a lust for material possessions is something that is very destructive. These were people who were greedy. Despise Christ and his teaching on stewardship because they loved money. Third thing I want you to notice is that they were very entitled and they were discontent. And that entitlement and that discontenment manifested itself in lots and lots of different ways. Now Jesus mentions one example, but if we go to the Sermon on the Map , He actually addresses lots of ways that the religious leaders were misrepresenting the scriptures and they were concealing their inner heart, that the lust of their hearts In this text, he says, whoever puts away his wife and marries another. The root of covetousness is something that can manifest itself in a lot of different ways. ways. For instance, in Exodus chapter 20, verse 17, he says, Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house or his wife or anything that is thy neighbor's. So we could be talking about possessions or positions or reputation or someone's spouse, someone's financial situation. Covetousness can manifest itself in a lot of different ways. The Pharisees and the scribes were people who, let's just put it very bluntly, they were evil people. They were filled with pride. They were self-promoting. They were willing to misrepresent Scripture. And they were actively creating ways to get around God's laws. In Matthew 15, he says, why do Do the disciples transgress the traditions of the elders? For they wash not their hands when they eat the bread. But you answered but he answered and said unto them, Why do you also transgress the commandments of God by your traditions. You see that the religious leaders bring this charge against Jesus, you don't follow our tradition. And Jesus brings this rebuttal, your traditions have more weight in your mind than the law of God. And then he goes on to address lots and lots of different ways that this was going on. Now, the question we should ask ourselves is what was the ultimate problem with these people? Why were they teaching the way that they were? And why does Jesus address this one issue? And and the reason the connection between the covetousness of the religious leaders, they loved money, and the teaching on marriage was that they were trying to soften the message of Scripture on this issue, and they're trying to give people an out ultimately because they wanted to draw to themselves people who would like their teaching and ultimately make life easier for them. And this wasn't a new problem. This is something that we can look all throughout the Old Testament. We see the examples of this. In Malachi chapter two, verse fifteen, uh This is the last statement, almost the last statement in the Old Testament on this issue, because Malachi is the last book. He says, Did not he that's God make one? And wherefore Or why did he do this? That he might seek a godly seed. Therefore, take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. Now what's he saying the people of that day ignored the scripture's clear teaching on the sacredness of marriage and they were creating arbitrary rules to give covetous men a way to justify This is a problem at the end of the Old Testament era. This was a problem in the first century. And their laws were so arbitrary that a man who wanted to divorce his wife could do it over her burning his toast. I mean this is the the kind of discussion that they were having. And the fact that they were debating about it in such a way was an indication that they really did not have a true honor. respect for God's God's plan for marriage. That this is supposed to be one man, one woman, permanent for life. These people are supposed to be faithful to one another, raise their children in the nurse. nurture and admonition of the Lord, and ultimately live a life of faithfulness to God. Instead, they had gotten to the point where someone who wanted to get rid of their spouse could find an out by by by just accusing them of some arbitrary thing. And so Jesus is addressing that issue. He's not so much teaching on the divorce issue as much as he's saying here Here's an example where you are misusing the scripture so that you can gain followers who ultimately will make you wealthy. And so Jesus is hammering on this issue. Covetousness. Well, that's a lot for us to process this morning. And before I say have a wonderful rest of your day, I want to say let's be very cautious and how we approach the scriptures. Let's make sure that we rightly divide it. That we don't listen to the voices around us and cut it short. That we don't overstate it because we're angry. But in fact we hold fast to what God has said. When we open And we say, Thus saith the Lord, what we are doing is a very sacred thing. It's something that we need to be very, very cautious about. We need to think very carefully about it. So Want to leave you with that thought. Do not abuse and misuse the scripture for your own purposes. Instead, hold fast to it. And make sure that you're under the ministry of those who also faithfully hold fast to the Word of God. Well with that with that I'd like to say have a great rest of your day. And Lord willing tomorrow we will meet again as we continue working our way through this text. Bye now