Good morning and welcome to our Friday anchored in the word morning reflection. And as we always do on Fridays, or typically do on Fridays, we do with application. I hope that as we've worked our way through this passage, it's given you a greater appreciation for in the context what Paul is trying to communicate and then how this break from his flow of thought is really not a disjointed, disconnected break from thought, but in fact it's revealing his great concern, but also showing that that this is a great opportunity to show how what he's talking about theologically is is a part of his story and why it matters. So we're going to talk about the application. How do we take the things that we've talked about this week and how do we apply them? So there are two basic streams of application that I want us to look at today. So turn your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 3. We're going to read the text and then look at those two streams. Here's what it says. For this cause I Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ, for you Gentiles, if you heard of the dispensation of the grace of God which was given to me to you, word. How that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery, as I wrote afore in a few words, whereinto, when you have read, you may understand my knowledge and the mystery of Christ. Which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit, that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs. of the same body, partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel. So as we look at this passage, two streams of application I wanna I want to focus on. The first is our need to submit to God's purposes. Here's what I mean by this. We have to think biblically, and we have to choose to think biblically. And how God will use the hardships we experience for our good, his glory, and the good of those around us. That's something we have to step back and observe from a distance. If our if our if our perspective is only about what's going on right now and not how it's going to impact the future or the lives of people around us. If it's just on how we feel in the moment, not what God's doing, we're going to really struggle. We have to choose to step back and take a look at it. God uniquely fits all of us to fill roles that he has, and by the way, these are sometimes seasonal roles, but these are roles that he has to build his kingdom through our lives. Part of what makes our life have eternal significance and that it actually leaves a legacy of impact is that God has to work through things that we're going through in our lives. And He can use our story. If we surrender his purposes. And that's the key. If we surrender to his purposes. The truth is that we we have to be willing to look at things correctly. Those things need to be the tools that build us. and instruments that he uses to further communicate his truth, as opposed to things that we chafe at and are upset at and essentially make us very bitter against God. When we struggle and when we suffer, he has a plan. What he permits, what he causes, he's going to use for good in our lives. And so we have to be willing to step back and see our lives through the lens of eternity and the purposes he has for us and through us. Submission to him. Very, very important. The second stream of application is that of worship. And there are so many things that we could say about God's purposes and how grand and how great they are. But we need to think deeply. about these gospel themes that Paul has been developing and that he breaks from, and then he kind of talks about this personal burden that he has in the light of these things he's just been developing. We need to think deeply about the gospel. We need to marvel at the fact that he chose to set his love on a world in rebellion against him, and we're a part of that world. We'd have no salvation if it wasn't for God initiating in his grace and by his love and kindness a means through which we could be saved. He purposed in himself from eternity past. And he has always, always had a plan and a purpose. That does not compromise his justice, that he can be both justified just and the justifier of the sinner. And so God had this plan. He has redeemed us through the shedding of Christ's blood on the cross. That is a done deal. History is past. He has done it. We need to respond to it. We need to embrace it, trust in it He's removed through that cross, the enmity that stood between us. He has united people groups that were not a people formerly, but in God's plan, they would become one. What an amazing thing. Through the sacrifice of Christ, those who used to be excluded from the temple, they are now the temple of God. People who didn't have access to God now have access to God. And He has used the radical conversion of a man like the Apostle Paul and the suffering of a man like the Apostle Paul to give us this demonstration of his power, his goodness. His glory to really bolster and validate our understanding of this thing. He uses everything in our lives for good in his glory. And we need to learn to trust them with that. Well, that's what I want to leave you with as you go into the weekend. If you have any questions, any concerns, please don't hesitate to reach out. I hope that these things can be a challenge to you. Have a blessed rest of your day and weekend, and Lord willing, we'll see many of you this Sunday as we celebrate the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. Or excuse me, we celebrate Uh the coming into Jerusalem, the Palm Sunday, and then we also we will talk about the resurrection. We will sing some songs about the resurrection But we're really kind of getting into that triumphal entry week and the final week of Christ's life before death and resurrection. So join us for that, Palm Sunday, and then next week, Lord willing. Easter Sunday, hope to join us for that as well. Have a blessed weekend and we will talk to you soon. Bye now.