Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And again, that I hope that you're having a great week and I hope that this new format that we're going to try this week is tremendously encouraging and helpful to you. This morning we're going to be featuring a video that's dealing with the eternal nature of Christ. So this is a clip from the Sunday morning message two weeks ago when we were talking about John chapter 1 verses 1 through 14. So let's go ahead and read that text together again. We'll watch that short video and listen to its content and then we're going to talk a little bit about why it is so very, very important John chapter 1, verse number 1. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by Him, and without Him was not anything made that was made In him was life, and the life was the light of men, and the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not He came unto his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name Which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. Now let's go ahead and listen to this short video clip, and then we'll expound it. He has no beginning. He has no ending. He is self-existing. He wasn't created. He's not dependent on anybody. He's God. We see these four statements. He was in the beginning. I think about a statement later on in the book of John in John chapter 8, where Jesus says, before Abraham was, I Am. That's an amazing statement. They say you're not even 50 years old. How can you say these things? He says, Abraham rejoiced to see see my day and he was glad in it. Before he was, I am. What's he saying? I'm not like Abraham. I'm eternal Those are some pretty amazing statements, aren't they? You say, well, why does this matter so much? Well, the reason it matters so much, first of all, is because it's true. We're talking about the person of Christ. But if we were to talk about where a lot of cults come from, a lot of cults have uh doctrinal beliefs that undermine either the deity of Christ. the eternality of Christ or the humanity of Christ. And so when we talk about the person and work of Christ, the only way that you get to the work of Christ actually accomplishing what the Scripture says it accomplished is Christ has to be qualified to be able to actually do that work on our behalf. And so in order for him to be able to do that work , He has to be the eternal God who takes on human flesh. And so this concept is extremely important for us to break down. And the reason that this passage of Scripture is so pivotal is because it's one of the clearest statements in the New Testament of the eternality of Christ. It says, in the beginning was the word, not after the beginning, the word began. He says, when everything started at the very beginning of time and matter and space, God already existed. And when he talks about the God who already existed, the Lord Jesus Christ is the God who already existed. And so when we talk about Christ, we need to think of him in terms of the eternal God. And when we talk about the controversy with Arius , and the the controversy about the deity of Christ. And by the way, those doctrinal uh um those doctrinal problems are still at work in the world today. If we were to talk about Mormonism or Jehovah's Witnesses, again, they would be following the viewpoints of Arius, who was arguing that the Lord Jesus Christ was created. He was the highest of all creation. but he's not the eternal creator. And that's a great distinction. And so this this passage of scripture, this concept that we are talking about, it is critically important. And so as you think about the Lord Jesus Christ during the season and you think about uh the birth of Christ, the incarnation the Christmas season, remember that we are worshiping and celebrating the physical birth of the eternal son who at a point in time took on human nature. And so when we talk about the incarnation, we're talking about the the Lord Jesus Christ being fully God. fully man, and he has always eternally been fully God and always will be. eternally God. And so let us worship Him and glory in Him and celebrate our Savior and our Creator and our Sustainer, the Eternal Son. Have a blessed morning, and Lord willing we will meet again tomorrow as we dig into this uh passage of Scripture a little bit further. Bye now