Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And uh looking forward to breaking this down a little bit more. Yesterday, what we talked about was the flow of the psalm from Psalm 38 to Psalm 40. We saw the connection between those three psalms is an introduction. And now this morning what I'd like to do is I'd like to go back to the Psalm, Psalm 39, and kind of look at the structure of the Psalm itself, because I think this will help prepare us to look at several foundations. foundational truths that we find packaged in this psalm. So the text in front of us is Psalm 39, verses 1 through 13, and the topic we're addressing is wisdom in miserable seasons. And sadly, but truthfully, we will encounter those kinds of seasons. So let's turn our Bibles again to that text, Psalm 39, and we will read about half of the Psalm together. It says, I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my tongue. I will keep my mouth with a bridle, while the wicked is before me. I was dumb with silence. I held my peace, even from good, and my sorrow was stirred. My heart was hot within me, while I was musing, the fire burned. Then spake I with my tongue, Lord, make me to know mine end and the end and the measure of my days what it is. is, that I may know how frail I am. Behold, thou hast made my days as a hand breath, and mine ages as nothing before thee. Verily, every man at his best state is altogether vanity. Now, as we've read those verses, here is the structure of the psalm itself. There are really three basic pieces. to this. Part four is the first six verses. And this is focusing in on David's troubles and how they caused him to be conscientious and reflective. Then we come to verse number seven, which is like a hinge verse between these two sections. And it's emphasizing that life apart from God is empty. Verse number 70 says, Now, Lord, what wait I for? My hope is in thee. It's like the book of Ecclesiastes, where it says, let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Well fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man, for God will bring to f bring into judgment every thought and every action. And so the idea is live life in a vain world, an empty world, a world that has a transient nature to it, and an emptiness to it. To it, live it in the light of eternity, because there is value, but only in the light of eternity. And then we come to the second section or the third part, and that is David's meditation on these facts of life that he has considered. And these are making him turn to God. And we see this in verses 8 through 13. So those are the three basic pieces to the psalm. Now let's kind of take them one by one and think about what they're saying. First part, he became conscientious about his actions. In verse number one, it says, I will take heed to my ways that I sin not with my tongue. I will keep my mouth with a bridle. And here's the next statement. That's important. While the wicked is before me. David is concerned that he not sin against God with his words. And basically what he's saying is, I don't want to say something in front of evil people that's ultimately going to indict God or is going to come back to haunt me and be used against me. I don't want to do that. And this is one of the senses that comes out of suffering sometimes. We begin to think more carefully about the choices we make, the things that we say. that the things that we do, that the way that we lean, we start thinking more about that. And then the second thing is that this internalization in his thoughts was something that as he suppressed it, it became like a fire burning inside of him. And he just had to speak about it. In verses 2 and 3, he says, My sorrow was stirred, and my heart was hot within me. While I was musing the fire burned, and then spake I with my tongue. I give this illustration on Sunday when I preached this. When I was a kid and I remember one time my mother bought books for my dad when he was in seminary. And the UPS truck brings all of these boxes and we're all excited and dad comes home and we're like we we something came today but we can't tell you about it and kind of the cat was out the bag. We ended up saying, well you know mom got you these books. And And the idea was it was something in our heart we just wanted to tell him about. We we we couldn't keep it inside. Well this is, it's like that, but it's different in the sense that The reason you can't keep it inside is because it is eating you alive. And David had to speak. And so while he is conscient conscientious that he doesn't want to sin with his lips, He's overwhelmed internally, and we see that. And then that moves him to pondering the brevity of the shortness of life. In verses four and five, he wanted God to sober him about how short life life is. And so he says, Lord, make me to know mine and the measure of my days and what it is that I might know how frail I am. Behold, thou hast made my days as an hand breath, and mine ages as nothing before thee. Fairly every man at his best state is altogether vanity. He's like, When I think about how long I live, and the strength that I have in this life, he's like It's so small. It's so insignificant. He saw his life outside of God as being empty. If it's not for God in eternity, I've got nothing. That's what David has said. And so he says in verse 6, surely every man walketh in a vain show, and ever and surely they are disquieted in vain, and he heapeth up riches and knoweth not who shall gather them Then we see this Hinge verse. He says in verse number seven, Lord, you are my hope. My hope is in thee. And then part number two, he meditates on these facts about life, causes him to turn to God. In verses 8 through 11, he says, Deliver me from all my transgressions, make me not the reproach of the foolish, remove thy strokes from me. I'm consumed by the blows of thy hand. When thou with rebuke doth correct me for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth. Every man is vanity Selah. He correctly realizes that he needs God to work in his life. And then in verses 12 through 13, he feels this deep sense of desperation. If God doesn't act, quickly he's in trouble. He says, Hear my prayer, give ear to my cry, hold not thy peace. at my tears. I'm a stranger and a sojourner. Oh spare me that I may recover strength before I go hence and be no more. So what's the point? The point is that David realizes life is short. I am weak. I need Outside of Him, I have nothing. And outside of eternity, I have nothing. And so we should walk away from this text of Scripture, the Psalm, and reflect on the fact that our lives are short. Our lives don't last forever on this side. And it should cause us to be humbled when we're proud. It should cause us to be thankful. That we have a Savior who went to the cross, he died for our sins, he rose from the dead, and we have the guarantee of eternity with us. And if it wasn't for that, we would, as Paul said, be of all men most miserable. If not for the hope of the resurrection and the glories of eternity, we would be without Well I hope that gives you something to be thankful for today. Because we do serve a risen Savior. We are saved. There is eternity. Our lives actually do matter. As short as they are, and as weak as we are, God still cares about the same thing. And so may we think about that the rest of the day. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue breaking down this text by looking at some of the truths that are that are really at the root in the foundation. Of the things that David writes. Have a blessed day by now