Good morning. Welcome to our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And it's hard to believe, but we are starting our tenth week of Anchored in the Word Reflections for this this year. And I hope that you had a good weekend if you were able to join us for Sunday services. I hope that they were an encouragement to you. And the text that we're going to be addressing this week is Psalm 37. And so if you have a Bible, let's take it together. We're going to read through Uh a portion of that psalm, I'm not going to read the whole thing, but uh throughout the different studies that we do this week, um episodes we will actually cover all of the contents of Psalm thirty seven um just kind of on a surface level. And we're gonna Focus in on the section that I'm going to read to you this morning. So, Psalm 37, and we're looking at verses 1 through 8 together. The Psalm of David. It says, Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb. Trust in the Lord, and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily shalt thou be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord, and trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. Cease from anger and forsake wrath, fret not thyself in any wise to do good. Now the main topic that we're addressing this week is how godly wisdom is supposed to shape our day-to-day practice. So it's godly wisdom living in a fallen world. And to lay out this uh introduction, I want to start with giving you a summary statement for the Psalm, Psalm 37. God wants his people to understand the moment in history that they're living in and his goodness in the midst of that moment. So, that they will seize the opportunity that's in front of them and live a life of eternal significance rather than waste and take the things that he's given them and uh just squander them. That's really what this psalm is all about. It's about understanding our moment in history, understanding how good God is. and allowing godly wisdom to shape us so that we live practically, not wasting the time and not wasting the resources, but investing them in godly pursuits. And so that brings to my mind the parable of the talents that Jesus told in Matthew 25. The parable of the talents and the principles that are laid out in that text of Scripture and that teaching of Christ. There are a lot of similarities, a lot of parallels to what we will talk about this week in Psalm 37. And so I want to remind you what Jesus says in Matthew 25. He says, Watch, for ye know not the day or the hour wherein the Son of Man cometh. He says, For the kingdom of heaven is like a man traveling into a far country. who called his own servants and delivered unto them his goods. Unto one he gave five talents, unto another two, and to another one, each one according to his several ability. And straightway he took his journey And he that received the five talents, the Bible says he took those five talents and he invested them and he doubled it to ten. And the person who had two talents, he took that two talents and he invested it and he doubled it to four. But the third person, the one who received the one talent, The scripture says that rather than the man investing the one talent and doubling it, he dug a hole in the ground, he buried it in that hole, and then he just let it sit there. And then the Bible says that after a long time the Lord of those servants came, and he reckoned with them, and the one that received five gave him ten, and the one that received two gave him four. And with both of those servants, Jesus says, the master said unto them, Well done, good and faithful servants. You've been faithful with a little. I'm going to expand this and give you more. That's what he does. But the third person, the one who received one talent, Who buried in the ground. It says that when this person came, this is what he said to Jesus. He says, I knew thee that thou art a hard man. Reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed, and I was afraid, and I went and hid thy talent in the earth. And lo, there thou hast what is thine. His servant, he answered his servant and said, Thou wicked and slothful servant , Now you may ask the question, what does this parable have to do with what David writes in Psalm 37? Well, what the parable teaches us is that being watchful is not being idle. It's not being passive. Being watchful involves a measure of faithfulness, a person taking what they've been given and using it for the glory of God. And when we look at Psalm 37 , We're going to see that David tells us that there is a way that we are to live in a fallen world that involves being productive. That's what godly wisdom entails. And so what's interesting about the parable that Jesus teaches is that he's demonstrating that faithfulness is really not about how much you are given or how much you give to the master. It's about using what he gives you and investing it so that it's compounded. So it's not about comparing what you do versus what someone else does or what you've been given versus what someone else has been given. But it's about taking what you are given and being faithful with it. And in these verses, Matthew 25 , Jesus says that the master commends the ones who were faithful and he rebukes the one who is not. And he says that he was lazy and he was fearful and he was idle. And the whole point of this is that God doesn't want us to be idle or fearful or lazy. He wants us to be active. He wants us to be busy. He wants us to be invested. He wants us to think about taking what he gives us and using it for his glory. And that will be the focus of our entire study this week. Psalm 37 is going to give us the tools that we need to practically apply that godly wisdom so that we might be found faithful. So I hope that this week you will join us as we dig into this text of Scripture. And I hope that as we lay open these truths, that you will find them to be practical. and helpful and ultimately that you will take the word of God and not just hear it, but that we will all be doers of the word, not deceiving ourselves. So I hope that you have a great rest of your day, and I hope that this gives you some things to think about. And then Lord willing, tomorrow we will meet again and we will start digging into the contents of Psalm 37. Have a blessed morning. Bye now.