Good morning and welcome to our second, our Tuesday, Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. We talked about two positions that are that every person in the world is in one of those two places, either dead or alive. Today what I'd like us to do is look at how, from the perspective of Paul, who's writing to Christians, believers, he tells them what they were before they became Christians. And so if you're a believer today, this is true about you. This is who you were. No exceptions. Whether you grew up in a Christian home or a non-Christian home, you went to church from the time you were a little child or You didn't step foot into a door uh the door of a church until you were uh in in midlife. Whatever the situation, these things that are stated in this text are true about you if you're not a Christian, or they were true about you if, in fact, you are. And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles, turn to Ephesians chapter 2. We're going to read these verses and then dig into what it means to be dead in trespasses and sins. It says, In you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins, wherein in times past ye walked according to the course of this world. according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience, among whom also we all had our conversation in times past, fulfilling the lust of the flesh, and the desires of the flesh and of the mind. and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great lover with he loved us Even when we were dead, have quickened us together with Christ. By grace ye are saved. Now let's break this down a little bit by looking at verses 2 to 3 where it talks about the fact that everybody in this world was or is dead to God and dead in trespasses and sins. Here's how he puts it in the text. He says, In times past you walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. among whom also we all had our conversation in times past, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others Now there's several things that Paul has said about someone who is dead in trespasses and sins. The first example would be this. This is a real spiritual positional reality These people were dead in trespasses and sins. It doesn't say it's like they were dead. It says they were. They were dead in trespasses and sins. Second thing I'll mention is that there are some very specific markers that demonstrate the deadness of a person's walk before God when they are separated from Him. It says, in times past you walked. It says we had our conversation in times past. The reason I draw attention to the words walk and conversation is because it indicates that there is a path that is consistent with someone who's spiritually dead. They walked according to the course of this world. According to the Prince of this, the power of the air, they had their conversation fulfilling the lusts of the flesh and the desires of the flesh and the mind. There is a course of action that people follow when they don't know the Lord. It's an illustration that Spurgeon used where he said, dead fish always go downstream. They don't swim against the stream. And so if a person is alive, they can swim against the stream. There's evidence of life. But for those who don't know the Lord, there's a consistent path that they're going to follow. Third thing I'll mention. is that this path is distinctly ungodly. What I mean by ungodly is it's a life that is lived as if God doesn't exist. He doesn't factor into the equation. So that means when it comes to what they're living for, their values, whether or not they restrain their actions, the way they speak to other people, that the thoughts that they allow themselves to meditate upon, whatever the situation. It's a life lived as if God is not part of the equation. He doesn't matter. He doesn't exist. I don't care. And that's how many people live. By the way, even people that live lives that would appear to be fairly moral and good, but they're ungodly because they look as if God doesn't exist. Secondly, this pattern can be traced back to the influence of Satan, the God of this world, who works in this system. It says it's according to the prince of the power of the air. the spirit who now works in the children of disobedience. What does Satan want to do? He wants you to embrace lies. Satan is totally fine with a person living a good moral life as long as they're living a good moral life that has nothing to do with God. Satan is completely comfortable with people being religious and zealous about that religion, as long as that system of thought is not built on the finished work of Christ alone. Satan would love to deceive people, to be slaves to their passions, their belly, greed. Whatever it is, he works in this world to draw people away from the purpose that God had for them. And then we see that people are by nature slaves to their appetites. Verse 3, in the lust of the flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind. And so people who are slaves to sexual passions, people who are slaves to their greed, people who are slaves to their own ego, slaves to have to always be right, and I can never admit that I'm wrong. so many different ways that people demonstrate that they are slaves to their passions and to their fallen mind. And all of these things, you know what they do? They reveal to us the marks of someone who's spiritually dead. And here's the last thing I'll mention here. This is a universal human condition. Everybody in this world is born by nature in this position. We were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. So as you think about this this morning, I want to remind you, either that's who you are, or that's who you were. The question we should all ask ourselves is, is that who we want to stay? And if we want to see a change, the question is, where does the change come from? Well, join us tomorrow as we dig into this text again, and we will see what makes the difference between being spiritually dead and spiritually alive. And the answer is, we'll come back tomorrow and you'll find out. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we dig into this passage and expand it and push into it a little bit more. Bye now.