Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that your week's going well. I know it's Wednesday, and I hope that if you are part of our church family, you'd be able to join us for our midweek study as we're working our way through the Sermon on the Mount. And the text in front of us has been a challenging one. We've been talking about uh really the the folly of the response of people to The privilege that they have, that they have access to God's word, access to God's invitation, and they push away that invitation. Well, this morning what I'd like us to reflect on is the shocking way that God responds to man's rejection of his offer. And when I use the word shocking, it might not be what you're initially thinking when I use that term. But really, what we're going to see is that God's grace is in fact shocking in how He responds to those who reject Him as the one who offers them salvation. So with that in mind, let's turn in our Bibles to Luke chapter 14. We're reading 15 through 24 together. And again, it's not the entire section. We are skipping through a little bit of it just to keep ourselves moving through the text quickly this morning. But I'd like to read it to you, and then we will reflect on this shocking display of God's grace. It says this, and when one of them that sat at meat with him heard these things, he said unto him, Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God. Then said he unto him, A certain man had a great supper and bade many, and sent his servant at supper time to say unto them that were bidden, Come, for all things are now ready. And they all with one consent began to And the Lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled. I say unto you that none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper. Now, when we dig into this passage, what we're going to see is that God's grace I'd like to draw your attention to the statement made between verses 21 and 23. When Jesus uh gives This analogy, this parable, and the man hears all these excuses about why people cannot come to his wedding feast. This is what he says. And this is shocking. He says, And the servant said, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded, yet there is room. And the Lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in that my house may be filled. Now what is so shocking about this? What's shocking about this is that this perfectly illustrates The way that Christ ministered in the time that he was here on earth. Christ purposefully ministered to those who were marginalized. And when I say marginalized, These are people that were not the m of the most elevated position in society. And as we talk about some of the ways that Jesus ministered, this went against the grain of The culture of the time in which Jesus was living. The first example is how Jesus ministered to Gentiles. Now, Jesus was a Jewish man. Okay, he spoke and talked In synagogues. And his ministry was primarily to the Jewish people, not because he had some animosity towards Gentiles or disliked Gentiles, but because he went first to the The Jewish people, and even Paul did this. It says the gospel came to the Jew first and also to the Gentile. There was an order in which the gospel came. Yet what we see in the in the gospels is that Jesus regularly ministered to Gentiles and he did it in a way that was shocking to his disciples and those who were watching his ministry. In John chapter 4 verse 9, it says, then saith Jesus to the Samaritan woman, how is it or then said the s the woman of Samaria, excuse me. Unto him, how is it that thou being a Jew, ask drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? The Jews have no dealing. With the Samaritans. Now, there are two things I want to draw out from this passage of Scripture. One being that Jesus is ministering to a Samaritan, and there was great contention. She is considered a Gentile in the eyes of the Jewish people. And secondly, she's a woman. In verse 27, it says, Upon this, Came his disciples and marveled that he talked with the woman. Yet no man said, Why seest seekest thou her? Why talkest thou with her? Now, the reason I draw you attention to this is that when men were teaching and preaching and all those things in those days, they were not going to Gentiles and then they were not going to women. Even when we talk about the feeding of the 5,000. It never tells us how many women and children were there. It simply says that there were 5,000 men. What that's showing you is that Jesus' approach to men Ministry would have been shocking to the disciples. It was different than the culture of their day. We see that he ministered to children in Matthew 19, 13. and fourteen it says, then there then were brought unto him little children that should that he that he should put his hands on them and pray. And the disciples rebuked them, but Jesus said, Or allow the little children, forbid them not to come unto me, for of such is the kingdom of heaven. Again the disciples thought Jesus doesn't have time for these children. Let him minister to the adults. Let him minister To the men. And Jesus says, No. Bring the children here. Let me minister to them as well. We also see that Jesus ministered to people who were physically infirm. Matthew chapter 8, verse 1, it says, When he was come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him. And behold, there was a leper, and he worshipped him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. And Jesus put forth his hand and touched him, saying, I will be thou clean. Immediately his leprosy was cleansed. Now I think this is an Amazing passage because it shows us that not only did Jesus have compassion on the man, and not only did he heal the man, but he touched him in the healing process. And so it shows you that the compassion of Christ, but his willingness to defy the mindset of the people and to minister to those who are physically infirm. And I would even add this. That many times when someone saw a person who was physically infirmed, in their minds, they assumed that this person was infirmed because somehow God had removed His blessing from them, or they were under some kind of curse for some kind of action that had taken place in their life or someone in their family's life. And so we see Christ. Purposefully defying the odds. Or we think about his willingness to minister to sinners who were notorious sinners. In Luke chapter 15, 1 and 2, it says, Then drew near unto him all the publicans and the sinners to hear him. And the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth eateth with them. It's not that Jesus ministered to people who sin Everybody sins. But these were people who were notorious. They were noteworthy. They were known for their sinful identification. And Christ goes into The fact is that Jesus went out of his way to confront the prejudices of his day. One of the great examples is in Matthew chapter 15. Where a woman from uh from Canaan, a Canaanite woman, comes to Jesus and she pleads with Jesus that he would have mercy on her child who is possessed. And in this passage of Scripture, when the woman comes, Jesus says, I am not sent, but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Says, she she falls in her face, she worships and she says, That's true, but even the dogs get the scraps at the dinner table. And Jesus goes out of his way to resist this woman's appeal and then to give her what she desired to actually heal her daughter. Now he did this for a reason. Not to mock this w mur woman, not because he was reluctant to minister to her, not because he was cruel and callous in his heart, but he was Making a point to his disciples that he actually did care for this person, and in fact her faith was even stronger and mo more noteworthy than the faith of Most of the people that Jesus was interacting with who are of Jewish background. What's the point? He went out of his way to confront the people's prejudices. And this has always been God's plan. One of my favorite passages in the New Testament is Ephesians chapter 2. And listen carefully to what it says about Christ and his ministry to Jews and Gentiles. It says, Remember Remember that ye, being time past Gentiles in the flesh, who were called uncircumcision, by which are called the circumcision in the flesh, made with hands, at that time Time you were without Christ, aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise. You had no hope, you were without God in the world. But now God, who has sometime, but now in Christ Jesus, you who sometime were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace, and hath made both one and broken down the middle wall of partition between us, having abolished in his flesh the Enmity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances, that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross, having slain the He says, Now you are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God. Now when I think about that passage of scripture, I'm reminded That it is saying God's plan from the beginning was that Jews and Gentiles would not be separate entities, but would be brought together in the body. Of Christ and God does this to defy the mindset of people, to approach their prejudices, cast them to the side, to confront those prejudices. And to emphasize the fact that he is a good God who loves all people and desires them to be saved. What an amazing consideration. So the question is: what do we take away from this? from this this morning. Well what we take away from this is that we are a part of those people who do not belong apart from God's grace. And we are a part of those people who would have been considered marginalized if we had been living in the ancient world. The fact is there are there are many people listening to this that the the disciples Would have scoffed at you as much as they would have scoffed at these people as being people that Jesus would have loved, had compassion on, and desired for them to be a part of his people. And so we also recognize that as we have received such grace, we should be not just the recipients of grace, but instruments through which God demonstrates his grace to others. And so let's be there Hope that gives you some things to think about. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow by now