Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our third Anchored in the Word Word Morning Reflection this week. And uh Wednesday, we're in the midpoint of the week. And I hope that the scriptures that we've been looking at and the way that we've been breaking this down has been encouraging and helpful to you. This morning what I'd like us to do is kind of further expand as we work our way through this passage of Scripture and how the cross actually is the wisdom and the power of God. And so let's read the text again together, and then we will dig into this concept of the contrast between the world's wisdom and and power and the power of the cross and the wisdom of the cross and how what the world scoffs at ultimately is wiser than the ways of the world and it is stronger than the ways of the world. And we'll see that demonstrated in this text. So, 1 Corinthians chapter 1, and we'll begin reading in verse 18. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But to us which are saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For after that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Greeks foolishness. But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. What an amazing way to But the foolishness of God is wiser than man, and the weakness of God is stronger than man. Would like us to do is look at how the cross demonstrates both the wisdom and the power of God. And we see that in verse 24. He says, unto them which are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. He emphasizes two aspects of what the cross accomplished and demonstrated. And so we're going to first of all look at the cr uh Christ, the power of God. The cross demonstrates God's power. And I want you to notice how he how he puts it. He says that the weakness of God is stronger than men. Now, as men mock the the cross and what it accomplished, basically what the Bible is saying in this in this text is that God's weakest demonstration of his weakness is actually something that accomplishes much. Think about the world's powerless substitutes for the cross. And I want you to think in specifically about man-made traditions and the ways that the religions of the world believe that they can make themselves acceptable to God 1 Peter 118, it says that you were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold received by tradition from your fathers. He's emphasizing the fact that it's not money and it's not traditions and it's not some pattern of life that gives a person access to God. It's something different. Or in Isaiah 64, 6 it says that all of us are as an unclean thing, and our righteousness is as filthy rags. The very best that we can give God is unacceptable. Or in Romans 4. 4 it says, To him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt. Well, we are seeing that what the world offers to God as a substitute for the cross is completely unacceptable. It is a demonstration of the weakness of God being stronger than the power of man. On the other side, we see the power and the effectiveness of the sacrifice of Christ. In Hebrews 10. 23 it says, we are to hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful, which promise. In other words, what Jesus accomplished demonstrated God's faithfulness to his word. Or in Hebrews 10, 10, he says that we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Christ once for all. That whole sacrificial system pointed to Christ's sacrifice, and Christ's sacrifice accomplished more than anyone's attempts to keep the law could ever Hebrews 10, 6, same type of thing. This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days. I will put my laws in their heart, their minds will I write in them. and their sins and their iniquities I will remember no more. Now, how is God able to accomplish this? It's through the gospel and regeneration. Or even access to God. Hebrews 10, 22. He says, let us draw near with a full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience. So we have access to God. God's power is demonstrated in his fulfillment of the promise, what was accomplished on the cross, all of those things demonstrate that the cross, the weakness of God, is stronger than man's strength. On the other side, we see the Christ's cross being the wisdom of God. And notice how he says it in the text. He says that the foolishness of God is wiser than men. The world's attitude towards the cross is that it is foolish, it is weak, it is unnecessary, it can't accomplish anything. Yet we see that God's way of redemption through the cross is the only possible way that God could accomplish redemption in the way that He chose to do it, which is best. We see two scriptures that that kind of drive at something that's very important. I'll mention the text and then I will kind of give you the application. In Romans 2 11 it says that there is no respect of persons with God. As many as have sinned without the law shall perish without the law, as many as have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law. Romans four fifteen. The law worketh wrath. Therefore it is of faith that it might be by grace to the end that the promise might be sure for all. Now what do those two texts together say? Well they say, listen, there's no respect for persons with God. And God's desire is that all men, not just Jews, but Jews and Gentiles, people who had access to the law and people who do not have access to the law His desire is that those people be saved. And so he says, the gospel is of faith, that it might be by grace, so that the promise might be sure to all. The only way salvation can come to all people is through the way that God has made it, the cross. Or we have another example of Paul arguing of the wisdom of the cross in Romans chapter 5, verses 17 and 19. And I want you to notice the way that he lays this out. He says, if by one man's offense death reigned unto all, much more by receiving the abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness. shall all reign in life by one Jesus Christ. By the offense of one, judgment came upon all to condemnation, even so by the righteousness of the one, the free gift came to all men and to justification. By one man's disobedience, many were made sinners. By the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. In the same way that Adam represented us in the fall, one man Adam brings the fall, one man Jesus brings redemption. And so you see the wisdom of the cross being demonstrated in these concepts. But the one that really, I think, takes the strongest case of all is what's stated in Romans chapter 8, verses 3 to 4. He says what the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin condemns sin in the flesh. that the righteousness of the law may be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. What do all these texts show us? They show us that the the the substitutes that the world offers are powerless. And what the world scoffs at is actually what they call the weakness of God is actually the power of God being demonstrated. And what the world scoffs at and says, such foolishness, there's no value to it. It is the only way that a person can be reconciled to God where the God who has no respect for persons, who desires to save Jews and Gentiles The God who wants to save those who are who are brought under the fall by Adam's sin can be represented by one man, Jesus Christ, on the cross. And those who are powerless to save themselves through the law because of the weakness of their flesh, God accomplished it through the redemptive work of Christ. And so I want to remind you this morning of the importance of the cross. It demonstrates the wisdom and the power of God. Let's reflect on that this morning and let's just glory in the fact that that God in fact has accomplished redemption through Christ's work. Have a blessed morning, and Lord willing, we'll continue developing this concept as we move to our final thoughts on Friday. Bye now.