Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And today we're going to focus in on how personal God's care is in our lives. And so We've looked at the fact of God's character, his goodness. We've looked at the fact that his promises are sure. Today we're going to look on look at the fact that his care is personal. And so I hope that you'll turn with me in your Bible to Psalm 48, and as we dig into this passage again, we'll read it and then look at the concepts that we find here. Here's what it says. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, in the city of our God and in the mountain of his holiness. Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth is Mount Zion on the sides of the north, the city of the great king. God is known in her for a refuge, for though the kings were assembled, they passed by together. They saw it, and so they marveled, they were troubled, and hasted away. Fear took hold upon them as pain, as of a woman try and travail. Thou breakest the ships of Tarshus with an east wind. As we have heard, so have we seen. In the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God, God will establish it forever. Selah. Now, as I mentioned at the introduction, we're focusing on the care of God and how personal it is. Notice what it says in verses 9 through 14. He says, walk about Zion. Go round about her. Tell the towers rough. Mark ye well her bulwarks. Consider her palaces. That ye may tell it to the generation following. For this is our God forever and ever. He will be our guide even unto death. The words that really stand out to me are words like, he is our God. He will be our guide. What is that telling you? Personal. God has taken a personal interest in these people at that time, and he has demonstrated his faithfulness. There are two facts I would like to highlight about God when we think about this. The first is the fact that he is the awesome sovereign over all creation. Daniel chapter 4. All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. He doeth according to his will in the army of heaven and among the habitants of the earth, and none can stay his hand, or say unto him, What doest thou? But right beside that truth is a second truth. He takes personal interest in broken, weary, and obscure people. Psalm 103. 13, like a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. He knoweth our frame. He remembers that we are dust. A bruised reed shall he not break, a smoking flax shall he not quench. What does this tell you? He's personal. He takes a personal interest. He cares deeply for each of us. And he uses all things, especially the painful and hard things, to teach us both of these lessons. And so as we go through challenges in life, the purpose of that is to cause us to reflect and to have a reestablished confidence in the Lord and then to refocus our attention. And so think about the reflection. He is kind. He is a God who rules and reigns. And we need to reflect on that. He has thought we have thought on thy loving kindness, O Lord, in the midst of the temple. This is the place where God met with his people, where his glory was revealed Where the people had a constant reminder that they were sinners and they needed a savior. They were reminded of redemption coming. And so God says, remember, remember who I am. The second word is the word reaffirm. These moments should reaffirm our confidence in Him. Verse 10 According unto thy name, O God, so is thy praise unto the ends of the earth. Thy right hand is full of righteousness. He is the I am. He is the eternal one, the self-existing one, the unchanging one the creator of everything, the one who sustains all things. And we ought to rejoice in him. He is a good God. This strength and confidence is something that should motivate us to move from knowledge and experience to confidence and joy. And so we see in verse 11, let Mount Zion rejoice. Let the daughters of Judah be glad because of thy judgments. And then that leads me to a final thought. Resolve. We can't allow ourselves to forget God's kindness. I love what the way this passage says, you need to go out, you need to interact with the evidence of God's demonstrating his faithfulness. Walk about Zion, go round about her, tell the towers there, mark what her boar works, consider her palaces. What is he saying? Go drink in what you have just lived through, and never forget it. Tell your children what he has done. Testify to it. Verse 13, that you may tell it to the generation following And then lastly, glory in him forever. Verse 14, this is our God forever and ever. He will be our guide even unto death. This passage of Scripture wants us to end on a note of rejoicing, not just confidence, but joyful confidence. Well, I want to encourage you to do that this morning. Take time To reflect on who God is, what he has done, how he has worked in your life, express it to him, and tell it to others Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again one final time tomorrow as we go into the weekend. Also, please don't forget, keep us in prayer as we're coming up to the end of our vacation Bible school week. Bye now.