Good morning. Welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a great Wednesday morning and mid-part of the week. And just pray that this will be an encouragement to you this morning as we dig into this text of scripture. As we've been working our way through Luke chapter 13, we've been looking at how tragedy should cause us to see God. And this morning we're really going to begin focusing in on that as we examine this parable that Jesus spoke to the disciples as he was there, having this conversation that was about the tragedies that had recently taken place there in Jerusalem. Jerusalem. And so if you have your Bible, let's take it. Let's all turn together to Luke chapter 13. We're going to read verses 1 through 9 together, and then we will dig into this text a little bit more. Here's what it says. There were present at that season, some that told him of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that the Galileans were sinners above all the Galileans because the Galileans suffer such things? I tell you, nay, but except ye repent ye shall all likewise perish. For those eighteen upon whom the Tower of Siloam fell, and slew them, think ye that they were sinners above all that dwelt in Jerusalem I tell you, nay, but except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. He spake also this parable. A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard. And he came and sought fruit thereon, and found none. Then said he unto the dresser of the vineyard, Behold, these three years I've come to seek fruit on this fig tree, and find none. Cut it down, why cumberest it the ground? He answering said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it and dung it, and if it bear fruit well, but if not then after that thou shalt cut it down. Now the word that I want us to remember this morning as we think about the text in front of us is the word balance. And what I mean by balance is not compromise, but what I mean is there is a tension between certain aspects of God's nature, his character, and the way that these are proportioned, and the way that God works is in perfect balance. And we're going to see that in the passage that is in front of us. A healthy view of life should give us a balanced view of God. Or maybe we could put it inversely, we could say, a balanced view of God will give us a healthy view of life. In verses 6 to 9, We have this parable that he takes. And before we look at this parable that he gives, excuse me, not takes, gives, I want us to think about two questions that are going to be answered in this parable. What is God like? What is his nature? What is his character? To whom can I compare him? Is there anything that I experience or anyone that I know or anything that I observe? That can give me a comparison of God's character and nature. And the fact is that there is none like God. He is uh he can be understood only to a limited degree when we talk about God's nature and we talk about who he is and his character, we're we're simply scratching the surface of our comprehension of things like the love of God, the mercy of God, the grace of God, the goodness of God, the power of God. When we are looking at God's character, We're examining it truly, but not examining it fully. We're simply scratching the surface. And so notice this parable that he gives. that helps answer those questions to some limited degree. In verses 6 to 9, he tells the story of a man who's planted a fig tree in his vineyard. It says a certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came and he brought and he sought fruit thereon and found none. Now we know that the reason you plant a fig tree It's because you want to get fruit. And I love this little parable because right now, this time of the year, our fig trees in our yard are really starting to put out their leaves and they're putting out their initial fruits. This is not the main fruit. This is kind of the initial fruit and then there'll be uh nice fruit at the end of the season. But when when this man comes into his vineyard and he sees his fig tree, he goes, Where's the fruit? I planted this tree because I want fruit. He says, behold, these three years I've come seeking fruit on this fig tree. I find none. Cut it down. Why cumbereth it the ground? He's saying this is wasting space. This is not functioning the way that it's intended to function. It's not working. But then the person who takes care of the vineyard says to him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I dig about it. and dung it, and if it bear fruit well. If not, then after that thou shalt cut it down. Now the person who takes care of the vineyard basically appeals to the owner and he says Let's give it a little bit more time. Let's dig around it. I'll put fertilizer on this and see if that will cause it to produce fruit. What's he saying here? Well, we're seeing this balance of an expectation for fruit and one more extension of patience. I have a an orange tree in my yard, and this orange tree was planted several years ago. I keep it in a bucket. And I remember one year it got this terrible disease. And you know, trying to grow citrus trees in Maryland is a challenge because you have to bring them in in the winter and they get aphids on them, the leaves fall off, and you really have to baby that tree. Well, this orange tree I thought was dead. And so I thought about just uprooting it and throwing it in the woods. But I decided, nope, I'm going to give it a little bit more time. And I remember. That giving it a little bit more time was actually the right decision to make. Right now that tree looks like a little bush in a in a in a a in a planter box and it's sitting on our back porch and it has flowers. It smells fragrant, it's setting fruit and it actually survived. Well the fact is that there are some plants, if you give them enough time and you take care of them the right way, they're going to survive. They're going to actually come back and produce fruit. But not always. Well what you see in these verses is the balance between we expect fruit, we planted this for a reason, but let's give it a little more time. You say, well, what's the point? Well the point of the parable is to illustrate to the people something they can understand. They know if they plant a fig tree the first year, it's just getting established. The roots are just getting started. That second year you might get a little bit of fruit, but it's not going to be great quality because you don't have a tree. you have this immature plant that is just barely beginning to get itself established. But that third year, it won't be a full harvest, but you should be expecting to get a decent harvest because the tree is established, the roots are established. It's been through some seasons where the leaves have fallen off, it's gone into its dormant stage, and now it's ready to produce fruit. You should expect that. The people can understand this very simple parable. But what he's really getting at is something that was going on in their midst. For three years, Jesus had come and preached to the people, presented himself as Messiah. He has connected himself to the Old Testament prophecies. He's performed miracles. He's taught. They have witnessed these miracles. And he's made the connections. And what have they done? As a whole, they've rejected him. They were essentially the barren fig tree. Jesus is talking about the people. He's saying, rather than repenting and turning to me and trusting in the Messiah, being ready. to receive the kingdom of God. Instead you're complacent. You're dead. There's no fruit. They were a generation who had rejected so much opportunity. But you know what's amazing? He still extended a little bit more time to these people. And that was the point of this illustration. It was that the people could see in the parable the balance of God's perfections. Later on in chapter 13, in verses 34 and 35, we see this where Jesus says this. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killeth the prophets, and stonest them that are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings? And ye would not. Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. Really I say unto you, you shall not see me until that time comes when you shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Now what is Jesus saying? He's saying, I have extended mercy upon mercy upon mercy, and you rejected and rejected and rejected, and there will be consequence. And when Jesus comes and they say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, guess what? He will be coming to establish a basis of redemption. And this is the generation that will say, His blood be on us and our children, crucify him. What you see in this illustration is basically what Jesus is experiencing as he works with He is a just God, but he's also merciful and he's extending them opportunity, but what they do with it will ultimately determine their eternal So how do we respond to these things? Well, first of all, our thinking about God should not be shaped by what we believe he should be like. It shouldn't be shaped or built on assumptions. Thirdly, we need to think about God as he has revealed himself to be in him. his word. It's not about feelings, it's not about emotions, it's not about assumptions, it's not about what I think it should be. It's about who he is as the word reveals him. And so tomorrow we're going to break this down a bit more. And so I hope that you will think about what we've talked about this morning, but that you'll come back tomorrow and we will break this down more thoroughly so you can and see uh how other passages of scripture lay this out, the balance of the perfections of God. I hope that you'll join us. I hope that if this has been an encouragement, you'll take a moment to share that, that you'll think about it, and Lord willing, we'll meet again. And tomorrow have a blessed rest of your day by now