Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a great Friday or Saturday whenever you get to hear this video. And uh the passage we've been dealing with this week is in fact it's a very encouraging passage because it celebrates God's goodness and his kindness, his grace. And I'd like us to get a couple of final thoughts as we reflect on everything we've talked about this week. And so let's read through that text one more time. Again, that's Luke chapter 15, verses 11 through 32. And then after that, I'd like us to just reflect on some practical ways to apply this text of Scripture. So here's what God's Word says. And he said, A certain man had two sons, and the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. And not many days after the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. When he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in the land, and he began to be in want, and he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country, And he sent him into the fields to feed swine. And he would fain we he would fain have filled his belly with the husk that the swine did eat, and no man gave unto him. And when he came to himself he said, How many hired servants of my father have bread enough to spare, and I perish with hunger? I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee. and am no more worthy to be called thy son. Make me as one of thy hired servants. And he arose and came to his father, but when he was yet a great way off his father saw him and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him. This is such a comforting passage of scripture. It's also a convicting one if we are acting like the older brother. And so when we come to apply this passage of Scripture, there are two scriptures that I want to remind you of before we get into those application thoughts. The first passage is in 1 Corinthians chapter 6. This is what it says. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God And such were some of you. But ye are washed, ye are sanctified, ye are justified in the name of our Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God Now when you think of that about this passage, it's telling us that people cannot go to heaven and be a part of God's eternal kingdom if they are sinners who have sinned against God and his righteous laws. And he he's very specific about certain kinds of sins that the world looks at, or I could say the Christian culture says, are obviously a serious problem. And the Bible condemns every single one of these sins. Every single one of these sinful practices. But he makes the point to say that within the church there are people who that's who they were. But not who they are, because in Christ they are alive, they are justified, washed, sanctified, they belong to God And so that passage is really about celebrating the transforming power of the gospel. A second passage that comes to mind is 1 Corinthians 15. 9. Paul writes, I'm the least of the apostles, and I'm not meet to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am who I am. And his grace, which was bestowed upon me, was not in vain. I labored more abundantly than you all. Yet not I, but the grace of God which was in me Now when Paul thinks about himself, he says, I was a persecutor of the church. I blasphemed the name of Christ. I went into people's homes and dragged them out and I threw them into prison. I was a terrible persecutor of the church, and I did it in great pride and self-righteousness. But I'm saved. And so those two passages of Scripture remind us that anybody can be saved through the redemptive work of Christ. If they would but turn to him in repentance and place their faith in his finished work, he will redeem them, he will save them. And so that leads me to six practical applications that I want us to go into the weekend considering. The first is this. We need to feel the weight of our sin a lot more deeply than we do. You know, the other day we were talking about in our Freedom at Last classes. And and w in our Freedom That Last class we talk about uh this issue of sanctification, growth into Christ's likeness. And when we talk about this issue of sin, it's easy for us to categorize certain kinds of sins and say, well, these are the real big sins and these are the smaller sins. And here's the point. We need to look at the heart of our behavior and ask the question, how does God see it? He sees it as a massive offense against them. And so we need to feel the weight of that sin a lot more deeply than we do. Secondly, we've got to stop creating categories of excusable and inexcusable sins. And if we will stop creating these categories that obviously we don't see in the scriptures, we will start recognizing that all sin is serious and it's offense to a holy God. offensive to a holy God, and we need to be washed clean from our sin. Thirdly, we've got to be a lot more patient with people Stop projecting ourselves into the place of God. We are not the judges of these people. We are not the holy and righteous one. He is. And he will judge sin. We need to be patient with people. Pray for them. Extend that opportunity for them to hear the gospel. God is way more patient with us than we are with one another. And we see this laid out in the text in front of us. Fourthly, we've got to be patient and let matters play out. You know, in this story, what does Jesus do? He tells the story of a young man who goes to the far country and he blows everything. But by the end of the story, he's restored to his dad. But it took time for that to play out. And the way that God works in people's lives, in fact, it takes time. Next, we need to be ready to engage in these conversations when God opens the door. The fact is that God does it. He brings people to himself And if we'll keep that opportunity available when he begins working, we can engage those people in those conversations. Lastly, we need to celebrate the miracle of redemption and rejoice in the depths of God's goodness. Whenever a person is saved, it is a miracle. It is the grace of God alone. It is God who purchases our redemption. It's God who draws us to this point of repentance and faith. God regenerates spiritually dead people. Salvation is of God. It's a miracle. And we should celebrate it as a miracle and be so deeply grateful to God for what He has done for us. The last thing I want to mention is this. Have a great weekend. I hope that we'll see many of you on Sunday. If you attend another church, I hope that you'll join us on Monday as we get back into our anchored in the words. But if If you're local, you're part of our church family, or maybe you don't have a church family, but you live local here. We hope you'll join us on Sunday and hope you have a great weekend. Lord willing, we will meet again on Monday. Bye now.