Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Angered in the Word Morning Reflection. Again, we are in Luke chapter 18. We are talking about the parable that Jesus taught to people who were trusting in themselves, that they were righteous. So he gives this parable about a publican and a Pharisee going into the temple. So what I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to kind of develop a little bit more what we talked about yesterday. And yesterday we emphasized the fact that once a person has turned from self-righteousness to placing their faith in Christ's death, resurrection, and righteousness alone, and they've experienced God's saving grace, There is a practical and natural way that they should live in relation to that position. So this morning what I want to do is kind of go a little bit deeper into that. I mentioned Romans 12 yesterday where we are to be transformed through the renewing of your mind. And I'd like to kind of address a passage of scripture that I think really articulates this very clearly. But before we do that Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to Luke chapter 18. We'll read verses 9 through 14 together, and then we will listen to a short excerpt from the sermon. It says, and he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves, that they were righteous. and despised others. Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers Or even as this publican, I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the publican standing afar off would not lift so much as his eyes unto heaven. But smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you this man went down to his house justified rather than the other For every one that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Let's go ahead and listen to this little section together. We should be humble. We should be loving. We should be gracious. We should be merciful. We are sinners saved by grace. That's my second point. We are sinners saved by grace alone. We're unworthy and unrighteous outside of him. We've done nothing to earn this position. We should kneel humbly in it. This humility should permeate every facet of our lives. One of the reasons it's so practical and so good for us as Christians to hear the gospel preached is because it freshly reminds us of the most basic core values of what it means to be a child of God. When I think about this concept, the first passage that comes to mind is Colossians chapter 3. In Colossians 3 it says, put on Therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bows of mercy, which is compassion. He says, even as Christ forgave you, so also forgive. He says, forbear with one another, forgive one another. Let the peace of God rule in your hearts And what's amazing about that text of Scripture is that the Apostle Paul leading up to that passage, Colossians 3, he talks about who we were. He talks about who we are, and he talks about how we are to live practically because of who we are. And so that's really the whole concept. of put on therefore, based on what he said, based on their position, based on how God's deal dealt with you, put on their four as the elect of God, meaning Think about your position. You are the recipient of God's grace and God's kindness, and he has called you out of this world to himself to live consistent with the position that you have as a saint in Christ. And then he talks about them being holy, saints, beloved. They are the object of God's affection. Because of all those things, we should be humbled and we should relate to other people correctly. And so he says, put on bowels of mercy. That's the idea of deep-rooted, tender affection. and compassion toward other people. He says, forbear with one another. That means as people will rub us the wrong way, inevitably it's going to happen in our interpersonal relationships. Be patient with that. Don't be vindictive with them. You don't need to get vengeance. Relate properly as one from a position of strength Because you don't have to go and settle the issue. God can do it for you. So forbear with one another and then forgive when someone is finally to that position where they want to reconcile. and they are humbled and they are repentant and they are ready to come to the table and resolve an issue, then you keep that handout extended and then you address the issue with them and you forgive them and then it's resolved. And I love this statement. He says That we are to let the peace of God rule in our hearts. When we think about how God has dealt with us, then we are to let that be the standard by which we relate to other people. And so that's exactly what's being communicated in these verses. The fact is that when this person who walks into the temple, who is self-righteous, looks at other people, he has this dripping condescension. But when the Pharisee, or when the publican, who understands his sin and he's broken over it, and he recognizes his only hope is the mercy and grace of God, and he cries out to God, God be merciful to me, a sinner. When that man goes to his house justified, guess what? He will relate to other people in a very different way than the Pharisee who is comparing himself to everyone and putting them down. And so when we think about this concept of living out the position that we have in Christ, we as Christians ought to be gracious humble, patient, merciful, forgiving, forbearing individuals. We should be people who relate to others. in a way that reflects the way that God has dealt with us. And so let me leave you with that very simple yet heavy challenge this morning. Let us live out the position that we have with a heart that demonstrates that it has truly been transformed. And let us relate to others in the same kind of way that God has related to us. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts in this text by now.