Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And the passage that we're dealing with is a very familiar passage. It's about Christ healing ten lepers. And this morning what we're going to do is we're going to dig into the text a little bit. Yesterday we kind of set the stage by looking at some of the details in the context. Now we're going to look at the actual details within the text itself. And today we're going to focus in on the compassion of Christ. for these individuals. So if you have your Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it. Let's all turn together. And we're going to look at look at Luke chapter 17 and we'll begin reading in verse 11. It says, And it came to pass as he went to Jerusalem that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. As he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers. which stood afar off. And they lifted up their voices and said, Master, have mercy on us. When he saw them, he said unto them, Go show yourself unto the priest. Came to pass that as they went they were cleansed. One of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back and with a loud voice glorified God, and fell down at his face and at his feet Giving him thanks, and he was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said, Were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine? They are not found to return to give glory to God, save the stranger. He said unto him, Arise, go thy way. Thy faith hath made thee whole. Great passage of Scripture. A lot of important details for us to dig into this morning. The first thing I want us to dig into is the fact that this passage of Scripture demonstrates that Christ has time for hurting people. And before we look at this in detail, I want us to pause and think about what's going on when people suffer In verse 11 it says, as he went to Jerusalem, he passed in the midst of Samaria and Galilee, and there he met ten men who were lepers. Now, whenever people are experiencing heartache in life, their mind is immediately going to go to asking the question, what is the cause of this particular situation? Not just what is the cause, but what does this cause say about God? Is God able to protect me? Is God able to deliver me? Is God able to heal me? If he is, then why does he allow this to take place? Is there something going on in my life that's caused this to take place? Is God my enemy or is he my ally in this situation? These are the kinds of questions that people will often ask themselves because that's where our mind naturally goes. Well, when people experience heartache, they often assume the absolute worst about that situation. And I want to give you a couple of illustrations of this in the scriptures. The first is about the story of Job. There was a man named Eliphaz. He was one of Job's, I put this in quote, friends. And he assumed the absolute worst about Job. And we see this come out in Job chapter 4, where this is what he says, Thy words have upholded him that was falling. And thou hast strengthened the feeble needs, but now it is come upon thee, and thou faintest. Here's what's important to notice. He says, whoever perished being innocent. Where were when were the righteous cut off? I have seen they that plow iniquity and sow wickedness reap the same. Now what Eliphaz is basically insinuating here is that Job has concealed some sin, and this sin is the ultimate cause of his heartache and his pain. And so he's assuming that the reason that Job's suffering is directly connected to something bad that he did. He's assuming the worst about Job. When we look at the passage, we see that the scripture clearly states that Job was an upright man. He feared God. He eschewed evil. He tried to live a conscientious life, even more than any of his peers. And so it wasn't specifically a sin that Job committed that was the cause of this issue. It was far more complicated than that. But this is what Eliphaz assumed Another example is David in Psalm 6, where it says, O Lord, rebuke me not in thine anger, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. Have mercy on me. I am weak. Heal me. My bones are vexed. My soul is sore vexed. Lord, how long? And what does this passage show us? Well it assumes that it shows you that David is assuming that as he is suffering, that God is angry with him, that God is his enemy, that God is pouring out wrath on him. Yet when Scripture talks about chastening of a father to the Son, it says whom the Lord loves he chastens And he scourges those whom he receives. And so David's view of God is clearly wrong in this particular context. Another example, this is closer to the text that we're looking at this morning, and that is in John 9. Where there is a man who was born blind. And they said, Master, who did sin? This man or his parents? That he was born blind. Jesus said, Neither had this man sinned nor his parents, but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. And so in all of these examples, we have people that are assuming the worst about a person who's suffering, about themselves, the one who's suffering, about God and his relationship to them and their suffering. That's what people do when they experience suffering. Yet as we step back, we see that these are wrong assumptions. And these wrong assumptions have gone one of two directions. Either one, they have an unhealthy view of themselves. Where the idea is that we've got to earn God's favor, he's hovering over us, waiting to crush us, and we get out of line. Or on the other side, an unhealthy view of God, where we view him as being whimsical, easily manipulated, he's cruel, he's vindictive. He's bound by our decisions rather than free to act as he chooses, as a God who is transcendent. Both views, whether of self or of God, can clearly go in the wrong direction. And so that leads us to the to the question, well what exactly was going on in these verses? Well, out of the five recorded miracles leading up to Jerusalem, this one Is just one of several that is demonstrating God's mercy and it's about teaching us something about Him. For instance, in Luke 11, what does it show us about Christ? It shows us that he is compassionate And it shows us the misunderstanding of people that they believe that he has done this miracle by the power of Satan. Or we go to chapter 13. He has compassion on a woman who's been infirm for eighteen years. And since it was done on the Sabbath day, The religious leaders accuse him of violating the law. Then chapter 14, we said something very similar. A man is is on the Sabbath day, he is uh experiences God's compassion, he's healed. And again, an accusation, you violated the Sabbath day, Luke 18. He heals a blind beggar, and the people were trying to keep this man from coming to Jesus. In all of those situations, it shows you something about the mercy, the power, the compassion of Christ, and the misunderstandings of people. This passage, like those passages, confronts how we view God as well. Let's remember that in the context, Jesus is going up to Jerusalem. And the question is why was he going up to Jerusalem? Answer? He was going because he wants to reconcile his enemies, the world, to the Father. And it was the love of God that moved him. John 3. 16. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. Romans 5. 8. God hath commended his love toward us while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. And so it is the love of God that is moving Christ to Jerusalem to ultimately pay the price for our sin. He loves his Father, and he desires to submit to his will and to give him glory. And he also loves these ten men who are outcasts and dying in misery. And so that is at the back, the foreground of the passage that we're looking at. And just like Jesus went to Samaria , went through Samaria to speak to this woman at the well in Sikar, and ultimately to reach into that community, what is he doing? The same kind of thing. He's going through these villages of Samaria and Galilee to meet certain people who he is going to heal, and there's going to be a confrontation, and it's going to teach us something about Christ. Let's also think about these people. These people were outcasts. They were living in misery. They were dying. It says in verse 12 that they stood afar off. It's because it was not acceptable for them to come in contact with other people. This disease had tragically interrupted their lives. They had been separated from their family and their friends, and this is a miserable state to live in. It was painful. It was a humiliating way to die. And all ten of these people, all ten of these men had the same problem. We don't know what their backgrounds were like, we don't know how they lived their lives, what kind of financial resources they had, what their relationships to their families were like. None of those things are known to us in the tags. But because of this this terrible illness of leprosy, they all have the same problem. They're all dying the same way. We also see that they cry out to him for mercy. Master, have mercy on us. They didn't say we're entitled. You have to do this. They're pleading humbly, desperately, we need you to intervene on our behalf. Please have pity on us. They were driven because they believed he could heal them. And so when we think about this passage of scripture, we see the mercies of God. We see the misery of man, we see God's providence, we see God's kindness, his compassion. They're all there because Jesus mercifully heals them. He says to them, Go and show yourself to the priest. And as they went, they were cleansed. He took the time to sit down and help them. He had the power to do it, and that's exactly what happened. Well, this morning as we think about the rest of our day, I hope that we'll reflect on this passage that we've just looked at this morning. that we will see the mercy and the compassion of God, the fact that he takes time for hurting and broken people. And let's remind ourselves that we are hurting and broken people ourselves. Every single one of us carries burdens and challenges. And God is not disconnected from those burdens that we carry. He knows. He cares. And in this passage, he demonstrates that he takes active, decisive action. to alleviate those burdens and to minister to us in the ways that we most need. And so as you go about your day, I hope that you'll think about that, reflect on these truths. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow as we continue digging into this passage of scripture. Bye now.