Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And the text in front of us that we've been looking at this week is from Luke chapter 14, verses 7 through 14. And the topic we're addressing Is living with an anticipation of the resurrection. This morning, what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look at this concept of the fact that the kingdom of God has a structure to it. And there are certain responsibilities and roles that we will have the opportunity to participate in if we are faithful today. And so the discussion that we're we're having this morning is not about how you become a Christian, but how someone who is a Christian is faithful and what some of the long-term effects where we could say the eternal rewards are for having lived a faithful Christian life. So let's turn in the text together. And it is in Luke chapter 14 and looking at verses 7 through 14. Here's what. The Lord says. And he put forth a parable to those which were bidden, when he marked how they chose out the chief rooms, saying unto them, When thou art bidden of any man to a wedding Sit not down in the highest room, lest a more honorable man than thou be bidden of him. And he that bade thee in him come, and say unto thee, Give this man place. And thou begin to shake Shame and take the lowest, thou begin with shame to take the lowest room. When thou makest a feast, call the poor, the mame, the lame, the blind, and thou shalt be blessed, for they cannot recompense thee For thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just. Now, as we look at this passage, what we are seeing is a concept that some some of us may not understand. But it's important to recognize this in the scripture. And that is that there is a very definite structure in the wedding feast. And this is a picture of the very definite structure that there is within the wedding In the kingdom of God. feast. Notice in verse number 10 he says, When you're bidden, go and sit down in the lowest room that he that bade thee come and say, Friend, go Up higher. What he's saying is that there is some level of inequality at a wedding feast. Now everyone that's at the wedding feast is a participant in the wedding. They are having an opportunity, they are blessed to be able to Able to be a part of that celebration, but they don't all have equal positions within that wedding party. For instance, there are some people who are the immediate members of the wedding party, and they are in an honor. Position. There are people who are friends who are very close friends and friends who are more or less associates, and there are people who are family members. That's something that would normally happen. In a wedding context. And when we talk about the kingdom, we need to recognize that we won't all have the same roles and responsibilities in God's eternal kingdom. There's a structure there. So I want to show you a couple of The first is in Matthew 19. He says, Ye which have followed me in the regeneration when The Son of Man shall sit on the thrones of his glory on the throne of his glory, ye shall also sit upon twelve thrones. Now he's talking about the disciples here specifically. He says, judging the twelve tribes Tribes of Israel, and every one that has forsaken house or brethren or sister or father or mother or wife or children or lands for my name's sake shall receive an hundredfold and shall inherit eternal life. Many that are first shall be last, and last shall be first. And you can see some parallels between what Jesus says in Matthew 19 and what's being Stated in Luke chapter 14. And you can also see the sense that there are people who will have authority. They will be ruling, which indicates there will be people who are under their authority. who are being ruled. And he not only talks about this in relation to the apostles, but he talks about this in relation to everyone. He says, everyone who has forsaken house. And brethren and sisters and wife and lands from my namesake will receive a hundredfold. So then the question comes down to well, how is this determined? What is the basis of that determination? We know that the basis of our salvation is the redemptive work of Christ, the cross, the resurrection of Christ, and his resurrection, and his righteousness imputed to us. But what is the basis for this This determination. We also see another passage that's similar in Revelation chapter 2. He says, He that overcometh and keepeth my works unto the end, to him I will Now he's writing to a church with individuals who are not apostles. And so we'd have to have to come to the conclusion that we're going to This is not just to the apostles or the immediate disciples, kind of an instruction. This is to all believers. We also see another passage, Revelation 20 twenty. He says, I saw thrones, and they that sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them, and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first Resurrection on whom the second death hath no power. They shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years. Now I know that the Revelation 20 passage is primarily talking about what we refer to as the millennial kingdom, which is essentially a foretaste of eternal glory and the eternal kingdom. But you see this concept of structure again. And so that leads us to the question of well, where does this happen that we find out what role we have or what responsible We're given, or what blessings we enjoy as a result of our faithfulness as believers? Well, the answer is the judgment seat of Christ. This is why there is a judgment seat There's both a great white throne judgment for those who have rejected the gospel, and there's a judgment seat of Christ for those who have embraced the gospel, but will be evaluated in their service. For instance, look at this text together with me, 2 Corinthians 5. We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, the we being we, Paul, and other believers. that everyone may receive the things done in his body, whether it be good or bad. This is the judgment seat of Christ. First Corinthians 3, Paul says, according to According to the grace of God which is given to me as a wise master builder, I've laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon. Let every man take heed how he buildeth thereon. Other foundation can never No man lay which is Christ Jesus. Now, if any man build on this foundation, gold, silver, precious stone, wood, hay, and stubble, every man's work shall be made manifest. The quality of the work will be Revealed at the judgment seat of Christ. In other words, we do not select our roles simply because we want them. They are given to us by the Lord Jesus Christ, and they're given to us To us at the great at the judgment seat of Christ, and they're given to us on the basis of his evaluation of our service as believers. And so in verse 14 he says, You'll be blessed. Or again, in verse 14, thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just. The idea is how we live Today actually matters. Yes, we are saved by grace alone, through faith alone, and the redemptive work of Christ alone. Of us being in the kingdom is the redemptive work of Christ. But the role that we will experience for eternity is determined within In that context, by our faithfulness as God's children. So the question is: what do we take away from this? What we should take away from this is we as believers should have concerns And we should be sobered by the fact that one day we will stand before Christ at the judgment seat. And we need to be ready for that day. We need to be living with an anticipation of that day. Our desire should be that we would be found as good and faithful servants who God can reward us for our faithful service. May the Lord help us to live with that thought on the forefront of our minds today. Well, if this has been an encouragement or a challenge to you, take a moment to share that. Lord willing, tomorrow, we will meet again for our next Anchored in the Word study. Bye now.