Good morning. Welcome to our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope you're having a good start to your Friday and looking forward to a great weekend. The text that we've been working through is Luke chapter 6. 16, looking at verses 14 through 18. And yesterday we focused in on the hope that we find in the passage. I know that when we first read the text, we tend to think of the negative side, but there's both a positive and a negative side. And so yesterday we dealt with the fact that there is hope in the gospel. And that is really the focus that the gospel was being preached and people were being compelled. to repent and believe. And so this morning what I want to do is I'd like to just take what we've talked about and then just kind of summarize it and give you some final thoughts to think about going into the weekend. So Luke 16. Verses fourteen through eighteen says the following. And the Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard all these things, and they derided him. And he said unto them, Year they would which justify yourselves before men. But God knoweth your hearts, for that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God. The law and the prophets were until John, since that time the kingdom of God is Preached, and every man presseth into it, and it is easier for heaven and earth to pass than one tittle of the law to fail. Whosoever putteth away his wife and marrieth another committeth adultery, and whosoever So the question we've asked is, well, what can we learn from the text in front of us this week? The first thing I want to say zero in on is what we can learn from the Pharisees. And the fact is the Pharisees are tragic people. It's a tragedy because these are people who had tremendous access to Scripture. These are people who studied the scriptures. They literally had their livelihood rooted in the scriptures, yet their lives stand as this tremendous tragedy. And one one of the things One of the first things that we see about the Pharisees is that the heart, sin, was going to manifest itself. And it could manifest itself in a lot of different ways. And really the text kind of shows that where he uses the word love of money and then later on he talks about the issue of how they were excusing people being um really unjust in their marriages and it was because of their love for money. It also shows us that it doesn't matter how we feel about something or how people think about our actions. Ultimately, God is the one who's going to judge us. And so though these religious leaders had had earned the faith Of other people, and they had really benefited from other people's view of them, Christ saw them very differently. And when God saw them, he saw them at the heart level. Thirdly, we see that it's impossible. To hide our heart from God, that we can hide it from other people, He ultimately is going to hold us accountable. Even those who profit from lies will eventually face God's justice. And so here were these religious leaders who are teaching a false gospel and they are teaching a false way of life and they are presenting themselves in a hypocritical fashion. And everything was working out for them up until the point that they were going to stand before God. And then that entire system that they had put their trust in was going to fall. Apart. So we see the tragedy of the Pharisees, and we need to learn from it. Secondly, we need to humbly reflect on God's grace because this passage isn't just about the Pharisees and their failures, but it's also about the grace of God. And we need to be thankful for the grace of God who meets us and pursues us When we find ourselves in a place like these people. First thing is that he pursues us in our rebellion and our spiritual blindness. As much as Jesus preached the gospel, and John Preached the gospel to the multitudes. He was also preaching it to these people, the scribes and the Pharisees. Let's remember Nicodemus was a very religious man who Jesus preached the gospel to. And it appears that Nicodemus was a man who embraced the gospel later on in the account of Christ. And so when we're in a position of rebellion and spiritual blindness, what does God do? He pursues us. Secondly, he keeps calling us to repent and to believe on Christ. As long as you have opportunity on this side, then it's still available. Every time you hear the gospel, you can respond to it. And so we must do that. Thirdly, we were reminded that His grace is available even when we have been dismissive of that grace. And so here are people who had hardened themselves, but they could embrace it. Our salvation is always a testimony to the rich mercy and grace. You know, the greatest example of this was the Apostle Paul. He says, I am the chief of sinners because I persecuted the church. But then he prefaces it and he says, I did this in Ig Ignorance and an unbelief. The point is that even Paul, who had hardened his heart against the gospel and against the Lord Jesus, was a man who ultimately Became a trophy of God's grace, his life and his conversion demonstrated God's mercy and grace and the power of the gospel. Every blessing that we enjoy. is a result of the kind and good hand of God. And so we need to learn from the tragedy of the Pharisees, and we need to reflect humbly on the grace of God. That leads us to a final thought. If we've not trusted him as our Savior, now is the time to turn to him. You don't have a guarantee of tomorrow. You don't know what's going to happen on the morrow. As it's Says in James, what is our life? It's even a vapor, it appears for a little while and then it vanishes away. Turn to him today. I want to encourage you as we go into the weekend. Love the gospel, cherish the gospel. grace of God and rest in the finished work and righteousness of Christ. Have a blessed weekend and Lord willing we'll see many of you on Sunday and Lord willing we'll see many of you. uh next Monday when we pick back up and our studies uh through the book of Luke. Have a blessed day by now