Good morning and welcome to our midweek anchored in the word morning reflection. And today's going to be a really important discussion because we're going to look at The arguments that Luke is going to lay out to convince us of the reliability of the record of Christ, both his life, his ministry, his rejection, his death, his resurrection. All of that's going to be laid out in this discussion this morning. And so I hope that you'll join us for that because it's very, very important. We're going to look at the flow of the book of Luke. And how Luke orders all of these events in his record. And so if you have a Bible, let's take it and turn together to Luke chapter 1. We're going to look at verses 1 through 4 together and then dig into this text and just really look at a snapshot of the book of Luke. Luke chapter 1, verse number 1. For as much as many have taken in hand to set forth an order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were I witnesses, and ministers of the word. It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order most excellent Theophilus that thou mightest know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. Now as we look at what Luke has said, we not only see that he's making the claim that this is Scripture, It's from the very first perfect understanding of all things from eyewitnesses. Now what we're going to see is that Luke is laying out a case in a methodical way. He is presenting a series of arguments that are meant to convince us of who Christ is. And so as we think about this, we see that the evidence of that in 3 to 4. It says, it seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order. He's laying out a case. And there are three things that he's emphasizing about this case. First, it is with perfect understanding. Complete and accurate. What I mean by that is he did his research. In other words, it's not like God just gave him this information and he didn't have some basis to be aware of it. He was aware of it because he talked to eyewitnesses. He is compiling the data. This data is firsthand account, and it's not just one person's first hand account, it is multiple witnesses of firsthand accounting. He's being guided by the Holy Spirit as he writes. And so what he selects, how he presents it, it's all a part of the Spirit of God working in him and through him. The second thing I want to mention is that it considers the complete picture. It was of all things from the very first. This account considered the flow of events. Many fascinating conversations are recorded for us. It considered prophecies and it anticipated and predicted that these events would actually be fulfilled in the life of Christ. He gives the conversations where many of these things were fulfilled. And so he's considering the big picture, not just what happened, but what was predicted and then how it completed that. All of those things are part of this discussion. Thirdly, he's giving the divine commentary on the significance of these events. And that's extremely helpful. How did God see it? Not just how did Luke see it or Paul see it or Peter or John, but how did God see it? The third piece is it was personal and it was practical. He wasn't just giving us a history lesson and saying, I hope you enjoyed that. It's very interesting to know these things. No. He wants Theophilus to know the certainty of those things. So he is convincing Theophilus. He is compelling him to actually take action on what he's saying. And so this is an important detail. Not everything was included. There was a lot of material that Luke didn't say anything about. Now, maybe some of that material is recorded by John or by Matthew. But Luke is picking out specific details as the Spirit guides him that were included for a reason. I go on to say it like this. There was a point to what was given and the order in which it was given. Those things mattered a lot to what Luke is trying to accomplish And so that reminds us that our faith is built on a foundation. And that foundation is solid, it is strong, it is sure, it is filled with reliable facts. That's what our faith is built on The case that he lays out is one that should give us strength. It should give us confidence. It's reliable. It's objective. Our faith, yes. is a decision to trust doesn't mean that everything is going to be figured out by us before we do, but there's a compelling case being made for why we should believe. Faith is not a feeling. It's a commitment based upon a reliable and reasonable conviction that something is true, that God is trustworthy. And so not to say that emotion doesn't play a part in our uh we that we don't feel anything when we place our faith in Christ, I'm not saying that, but it's not just some emotional reaction. It is based on facts. It is from the heart with the will. The mind is engaged, the emotions are drawn, and we make a choice to commit and to trust in what God has said. So what is the basic flow of this book? Well, this is very, very important for us to recognize. As Luke is laying out a case, there are actually four basic sections to what he's presenting. The first section is dealing with Jesus as a real person. And so from 1. 1 to 413, he's laying out the time that Christ was born. He's talking about some of the Old Testament prophecies that are there. He's laying out a case that Jesus is a real person. He was promised in the Old Testament. He descends from David in the flesh through the Virgin Mary. By the way, important detail. Matthew records the genealogy of Christ through Joseph back to David, but Joseph is clearly not his biological father, and Matthew makes a point to state that, as does Luke. And so as we follow the genealogy of Christ through David through Joseph, that genealogy , is showing his legal right to the throne. But when we go to the book of Luke, he shows it through Mary, and we're looking at his humanity. And he doesn't just go back to David, but he goes all the way back to Adam. And so this is important. It's showing us the humanity of Christ, his descent from the first man, Adam, to being the second man, God in flesh, the Lord Jesus Christ. We see that he grows up in obscurity, just like an ordinary Jewish boy. He develops in wisdom and stature and in favor with God and man, just like Any other Jewish boy at that time, he was truly tempted in the flesh and overcame Satan as Satan hurls his temptations at him. The second part of the book is dealing with a compelling ministry that validates his claim to be the Christ. So from chapter 4, verse 14 until chapter 9, verse 50. He gives all kinds of teaching and records many conversations and interactions that are compelling us to believe that in fact Christ is the one that he claims to be. So he demonstrates his power over Satan by casting out demons on multiple occasions. He demonstrates his power over sickness. by healing numerous individuals who are sick. He demonstrates his power over death by raising certain people to life. In fact, several people are recorded for us in the book of Luke that were raised to life He demonstrates his power to create by feeding the five thousand by a little boy's lunch. And so he takes this lunch and he multiplies it. In the same way that God created Adam from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. The Lord Jesus Christ takes something, this bread and this fish, and he creates enough food for over 5,000 people to eat. And then he teaches extensively on the kingdom. So that's the second part of the book. The third part of the book is is actually the largest of the four sections, and that is demonstrating that though there was tremendous evidence, overwhelming evidence, He was rejected. And so 951 until 1927, that section of the book, about 40% of the book, nonetheless, is talking about how Christ was rejected. You say, why does this matter? Well it matters because even though there's a compelling case, people have a choice to make. And the choice that they made wasn't the right one. So this portion of Luke covers, interestingly, only about a week or two of his ministry. So out of three and a half years of ministry, 40% of the book, the largest of the four sections, is dedicated to just a couple of weeks. And so from chapter 9, verse 51 until Christ uh goes in on the Passover. That is basically his ascent up to Jerusalem. We also see that what he's doing is probably emphasizing this rejection of Christ and how The overwhelming evidence wasn't enough to convince these people to believe. And their rejection, in fact, was a shocking one. Then we move to the third section. And this would be the part that maybe is the most significant in its focus on his actual work. And that is his crucifixion under Pontius Pilate. the resurrection from the dead, and then witnesses who proclaimed that they saw both the death and the resurrection of Christ. And so that is chapter 19, verse 28, and to 24, 53. And so the remainder of Luke's testimony is dedicated to the final week of his ministry. It's giving us all of this information, carefully documenting how Christ was arrested, how he was tried, how he was crucified. And this gives a lot of information. In fact, it's the longest of the narrations of the crucifixion because he focuses in on the thief on the cross and how this man was converted in his final minutes before he dies. He also documents the eyewitness testimonies of the resurrection. This is an important piece because his three final witnesses, the most compelling of his witnesses, are presented to convince us of who Christ is. And so I hope that you'll join us tomorrow as we dig into that last little piece that I made. And that is his three compelling witnesses. Why should we believe that Jesus is the Christ? He came in the flesh. He died on the cross. He rose from the dead. These three witnesses we'll talk about tomorrow will give us that information. Well if you have any questions about what we talked about this morning, please don't hesitate to reach out, maybe share this with someone who can be helped by it, and Lord willing tomorrow we'll keep building out what we find in this text and specifically in the book of Luke and Acts. Have a blessed rest of your morning, Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow, by now