Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we are looking at the Church at Ephesus and its founding this week. And we're looking at how God did a remarkable work in a very dark place. Today what I'd like us to look at is the unlikely origin of really a massive spiritual awakening. And we find this in Acts chapter 19. So if you have your Bible, let's take it. Let's turn together to that text. I'll read a couple of verses and then we're going to talk about the unlikely origin of the Church at Ephesus being really massively used by God in the first century. Here's what the text says. And he went into the synagogue and spake boldly for the space of three months, disputing and persuading of things concerning the kingdom of God. But when diverse were hardened and believed not, but spake evil of that way before the multitude, he departed from them, and separated the disciples, disputing daily in the school of one tierness This continued for the space of two years, so that all they which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. Now when we talk about how unlikely it was that the gospel would advance from Ephesus, it's important for us to just step back and consider the history of this location. uh the time in its history, and some of the details that we find in the book of Acts about this church plan. First of all, I want to mention that this was a city in decline. Now we don't know that because of the Bible. We know that because of history. And as we read about the time that Paul would have come to Ephesus, Ephesus had at one time been a center of commerce. It had a port, and people would move in and out of the port. It was a port city. But over time that that port actually silted in and it was not able to be used the way it had been in the past. And so there was a shift from commerce to and in traditional trade to the production and selling of religious icons. And so this is an explanation as to why the people were so but up in arms when Their trade was actually being affected by the presence of Paul and a gospel preaching church in the city. It was a declining city And when you think of places where the gospel takes root and then are very influential in other parts of the region, you don't think of a place that has a declining city. The second thing I'll mention is the great spiritual darkness of this city. We see a glimpse of this in verses 23 to 29 where we see that there is an uproar over the radical change that's taken place in people's lives at Ephesus. It says at the same time there arose no small stir about that way, meaning the Christian way. the way of a disciple of Christ. A certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, which made silver shrines for Diana, brought no small gain unto the craftsman. He called together those who were workmen of like occupation, said, Sirs, you know that we by this craft have our wealth. Moreover, you see and hear that not only at Ephesus, but also throughout all Asia, and that's Asia Minor. This Paul has persuaded and turned away much people, saying that there be no gods. Not only this, our craft is in danger, but also the temple of the great goddess Diana should be despised. Now, what this is showing us is that there's a lot of darkness in the city. There's idolatry, there's greed. We're going to see that there is demonic activity in the city that's very prevalent. And so this was not the kind of place that you would think would be the establishment of a beachhead for church planting endeavors. A third thing that I'll mention is that Paul's ministry to the city was delayed. It was his desire, some time before, about three years before, to go there to Ephesus and there at Ephesus to do work. But God forbid him to do that It says in verse 6 of chapter 16, that they were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia, and after they assued to go to Bithynia, the Spirit suffered them not. And then the Spirit, God sent a vision appearing to Paul in the night saying , come over to Macedonia and help us. After we saw the vision, immediately we endeavored to go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us to preach the gospel unto them. So we have a declining city, we have tremendous spiritual darkness, and then a delayed ministry. But God was going to do a work at Ephesus. And I hope that you'll join us the rest of the week as we talk about this story. It's a remarkable story. And not only is it a remarkable story, but it's true. And it shows you what God can do. And if God could do it then, most certainly He can do it today. So I hope you'll join us the rest of the week as we keep working our way through this text. I hope that you will have an excitement and an anticipation. of what we will learn about God's work in a dark world. Have a blessed morning, Lord One will meet again tomorrow. By now