Well, good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And it's probably been a weird week for you, but I hope that the studies that we've done each day have been a blessing to you and that you've been richly encouraged by them. If you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to turn to Ephesians chapter 1, verse 15. And again, we're going to read the text. We're going to kind of pull all this together and leave you with some practical thoughts that I hope will encourage you as you enter into the weekend. So Ephesians chapter one, verse number fifteen, here's what it says. Wherefore I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus, and love unto all the saints, cease not to give thanks to you making mention of you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation and a knowledge of Him. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that ye may know what is the hope of his calling, and what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints. And what is the exceeding riches of his kindness toward us? Now, what can we learn from this passage of Scripture? What have we learned from this passage of Scripture? A couple of thoughts of application. Here's the first one. The shepherding heart that is being illustrated or demonstrated in this passage of Scripture is something that should characterize all of us. And I mentioned earlier this week that we have shepherding context potentials everywhere. We talk about our families, we're to shepherd our children. That's probably one of the most significant ones. But it's not just parents and their children. It's grandparents and their grandchildren. It's uh a spouse uh as as my uh in my family. I'm supposed to mentor my children, I'm supposed to disciple them, I'm supposed to shepherd them, I'm supposed to look out for the spiritual well-being of my wife We think about the church context where we have opportunities to develop friendships with people, but these are redemptive relationships, not just we like to hang out and talk about football or something like that. But we actually care about the souls of people, and that's something that we're very burdened and we're very motivated about. Even in our work context, God can bring people into our lives through work or through school. that we'll have the opportunity to point to Christ. And so shepherding hearts is something that every Christian should have. Secondly The things that are that are mentioned in these verses, these ought to be the heart of our attitude towards people. And if we if we really understand the gospel, And we love the gospel. We're going to want others to understand the gospel and love it as well. And that really comes out in these verses. Third thing. Shepherding care always points people to the gospel and the supremacy of supremacy of Christ, not us. A shepherd is not saying, come and follow me. A shepherd is saying, let's go follow him. And so Christ is the example. Christ is the standard. Christ is the one that we are ultimately running to. And so we constantly want to shepherd people to Jesus, pointing them to him. Fourthly. A shepherd understands the importance of the Spirit's work in opening the eyes of not just the unbeliever, but also the believer. of helping the believer to understand the significance of Scripture. We call this illumination, and this passage really emphasizes the need for illumination. So I leave you with this final encouragement. With all of these things to process today, let's purpose to have a prayer life like this. To pray with this kind of love for the people of God, the people that God has brought into our lives. That's my encouragement and challenge to you this week. Well, I hope you have a wonderful rest of your day. I hope that you have a great weekend. And Lord willing, we hope to see you on Sunday. Take care. Bye now.