Good morning. Welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection this week. And the text that we've been examining is Psalm 12. And the topic we've been addressing is encouragement. judgment for a dark time. And this morning the word I want you to remember is the word preservation. That word preservation means that even though God's people Are going to face difficulties, God will keep them. And God's promises are sure. And when He makes promises, He keeps them. We can trust Trust his word 100%. And so that will be the focus of our study this morning. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to advise you to take it. Let's turn together to Psalm 12. We'll read it. And then we'll focus in on this. word preservation. Here's what it says. Help, Lord, for the godly man ceaseth, for the faithful fall from amongst the children of the Men. They speak vanity every one with his neighbor. With flattering lips and with a double heart do they speak. The Lord shall cut off all flattering lips. And the tongue that speaketh proud things, who have said, with our tongue we will prevail. Our lips are our own. Who is Lord over us? For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy. Now will I arise, saith the Lord. I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. The words of the Lord are pure words, as silver tried in a furnace of earth purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord. Thou shalt preserve them from this generation. forever. The wicked walk on every side, when the vilest men are exalted. Now as we look at this text, what we are seeing is that God will preserve his people no matter what they face. There are no exceptions. He preserves his people. And he preserves his work. And we see this in verses five to seven. He says, For the oppression of the poor and the sign of the needy, now I will arise. Safety. The words of the Lord are pure words, as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord, thou shalt preserve them from this generation. Forever. What we see is three great promises. The first, he is actively defending. He says, now I will arise. He is actively sheltering. He says, I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. And then the third promise is he will actively preserve in every generation. He says, Thou shalt keep them, O Lord. Thou shalt preserve them from this generation. So when we talk about the righteous, we see that God defends them, he shelters them, and he actively preserves them. And this is all rooted in the basic promise of God. The illustration that we find in the text is beautiful. He says, the words of the Lord are pure words as silver tried in a furnace of earth purified seven times. We see a simple statement of a fact. God's words are pure. That means there's no error in them. That means what he says is true. And then he says it is as silver tried in a Furnace of earth. The idea is that in the same way that you test the quality and the purity of silver or gold through fire, The Word of God's purity is tested through the fires and trials of life. And it is demonstrated to be True. And so it is a tested word and it is a demonstrated to be pure word. And then he goes, purified seven times, as if it's something that that shows you that this This is complete. There is no lacking or falling short of God's word. Reminds me of what Jesus says in Matthew, where he says, Till heaven and earth pass, not one jot or one tittle will pass from the law till all is fulfilled. He says nothing that God has spoken is going to fall short at any point for any reason, at any time. God's word is tested, God's word is perfect, God's word is fulfilled. And so we see that his word is clear, it is tested by fire. The same fire that purifies God's people demonstrates the veracity of his word. And it is demonstratably reliable. This is what is pictured in the illustration. And so the great principle is stated in other ways, in other passages of scripture, This is not just a Psalm 12 thing. This is an all-throughout Scripture thing. For instance, in Matthew 16, he says, I will build my church. The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. That is a promise, and it is tested, and it has been demonstrated to be true. Here we are 2,000 years removed from the time of Christ. Think about all the time and all the things that have gone on between us and the Apostle Paul and the Apostles, the rest of the Apostles. How many people have tried to destroy God's word? How many people have tried to destroy the church? How many people have persecuted Christians? And here we are today continuing to study the same Bible with the same doctrines and the same gospel and the same spirit. We are the church of God today because God preserves his church. church. Or Matthew or John chapter 16. He says, in the world you will have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. world. First John 4, year of God little children, and have overcome them because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. This great principle is also talked about in 2 Peter 2, where he says that God judges the wicked and he preserves the righteous. He says that he knows how to deliver the godly out of temptation. And to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished. God's promises are sure. Well you may ask, well, how does he do this? Well he does it by giving us promises, and these promises encourage us. He gives us the Spirit who indwells us, who is our surety, the first fruits of our redemption. And the Spirit is the comforter who encourages and strengthens us as we Read the promises of Scripture. He gives us His Word and His Spirit to shape how we think about these issues. He gives us His Word so that we will obey it and His promises can be tested And he works through the ordinary and sometimes extraordinary means of preserving his work. Sometimes he raises up uh national rulers, sometimes the the the the ebbs and the flows of history are the tools in his hands. We think about the passage that says that the king's heart is in the hands of the Lord Lord, and as the rivers of water he turneth it whithersoever he will. This is how God preserves his people and his truth. So what do we take away from this today? Who can trust God? You can have confidence. You can rest in his promises. True. Well, I hope that gives you some things to think about this morning. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for our final thoughts on Psalm 12. Have a great day. We'll talk to you tomorrow. Bye now.