Good morning, welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and hope you're having a good Wednesday morning or afternoon, evening, whatever uh time you're watching or listening to this podcast. And the passage that we're dealing with is Luke 24, verses 44 through 53. We're talking about Christ's final words before the ascension, and in those words we see him looking back at the things that he has already stated and emphasizing the Old Testament Today we're going to look at him looking forward, the purpose of why he has redeemed and now what he wants to accomplish after the fact. And so we see the continuation. of Christ's ministry now through the apostles and then through the church. And that is looking forward at God's purpose to bring the gospel to the nation. So let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to Luke 24. I'll read verses 44 to 53, and then we'll dig into that third concept today. Here's what it says. And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you. while I was yet with you. But all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses and in the prophets, and in the Psalms concerning me. Then opened he their understanding that they might understand the Scriptures. And said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day, and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem And ye are witnesses of these things. And behold, I send the promise of my father upon you. But tarry in the city of Jerusalem until you be endued with power from on high. And he led them out as far as Tibetany and lifted up his hands and blessed them, and it came to pass while he blessed them, he was parted from them, and carried up into heaven, and they worshipped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy And we're continuing the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen. Now, this morning what we're going to do is look forward. We're looking forward at the fact that God had a purpose, and that purpose was the gospel that was secured to be preached so that people could be forgiven of their sins. and become God's children. And so what we see in verse 47 is that he's looking forward that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations. Lots of little pieces to that that I want to draw your attention to. If we understand God's plan, then we will be motivated to engage in what he is doing. This statement is to correct the disillusionment of the disciples. They are wondering if God sells a purpose for them what comes next. This is going to meet that need. And they need to embrace the purpose that God has for them. So we notice first of all the word repentance. The word repentance means a change of thinking on the heart level. So we have people who are continuing in their sin, rejecting the Savior, going about their own way, and they need to be confronted with the truth. They need to see the truth and they need to embrace the truth and their thinking needs to be changed on the heart level. That's what he means when he says repentance should be preached. That word preached means it needs to be heralded. It's not just telling people about it, giving them information, but calling their attention to it and compelling them to respond to the message in repentance toward God and faith in Christ. The second piece is the remission side. This is the result of the message. They're called the preach repentance so that the sins of people can be removed. And notice it says remission of sins in his name. They are proclaiming this message under his authority, in his name, by his authority, and this forgiveness of sins, this washing away of sins. is something that takes place in the name of Christ. And so we see the second piece of that. Then we see the third piece. And that is the extent to which this preaching is to go about. is to be among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. And so God's plan was not simply that people would hear the gospel in one location. or one people group would receive the gospel, but that the gospel will be spread indiscriminately all throughout the world, so that there will be people who are saved from every kindred and tribe and nation. That is God's plan. So we've looked back to see promise fulfillment. We've looked forward to see here is the future responsibility and role for you as my disciples. And Lord willing tomorrow we're going to look within. And so I hope you'll join us tomorrow as we keep digging into this. I hope that you not only understand the gospel and have embraced the gospel, but you are passionate about proclaiming it. Maybe today God can open up the door for you to plant a seed. Take a track. Take opportunity. Don't be hesitant. Don't be shy. Be willing to engage in whatever opportunities God gives you. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow as we look within and see what the text says about the specific personal responsibility of the disciples. Have a blessed day now. Bye