Morning, welcome back to our second Anger in the Word Morning Reflection. And yesterday we kind of laid out some introductory thoughts, and we are going to build on that a little bit today as well. Again, yesterday was a short reading. Today we're going to do a fairly short episode as well. But as we get into this passage, I think it's important that we lay the foundation by talking about both what we talked about yesterday and what we're going to mention this morning. So Luke chapter 12, verses 1 through 12 is the section we're dealing with, and I'll work my way into verse 4. And then later on in our discussion this morning we'll talk about a couple of other verses. Here's what it says. In the meantime, when there were gathered together an innumerable multitude of people, insomuch But they trowed one with another. He began to say unto his disciples, first of all, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. For there is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, neither hid that shall not be known. For whatsoever ye have spoken in the darkness shall be heard in the light, and that which ye have spoken in the ear, in the closet, shall be proclaimed upon the housetop And I say unto you, my friends, be not afraid of them that kill the body, and afterwards have no power that they can do. But I will forewarn you whom you shall fear, fear him, which after he hath killed, hath power to cast into hell. Yea, I say unto you, fear him. Now the point that I'm going to make this morning is a point of who was Christ's primary audience. Now, it is important to notice that when Jesus is addressing this group of people, he's addressing a fairly large and diverse audience. However, the primary focus of his words are going to be directed toward a certain group of people. And I want to make a note about it because now there are several things in this text that are stated that um are difficult from an interpretive standpoint. For instance, He does talk about things like whatever you've spoken in the darkness is going to be proclaimed on the housetops. He talks about not fearing just the person that can kill your body. but a person who can cast into hell. He goes on later on and he talks about the blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. And These are all passages that someone says, well, what exactly is he getting at? Is he it what does he mean by a blasphemy against the spirit that cannot be forgiven? And so before we get into those different topics, I want you to notice that his focus is primarily one of positive nature. He is going to say some negative things. But he is focusing primarily in the positive because his most pertinent applications are going to be to people who are believers. You say, well, how do you know that? Well Jesus is teaching the disciple. And we see when he comes to verse number four, I'm sorry, uh let me read verse number one before we get there. It says, In the meantime, when they were gathered together an innumerable multitude of people, insomuch that they trod one on the other He began to say unto his disciples first of all. You see that. The audience is all going to hear it. They're overhearing this conversation. But Christ is focusing in on the disciple foremost. And then he says, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. He's not so much rebuking the Pharisees as much as he's warning his disciples. Don't get mixed up in what is at the root of their greatest problems. That's what he's saying. So the focus is on believers, it's on disciples, it's on people who believe in the Lord Jesus and they're trying to follow him. And you see it through some other passage, some other statements in the passage. For instance, in verse 4, he says, I say unto you, my friends, be not afraid. of them that kill the body. So while he's going to talk about the fact that some that people should fear God, he's saying, don't be afraid of other people. Or in verse eight he says, I say unto you, Whosoever shall confess me before men, him shall the Son of Man also confess before his holy angels. So he's trying to encourage someone who is In a tough place and instead of denying the Lord and walking away from the Lord, they they say, Yes, I believe in the Messiah. Yes, I believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. He is my Lord. Or in verses 11 and 12 he says, when they bring you unto the synagogues and to the magistrates and powers, take no thought how or what things you will answer or what you will say, for the Holy Ghost shall teach you in the same hour what you ought to say. Again. You notice his his focus is primarily positive towards the disciple. He calls them friends. He assumes that they are standing with him when they're under pressure. And he's assuming that these are people, he's predicting that these are people who are going to experience persecution by the religious leaders themselves. So it's important for us not to miss that point. Now you may ask, well, why is that important? Well here's why it's significant. It's significant because this is primarily a positive focus of teaching. He loves the people that he's writing to. He has a close relationship with them, and he's trying to encourage them and warn them and strengthen them and build them. That's what he's doing. He is establishing a contrast between the world and the believer. And so he's going to say things like, when they, the world, bring you into the synagogues. And when they do these things to you, here's how you will respond. Notice the contrast, okay? Thirdly, the focus, and I've said this, is it's positive. He's comforting the believer. He's sobering them to the realities of what they're going to experience. And sometimes God has to, when he's teaching, kind of hit both streams. And I'm looking forward to Lord Willing tomorrow because what we're going to do is we're going to break it down a little bit so you see these two streams of thought and you're going to see them all throughout the text in front of us. But you may say, well, well, well, Joel, what do you take away from this? What we take away from this is that sometimes God has to say tough things. to warn us, to challenge us, and to encourage us. And so that's what I want us to get this week out of this. Let's Uh get into this text and let's be encouraged by. Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again and I hope that you have a great rest of your day by now.