Good morning, welcome to our fourth anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection, and this morning we're going to look at the controversy that unfolded after Christ gave this parable. And what we see in this controversy is that the people understood exactly what he was saying. Um they understood that in fact he was um talking about what would happen in Israel, um where there would be a rejection of the Messiah and ultimately a replacement. of the order as it had been, and also there's going to be a judgment on the religious leaders who had rejected Christ And so we're going to see this play out in the controversy in these verses. So let's take our Bibles, turn again to Luke chapter 20. We'll read in verse number 9, and then we'll work our way through this passage and focus in on that controversy. It says, Then began he to speak to the people this parable A certain man planted a vineyard, and led it forth to a husbandman. He went into the far country for a long time, at the season he went to the servant of the husbandmen, that they should give him the fruit of the vineyard. But the husbandman beat him, and sent him away empty, and again he sent another servant, and they beat him also, and entreated him shamefully, and sent him away empty Again he sent a third, and they wounded him also, and cast him out. Then said the Lord of the Vineyard, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son. It may be they will reverence him when they see him. Now, the part that we're going to focus on actually isn't being read right now, but it's the controversy that ensued after the parable was given. And I want you to notice what it states in verse 16. It says, when they heard it, they said, God forbid. What does it tell you? The people understood that this was a parable about the nation. And that concerned them. They weren't happy about that. They said, May this never, ever be. And Christ counters that shock by quoting the rest of Psalm 118. And that's fascinating because when Christ is coming down from the Mount of Olives, during that triumphal entry as he's riding on that donkey, they quote from Psalm 118, and they basically say, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, save us now. But there's a lot more to that psalm than just save us now. There is a rejection of the Messiah that is also predicted in Psalm 118. And so what Christ does is he quotes this section. He says, What is this that was written? The stone which the builders rejected The same has become the head of the corner. Whoever shall fall on that stone shall be broken. Whoever it shall fall upon, it will grind him to powder. Now what is Jesus saying? The scriptures are going to be fulfilled entirely. Not just the ones about salvation. but also the ones about the means through which that salvation comes. And what's highlighted in Psalm under 18 is the goodness of God He says, give thanks to the Lord, he is good, his mercy endureth forever. Let Israel now say his mercy endureth forever. But the question is, how does God extend mercy to a sinful people? And the fact is, it is through sacrifice. We talk about the mercy seat. This is a place where an animal that had died, had its blood shed. was ultimately going to be consumed as a burnt offering, its blood would be sprinkled on the mercy seat, and God would extend his grace to the people because a sacrifice has been given. Sins have been covered. And this was pointing to a time where God was going to send the once and for all sacrifice, Christ Who was going to die for our sins, he was going to bear our guilt, and he would ultimately provide forgiveness and reconciliation and cleansing. All of this is a part of Psalm 118. So when he talks about the goodness of God and the mercy of God, there's more to the story. And we see that And the fact that this one who is sent will be rejected, and this will be a piece of how he ultimately ends up t in the cross. Verse 22. The stone which the builders refused, this is Christ, has become the head of the corner. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day which the Lord has made. We will rejoice, be glad in it. So as Christ is being rejected, he is the cornerstone upon which everything will be built after the fact. As he is rejected, it is a reminder that it is in the providence of God that this unfolds the way that it does. Not to say that these people were not responsible for their actions. They did it with with a full hatred in their heart, but they didn't understand the full implications of what was taking place. We then also see that it's through this action that God will ultimately bring salvation. He says in verse 25, save now, after the fact that he is rejected. O Lord, I beseech you, send prosperity. Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the Lord. And then in verse 27, it really pulls it all together where he emphasizes the the fact that this is a sacrifice. Bind the sacrifice with cords, even unto the horns of the altar. So what is Christ saying? Christ is saying that as he is rejected, he will go to the cross. And as he goes to the cross, he will offer up himself as the sin offering who will provide a means through which God can extend mercy and forgiveness and cleansing and where man can be reconciled to God. That's what this is all about. And the religious under uh the religious leaders understood the judgment side of the parable. Now they didn't understand the reconciliation side of the parable, but they understood what Jesus was saying about judgment. And so it says in verse 19 The chief priests and scribes that same hour sought to lay hold on him, but they feared, for they perceived that he had spoken this parable against them. Interestingly, I made this point on the Sunday when we looked at this text But most of the parables, the people when they heard it, didn't understand it. This one is different. The people who are the direction of the parable, they understand it. The people standing on the side, they understand it. And the understanding is that there are people who will reject the Messiah and will ultimately experience judgment. So the question is, what's the fundamental problem with these people? It really falls on two categories. The first category is that these are people who had an authority problem. They had set themselves over God's word rather than submitting to God's word They had established their own rules and rituals and regulations and means through which they could come to God and they could make themselves acceptable to God, and none of those things would actually be able to satisfactorily substitute for Christ alone. Second problem they had was a righteousness problem. They were seeking to establish their own righteousness through the law and tradition. rather than coming to God through the sacrifice that is pictured in the sacrificial system, the death of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so their problem really was lying on those two areas, authority and righteousness. They had the wrong authority, and they had a righteousness that falls short of God's righteousness. But there's an irony I want to point out here. The irony to their solution to kill Jesus is this. Through Christ's death, the Old Testament system And the sacrifices and the Vidical priesthood would all become obsolete because the picture was completed in Christ through their rejection of Christ, they would justly incur incur God's severe punishment. And so we see both the ending of the sacrificial system as it is completed in Christ, and also the ending of the sacrificial system and the ending of the position that these people had because they were judged of God for rejecting the Messiah. And we see how both of these pieces fit perfectly together in the providence of God. As we think about this this morning, I want us to marvel in the fact That God is able to use all these things to accomplish his redemptive purposes. That is not to say what the people did was good That is not to in any way remove their guilt or their culpability, but it is to say that God in his providence used all these things to accomplish his purpose. That's the God we serve. Let's trust him in all things. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing. We'll meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts on this passage to scripture by now.