Morning, I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And again, I hope you're having a good week. And the text that we're looking at today is a very important text. And the focus of our study this week has been the importance of developing a healthy view of God. And the passage that we're looking at is really going to come to the heart of that. um this this morning as we look at that. So let's read verses 1 down to verse 5, but we're actually going to look at uh pretty much the entire section today to really capture what is the The antidote hi hi antidote to hypocrisy, which is ultimately a healthy view of God. So here's what the text says. Luke chapter 12, verse number one. In the meantime, when they were gathered together an innumerable multitude of people, insomuch that they trod upon one another, he began to say unto his disciples, first of all, Beware ye of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. For there is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, neither hid that shall not be known. Therefore, whatsoever ye have spoken in the darkness shall be heard in the light, and that which ye have spoken in the ear, in the closets, shall be proclaimed on the housetops I say unto you, my friends, be not afraid of them that kill the body, and afterward have no power that they can do. But I will forewarn you whom you shall fear Fear him, which when he hath killed, hath power to cast into hell. Yea, I say unto you, fear him Now, this passage is really emphasizing a problem that the Pharisees had. And this problem that the Pharisees had is something that was spreading. In fact, yesterday we talked about The fact that sin is not neutral. It spreads, it metastasizes, it's destructive. And so the first thing that I want to mention this morning is that Jesus' primary concern above all else was this thing called hypocrisy that was at the heart of the the Judaizers, or we could say the the Jewish uh religious elite, um, it was at the center of their worldview, this hypocrisy. And it was something that was being cultivated within their religious cultural context. And so in verses 1 and 2 he says, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. But the next thing that Jesus is going to say is important to understanding the main point, the main thrust of this section He says, for there is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, neither hidden that shall not be made known. Now, the reason he brings this up, there's a connection between hypocrisy, the Leaven of the Pharisees, and the fact that everything is going to one day be revealed. The question is, who is the one who is going to reveal everything? Well the answer is it's God. And so really at the heart of what he's saying is the reason there is hypocrisy at the root of your system. It is ultimately that you do not fear God. Your hypocrisy is rooted in a wrong view of God. And so to put it very simply, the antidote to hypocrisy Is a healthy view of God. These were teachers who were dishonest, the nature of their teaching was dishonest, the disciples that followed them were following a destructive pattern. But ultimately these were people who saw religion as a tool for their own means. They did not see God as the omniscient one who knows everything, the just one who's going to hold them accountable. and that the scriptures are the final authority. They had inserted themselves into that position. So that leaves us with the thrust of the text, and that is we've got to develop a healthy view of God. And there are three facts that are going to be in , they're going to be kind of put before us, the emphasis of the text. These three facts are going to come out in verses 2 to 5. Let me read it again. It says, there is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, neither hidden that shall not be known. Whatsoever you have spoken in the darkness, shall be heard in the light, and that which you have spoken in the ear in the closet shall be proclaimed on the housetop. I say unto you, my friends, be not afraid of him that can kill the body. And after hath no more power what he can do. But I will forewarn you whom you shall fear. Fear him, which when he hath killed, hath power to cast into hell. Yea, say, fear him So what's Jesus saying? You need to see God as He is. That's the heart of their problem. And so the first fact I want to draw out from the text. is what Jesus says, where he says no one will escape the justice and the righteousness of God through their own religious system and tradition. No one can hide from him. Verse 2, there's nothing covered that shall not be revealed or hidden that shall not be known. No one is going to mock him in the end. The idea is that somehow they'll get away with violating the law of God and escape his justice. He says, whatever has been spoken in the darkness will be heard in the light. What you have spoken in the ear, in the closet, shall be proclaimed on the housetops. No one is going to escape God's final justice. Verses four to five, be not afraid of them that kill the body and afterward have no more power what they can do He says, rather fear him which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell. I say, fear him. So the first fact that Jesus is emphasizing is that you will not escape God's justice through your own righteousness and tradition. And this f flies completely contrary to the teaching and the viewpoint of the religious leaders. But there's a second fact. His nature should unsettle all people who are under his wrath. And that there's really one of two possibilities. We are either under wrath in Adam, or we are under grace in Christ. As it says in 1 Corinthians 15, in Adam all die, in Christ shall all be made alive. And so knowing God's character should make a person who is in Adam and under wrath extremely unsettled. He says Fear him who has the power to cast into hell. You say, why should I fear God? Well, it's because he sees everything. Verse 2, nothing is covered that shall not be revealed. He hears everything. Verse 3, whatsoever you have spoken in the darkness shall be heard in the light. He addresses everything. Verse number five, fear not him that hath the power to kill and fear him who hath the power to cast into hell. I say unto you, fear him. We're going to stand before God. And rejecting Christ has eternal consequences. In verse 9, he says, he that denieth me before men shall be denied before the angels. Verse number 10, if you reject the Spirit's witness of Christ, there's no other option. He says, unto him that blasphemeth against the Holy Ghost, it shall be forgiven him, or it shall not be forgiven him. Now, when Jesus makes this statement that's recorded in chapter 12, verse 10, the blasphemy of the Spirit, he's talking about something that was very particular to the moment that he was living in. There were all these witnesses to who Christ was. All of these witnesses were verifying that in fact he is the fulfillment of all these Old Testament prophecies. And one of those uh evidences was the witness of the Spirit through the miracles that he performed. And in the verses leading up to this, Jesus had just cast out uh uh devils from a man and had healed him. And rather than the people recognizing he has done this and this demonstrates who he is, instead their attitude was, oh, he has done this by the power of Satan. Well when Jesus talks about rejecting the witness of Christ of the Spirit's witness of Christ, this is what he's saying. If Jesus has the Spirit of God demonstrating that he is Messiah, And you reject that witness, well, what else do you have? We could say a modern-day example of this would be you have the gospel given to you over and over and over again, the Holy Spirit is convicting you. And rather than saying, hey, this is true, I believe it and I'll trust in it, instead you say, that conviction that I feel, that's Satan working in my heart. And you say, well, of course not, that's not true. Well, that's what he means by this Blasphemy of the Spirit, equating with the Spirit's work through the gospel to demonstrate who Jesus is and how one is saved by rejecting that and attributing that to something totally different. What's the point? Well the point is you can't escape God's justice in your own righteousness, and his nature should unsettle you if you're under his wrath. But there's a third fact that is so very important. And what this does is it provides this balance to our perspective and our understanding of who Christ is. And that is that his nature should comfort those who are redeemed in Christ. When I understand who God is and what God knows and how God acts according to his nature, if I am not a Christian, I should be terrified of what's going to happen when I stand before Him on the final day. But if I'm a believer, what should I do? I should rest in his grace. And so notice the statements that are made in the same text that that warns people of the wrath of God and the eternal consequence of rejecting Christ. It talks about the fact that He is tender and affectionate. toward those who hurt his dear friends. In verse 4 he says, I say unto you, you are my friends. Jesus is speaking to people whom he loves dearly. In verses 6 and 7, he emphasizes the fact that he knows every detail of the lives of these people, and he ascribes tremendous value to them. He says, Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings, and not one of them is forgotten before God? Even the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not, therefore, ye are of more value than many sparrows. Well, when he says fear not, he's saying, if God values a creature like a bird , And you're of far greater value than a bird, well then you can rest in his kindness and his goodness. In verses 8 and 9, he talks about how God will not forget our willingness to sacrifice for the sake of his name. He says, Whosoever shall confess me before men, him shall the Son of Man also confess before the angels of God. And when he talks about this verse, confessing men before or God before men and those kinds of things, I think he's not necessarily talking about how you get saved. But he's talking about someone who is a Christian, who is willing to identify with Christ publicly, even if it's going to cost them something. I think that's the emphasis of these verses. And lastly, I'll mention this in verses 11 and 12. He will be with us and guide us in our most vulnerable moments. It says, when they bring you unto the synagogue and unto the magistrates and powers, and take ye no thought how or what things you will answer. or what you shall say, for the Holy Ghost shall teach you in the same hour that ye ought to say. What is the summation of all of these things? Well the summation is this God hates hypocrisy. That was the leaven of the Pharisees. And their teaching was fertile ground to produce a heart that was filled with hypocrisy. The antidote for that hypocrisy is a robust and biblically consistent view of God, a God that recognizes we cannot escape God's justice A view of God that recognizes that if we are under his wrath, we should be unsettled and fearful. And a view of God that recognizes that his nature should comfort us if indeed we have embraced the gospel. and place our faith in Christ. I hope that these words will give you something to meditate on throughout the day and encourage you. Let's be a people who know God as He is. And if we will know Him as He is, a healthy and robust view of God that's going to lead us to not be hypocrites, but to be very genuine. and to live in a way that's consistent with the position that we have in Christ. Well, that's all I have for you this morning. Hope that you have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.