Good morning. Hope you're having a great Friday and I'm thankful that we've had a really good week together digging into Luke chapter 1, looking at the entire book of Luke, and then seeing uh the the final part of the story, and that's what we read about in the book of Acts. And so I hope that this has been a good conclusion to our study in the book of Luke, which we have been on for quite a few years now. Well today we'd like to do is give you some final thoughts of application as we think about everything that we have discussed really over the last several years and then this past week. So let's read the text one more time, and then after that, I'll give you some concluding thoughts. Luke chapter 1, verse number 1. For as much as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us, even as they delivered them unto us which from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word. It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus. that thou mightest know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. Now as we go back and think about all that we've talked about in the book of Luke and Acts, the question is how do we respond? The first point that I want to discuss is the issue of faith and unbelief. We talk about faith and unbelief. What we see is that God calls us to believe. In fact, He commands us to repent and believe And when we do not believe, that unbelief is a disobedience to that call that God gives us to respond properly to the gospel. Now, when God calls us to embrace the gospel, his call is not just a random step of faith without some reason to believe. God gives us reasons. He gives us convincing arguments. He compels us. The Spirit of God convicts us of sin and righteousness and judgment through the scriptures. So that when we are called to repent and believe, we take action on evidence. And so when we think about this issue of faith, faith is something that is a choice, but it begins with the mind. and then moves through the heart to the will. Despite overwhelming evidence that's demonstrated in the book of Luke and Acts, many willfully reject the witness. Now it's not just people that lived at the time of Christ, people do today as well. And so we see that unbelief is a rejection, a disobedience. The third thing is even people who saw these events firsthand hardened their hearts to the message. You say, well, if they would do it, well what about us? Well this hardness doesn't invalidate the reliability of the witness. And we know that because we see examples of people like Paul. Here's a man who rejected Yet his heart was broken, and he placed his faith in Christ, and he became not an opponent, but a pro-ponent. He was preaching and compelling, taking the gospel to the nation. Faith and unbelief. Second thing I want to mention is Luke's key witness. Now I mentioned that there were three witnesses, and actually there's more than that in the book of Luke. But where he ends is the conversion of Paul History provides no more compelling testimony of conversion than that of the Apostle Paul. And I love what Paul says in Galatians chapter 1. He says, the gospel which was preached of me is not after man. I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ. In times past, beyond measure, I persecuted the church of God and wasted it. and profited in the Jewish religion above many of my equals in mine own nation, being more zealous of the traditions of my fathers. But It pleased God who separated me from my mother's womb and called me by his grace. He which persecuted us in times past now preaches the faith which once he destroyed What an amazing testimony to the power of the gospel and why we should believe that in fact it is true. Luke's key witness, the Apostle Paul, is a tremendous witness. The third thing I'll mention is the need to embrace the truth The testimony is a clear testimony. If you go all the way back to Monday, we talk about it's from God based on eyewitness accounts. It's laid out in a very methodical and orderly manner. There are these three compelling witnesses, but the choice is yours. You have to choose to respond to it. The testimony is clear. The witnesses are numerous and they're compelling. But what will you do with them? Last thing I'll say is you've got to make a choice. You've got to choose to rest in this testimony. You've got to accept that in fact it is true, that Christ is your only hope, and you place your faith in him. If you're a believer, I hope that your faith has been strengthened as we have worked our way through all of this material this week. I hope you have a wonderful weekend. Lord willing, we'll see many of you this weekend at church. If not, we hope you'll join us on Monday as we get back into another Anchored in the Word series. Have a blessed day. Bye now.