Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection for the Week. And I hope that you've had a good week. I hope that as we've looked at John chapter 4, There are some nuggets that you've taken away from this passage that have given you encouragement. And this text of scripture just reminds us of God's love for people. who obviously all of us are unworthy of the gospel, but sometimes there are people that say there's no way God would save me, that he'd care about me. And this passage of scripture just just very in in an incredible way, it goes after that misunderstanding that sometimes keeps people from from believing they can be saved. And so So I think that this text is encouraging. And let's go ahead and take our Bibles. We'll read it one more time and then we're going to look at two other applications in addition to the one we talked about yesterday. So John chapter four, verse twenty seven says the following. And upon this came his disciples, and marveled that he talked with the woman. Yet no man said, What seekest thou? Or why talkest thou with her? The woman then left her water pot and went her way into the city, and saith to the men, Come, see a man which told me all things I ever did. Is not this the Christ? Then they went out of the city and came unto him. In the meanwhile his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat. But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that you know not of. Therefore said the disciples one to another, hath any man brought him aught to eat Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work. Say not ye, there are yet four months when then cometh the harvest. Behold. I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they are white already to harvest. And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal, that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together. And herein is that saying true. One soweth and another reapeth I sent you to reap that whereupon you bestowed no labor. Other men labored, and you're entered into their labors. And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman. which testified, he told me all that I ever did. Now in the same spirit as what we said yesterday, we are not the apostles, but we have been given promises. This morning we are going to kind of build on that. We are not the apostles, but we have been given a duty to invest our lives faithfully. Now, when we think about the story we've just looked at, The disciples would have never thought that the gospel would be able to penetrate the Samaritan region. They would have never anticipated that the Samaritan woman would be the tool that God. used to go into that city. They would have never anticipated that as God reached the Samaritans with the gospel, he would want them to be involved in that work. But we were reminded that God's ways are different than our ways, and God's power is demonstrated in those things. And so we were reminded of those promises that God has given us. Today we're looking at the fact that we we have a duty. We have a responsibility to invest our lives faithfully. And so look at let's look at a couple of examples of this concept. The first example is in 1 Corinthians Chapter 3 verse 9, where we're reminded that the Bible says we are laborers together with God. In the same way that he wanted the apostles to labor with him in Samaria, he wants us to labor with him in the place that he has He has planted us. And so it says that we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry. Ye are God's building. God is building his kingdom in this generation, in the region where we live, and he wants to use us in that. Secondly, we are commanded to consider how we build on the foundation of Christ. It's not just that we are to labor with Christ, but we're to think about how we do the work. 1 Corinthians 3. 10. According to the grace of God which is given to me as a wise master builder, I lay the foundation. and another buildeth thereupon. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon. So not only we to labor with God , But we're to consider how we do the work. Thirdly, we're reminded and comforted by the fact that our labor is not in vain in the Lord. It is not a waste. What we are doing today matters. 1 Corinthians 15, 58. Be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord And so while we are not the disciples, not the apostles, in the same position that they were in, we do have duties that call us to be faithful. laboring with God, building on the foundation of Christ, realizing our labor matters. The second thing I want to mention is that like the apostles in this text, we need to look at the opportunities that God has put before us. And this is where we get really practical. There are ways that God has personally blessed us. And those personal blessings are to be looked at as a stewardship. When I think about my my my family, when I think about this time in history that I live, when I think about the community that I've been planted in, the job that I do, I could break this down into lots and lots of different areas. areas. But the blessings that God has given us that are unique to us, these are stewardship that we are to manage. So when we think about our families, especially to those who are raising their children right now and they're in that formative period. Do not waste this moment. That is a stewardship entrusted to you by God. And so labor in the reaching of your children with the gospel and the making of them as disciples. Give them the gospel, teach them everything that God has commanded us. Thirdly, remember that that the stewardship, that the the church body is a stewardship. I think about our church, Anchor Baptist Church, and I I love our church and I'm so thankful thankful for the privilege that I have to minister to this church and to work with uh with with each of you who are a part of our church who watch these videos and those who are on staff and the deep I I'm so thankful for that. The truth is our church is uniquely gifted and uniquely blessed. And that is a stewardship that we are to maintain. Carefully. The moment we live in history matters. And we weren't born in the 17th or 18th or 19th centuries. We were born in the 20th century. Or for some of you that are listening, maybe the 21st century, because you were born after 2000. But this moment in history is a unique time where God is continuing to build his kingdom, and we have been given the privilege of working at this time in this place. Place. We're all going to face resistance. That's a part of being involved in the work that God's doing. And it's possible that some Some of us, we face it resistance, we buckle. of us And we may need to toughen up. We might need to think a little bigger than the moment that we're in right now. We might need to think a little further down the road than we are today. We may need to be pressed out of our comfort zones a little bit. We may need to be encouraged to seize opportunities that God has placed before us that at the moment we are not seizing I want to challenge you to think practically about what's in front of you today. Invest your life in what God is doing. Realize he wants you to be a part of the work he's doing today, right now, in this place. I leave you with this final thought. You'll never know what God can do through your life until you take that step of faith by stepping into the work he's doing correctly. Right now, right here. And so may God help us to do that. As we go into the weekend, I pray that these simple little applications will resonate in our hearts and we'll think deeply about them, and that we'll not just hear the word. But we'll take action on it. We'll be doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving ourselves. Well, I hope that you have a great rest of your day. I hope you have a wonderful weekend. And Lord willing, we will see many of you this coming Sunday. Bye now.