Good morning and welcome back to our fourth, or excuse me, our third anchored in the word morning reflection for the week. Hope that your Wednesday morning is going well or whenever you're actually watching this video. And I'd like to kind of take what we talked about yesterday, and I'd like us to lean into it a little bit more. I'd like us to focus in on how patient God is and how he draws people to himself. And let's go ahead and read the text together again. That is Luke chapter 18, verses 18 through 27. And then once we have read that, we'll listen to a short excerpt from the passage. Here's what it says. A certain ruler asked him, saying, Good master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? None is good save one that is God. Thou knowest the commandments. Do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not kill, do not bear false witness, honor thy father and thy mother He said, All these I have kept from my youth up. And when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet lackest thou one thing. Sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven. Come and follow me When he heard this, he was very sorrowful, for he was very rich. When Jesus saw that, he was very sorrowful, he said, How hardly! Shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God? For it is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. And they that heard it said, Who then can be saved? He said, the things which are impossible with men are possible with God. Let's listen to this little section. God is so wise. He is so forbearing. He is so patient with people. Would we be like that too? He gives us examples that we should be able to see. He says, sell all that you have, distribute unto the poor. He says, Let me prove to you that you don't really love your neighbor like you love yourself. What an important concept for us to really think about for a few minutes this morning. We see the same kind of example of Paul doing this in the book of Romans. So when we come to Romans chapter 2 and then moving into chapter 3, Paul is going to demonstrate that both the Jew and the Gentile have a problem, and that problem. is that they are separated from God. The Jew, who has the law of God, has rejected the law by not obeying it. And the Gentile who does not have the law has the law of God written in their heart c considering their conscience. What's interesting about that text is he wants to draw people's attention to the fact that they have an awareness of their problem, and they have an awareness of their problem that they are continually suppressing. So in Romans chapter 2, he says, he says, thou art an excusable O man who judges another, and you do the exact same thing. And he basically says, you tell someone don't lie, but you lie. You tell someone don't steal, but you steal. You tell someone don't commit adultery, but you lust in your heart. He said the fact that you can call out someone else's sin is an indication that you're aware that it is sin. And the fact that you would call out someone else's sin yet excuse it yourself is an indication of hypocrisy. and self-righteousness. And the fact that you would be able to call out someone else's sin and suppress your own conscience on the issue how and how it relates to you. And then at the same time point to your own righteousness and tell God, I think you should accept me because I'm good. He says, you are inexcusable. He says, knowing the righteousness of God, you are treasuring up wrath for the day when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. And so the idea is, do not do this. You do not understand the goodness and the forbearance of God that is leading you to repentance. And so when we go to Romans chapter 2, Paul lays this out. We see some Paul doing something very similar to what Christ is doing here. Interestingly, when we come to Romans chapter 3 verse 10. He says, therefore, we know that by the deeds of the law no flesh shall be justified in his sight. By the law is the knowledge of sin. Romans chapter 3 And so what Paul is doing is the same thing Jesus is doing. The point that Christ is trying to draw this man's attention to is the fact that you're that man. You're that man who says, don't do this, but you do it. You're the man that says, don't do this, I do this, but God look at how good I am. He says, it doesn't work. And so God has his ways in his kindness, in his mercy, in his forbearance, of drawing our attention to the inconsistencies Drawing our attention to see that so that our conscience is awakened, and when our conscience is awakened, we would recognize that we are spiritually bankrupt and we have no hope outside of Christ, and we turn to Him. And so I am so very, very grateful that the Lord Jesus Christ asked this man a series of questions to draw his attention to see that in fact he didn't meet God's standard. And that he also draws our attention to the fact through the preaching of his word. And Paul did the exact same thing in Romans chapter 2. And so the conclusion I'll give is this. That's what we need to do. When we're talking to people who don't understand the gospel, talking to people who are trusting in their own righteousness, we need to be patient with them. We need to be forbearing. We need to take the Word of God and systematically and methodically lay out a case for what the Word of God says. And call their attention to answer the question personally, in what ways do I obey this or not obey this? Can I truly stand on this and say I have not offended the law in one point or not? And when a person comes to that realization that in fact they do not have hope in themselves, but it is only Christ, that is when we call them to believe on the gospel. So may God help us to have the patience that we need as we do with others. May God help us to recognize when we are falling back into the same pattern, even as a believer who understands the gospel. but is in fact pointing the finger while the finger is pointing right back at ourselves. May God help us to have the patience and the wisdom of our Savior. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again as we look at this passage again.