Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to a new week, another edition of our Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. Just want to give you a heads up that this week I'm going to be traveling, and so these are pre-recorded videos, and I don't know when I'm going to be able to get them up um at the beginning of the week. So some of them maybe I'm going to get them up at the typical time, but depending on what's going on. on during the day may not. So I just want to give you a heads up on that and I hope that you will enjoy these studies as we dig into the Word of God day by day, looking at Psalm 39. And this is a great psalm and it's a great section in the Psalms, very practical, very helpful. And the topic we're addressing this week is wisdom in miserable seasons. And so we're looking at how, where to think biblically when life becomes very complicated and very So with that introduction, let's turn to Psalm 39, and we're not going to read the entire Psalm today, but we're going to read a good chunk of it, and then we're going to reflect on some introduction. So here's what the text says. It says, I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my tongue. I will keep my mouth for the bridle while the wicked is before me. I was done with silence, I held my peace, even for good, and my sorrow was stirred. My heart was hot within me while I was musing and the fire burned. And then I spake in in with my tongue, Lord, made me to know the end my end and the measure of my days. what it is, that I may know how frail I am. Behold, thou hast made my days as a handbreath, and my ages as nothing before thee. Verily every man at his best state is altogether vanity. Now, I will summarize it with these two statements. The first statement is that Psalm 39 teaches us that since life is short, And we are frail, we need to properly orient our lives toward God. God wants us to ponder life from an end. eternal perspective. And this text in front of us has a real ecclesiastes kind of appeal to it because it's it's it's emphasizing the brevity of life, the frailty of life. the vanity of life, and it's emphasizing the need to have an eternal perspective in the light of Scripture. But in order to appreciate the psalm in front of us, we need to kind of step back and look at where we have been the last couple of times we've been in the Psalms. And Psalm 38, 39, and 40 are actually a progression of thoughts that really are meant to be looked And to remind you, what we have here is we have a picture of how people who know the Lord suffer in a general sense, but also even more particularly. suffering because of sin and its consequences. And so we could summarize it this way. Psalm 38 is all about showing us The need to grow in the midst of suffering. And we see this in the Psalm. David was caught in a very distinct cycle, emotionally draining, difficult. For instance, he cries out to God, a lament, you might call it, and then he pours out his heart to God, saying, This is how I feel, and this is what I'm thinking right now. He lays it all out before God. And then he cries it again, and this time it's a little bit more improved in perspective, but it still needs to grow. And the cycle continues over and over and over again. again until God mercifully delivers him from the miserable state of mind that he's in. And whenever David looks within himself, what does he experience? Trouble. Instability. Whenever he looks outside of himself to God, what does he see? He sees strength, something that he could rest or plant his feet on. There was hope. And so in Psalm 38, we were taught several important principles that we are to pour out our heart to God transparently. and remind herself that he cares. In verse 9, it says, All my desire is before thee, and all my groanings are not hid from thee. And we're to remind ourselves that he has not abandoned us and that he actually hears our cries, that he cares about us, and he has compassion toward us. So in verse 15 it says, In thee, O Lord, do I hope. Thou wilt hear me, O Lord my God. And then in verse 22, we're to remind Remind ourselves that He is our salvation. He says, make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. Well, then we move to Psalm 39. That's what we'll focus on this week But this is in the midst and the center of a progression. This is emphasizing the need to reflect when we are suffering. So the first psalm emphasizes growth, the second emphasizes reflection. And we know that there are times in life that we will suffer, and when we do, it makes us think about how short life is, how frail we are, the kind of challenges that are going on. And so since life is short and we are frail, we know In verses four and five he says, Lord, make me to know mine end and the measure of my days, what it is, that I might know how frail I am. Behold, thou hast made my days as a handbreadth. is a very small measure. My age is as nothing before thee. Verily every man at his best is altogether vanity. Selah. And then that moves us to Psalm 40, kind of the end of the little section. And that is praise after we have gone through suffering. We are to be patient as he brings healing and comfort to our world. And David expresses it this way in verses one and two. I waited patiently for the Lord, he inclined unto me and heard my cry, and brought me out of a horrible pit, out of the my reclay, and he set my feet on a rock and established my going. Verses 3 to 5, realize that he can restore the broken and put a new song in our renewed hearts. He hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see And so as we think about these Psalms, we are reminded that this passage of Scripture is set in a progression. And what do we learn from this? Well, what we learn is that when we study our Bibles, we need to consider not just what is stated, but what has come before and what is coming next. And especially when we're looking at a singular book with chapters, we always want to look to the front of the book and look at the back of the book and ask the question, what is the flow of the book and how does this piece set in it? But when we're looking at individual songs Sometimes there are psalms that are meant to be read together, and though they're not chapters in a book, individual psalms, they are together a unit, teaching us something. And so that's what we can take away from this this morning. That Psalm 38, 39, and 40, they're meant to be read together. One is emphasizing growth, one is emphasizing reflection, and one is emphasizing praise. And so this morning, I want to remind you of that, and throughout this week, I want us to focus in on that middle one, Psalm 39, the one on reflection. Have a great rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Have a good day. Bye now.