Good morning and welcome to our midweek study and that is looking at the message that Paul was preaching. And so we talked about the foundation, we talked about a little bit of the nature of his ministry. We've talked a little bit about the nature of healthy Vibrant Christianity. And today we're going to look at the specifics of what he says the church needs to be doing. And so let's go ahead and turn our Bibles again to Ephesians chapter 4, and we're going to pick up in verse number 1. Here's what it says I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord beseech you, that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you're called with all lowliness and meekness, with long suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, even as you are called into one hope of your calling. Now as we dig into this passage, we want to look at the details, the specifics of his message. And we see this statement in verses 2 and 3. We are to walk worthy of the vocation or the calling wherewith we are called in a specific way, with all lowliness and meekness, with longsuffering, forbearing one another in love. Endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Now let's break this down piece by piece. What is Paul ultimately saying? Two words, be consistent. We know who we are. Let's live like the people that we actually are. That's what he's saying. And so that's what the statement, walk worthy of the calling or the vocation worth you're called means. Then he talks about the nature of this. It is a walk. It's an established pattern of life. It's a direction. You're going somewhere. And we're to do it consistently. It's a life that conforms to one's position. That's what the word worthy means. It's not to say that we are worthy, but the manner in which we are walking is worthy or consistent with the position that we have in Christ And so that's what we're supposed to do. We also see that it's a life that points to an ultimate end. There is a calling. And when he uses that term calling in the book of Ephesians, he tends to be looking at the believer's hope of eternal glory and where we're ultimately going to spend eternity and the blessings we will enjoy as God's people. So it's a call to be consistent, to walk in a manner consistent with who we are. Now, he goes from the generalization of that to looking at the motive. What is supposed to be under the surface, driving us? encouraging us, challenging us, motivating us. Well the answer is we're to be walking under the influence of the Spirit. His influence is supposed to be driving us. And when we talk about being spirit-filled, there are fruits that flow out of a spirit-filled life. He mentions lowliness. That means that we're to be humble as opposed to being proud. And when we're walking, our most natural fleshly inclination is to be proud, not humble. He says we're to do this with meekness. That word meekness has the idea of having a calculated restraint rather than an impulsive reaction. Meekness is not weakness. Weakness or meekness is controlled, restrained strength. And so the idea is that I only meet a situation with the the level of force that is necessary to address the issue properly. And so we see that word meekness. And then he says with long suffering. The idea is that we endure, we don't quit, we don't give up easily. So there's humility, there's restraint, there's endurance. This is the way the believer is supposed to walk. This should this should actually characterize all of our interactions with other people And you say, well, that's too hard, and that's not normal, that's not easy, and I would say, all that is true. That's because Christians are called to live a very distinct life One that conforms to God's purposes, one that is by God's power, not our own enabling. And so we see the motivation. And then we see that it's to be very practical. And he gives us an explanation of what that kind of a walk looks like. Practically speaking, it looks like forbearance. And it's forbearance because of love. We are willing to wait. to restrain ourselves so that we can resolve an issue properly. It's endeavoring to keep unity, be willing to engage and re-engage when necessary. And that's active. It's not just I'm not going to make your life miserable, I'll ignore you. It's I'm willing to take steps when called to do so, when necessary, to engage a conversation or to re-engage a situation. so that peace can be established or cultivated or re-established. And so that's what he means when he says forbear and endeavor to keep unity And so I want to challenge you this morning. We talk about healthy Christianity. Healthy Christianity isn't just about knowledge. It's not just about passion. It's about knowledge and passion that is active. And so that is the driving point of this passage of Scripture. May God help us to do exactly what He says. Maybe even today you're dealing with a situation. And it's weighing you down, it's discouraging, it's frustrating, maybe it's something that makes you very angry. The fact is, we need to put into practice what Paul says here. May God help us to do that effectively. Have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through this passage. Bye now.