Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a great Wednesday. If you're watching this in the morning, hope your day's starting out well. If you're watching it later in the day, hope that your day went well. And my desire is that we'll see many of you tonight at our Bible study. And so please join us if you can. I did want to remind you that it's not just a Bible study, but in fact On Wednesday, Thursday and Friday we're having special meetings with some folks from Southland Baptist Camp. They're down in Louisiana, so we're gonna have a music group with us that will be doing the special music in our meetings and also Um one of the one of the men is an evangelist and he's going to be doing the preaching. And uh also in the evening we have a children's program that we will that we'll have during the preaching time that's available if you'd like your children to uh to go to that. So please do join us tonight as we uh have our instead of regular prayer and bible study, in fact we have special meetings. And I think it'll be a very encouraging time in the Word of God. So we have been working our way through Psalm 45, and yesterday we talked about how the psalmist 's heart is filled with praise and gratitude. And so it's very easy for this person to express praise to this king. The question is who is the king? And when we finished our study yesterday, We said that this is speaking of a very particular king, the son of David, the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ And I'd like us to see that in the text this morning. So turn your Bibles there to Psalm 45, and we're going to read the text together, and then we will dig into this third part. Here's what God's Word says My heart is indicing a good matter. I speak of the things which I have made touching the king. My tongue is the pen of a ready writer. Thou art fairer than the children of men. Grace is poured into thy lips. Therefore God hath blessed thee forever. Gird thy sword on thy thigh, O most mighty, with thy glory and thy majesty, and in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth. and meekness and righteousness. And thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things. Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of thy of the king's enemies, whereby the people fall under thee. Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of thy kingdom is a right scepter. Thou lovest righteousness and hatest wickedness. Therefore God, thy God hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. Now as we think about this passage, it's very clear, especially at the end, that there is only one person who could be spoken of in these terms. There is only one person who is qualified, who has the character and the ways that are worthy of this kind of delight and reverence and worship. That's the word that we need to use there. And that person is the Lord Jesus Christ. Notice what he says in verses six and seven, because this is really where it comes to a head. Now you can kind of get the sense of that before you get to these verses. And most clearly you'll start to have that sense after those verses as well. But this in the heart of the psalm is what's going to drive home the point that when we're talking about a person here, we're not just talking about any king. We're talking about the Messiah. It says, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of thy kingdom is a right scepter. Thou lovest righteousness and hatest wickedness. Therefore, God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. Now notice the prophetic focus of the section in front of us, which should remove all doubts that the person we're talking about is in fact Christ. Notice what he says. He calls this individual God. If someone questions whether or not the Lord Jesus Christ is God in flesh, passages like this demonstrate that in the Old Testament the Messiah was anticipated to be someone who is God, God in flesh. Secondly, it says that his throne is an eternal throne. So whenever we think about kings, we think about people who rise to power and eventually they decline and then they die and someone replaces them. This king is different. His kingdom, his throne, does not end. And so we're not talking about someone like you and me. who has a start date and an end date, and then we enter into eternity, we're talking about someone who is eternal, and we're talking about Christ here. And then it's also interesting that he's called the anointed one. And so when we use the term Messiah, we are talking about Christ. Messiah as well, okay, that's uh Christos, that's the Greek phrase or the Greek term used. But we're talking about the anointed one who is also a reference to Christ. So we see he's God with an eternal throne He is Messiah. This is clearly a reference to Christ. We also have to keep in mind the backdrop of the Davidic covenant. What I mean by that, if you were to remember back to the evening service last week In the evening service, we talked about , the Davidic covenant, and there was a word in there, and that word was if, if your descendants do these things , Then I will establish your throne forever. Now that is a conditional statement. And the question is, how did the people do with that? Well, the answer is very simple. Israel's history was very dark. We read 1 and 2 Kings, and what did 1 and 2 Kings tell us? They tell us that every single king who came to the throne, even the very best kings, were kings who were flawed. And actually, the vast majority of the kings who came to the throne in the stead of their father David, they were evil kings. They were not faithful men. And so you have far more that would be qualified as unfaithful than faithful, and even those who would be qualified as faithful had severe flaws. that really harmed their ministry and their authority and hurt the people that were under them. There are no examples of perfect kings in Israel's history. None of them met the standard of the psalm that we're talking about. Not David, not Solomon, not one of his descendants. From the time of David all the way to the captivity. And so when we read first and second Kings, what what is the purpose of that book? To simply say God had every right to cut off that line and to judge the people and them to go into captivity. But there's something that's very comforting that we find in the Old Testament, whenever God warns of judgment, and some of the darkest and most tragic passages of scripture in all of the Bible, in the Old Testament, in books like Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel, we see strong encouraging messianic prophecies that talk about a king who is going to come and he's going to seize the throne of his father David and he's going to be a perfect king. He's going to meet the standard of qualification. And his kingdom will have no end. And that's talking about the Lord Jesus Christ. Only the Son of David, the Lord Jesus Christ, is the one who is qualified to receive such worship And that's why in Hebrews chapter 1, verses 8 through 12, the writer of Hebrews refers back to this passage of Scripture and says, this is a reference to the Messiah who has come and is greater than the old covenant. And he is greater than any king that ever rose to the throne in all of Israel's history. This is what it says. Unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. A scepter of righteousness is the scepter of thy kingdom. Thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity, therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. And thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of thy hands. They shall perish, but thou remainest. They shall wax old as doth a garment, and as a vesture shalt thou fold them up, and they shall be changed, but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail. What does this tell us? Psalm 45 is all about Christ. And he is the son of David. That is going to have an everlasting rule. He has met the criteria. He is righteous. He is just. He is a king who holds to truth without any failure. He is the perfect Son of God. And so that's what this passage is all about. Let's celebrate the glory and the majesty and the goodness and the wisdom of our everlasting King, the Lord Jesus Christ. We should be very thankful that that man, the Lord Jesus Christ, God in flesh, he took on flesh, he went to the cross, he died for our sins, he rose from the dead, he has redeemed us to himself And one day he's going to establish his rule forever, and we will be able to be a part of that kingdom by grace alone, through faith alone, and the finished work of Christ alone. If anyone who is listening to this has any questions about how you can be reconciled to God through the Lord Jesus Christ, please do not hesitate. to reach out. Send us a Facebook message, send us an email at the church, reach out any way that you can, and we will be glad to take a Bible, work through the scriptures, and show you how you can be safe from your sins. And for all those who are believers, which is probably the vast majority of those who watch these videos or listen to them at various times, let's celebrate the goodness of our Savior. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing tomorrow we'll keep working our way through the text. Bye now.