Good morning and welcome back to our Wednesday anchored in the word morning reflection. And uh I'm excited about the potential for snow this weekend. And I'm not excited that it's on Sunday because I love gathering together for worship, but we'll see what happens. If we do have a big snowstorm, we'll have to cancel church. And uh I might record something and put that out there. Not sure exactly what we're gonna do. We're gonna have to kind of follow the weather and um if it comes through uh once the roads are clear, hopefully we'll get to go sledding and all that good stuff. But I hope you're having a good week and I hope that the psalm that we're dealing with is a great encouragement and challenge to you. Today we're going to look at the concept of the folly of what the wicked do when they disregard the fact that God is going to hold them accountable. And so let's turn to Psalm 52. We're going to read through this passage. Now we're going to look at the first two of the four themes that we're going to deal with from this psalm. Psalm 52, verse number one says the following. It's to the chief musician, Mashel, a psalm of David. When Doeg the Edomite came and told Saul, and said unto him, David is come to the house of Ahimelech, Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? The goodness of God endureth continually. Thy tongue deviseth mischiefs like a sharp razor working deceitfully. Thou lovest evil more than good, and lying rather than to speak righteousness. Selah Thou lovest all devouring words, O thou deceitful tongue. God shall likewise destroy thee forever He shall take thee away and pluck thee out of the land of thy dwelling place and root thee out of the land of the living. Sila Now, as we think about this passage, there are several themes that are going to be presented to us. The first of those themes is that it is irrational. to mock God. And when David is reflecting on Doeg 's actions and his deception and this high-handed injustice, In David's mind he says, how in the world can you do what you did? And so when we look at these verses, we see in verses 1 through 3 that this is the focus. He says, Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? The goodness of God endureth continually. Thy tongue deviseth mischiefs, like a sharp razor, working deceitfully. Thou lovest evil more than good, and lying rather than to speak vanity. Now let's break down the pieces here To see what the psalmist is showing us. The first thing we see is that he asks a question. And what is that question? He says, Why do you boast in mischief? How do you think you can get away with this? The reality, as the text says, is that God's goodness endureth continually. Now we talk about the goodness of God. There are really several aspects to God's goodness that really should come to our attention in a scenario like this. The first is this God is good and he's righteous. And he upholds a righteous standard. He is that standard. Secondly, he's patient with people. He's extremely forbearing. He's not ready to crush you, but he's going to judge you if you disregard him. And so he is continually extending opportunity for you to repent and to do what is right, and you've got to make a choice to take action on that. Third thing, because he is righteous, he will vindicate his people, he will punish the wicked. And so the reality is that God is good, and his goodness endures forever Third thing we see is folly. Your tongue deviseth mischief like a sharp razor, working deceitfully. Thou lovest evil more than good, and lying rather than speaking righteousness. And so his point is, how in the world can you do what you're doing? You think you can get away with evil. You can't. You think you can destroy people without consequence. You're wrong. And so he begins by saying, listen, living a life without a fear of God is folly. Second thing we'll notice is that evil people are going to face God's justice. And this is something that is to give us comfort. God will deal with evil in the end. And we see this in verses 4 and 5. It says, God shall likewise destroy thee forever. He shall take thee away, pluck thee out of thy dwelling place, and root thee out of the land of the living. Now, why is that a comfort? It's a comfort to simply say that God is going to punish evil. He's not going to let people get away with it. And so when we think about this concept, God is going to punish the wicked. He says, you loved evil. You loved devouring words. You loved having a deceitful tongue. But what will God do? He will destroy your evil ways. God will destroy thee, He will take thee away, He will pluck thee out of thy dwelling place, He will root thee out of the land of the living. It's as if you have this tree that is thriving and vibrant, and God just grabs it and uproots it. Why? Because they loved what was evil. And then the third thing that we that we see here is that the destruction of the wicked is something that lasts forever. God shall likewise destroy thee forever. And so the point of this first section of the psalm is to highlight the fact that it is foolish to disregard God's justice. You will face it if you ignore it. And so he comforts us with these things. We can flee to this God who is just and will preserve his people and punish the wicked. And so I want to leave you with that thought this morning. That is our God. He extends his mercy, he extends his grace, he's forbearing, but he's just and he deals with sin. May God help us to live with a constant reminder that God is going to right what is wrong. Have a blessed morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we look at the second half of some other themes that we find in this Psalm. Bye now.