Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And yesterday we really dealt with a lot of material and it might have been a lot to process. And today what I'd like to do is kind of focus in on those timeless truths. that are being expressed in the 50th Psalm. And so if you remember the big picture of what we talked about and how we moved through that Psalm, today we're going to look at some of the main big picture ideas. that are expressed in Psalm 50. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's turn together to Psalm 50. We'll read the first little section and then dig into some of those details. Here's what it says. The mighty God, even the Lord, hath spoken and called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof. Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined. Our God shall come, shall not keep silence. A fire shall devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him. He shall call to the heavens from above and to the earth, that he may judge his people. Gather my saints together unto me, those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice, and the heaven shall declare his righteousness. For God has judged himself, Sila. Now as we think about this passage, there are five facts, timeless truths, that I think are clearly being expressed in this passage of Scripture And so let's work our way through them one at a time. The first is this. This passage emphasizes the reality of God's sovereignty and judgment. And so when we think about God's justice, Revelation 20 comes to mind. It says, I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heavens fled away, and there was found no place. for them to hide. Now as this psalm opens, it's the courtroom scenario. By the end of the psalm, he says, I warn you lest I The wording is very, very strong. Tear you apart, and there is none to deliver you. Now what is being expressed here? God is a righteous and just judge. And it's a terrifying thing to stand before him. He rules over everything and over everyone and all one day are going to answer to him. No exceptions. This is true. We also see a second truth that is being illustrated here. And this is a big factor in Psalm 50, and that is the contrast between what we call true and false worship. When we talk about true and false worship, John chapter 4 comes to mind. It says, ye worship, ye know not what. We know whom we worship. But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father seeketh such to worship him God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. True worship starts with God's grace. our position in him and is entirely motivated by a selfless love for him. That love, that affection, flows out of position and a proper understanding of that position. False worship in contradict or in in complete contrast to this, false worship starts and ends with self. Not grace works. Not our position in Him, but the desire to attain such a position. Not a motion, motivation of selfless love, but rather a desire to impress or to somehow appeal to him or somehow earn his favor. And you can see this massive conflict or contrast between those two different concepts. False worship starts in the mind of man, true worship starts in the mind of God. And everything about what God has revealed about Himself is to shape true worship. Everything that people assume about God is what shapes false worship. The third thing is the terror of God's pure justice, and that is a big factor, a big emphasis in Psalm 50 2 Corinthians 5. 11 says, knowing the terror of the Lord, we persuade men, no one has the ability to stand before a holy and righteous God in his own righteousness. His only hope is the righteousness of Christ. We have to receive a righteousness from him, not stand in a righteousness from us. And I love what the scripture says in the book of Philippians. Paul writes, that I might be found in him not having my own righteousness. which is by the law, but the righteousness of God by faith, the righteousness of God by faith. We are saved and we stand righteous in Him alone. And so we see that. The fourth fact is the comfort of God's grace. In Romans 5. 20 it says, where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. And so when we think about this text of scripture, we're reminded grace is available. No matter where a person has been, no matter what they have done, God's grace is available. And the last thing I'll mention is this: as sobering as God's justice. How much sweeter is his grace? Ephesians 2, 4. But God, who is rich in mercy, First great love wherewith he loved us even when we were dead in sins. He hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace we are saved, and hath raised us up together and made us to sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are you safe through faith. Not of yourselves. It's the gift of God. Not of works lest any man should boast. That verse, but God who is rich in mercy, sums it all up. If it wasn't for God's great mercy, his great grace, we would be left with no hope. But God is good, and he has done everything necessary for us. For us to be redeemed to Him. May that be the thing that we walk away from this text with. That God, who is rich in mercy, has done everything possible, everything necessary, for us to be redeemed to Him. If you don't know the Lord Jesus as your Savior, my prayer is that you will humble yourself in repentance toward God and place your faith in the finished work of Christ. May God use His word to point us to Himself today. Alright, well if that's uh if you if you don't know that for certain that you when you die you're going to heaven, please reach out to me. I'd love to answer any questions that you have. Go through the scriptures with you. If it's been an encouragement, take a moment to share that. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow, one more time, as we look at some final concluding thoughts of application. Bye now.