Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And we've been looking back at the continuity between the Old and New Testament We've been looking forward at God's purpose to reach the nations through the preaching of the gospel. This morning we're going to look at our own situation, our responsibility. to take the gospel and how this is personalized. And so we're going to start by looking at the responsibility that the apostles had and then think about the responsibility that we have as people who are now living in the 21st century. So let's go ahead and dig into our Bibles to Luke 24, and we're going to read verses 44 through 53. Here's what it says. And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms concerning me. Then opened he their understanding that they might understand the Scriptures. And he said unto them, Thus it is written, thus it behoove Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day. And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. Ye are witnesses of these things. And behold, I sent unto you the promise of my Father unto you But tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem until ye be endued with power from on high. And he led them out as far as Bethany and lifted up his hands and blessed them. came to pass that while he blessed them he was parted from them and carried up into heaven. And they worshipped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy. And we're continuing the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen. This morning what we're going to do is look at the concept of looking within. And it's important for us to notice the distinction between the apostles of the first century and we who are Christians in the 21st century. So in verse 48 it says, ye being the apostles are witnesses of this thing. You have seen it and you can testify to it. God raises up people in every generation to stand in the gap and to take the gospel to the nations. Though these people, the first apostles, the apostles, not the first, the only apostles, though they had failed, God wasn't done with them. And he's reminding them of this purpose. His purpose for them is still intact. And I think of the story of Peter. Here is Peter who denies the Lord. He goes back to fishing. He's disillusioned. Christ calls him and he recommissions him. And he reminds him three times that that Peter is to feed his sheep. We see in first Peter, in chapter five, what does Peter say? Feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof, not by constraint but willingly, not for filthy lucre But of a as a ready mind, neither as lords over God's heritage, but examples to the flock. Peter took that commissioning to heart and he actually acted upon it. And so we see that these people had a responsibility. The apostles had a unique role. They were eyewitnesses. That means They heard the teaching of Christ, they witnessed the miracles, they saw that he was dead, he was crucified, he rose from the dead, they spent time with him, they saw Secondly, they were commissioned by Christ and they were given authority. Notice that phrase in his name throughout the text in front of us. That phrase in his name is indicating that they had been commissioned with a duty. Thirdly, they had a unique ministry. This would never be repeated. We don't have apostles today. This is a once in all of human history season of ministry. First century. Apostles had a job to do to bear witness to the resurrection. And so when we think about this, we recognize that we are not the apostles, but we have a duty just like they did. Their duty was to be a witness to the nations. They also gave us the scriptures. Our job is to take the scriptures and to proclaim it. I could summarize it this way. The scriptures are our final authority. God used them to give us the scriptures. In the same way that they needed to step up in their generation and preach the gospel. We, like every other generation, must step up and embrace the need to reach our generation. And God's grace He will continually raise up the people needed to stand the gap. You and I are some of those people that he has and is raising up to do that. Those who are going to be serious about their faith in Christ are those who are going to be engaged in the work that He's called them to do. And so I have a simple encouragement for you. When their work is complete, they left a standard. Our work will not be complete until we have preached their standard, the scriptures, and our time is over. Think about what Peter says in 2 Peter chapter 1. Will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, as long as I am with you in this tabernacle to stir you up and putting you in remembrance, knowing that shortly I must put off my tabernacle. Think about his attitude His attitude was, as long as I live, I want to make sure that I give you the truth. And now that I'm about to die, I want to leave a record for you to take. And that's what he did. He wrote the scriptures Well, you and I are to take those scriptures that were left for us by God's providential work through the apostles, and we're to have the same kind of attitude. As long as we're alive, as long as we have breath and opportunity and strength and a soundness in mind, we need to proclaim the gospel so that the generation behind us will have the truth and be able to pass it on to the generation after them. I hope that you are actively engaged in the work that God has called you to do. If you're a dad, you have a responsibility to pass the faith on to your children. If you're a mom, same thing. Your Sunday school teacher, whatever God has fitted you to do, you need to do it well with the time he's given you. May God help us to realize that we have a personal role to play in the work that He has called us to do. Have a blessed rest of your weekend and a blessed rest of your day. And Lord willing, tomorrow before we go into the weekend, we'll look at some final thoughts. Take care. Bye now.