Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchor in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And as I mentioned yesterday we are in Luke chapter 18, verses 15 through 17, just a short little passage. And this morning we're going to focus in on the danger of complacency. And when we use that word complacency, what I mean is we have such an access to the truth. and we have not responded quickly to it. And what it does is it has a tendency to dull our attention, our ability to hear, our ability to to process, our ability to see, all of those things are diminished because we're not responding properly to what's in front of us. And so the text that we're going to read here in just a moment is going to point us to that. And then we're going to listen to a little excerpt from the sermon that I think will help drive home that point. So if you have a Bible, let's turn to Luke chapter 18, verses 15 through 17. We'll read it together and then dig into the text again. It says, And they brought unto him also infants, that he would touch them. But when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them unto him and said, Suffer little children to come unto me and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of God. Verily I say unto you, whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein. Let's go ahead and listen to this little section, and then we'll comment on it We cannot allow our access to the truth to become a source of comfort. Just because you have access to the truth doesn't mean you've embraced it. Doesn't mean that you're living in the light of it. Doesn't mean that it has saturated your heart. You do not become a Christian by attending a church. Just like you don't become a car by sitting in a garage, okay? You don't. You don't become a professional athlete going to an Orioles game either. So I know that this is a very obvious point that was made in the sermon, but it is easy for us when we have a lot of access to information. to become complacent toward it. And if we think about the individual that we're looking at in this text, it says that he was a ruler. This is the exact same term that is used to describe Nicodemus, who was a ruler of the Jews. It's the same term that was used when talking about Jairus, who was a ruler in the synagogue. And so this is a person that was an elder. This is a person that had clout, they had experience, they were known to be wise They were older. This is a person who had a lot of access to the scriptures. This would have been one of the men who would have gotten up and opened up the scrolls in the synagogue on the Sabbath day and read from the scriptures. and and probably expounded it on some level. This would be someone like a pastor, a preacher. And when a person has access to the truth, it's going to have an impact on their heart. A person who has access to the truth and is continually softening their attitude toward it, their humbling themselves under the ministry of the word. They're striving to obey it. They're trying to internalize it. They're trying to meditate upon those things. that familiarity is actually going to lead to growth because this is a person who is responding correctly to the word of God. But then if we look on the other side, a person who reads the word, hears the word, comes in contact with the word, teaches the word, but is always thinking in terms of how it applies to others as opposed to how it applies personally. And rather than them humbling themselves, they're always calling others to humble themselves, uh, themselves to the word. What ends up happening in a situation like that is that a person becomes dulled and desensitized to the work of the word of God in their hearts. And so their ears become heavy and their eyes become heavy and their ears become dull and their hearts become hardened. And that's exactly what happened with this man. He was a ruler who had access to the truth. And if we look back in the context leading up to this, Christ has just gotten done giving a parable that was that was to people who were trusting in themselves, that they were righteous. And then after that that parable that he gives, you have someone that tries to bring children to him and people are pushing them away and he says, No, no, no, no, no. Unless you become like little children, you can't enter the kingdom of God And the very next thing that's stated in the text is that this ruler says, Good master, what good thing can I do that I might inherit eternal life? Well, what does that tell you? What that tells you is that the people in this passage of scripture were very desensitized to the truth. And in the same way that they were desensitized to the truth, you and I can become desensitized to the to the truth. truth. And so we need to be very cautious that we get back to the basics, that we respond humbly to the word of God, and that we let it seep into our hearts. So we're not like the Pharisees who The parable was told to, and we're not like the rich young ruler who we're going to talk about uh not this week, but next week, woulding, who also asked this question that should have been self-evident. He didn't need to ask May God help us to not become complacent in our access to the truth. Well that's all I have for you this morning. Hope that you have a good rest of your day. If it's been a blessing to you, take a moment to share that. Perhaps share it with someone else who can be encouraged by it. And Lord willing will meet again tomorrow by now.