Good morning. Like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. It's hard to believe that we are getting to the end of this week. And hope that you've enjoyed this study. The passage that we're looking at is a really practical, simple passage of scripture, and it's really emphasizing the fact that when God warns us, we need to listen. Well what we want to do this morning is we'll read the text again, and then we're going to continue developing what we talked about yesterday as we move toward our Friday final thoughts. So if you have a Bible, let's all turn together. We'll look at this passage one more time. Today, and it's 1 Samuel chapter 8, and it's verses 1 through 9. Here's what God's Word says. And it came to pass when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges over Israel. Now the name of his firstborn was Joel, and the name of his second Abiah. They were judges in Beersheva, and his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after Lucre and took bribes, and perverted judgment Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together and came to Samuel unto Ramah, and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways. Now make us a king to judge us like the other nations. But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto the Lord, and the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people, and all that they say unto thee. For they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them, according to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt, even unto this day. wherewith they have forsaken me and served other gods, so do they also unto thee. Now, therefore, hearken unto their voice, how be it, yet protest solemnly unto them. and show them the manner of the king that shall reign over them. This morning what I want us to do is I want us to focus on how this passage sits in the center of a story. And this story goes from Samuel's birth to Samuel's death. In fact, if we're looking at the book of 1 Samuel, this is sometimes a helpful way for us to study a book and to see how the individual passages that we're dealing with sit in the storyline. Look at the beginning section of the book and look at the closing of the book and see how it starts and how it ends and ask, where does this fit in the story of beginning to end? And so that's what I'd like to kind of do with you this morning as we think about it. This passage is the center of the story from Samuel's birth to Saul's death And Salmon was probably in his mid to upper 60s when this took place. He's probably not quite to the 70-year-old mark, but he's getting there. And what we see is that some Bible scholars believe that Samuel would have lived another 30 years past where this story took place. In other words, he lived to be close to 100 years old David was anointed to be the next king over Israel when he was a young teen, and that would have been around the middle of Saul's reign. So, Samuel would have probably been alive for about 10 more years after David was anointed to be king. So he was probably around 90 years old when this took place. And so there was an overlap from David being anointed to be king and then Samuel dying by almost a decade. By the end of the story, we see that Saul's legacy would be one of tremendous tragedy. Saul was headstrong. Saul was uh was rebellious against God. Saul tried to kill David on multiple occasions. Saul unquestionably was resisting God's purposes over and over and over again. Samuel's legacy is an interesting one. It was a bit nuanced. When we think about him as a judge, Samuel was a tremendous example of faithful endurance. He's a man that lived to be almost a hundred years old. The first time that God spoke to him, he's probably ten years old. He lived through the tumultuous years of Saul's reign. He lived through a lot of different things. He was a faithful man. Yet on the other side, when it came to his family life, he was not a faithful man. He was deficient as a father. And this shouldn't entirely surprise us. The truth is he didn't grow up with his father, didn't grow up in a good, solid household. Eli was his father. In many ways he followed in Eli's ways. Yet that's not an excuse. And so we see this nuanced legacy of Samuel. We see that David is going to eventually become the focus of Israel's monarchy. And David's life is an important piece of the redemptive story. When God gives problems uh problems, when he gives covenant promises to Abraham and then to Isaac. and to Jacob, we see the continuation of a story where God's promising he's going to send redemption. Well that story continues through the life of David, so we know that David was unbelievably important in this story of God bringing redemption. He's an important piece of that. Saul is not a part of that storyline. He is a side piece So what does this tell you? Well, the irony is that Samuel could have easily judged Israel till David began to reign. And the decade of drama that happened between Samuel anointing David to be king, and then ultimately um Saul is is is pursuing David and trying to kill David and then Samuel dies and then David becomes the king. That piece of Israel's history could have technically been avoided if the nation had not been so persistent in demanding a king. And God did not anoint this man. Saul to be king. Now obviously that's not what took place. And it's not to say that that wasn't God's permissive will, if you want to call it that. God was accomplishing his sovereign purposes. But from the human side, what you can see Is that the persistence and rebellion against God led to a lot of trouble and difficulty? And so that leads us to some simple takeaways. The first takeaway is that we can see really two streams to the storyline. What I mean by that is that on one side you see the human side. Our decisions really do matter. And the poor decisions that people make lead to devastating consequences. And you can easily see it in the story of Saul and David and Samuel Because of the people's persistence and their demand for a king, God gives them what they want and it leads to trouble. But then we see the second side to this, and that's the divine side. God is working in a messy world. And as God works in a messy world, he's working in a way that is good. And he's demonstrating his goodness and his wisdom and his power and his grace. And God is ultimately going to accomplish the purposes that he has designed for his people. And so we can see the two things coming side by side. As people persist in the rebellion and God gives them what they want, it does not stop God from accomplishing his ultimate purposes. And so I want to encourage you this morning. Let's walk in wisdom. It matters the decisions that we make. On the other side, let's rest in God's goodness and let's rest in his grace when we have stumbled. There is no one who is listening. to this series of visit of videos this week. And I certainly myself am not a person who's lived this life without regrets and without difficults difficulties that were a direct result of decisions that I made or difficulties that are a direct result of decisions you've made. And so when we recognize this, let's rest in the fact that God is kind to us and he is good and he is gracious Let's ask the Lord to help us to do this today, to see the weight of our decisions and how they matter, but also on the other side to recognize how good God is and how we can rest in his sovereign purposes. I hope this gives us some things to think about this morning. If this has been an encouragement to you, please take a moment to share that, perhaps share it with someone else, and then uh Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow as we close out the week and look at our final thoughts. Have a blessed day. Bye now.