Good morning. Welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you've been having a really good week, and I hope that this series of studies has been a challenge to you to think through some things. This morning what we're going to do is talk a little bit about the influence of the church, and not just the influence of the church, but just kind of consider really what God used for the church to get into the position that it ended up getting into. And so if you have a Bible, let's take it, turn to Acts chapter 19, and we're going to pick up in verse number 8. Here's what it says. And he went into the synagogue and spoke boldly for the space of three months. disputing and persuading of things concerning the kingdom of God. But when divers were hardened, and believed not, but spake evil of that way before the multitude, he departed from them and separated the disciples disputing daily in the school of one tierness. And this continued by the space of two years, so that all they which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. As we think about the birth of this church, it's important to think about how it started and where it ended up by the end. First of all, we see that in verse 19 of chapter 18, Paul's first interaction at Ephesus was very short. It says he came to Ephesus and then left Aquila and Priscilla there. Now he travels to Jerusalem, but then on his third missionary journey, he comes back to Ephesus. When he returns to Ephesus, we see that he encounters people that were disciples of Apollos. Now, these are people who are probably Old Testament saints. They are people that are looking for the Messiah. They don't know that he's come. They don't know that about the Holy Spirit, all those things, but they do know that they need salvation and they need a savior. And so in verses 1 through 3 it says, while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul passing through the upper coast came to Ephesus. He found certain disciples, which he said unto them, Have you received the Holy Ghost since you believed? is that unto him, we have not so much as heard whether there be any Holy Ghost. Well, Paul obviously preaches to them, and eventually they receive the Holy Ghost. And so this is where the church begins to be born. Now for the next three months he goes and he preaches the gospel in the synagogue. And this is something that he typically did. He would go to the synagogue because these people had an Old Testament background. They read the scriptures. And some of them could potentially be believers who are looking for the Messiah, though in most situations these are very legalistic Judaizers who need to hear the gospel and see from the Old Testament scriptures who Christ is. Says in verse 8 that he spoke boldly for the space of three months, disputing and persuading the things concerning the kingdom of God. Now, after Paul does this, he moves to a second phase of ministry. What ends up happening is people within the synagogue are scoffers and they reject the gospel. It says that when they were hardened, they spoke evil of that way, and he departed from them. Then Paul moves to a predominantly Gentile focus at Ephesus. And the response of these people is that some people embrace, some people reject. He's not intimidated by those who are antagonistic to the gospel. For the next two years he disputes daily in the school of Tyrannis, and there he is discipling, he is evangelizing, he is really pouring his life into those that are going to be the future leadership of the church. And so this is what Paul does. Eventually there's an uproar in the city, and for the next two years, he's able to do a lot of work, but his time comes to an end. For these two years, his investment was very intense. He's making disciples. And as he's making disciples, he's doing what we see in 2 Timothy 2. He's taking the things that he has heard among many witnesses, committing them to faithful men, and then those faithful men are supposed to take what they have learned and commit them to faithful men. And the idea is that those who are well-equipped disciples will be able to teach others also. Multiplication through discipleship. That's what Paul's doing. In fact, in Acts 20, we get a little bit of an insight into how he engaged in the leadership of this church. It says, Remember that for the space of three years I cease not to warn you everyone, night and day, with tears. So he invested in everybody that he could, especially in those who were leadership. And Paul's schedule would have been rigorous. Think about some of what he would have done. He worked daily to feed himself. He was a tent maker. And that's how he fed himself. He teaches during the hottest part of the day in that hall, the School of Tierness, from probably 11 a. m. to 4 p. m. So he has a full a full teaching load. And we know what it's like to be on our feet and teach for many, many hours. That's what Paul did. So he's working with his hands, he's he's engaging in people intellectually, and he does this for over two years. preaching and teaching the word of God. What was the ultimate result of this? The ultimate fruit of that investment is in chapter 10 it says that all of Asia heard the word of the Lord. They either heard it directly from Paul because he was preaching the gospel, or they heard it from those who Paul had led to Christ and then was discipling. Not only do he would they have learned it from those disciples, but they would have heard it because the Ephesian church became a center as a church planting hub. One of the reasons that I say that is because when we go to the book of Revelation, there are seven letters that are given to seven churches. The very first is Ephesus. And if you were to look on a map, you see that all of these different cities where there are churches that are mentioned are in a circle from Ephesus back to Ephesus And so that's kind of showing you that this letter was distributed starting in Ephesus and then to these other churches because there was a relationship with these churches. The point is that that two to three year investment of time and energy is something that God compounded massively. The church at Ephesus became an influential church in the first century. And the question is, well, why why does this matter? Well, it matters because it shows you uh a city that that was in decline, that was full of spiritual darkness, where there was great opposition to the gospel initially, that city Where Paul was denied access for a period of time and then was able to go later, that city becomes a hub. It becomes central to God's work. And this is how God works. He is able to take light into the darkness, and he is able to compound his work through the labors of people like Paul. And he can do the same thing in your life and in my life, if only we will be faithful and willing May God help us to be those kinds of people. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. This has been an encouragement. Share that. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts of application on this text. Bye now.