Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word More Reflection. And I know that typically I don't record on for on Saturdays. But this week, because I took off Monday and was not able to get a recording out on Monday, we're doing our fifth episode on Saturday. So not a bonus episode, just our fifth episode for the week. And I hope that it'll be an encouragement to you The passage we've been dealing with this week is Luke chapter 18, verses 35 through 41, and we've been talking about a blind man who saw. Not just a blind man who was healed, but a blind man who saw while he was still blind. He could see spiritually who the Messiah is. And that's what motivated him to cry out to him, to give, to show him mercy. And so the last part of this sermon that I want to highlight. is the transformation that takes place in the life of a person who's experienced God's mercy and grace and salvation. And so let's go ahead and turn our Bibles one more time to Luke chapter 18. We're going to read verses 35 through 41. Listen to a little section and then jump into the details. It says, and it came to pass that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the wayside begging. Hearing the multitude pass by, he asked what it meant. And I told him that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by. He cried, saying, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. Which went before rebuked him, that he should hold his peace But he cried so much the more, Thou son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus stood and commanded him to be brought unto him. And when he was come near, he asked him, saying, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? He said, Lord, that I may receive my sight. And Jesus said unto him, Receive thy sight. Thy faith hath saved thee. And immediately he received received his sight and followed him, glorifying God. And all the people, when they saw it, gave praise unto God. Now let's listen to this little section. The last thing I'll mention that I think is communicated here is the transforming power of the gospel. What is the first thing that the man does? He follows Jesus. You follow Jesus after you've been saved. You don't follow him to become saved. He already knew who Christ was. He'd already been saved. He followed Jesus because now He has the ability to do it. You know, it's amazing how many passages of scripture highlight this concept. Think about when Jesus went to the land of the Gatherings. And there in the land of the Gatherings there was a demon-possessed man. You know the story. that this man is uh he's out of his mind. Uh he's howling at night. They tried to bind bind him with chains and he break the chains. And when Jesus speaks to this man, he says, what is your name? And the answer that comes back is Legion, where many. And Jesus commands the demons to depart from the man. And then after the man is healed, the Bible says that he that when the people from the town came to see Christ in this man, they saw him clothed and in his right mind. And immediately the people were afraid and they told Jesus to leave the region. And so that's what Jesus did. He left the region. But that man wanted to follow Christ. That was the very first thing that he wanted to do. And what does Jesus tell the man? He says, go back to your family and your friends. And that's an amazing statement to think about. Here's this crazy man, okay, demon-possessed, acting like a complete wild man. He had a family. He had friends. Before he had gotten into that position there, people that knew him and loved him. Maybe continued to love him, even in that condition that he was in. He says, go to them and tell them what great things I've done for you. And the scripture says that when Jesus came back to that region, the people came in massive numbers. What is that? It's a person who desires to follow Christ. When he has been liberated, he wants to follow We see the story here. Here is this man. He has been blind. Now he sees he wants to follow Christ. I think about Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2. He says, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. And so the beginning of that section is, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. In other words, the reason that we are to present ourselves as a living sacrifice to God and to not be conformed to the world but be transformed by the renewing of our mind. Is that we have experienced his mercy and his grace. When a person has been born again, the Bible says that they become new creatures in Christ. And old things pass away and all things have become new. Or Ephesians 2. 8 -10. It says it's by grace we're safe through faith. It's not of ourselves. It's the gift of God. It's not of works. Lest any man should boast. And then it says, For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. And so the most natural thing that a Christian will desire to do when they have become a new creature in Christ is that they will want to follow Jesus. They will want to obey him. They will want to do the things that please him and the things that he commands them to do. One of the clearest ways you can see that a person who has professed faith in Christ has genuinely done it. is you see those marks of change that are beginning to come to the surface in the disposition and the thinking and the passions and the will of that individual. And this man demonstrates that in this text of Scripture. Well, I hope that gives you something to think about. I hope that you are a person who lives consistent with the position that you have in Christ. that you follow him faithfully, passionately, diligently, and that you are walking in his ways. Have a blessed weekend and Lord willing we'll see many of you tomorrow. Bye now.