Good morning and welcome back to In a Week and a new edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. If you were able to join us this past Sunday then you will know that we focused on the resurrection of Christ not just this Sunday but also the Sunday before. And so we're going to be looking at two Sundays ago uh when we talked about the resurrection. So this week we'll be looking at Luke 24, verse 1 through 12, and then Lord willing next week we're going to look at the passage that we just dealt with this past Sunday, yesterday. And that is verses 13 through the end of the Emma story. And so if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to turn there with us to Luke chapter 24. We're looking at verses 1 through 12 together. I'm going to read the text, and then I'd like to set up really what will be the focus of this week. And I really want to invite you to join us throughout the week as we dig into this text of Scripture. So here's what the text says. It says, Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came up unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared. certain others with them, they followed, and the stone was rolled away from the sepulchre. And they entered in and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. It came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold two men stood by them in shining garments. As they were afraid and bow down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here But he is risen. And then they said, Remember how he spake unto you when you were yet in Galilee, saying, The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified. And the third day rise again. They remembered his words and returned from the sepulchre and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all the rest. It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James, and other women that were with them, which told them these things unto the apostles. And the word seemed unto them as an idle tale. They believed them not. Then arose Peter and ran into the sepulchre, and stooping down he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves. and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass. Now I really am looking forward to digging into this text with you this week. And so I want to set the stage by giving you two statements about the summary of the passage. The first is this. We know that the resurrection of Christ is one of the most consequential events in history. Now when I say one of the most, what I mean is it is the coupling of the cross and the resurrection that are the most consequential events in history. If you don't have the cross, you don't have redemption. If you don't have the resurrection, you don't have redemption. They have to go together. And so what makes the resurrection such a wonderful and powerful testimony an event in history is that it is through the resurrection that we ultimately have triumph over sin and death, all of the horrible effects that came into the world as a result of the fall. And this is available to anyone. Anyone who is willing to humbly trust in the cross and the resurrection of Christ for their redemption is going to experience the full benefits of what was purchased on the cross and what was guaranteed to the resurrection. And so that's what we're going to deal with all this week. We're going to look at reasons from the text of scripture that we just read. why we should glory in the resurrection. And I think it should be very apparent that it is the will of God for us to glory in the resurrection. And when we do it, we're not just doing it because, oh, it's something that we could do that's kind of interesting because of this wonderful tradition. No, we're glorying in the cross and in the resurrection. Because this is the real event in history that has radically changed the lives of people, and it has purchased for us all of the benefits that are available through the gospel. And so that's where we're going to go this week. I hope that you'll join us. I hope that you'll share this with people that could be benefited by it. My desire is simply to challenge you to glory in what Christ has done for you. and to encourage those in your sphere of influence to glory in what Christ has done for them. Well that's all I have for you this morning. Lord willing, I hope that you will join us tomorrow as we dig into the first part of this. We look at the first reason that we should glory in the cross. And so join us. And uh share this. And if you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out on that. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.