Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we are back in Luke chapter 14. We're looking at the topic of God's grace and man's folly. And today we're We're going to focus in on what happens when people reject this invitation that gives them opportunity to become citizens of God's kingdom through the redemptive work. And so we're going to focus in on that topic of rejection, what happens with those who reject the gospel. And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles out. Let's turn again To Luke chapter 14. We're going to read verses 15 to 24 and reflect on this for a few minutes this morning. It says, When one of them that sat at meat with him him heard these things, he said unto him, Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God. Then said he unto him, A certain man had a great supper, and bade many. And sent his servants at supper time to say unto them that were bidden, Come, for all things are now ready. And they all with one consent began to make excuse. And the Lord said unto them , For I say unto you that none of those men which were bidden shall Taste of my supper. This morning I want us to focus in on what happens with those who reject God's grace. The answer is very simple. They will face God's wrath. Now when we talk about this issue, we've got to first of all look at the text carefully and then consider some other passages of Scripture that will help shed light on what is being said. said in Jesus' parable. It says in verse 21, then the master of the house being angry said to his servant, Go quickly into the streets and Lanes and cities, and bring in the poor and maimed, and halt and blind. And I say unto you that none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper. Notice the statement, he being angry, said, None who are bidden will taste of my supper. What is What is this passage showing us? Well, it's showing us an aspect of God's character sometimes people don't like to consider, and that is his justice, his wrath. We need To see God as He is, not how we want Him to be or how we think He should be. And so I want to draw your attention to Psalm 103. It says, The Lord Is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy. That is a side of God's character that we cannot neglect. He is compassionate. And we see that demonstrated in Christ's life. He is full of grace. And again, we see this being illustrated in the text of He is a merciful God. That means when he looks at us in our misery, he has deep compassion for us. He is patient, and that's what he means by saying He is slow to anger. There's also another piece of God's nature that is important for us to understand. That is that he is just, and his justice cannot be compromised. In fact, when we think about this issue of justice, a part of God being a holy God is that He cannot, He cannot, cannot ignore sin. He has To address it. He has to deal with it. God's wrath is a piece of this issue of his justice. God poured out his wrath on our sin. No matter Who the person is, whether you are saved or lost, God's wrath has been poured out on your sin. And the reason that I can say that is because God's wrath has been poured out on his I want you to notice some scriptures that help us to understand this. For instance, in Matthew chapter 27, it says, From the sixth hour there was darkness over the land until the ninth hour. And about the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with the With a loud voice saying, Eli, Eli, Lama Sarachtanai. This is to say, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? What is Jesus saying? The Father has turned away from the Son, and there's something else that's happening. John chapter 19, verses 28 through 30, it says, after this, Jesus, knowing that all things were accomplished. And the question we should ask is, What are those things? That the scriptures might be fulfilled, what is he talking about? He says, I thirst. And there was set before him a vessel of vinegar. vinegar and it was filled with a sponge and it was put upon hyssop and he put it in his mouth and Jesus after he received it said it is finished and he bowed his head and he gave up the So when it says all things were accomplished, the scriptures were fulfilled, and he says it is finished, what is he talking about? Well, he's talking about what was predicted in Isaiah and what was stated in 2 Corinthians 5. It says in 2 Corinthians 5, he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the right Of God in him. Literally, Jesus took our sin debt on himself so that we could be redeemed. In Isaiah chapter 5. 53, he puts it like this, and this was the prediction of what the what was fulfilled that ultimately was just explained. It says that it pleased the Lord to Put him to grief. Thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin. He shall see his seed and prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his Hand, he shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities Several statements in those verses are very important. He is bruised. His soul is an offering for sin. He's going to see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. And he will justify many because he will bear their iniquities. The word that comes to mind is the word propitiation. That means that our sin -det Was placed on Christ, and God's wrath against our sin was poured out on Christ, and He offered Himself as a sacrifice to satisfy The wrath of the Father against us, each of us. And so when we think about the passage, what it's telling us is that Jesus literally took the wrath of God. God against our sin on himself. And he literally satisfied the Father's wrath in that sacrifice. And so the the question is if the wrath And the answer is yes. The wrath of the sun will one day be poured out on those who Who reject his offer of salvation. And that's really what's being pictured in the parable. And so in John 5. 22, it says that the Father judges no one, but has committed all judgment to the Son. In Revelation twenty he describes what that looks like. It says, I saw the dead small and great stand before God, and the books were opened. Another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things. written in the books according to their works. And the jud and they were judged every man according to his works. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of What's the passage teaching us? It's teaching us that all those who reject God's offer of salvation are going to face the wrath of the Lord Jesus Christ on that day. And so the question we all should ask ourselves is: what do we take away from this? Well, what we should take away from this is no one has to face God's wrath on that day. Every single person has the potential. Potential has the opportunity to escape the wrath of God on that day. There is no one who's going to stand before Jesus on that day. And be able to say, it's not my fault. I can't help that I'm here. I didn't know any better. He's going to say, you rejected the offer that was given to you. You rejected the offer Opportunity that was provided for you. There was the potential for your salvation, and you rejected it. So you must face the justice of God because you Rejected his offer of salvation. And so it's so very important that we have in our minds this balance of understanding of God's nature. He is good. And he is wise, and he is kind, and he is patient, and he is merciful, and he's full of grace, but he's also just. And that in fact, God's justice is a Good thing. The fact that God judges evil is good. And we can escape that wrath if we will embrace the Son. And so I want to encourage you. If you do not know the Lord Jesus as your Savior, don't leave this study without turning to the Bible and getting real solid biblical answers so that That you can escape the wrath to come. God wants to save your soul. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. So turn to him while you have opportunity. And for those who know the Lord Jesus as their Savior, probably the vast majority of those who listen to these studies, let's tell people the good news. Let's compel them to believe Let's pray for their salvation. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for our final thoughts. Bye now.