Good morning and welcome back to a new week in another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. I'm very excited about this particular series of episodes because this is going to be the conclusion. of our study on the book of Luke. And you may say, well hold on a second. You're doing Luke chapter one, verses one through four. How is that a conclusion for the book of Luke? And hopefully by the end of the week You'll see that this really does kind of wrap it up. But what we're going to do this week is we're going to look at the entire story of the book of Luke in a general way. We're going to look at where it starts, we're going to look at where it ends, and we're going to see what Luke is trying to communicate about the life and ministry of Christ, specifically who he is. what he came to do. And so I hope you'll join us this week as we dig into this one last time. If you um attend our church regularly, you'll know that uh we preached this uh I preached this two weeks ago and then this past week we started our Ephesians series. And so we did an introduction to the book of Ephesians. And that's what we're going to do once we start working our way through our Anchored in the Word series, ending out this year, and then going into Lord willing next year. So if you have a Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Luke chapter 1. We'll look at some introductory thoughts for the book, and then we will start working our way through bit by bit, bit by bit, each day this week Luke chapter 1, verse number 1. For as much as many have taken in hand to set forth and order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us. even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word. It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first. to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, that thou mightest know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. So as we dig into this passage, I want us to first of all look at the big picture picture purpose, not just of this text in front of us, but really the entire book. What was Lou trying to record for us? Well he is giving us a meticulous record, and we're going to talk about the how meticulous that record is and how it is ordered and laid out. But the reason that he records these details for us about the life of Christ is to convince a person named Theophilus that the witness that he had heard about was in fact fully reliable. And because it's fully reliable, he needs to trust in it. So in the same way that he's going to appeal to Theophilus , he is strengthening everyone who's going to read this book from that time forward. And so it's a very helpful pass a very helpful book for us to study. As we look at this, what I think we will see is that God's desire for us is that our faith would either uh we would actually actively place our faith in Christ, or if we are a believer, that our faith would be strengthened. as we rest in the reliability of the gospel and its power to radically change lives. And so that's where we're going this week. That's what we're going to be looking at. How Luke takes time to do that in the book of Luke and then we're going to drift a little bit into the book of Acts as well. So how how can we be strengthened? Join us this week and hopefully you will see exactly how that can be. Maybe you are not a Christian and you've come in contact with this study today. I hope that you'll join us as we work our way through this. Not just today, but each of the days this week as we lay out the case that ultimately is Luke, that Luke is laying out for us. If you are a believer, or if you joined us this past several years as we've been going through the book of Luke, I hope that this will be very helpful in kind of showing you the big picture. of what we have looked at throughout this entire series. Well, that's what I have for you this morning. I hope that you have a wonderful day and that you'll join us tomorrow and throughout the rest of the week as we dig into the Word of God. and hopefully find our s our faith to be strengthened alongside of the faith of a man named Theophilus who was the recipient of this book. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.