Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the week. And it's hard to believe we're at the midpoint, and tomorrow's a holiday, and uh hope that you're having a great week. And if you're able to take some time off, I hope that you enjoy that time with your family. The text we're dealing with is Luke chapter 13, verses 31 to 35, and we are focusing in on the need to Marvel at the depths of God's grace. And so this morning I'd like us to look at a couple more details there in the text in front of us. So in order to do that, let's take our Bibles and turn together to the text. Luke thirteen, and we'll read verses thirty-one to thirty-five together. Here's what the scriptures say. The same day there came certain of the Pharisees saying unto him, Get And he said unto them, Go ye and tell that fox, Behold, I cast out devils, and I do cures today and Tomorrow, and the third day I shall be perfected. Nevertheless, I must walk today and tomorrow and the day following, for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killest the prophets and stonest them that are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together as a hen doth gather her brood unto thee? Under her wings, and ye would not. Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. Now, as we dig into this passage of scripture, we are con Considering how this text demonstrates the depths of God's grace. And in order to do that, we need to first of all look at the statement. He says, Jerusalem Jerusalem which killest the prophets. Now, you may not notice this when you're reading your Bible and understand the significance of it, but when When someone was to speak a person's name twice like that, what they are doing is they are actually demonstrating endearment. So for instance, we see the s The story of Saul of Tarsus, and he's going to Damascus. And when he meets Christ on the road, what does Jesus say to him? He says, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? Now, you may look at it as saying, oh, he's just trying to get his attention. No, no, no. It's actually different. He is trying to communicate affection and warmth for someone who is a Against him. That is the story of Paul before his conversion. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killest the prophets and stonest them that are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together as a hen doth gather her brood Now, Christ is demonstrating some resolve. And we see that in these verses. The first thing I want to To mention is that he was resolved to establish a past uh uh his plan of redemption. And there was nothing that could stop that mission. In verses thirty-two to thirty-three, he said says I cast out devils, I do cures, the third day I will be perfected. What is that? Well he's he's referring to the death and resurrection of Messiah. He says I must walk today and tomorrow in the days falling. It cannot be that a prophet perished out of Jerusalem. What do you see there? You see this resolve to accomplish a mission. And we we we appreciate it far more when we consider the history Of these people, though they had received so many opportunities, their history was one of rejecting what God gave them. Chapter 13, 34, he says, You killed the prophets, you stoned those who were sentenced. to you. We see in verse 35, you will not see me until you come when you shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Now this statement, verse 35, is important because he actually is quoting from the Old Testament. He's quoting from Psalm 118. And so if you were to take Psalm 118, a Messianic Psalm, and you compare it to Luke 19, When Jesus comes into Jerusalem, the triumphal entry, you will see the harmonization of, we could say, prophecy and fulfillment. And in that psalm, we see that it is a psalm recognizing That deliverance can only happen when Christ is rejected. Notice what it says. The stone which the builders refused is become the Head of the cornerstone. When Peter writes about Jesus, he uses the same term. He is that's that cornerstone who was rejected but precious. And so in Psalm 118, we see that That this was God's plan from the foundation of the world. It is of the Lord's doing. It's marvelous in his eyes. He planned to send the Son to die for the sins of mankind. And so the cross had to be the basis of this And so the crowd wanted salvation. But what we see Earlier in Psalm 118, is that they didn't understand that it came through rejection is that the case is a very good thing. and the cross. And so when Jesus makes this reference that you will not see me until He until that day And he references Psalm 118. This is the connection. That this rejection was a part of the plan of redemption, but it also came with consequence. And so the rejection had consequence in the sense that their house would be left desolate. He's referring to this judgment that would happen in AD seventy when the Romans would come into Jerusalem. They would destroy the city, burn down the walls, destroy the temple, and they would kill massive numbers of people that were worshiping in the temple at that festive occasion. In other words, there were Now you might sit here and go, Well, that doesn't seem like a grace and forbearance kind of a statement there, but it is. Because what it tells you Is that Christ knew the history of the people, he knew their present situation, he knew their future situation, but I want you to notice his attitude towards these people. While he is just and must punish sin. Chapter 19, 42 When he was come near, he beheld the city and he wept over it, saying, If thou hadst known, but you will not Experiences because you did not under the understanding the time of your visitation. What what is he saying there? He's saying, I wish it wasn't the case. You see that there is sorrow in his heart Toward people who rejected him. What does that tell you about God? Well, it tells you that he actually loves people even when they have an animosity towards him. You know what that is? That's grace. That's his goodness. That's his compassion. He takes no pleasure in the destruction of people and their demise. And we see this in Ezekiel. 33 says, I have set thee as a watchman of the house of Israel. Therefore that thou shalt hear the word at my mouth and warn them, saying, Say unto them, As I live, saith the Lord, I have no Pleasure in the death, death of the wicked, but that the wicked should turn from his ways and live. You know what that tells me? God even sends warnings to people. He knows will reject him. And even when he knows they will ultimately reject him, he still extends compassion toward them. This is a stunning thing to consider. And I asked the question, well, what do we learn from this? What we learn from this is that God's grace is immense and it is rich. And it's something that we should be thankful for. We should not impose on it. We should not presume against it. We should not treat it lightly or cheaply. His grace is rich, and his grace is full and meaningful. And so I want I want to invite you this morning to really glory in that grace and to be a reflection of that grace, that you would relate to others in a way that truly points them to your grace. Savior and they can see the kind of character that he has. Lord willing, tomorrow we're gonna go a little bit further. No, it's a holiday, and I'm looking forward to the holiday from a holiday standpoint, but I want us to also look at a couple of examples of this concept in other passages of scripture. Well that's all that I have for you today. If this has been an encouragement or challenge, take a moment to share that and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.