Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And hope that you've had a really good weekend and I'm looking forward to digging into this passage of scripture with you. Because it's a passage that is very uplifting and very encouraging. And so we're going to talk about the immaturity of the disciples. We're going to talk about how they stumbled when Christ was betrayed and ultimately goes to the cross. And then we're going to talk about God's grace. And so I hope you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage of Scripture. What I'd like to do today is kind of talk about the context as an introduction to this passage. and just give you a quick summary of what we'll talk about this week. So if you have a Bible, please take it and turn with me to Luke chapter 22, and we're going to look at verses 23 through 34. Here's what the scriptures say. And there was also a strife among them, which of them should be accounted the greatest. And he said unto them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them And they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors. But ye shall not be so. But he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger, and he that is chief as he that doth serve And I appointed unto you a kingdom, as my father hath appointed unto me, that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel And the Lord said, Simon, Behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. Now as we dig in this passage this week, I want to give you a couple of summary thoughts and then talk to you about the context. First of all, a basic summary of what we're going to talk about this week. Trials, and specifically the trials that these disciples, Peter and the rest of the apostles, faced. Trials are an inescapable part of our Christian experience, but they serve as powerful tools in the hand of God for our good. We're going to see how this is demonstrated this week. As we think about that concept, I hope that you'll see the need to allow God to shape you through the struggles that you endure. And so the question we should ask is, well, how do we do this? Well, context is an important part of step one, understanding how to do this. So as we step back and we consider the context of the passage, the first thing I want to mention is what it says in verses twenty three and twenty-four. It says that there was a strife among them, which should be accounted the greatest Why were these people having a strife? And what was going on as they're starting to argue about who's going to be the greatest? Well what's going on, first of all, is a celebration. And that celebration is the Passover. And if you remember, over the last couple of weeks we've talked about the significance of the Passover, specifically this particular Passover. And in verse 15, Jesus says, with desire, I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. This is the fourth Passover that Christ has had with his disciples, and this is the Passover that is going to be the culmination before the fulfillment. And so this is a very significant celebration. We also see that during this Passover, Jesus gives several warnings to the disciples. One warning is to Judas, and though he is not named, it's a warning about his betrayal, and the other is to Peter and the other disciples. Notice what he says in verse 21. He says, Behold the hand of him that betrayeth me is with me on the table. That word betrayed means that Judas, the one who's betrayed him, is going to put in his hand against him, and ultimately that's going to be a significant part of how Jesus is delivered. to the Pharisees and the Sadducees and to Caiaphas and to Pilate and all the rest of them. And so this is a very significant issue because he's going to be betrayed. Secondly, we see that Peter is not going to betray him, but he's going to deny that he knows him. We see this in verses 31 and 32. He says, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. So we see that this is a celebration, it's going to be a fulfillment of that celebration, and then there's a warning. But then we see the shocking response of the disciples. And you can see that they're very tone-deaf. They're not listening to what Jesus is saying. They're not thinking about the significance of the Passover. They're not thinking about the significance of the bread and the juice, how they're going to be symbolic of Christ's body and blood that are shed. They're not thinking about the fact that they've just been warned that there's going to be a betrayal. and that the disciples are going to fail and they're going to stumble in this moment. Instead what they do is they argue. They argue about who's the greatest, who's going to have the greatest preeminence in Christ's kingdom. What a shocking response. Why did they do that? Well, it's because they weren't listening. It's because they didn't understand the significance of that moment. And so we see this in verses 23 and 24. It says they began to inquire amongst themselves which of them should do this thing. And there was also a strife among them, which of them should be accounted the greatest. Now, why do I give you this context? The reason I do that is to kind of set the tone for the grace of God that's going to be demonstrated in this passage of Scripture. We're going to see that these disciples had so much information, yet they stumbled and they failed. Though they stumbled and failed, Christ wasn't done with them. And he's going to extend his mercy, he's going to extend his grace, he's going to restore them, he's going to work through them. And through these verses, we're going to find tremendous comfort and encouragement because just like they have failed him , we are going to have moments where we stumble as well. And when we experience the desire to be restored, the question will pop into our mind. What can God do through me now that I have stumbled? And the answer is, far more than you realize. And so I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage of Scripture I hope that it will be an encouragement to you, that some of the things we share are very insightful, and ultimately that God will be glorified. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we dig into this passage a little bit more. Bye now