Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And again, the topic that we're addressing is God's compassion, and it is contrasted with the dead religion. the rotting fruits of dead religion, and how when a person embraces a system that is not built on truth, the downstream effect of that is very destructive. destructive. Not just that that system is powerless to actually save people from their sins and eternal destruction, but there's also a a temporal during this time kind of downstream effect that is very destructive as well. And we're going to see that play out throughout this week. I'd like to ask you to turn with me to Luke chapter 13. And as we turn there, we'll be reading verses 10 through 17 together. And so if you have your Bible, let's turn Turn there and look at it. I'll read it right out of the text here. Here's what it says. And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath, and behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity. Infirmity, eighteen years, was bound together and could in no wise lift up herself. When Jesus saw her, he called her to him and said unto her, Bloomin, thou art loose from thine infirmity He laid his hand on her, and immediately she was straight, and glorified God. And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation. Because that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath day, and said unto the people, There are six days in which men ought to work, and them therefore come and be healed, and not on the Sabbath. The Lord then answered him and said, Thou hypocrite, doth not each one of you on the Sabbath loose his ox? Ought not this woman being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound low these eighteen years? years, be loose from this bond on the Sabbath day? As we read these verses, we're looking at a very tense moment. And what I'd like to focus our attention on today is the power that is being stated of Satan and how he is affecting the situation. And so the the topic we're going to address is suffering and Satan's power. What kind of power does Satan have? Are there limitations? And are all things that are going on in the world that are bad, are they directly caused? by Satan. This is some of what I'd like us to examine this morning. And we see this in verses ten and eleven and verse sixteen. It says, he was teaching on the Sabbath day a woman who had a spirit of infirmity. 18 years was bowed together and could in no wise lift herself up. And then in verse 16, he says that her problem was not, just that she was bowed down. But Satan has bound her these 18 years. And so what it's telling us is that the woman's problem was not just physical. Her problem was also spiritual in nature. And so that leads us to this question, well, what do we know about Satan's authority and power? What can he do and what can't he do? And so I want to give you a couple of thoughts to consider. with this topic. The first is this. We know that Satan's realm is real. Ephesians chapter 6 talks about this and it says that we are to put on the whole armor of God that we may be able to stand against. against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities. These are formal arrangements or jurisdictions. Against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Satan's realm is real. He is trying to undermine the work that God is doing. He is causing chaos and disruption in the world. But we know that the power that he has. the sovereignty that he has is limited in his nature. I love the song written by Martin Luther, A Mighty Fortress. Is our God. And he sings, and though this world with devils filled should threaten to undo us, we will not fear, for God hath willed his truth to try. Through us. And Satan was a major theme in Luther's theology. It's like he attributed all kinds of evil and trouble to Satan. But the Bible does have a lot to say about Satan. Satan's power, but it is a limited power, a limited authority. For instance, he allowed Job to be tempted by Satan, but there were limits to this. In chapter 1, verse 12, he says, All that he hath is in thine power, but upon himself put not forth his hand. And then in chapter 2, we see the same kind of thing. It says, He's in thine hand, but save his life. Satan has to literally ask God for permission, and there are limitations to how much permission God gives him. In Luke chapter 22, verses 31 and 31. 32 It says, Satan hath desired to sift you as wheat, but I have prayed for you that your faith may not fall fail. You see the same thing with Peter. And we know that not all suffering is directly caused by Satan. For instance, death, Romans 5. 12, it says, by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin. And so death passed on all men for that all have sinned. It doesn't say because of Satan's rebellion or Satan's disobedience. Obedience, it's one man. Adam sinned. He was tempted in the garden by Satan, but he made that choice. And that's why there is death and suffering and weakness and sickness and all those troubles in the world. Some of the situations we encounter are not the result of other people's choices or Adam's choice, but God allowing something to redound to his glory. For instance, in John chapter 9, verses 2 to He says, Neither hath this man sinned nor his parents, but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. Or John 11, verse 4, he says, that this sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God. Now that passage in John 11 is about Lazarus, who dies and is risen from the dead. And what Jesus is saying is the ultimate purpose for the sickness this man Experiencing. It's not for him to die and that's the end. It's for him to die and to rise from the dead so that Jesus could demonstrate he is the resurrection and the life. And so we see that not all suffering and all trouble is a direct result of Satan's hand. Some are the results of other people's choices, and some are the results of God allowing things to redound to his glory. Some of them are the direct result of our own personal choices. And in Galatians chapter 6 he says, whatever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. You say, well, what can I take away from this? Well what you can take away from this is that we need to have a balanced view of this issue of Satan's power. We should not overestimate him where we believe that every evil in the world is a direct result of his actual purposes in our lives. Nor should we diminish a view of him and think that he is not in the world, he's not a real person, he doesn't have any authority, doesn't have any power. We need a balance. We need to recognize he is stronger than we are. He is well practiced and he has been working to disrupt God's purposes for all of human history. But he's also not God's peer And so it's important for us to be sobered by this and that we run to Christ. We find our strength in Him. Hope that you have a great rest of your day, Lord willing. Tomorrow we'll meet again and we will continue developing the thoughts that we have looked at. Dat sofar. Have a blessed morning. We'll talk to you later. By now