Good morning and welcome to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. Very excited about the text that we're going to deal with this week, and we're in Ephesians chapter 4 and we're looking at verses 1 through 6 together. And what we're going to do is talk about the second section of the book of Ephesians. This is kind of the transition from spok uh focusing on theology and now focusing on the practice that is the working out of thinking correctly about God, who he is and who we are in him. And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles today and we will turn to Ephesians chapter 4, looking at verses 1 through 6 in our introduction to this very, very important topic. Here's what the scripture says. I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you, that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you're called. with all lowliness and meekness, with long-suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body, one spirit, even as ye are called into one hope of your calling. Now as we dig into this passage of scripture this week, we're going to look at several aspects of growth into Christ's likeness. And there are actually four key components that make up spiritual maturity. Now, each of those are very important. They could stand alone and they are something we can focus in on. But when we talk about spiritual maturity, all of these components are working together and they are properly balanced with one another. Here's what I mean by this. For something, someone to grow spiritually, there needs to be theological depth. There's an actual content to the faith, and we need to understand the faith. We need to understand who Christ is, understand what He's done for us, why it matters. There's also a second aspect though, not just knowledge of facts and theological content, but there's also affection, a love for God, a warmth in the heart. And so it's a blending of depth and thinking and also an emotional response to that where heart has been warmed. There's a third aspect that is going to be communicated in this text, and that is the actual working out of those things Taking what we know, what has moved us in the heart, and then actually serving diligently Our hands are moving and actively serving the church of God. We are working in God's purposes that He has for us. And then there's a fourth aspect, and that is an engagement in the body, the church, the local church. So for a person to be strong and healthy in their Christian walk, all four of these components are there. The theology, the affection, the service, the body. And so when we talk about this, we need to recognize there's a need for balance. What I mean by balance is we need to recognize that all of these components need to be properly prioritized. It's not just depth. There are some people that they're they're inclined to think deeply and they love studying the Bible, and by the way, that's not a bad thing, that's a good thing. But it stops at that. It doesn't engage the emotions. It doesn't actually move them to serve. There is a problem. It's not just depth. There's more to it than that. There are other Christians who kind of go to a different extreme. And they are very passionate, but it's just passion. That passion lacks depth. That passion is not actually engaging with real theological content It's not serving and working. And so it's simply emotion for the sake of emotion. Again, there is a limitation to this. The third, is there some people that they serve and they work hard? And that hard work is also a good thing. By the way, Theological depth is good, passion is good, work is good, but they all need to be there working together. And so sometimes people are working, but it's just duty. They're not reflecting deeply. They're not being moved emotionally. It's not an expression of worship. It's simply going through the motions because They know that they need to serve and do. Again, we have a problem. And then we have that fourth component. That the Christian faith is not only exclusively A personal matter. Now it is a personal matter, but there are some people that take this to the extreme where they disconnect from the body. God wants us to be a part of a local assembly. And so someone might get easily offended and say, I don't want to deal with the church anymore. Or they might withdraw and say, you know, I'm strong enough on my own. I don't need the church. The point is, all four of these components need to be a part of our lives and they need to be properly balanced. Third thing I want to mention here is the importance of the order that's given. This order matters. And so he starts with the head. Service and affection should start with the mind. When we talk about worship, worship starts with thinking correctly about God. But then it moves the heart. As we ponder truth and we think deeply about it, it should move us. And we should actually be affected, warmed, challenged, stirred up in our hearts. Head moves the heart. And then the heart moves the hands. We need to take action on what is going inside of us. We need to actually actively serve, not just sit on what we have heard. and thought about and has moved us internally. And then we think about the importance of community. We cannot serve unless we are engaged in a body. You don't grow and serve and do what you're supposed to do in isolation. So the order matters. All of this is a part of this text. So this week, as we dig into this passage of Scripture, I hope you'll join us. I hope you'll think about the importance of having real spiritual maturity in depth. And as we work our way through this text and we talk about the various components of that, my challenge or my encouragement is that you would be challenged and you take action on it wherever you see that the Lord is pressing on your soul and saying, that's where it needs to change. Well, that's what I have for you this morning. Hope you have a great rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through this passage of scripture. Bye now.