Well good morning. Welcome back for our third Anchored in the Morning Reflection. And it's Wednesday morning and I hope that you've uh had a good start to your week and we're at the midpoint. And we're going to dig a little bit deeper into this text of Scripture. And we're going to focus in on some words of encouragement before we move to the section on breaking down the kind of wisdom practically that we're supposed to live in the light of. So um our focus is encouragement this morning and I'm going to read the text again. And then we're going to look at two primary encouragements that are laid out in these verses. So, Psalm 37. 1 says this. Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb. Trust in the Lord, and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself Because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. Cease from anger and forsake wrath. Fret not thyself in any wise to do evil Now yesterday we talked about kind of the general summar summary of the passage of scripture, Psalm 37. This morning I want us to look at some words of encouragement. Why is it that we who are living in a fallen world and experience all kinds of frustrations, which we most certainly do, experience frustrations? We experience things that cause us sometimes to be angry, discouraged, anxious. A lot of different ways that we tend to respond to these things. Where do we find the encouragement? Where do we find the motivation that compels us and presses us to walk in obedience? And the answer is that we find that encouragement in the righteousness of God. And we say that God is righteous, what we mean is that God always does what is right. And our relationship to God is ultimately defined by what we do with the gospel. Because when we talk about the righteousness of God, our righteousness falls short on every single level. In fact, it falls so false so far short that when the Bible speaks of human righteousness, it says that our righteousness is like a filthy rack. It says that there is none righteous. No, not one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that doeth good. You say, well, certainly we do good things. Well, when we compare ourselves to the righteousness of God, we fall so far short that we could not even call it a legitimate type of righteousness. But this righteousness of God, that we are able to, the fact that we can interact with a holy and righteous God as Father, one who is beloved and accepted. It's all because of our position in Christ that is secured by his death on the cross and his imputed righteousness to us. And so as we stand before God as righteous and forgiven in Christ, the righteousness of God that we fall so far short of is something that really can compel us and motivate us and encourage us as we're living this Christian life And here are the two ways that the text lays out that this righteousness of God encourages us. The first is that his righteousness motivates him to always punish evil. Now let me state it like this. There is no evil in the world that God will overlook and ignore forever. You say, well, how is it possible that a sinner can stand in the presence of a holy God? Isn't God overlooking that sin and isn't God ignoring that transgression? And the answer is he is absolutely not ignoring that sin or overlooking that transgression because that sin has been dealt with at the cross. And when a person turns from their unrighteous unbelief and their unrighteous self-righteousness, and they turn to Christ and they trust alone in what He's done for them, God gives them the position of not guilty. Righteous in Christ. But not everyone is going to embrace the righteousness of Christ that's available. Not everyone is going to accept The sacrifice that was purchased on the cross, where Jesus died and triumphed over death in the resurrection. There are many people that live life without any regard for God. And the question is, well, what will happen to them on the final day? The answer is, God will punish them. God will deal with their evil, and he will do it in perfect righteousness. And this is something that ought to encourage us. Because what it tells us is it is unnecessary for us to go and to settle all disputes with people. It's unnecessary for us to go and get vengeance from other people. Vengeance is in the hands of God. Let God deal with the issue. And so in verse number 9 he says, evildoers shall be cut off. Verse 10 he says, a little while, and the wicked shall not be. Verse 13, the Lord shall laugh at him. He seeth that his day is coming. Verse 35, I've seen the wicked in great power and spreading himself like a bay tree. Yet he passed away and he was not. Verse 38, transgressors shall be destroyed. and the end of the wicked shall be cut off. The point is that I can walk in wisdom And I can trust God and I can rest in Him because I recognize I do not have the burden to resolve all issues, to settle all disputes, and to be the just judge who handles everything. That's in the hands of God. And that should take a huge measure of pressure off of us as we live the Christian life The second encouragement is that his righteousness motivates him to actively preserve his people. God loves his people. I think of the psalm where it says, the righteous God loves the righteous. I think of Colossians chapter 3, where he talks about God's people, his elect, the elect of God being holy and beloved. God loves us. He accepts us in the beloved. And the idea is that because God is righteous, not only does he punish evil, But he preserves his people. There is no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. And so in verses 23 and 24 it says, though he fall, He shall not be utterly cast down, for the Lord upholdeth him with his hand. Verse 25 , I've been young and am now old, yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. Verse 28, the Lord loveth judgment and forsaketh not his saints. Verse 33, the Lord will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged. Verse 37, mark the perfect man, behold the upright, the end of that man is peace. And so while I no longer have to carry the burden of being the one who judges the wicked, And I don't have to settle all disputes and I don't have to receive resolve every single last issue. I don't have to carry that burden. I also don't have to carry the burden of self-preservation when it comes to the preserving of my soul. I simply rest In the death of Christ, the resurrection of Christ, and the righteousness of Christ, and God's good hand of providence. And I am reminded of what Jesus says in Matthew. where he says that the gates of hell shall not prevail against the church. God has preserved his church and will for all of eternity. And so I want to encourage you this morning, let's rest an encouragement in the righteousness of God that will motivate him to punish evil. and will motivate him to actively preserve his people. Have a blessed morning and Lord willing, we'll dig into this text two more times by now.