Good morning and welcome to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. This week we are looking at four individuals who were witnesses to the resurrection. And we're looking at how each of them gives us a little bit of information about the kinds of people that followed Christ and people with very different temperaments, very different backgrounds. But each of them contribute to giving the testimony that Jesus not only died, but he rose from the dead. And so out of all of the individuals that we've talked about this week and that we will talk about this week, Thomas is perhaps the most significant. The reason is that Thomas was the skeptic. He was the one who said, I want the facts. I want to see it objectively. This is not about emotion. This is not about sentiment. This is about what is real, what is true. And so that's why John's testimony, or as John saves Thomas to be the final. of those that are testifying to the resurrection because I think he's the most significant. He's the skeptic. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to John chapter 20 and let's see what the text tells us about this individual, Thomas. John 20, verse 26. After eight days again his disciples were within. Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands. And reach hither thy hand and thrust it into my side. Be not faithless, but believing. Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God. Many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book. But these are written that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. and that by believing you might have life through his name. Now as we look at this passage we come to the fourth witness. And let me mention this. When we go to 1 Corinthians chapter 15, we know that there were hundreds of witnesses to the resurrection. When we go to Matthew and Mark and Luke, We see other individuals that are highlighted as testimonies to the resurrection, those who bore that witness. John simply focuses Now, actually, if we were to break down the account, we know that Jesus also showed himself to all the other disciples, so it's not just four individuals, but four who are named. And he kind of follows them. And I think that there's significance to each of those. We have the one who is very simple in her approach. We have the one who believes before he sees the Lord. We have the one who's denied the Lord and he is a very intense individual and he he believes that he's failed and that That's unforgivable and he probably is done being used by the Lord. And then we have Thomas who says, I want to see the facts. All these individuals bringing a unique perspective to this account. And so we could summarize what is stated in these verses about Thomas in verses 19 through 28 with this following statement. He says, except I see his hands and the print of the nails, and I put my finger into the side and into the print of those nails, and I thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. This man saying the only way I believe is if I can handle and see and interact with the risen Lord. I'm not going to believe based on your witness account, what you've said. I'm not going to take you at your word. The fact is that that evening that Jesus first shows himself to disciples, this man Thomas isn't there. That's significant. It says in verse 19, it says, that same day at the evening. Beginning of the first week, when the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, then came Jesus and stood in the midst. By the way, I think this is a very significant thing to consider. These men do not seem like likely candidates to take the gospel to the nations. They don't seem like likely candidates to be people who are willing to suffer for the cause of Christ and even give their lives. They're afraid and they're hiding But Jesus interrupts that situation. He goes to them. Verse 20, he showed them his hands and his side. Then were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord. Jesus didn't just leave them and say, well, you know, I've shown myself to Mary. That's good enough. They're just going to have to take her at her word. No, he goes to them, and this is the way God is. He is persistent in our lives. He goes after us. He pursues us. He is so kind to us. The third thing we see is that John highlights there's someone not there, and that's Thomas. And so in verses 24 and 25, what I just read to you a few minutes ago, it says Thomas, one of the twelve called Didymus, was not with them. He said unto them, Except I see the hand, the hands and the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand to his side, I will not believe. So this shows you that Thomas is skeptical. He wants facts. And by the way, I don't think that we should be harsh with Thomas. I mean, I think it's very understandable that someone would say, well, just because you tell me a thing doesn't mean I'm going to believe it. I want to see it for myself. And so what Thomas is doing isn't horrible. It's kind of practical to be totally frank about it. And by the way, once he sees the Lord, he doesn't sit back and say, I still don't believe. No, he responds by saying, You are my Lord and my God. And so we see that the skepticism turns into worship. The fourth thing that we notice here is that it takes eight days before Christ goes to Thomas. Can you imagine for that week, that time period, it's quiet? Nobody sees Christ, and they're saying he's alive, he's alive. And Thomas, I don't believe that. I don't believe that at all. And this is what's going on. Again, Christ goes to him. After eight days again the disciples were within, and Thomas was with them. Then came Jesus. Verse 27 says, Then said he to Thomas, Reach hither thy fingers, and behold my hands. Reach thither thy hand and thrust it into my side. Be not faithless, but rather be believing. Don't doubt. Look, handle, believe. We see the fifth thing is that though Thomas was the last to affirm the resurrection of the twelve, his testimony was the strongest. He didn't just say, I believe. He worshiped. He testified to who Christ is. He is my Lord and my God. And so in verse 28 it says, Thomas answered and said, You are my Lord and my God. Why does John end with this testimony? It's pretty simple. He ends with this testimony because it's the strongest. It's the most significant. It's the most compelling. He wants us to remember this before he closes out the book. And so I hope you'll come back tomorrow as we kind of wrap it all up, as we typically do on Fridays. And we ask the question, what's the point? How do we apply it? We've looked at all these individuals, how they interacted with the resurrection. What about me? Why does it matter? I hope you join us tomorrow as we dig into this passage one more time and I'll give you some final thoughts and conclusion. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.