Good morning, welcome back to our second Ingered in the Word and Morning Reflection for the Week. And yesterday we talked a little bit about the catlist that uh really brought to a head this parable. And in that catlist, what we see is that Christ has this building contention with the religious leaders and they confront him and when they confront him they say, what right do you have to do what you're doing? By what authority do these do you do these things? Who sent you? And what does Christ do? He asks them a question. Whose baptism, who who is the ultimate source of the baptism of John? Was it from God or was it from men? And when he asked that question, they knew that they were caught because however they answer it, they're going to be in trouble. And so ultimately what happens is they say, we can't answer the question, and Jesus says, well then I will not answer your question. Really, really interesting passage. And that really is the catalyst that brings us to a head. Well this morning what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look at the context. And when I mean context, I mean who was Jesus speaking to directly and then secondarily. And so in order to do that, let's go ahead and pull out our Bibles again. We're going to look at Luke chapter 20 and we'll begin reading in verse number 9. We won't read the whole section just because it's pretty long. It says, Then began he to speak to the people this parable. A certain man planted a vineyard and led it forth to husbandmen, went into a far country for a long time, and at the season he sent a servant to the husbandmen, that they should give him of the fruit of the vineyard. But the husband beat him, sent him away empty, and again he sent another servant, and they beat him also, and treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty. And again he sent a third, and they wounded him also, and cast him out. Then said the Lord of the vineyard, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son. It may be they will reverence him when they see him. Now we know by the end of the story that in fact They did not reverence the Son. They killed the Son because they believed they could somehow get the inheritance. But the question, as we look at this passage, is what is the context? Who is Jesus speaking the parable to? Well in order to do that, we need to go back and look at a few details from last week and yesterday. The first thing is in verse number 9 it says, then began he to speak to the people this parable. Now, if you look back in verse number one, we see that Christ is ultimately picking up where he's left off. In chapter 20, verse 1, it says he taught the people in the temple. and he preached the gospel. So Christ comes down to down uh from the Mount of Olives up into Jerusalem. He sees what's going on in the temple. He goes back to Bethany. The next day he comes, he casts out the money changers, then he goes back to Bethany. That night the religious leaders are fuming, and when Jesus is there teaching in the temple the next day They confront him, they interrupt him, they ask him these questions, there's a confrontation, they refuse to answer what Jesus says. And then what does he do in verse 9? He picks right back up where he left off. Then he began to speak to the people this parable. Now When it says he's speaking to the people, what it's telling you is he's not directly addressing the religious leaders. That's ultimately for the people. He's trying to explain what's about to happen. Christ is going to die. He's going to be rejected as the chief priests and the elders. And then he's also going to be rejected ultimately by the nation. Now that's not to say that he's rejected by everyone in the nation. everyone who's in leadership, but what it is telling you is that as a whole, the nation and the religious leaders are rejecting him. They're going to come under judgment. And so Christ is giving a prediction about the nature of what will happen to the system, the people, the leaders. That's what the parable is all about. So it's primarily focused on those who are in the audience, but secondarily to those who are standing on the side of the religious leaders. We see this in verse 15. He asked the question, What therefore shall the Lord of the vineyard do unto them? Now that is a question directed to the recipients of the parable. the people who were listening to him teach. And then in verse 19 it says, they , not the crowd, but the religious leaders perceived that he had spoken this parable against them. And so we can see the primary context and the secondary context where Christ is really addressing both, but in a different order. And so as we look at this passage, it's important for us to understand what Jesus is getting at. He's trying to make sense for the people of what they're about to live through. He's about to set the stage for some of the very terrifying judgments that he's going to talk about that God is going to pour out on the people because they have rejected the Messiah. And he's also going to give an understanding of what's going to happen to Judaism in the first century. The destruction of the temple, which is coming, the ending of the sacrificial system, the priesthood, the ceremonies, all of it is going to be beat, beaten down and destroyed and replaced by what the rel what the law was ultimately pointing to, and it was pointing to Christ. So as we dig into this this week, I hope that you'll see the thrust of it. Hope you'll join us the rest of the week. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow by now