Good morning and welcome to a new week of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And today we are going to be in Ephesians chapter 1 and we're going to look through Ephesians 1. 18 through 23 this week. And then Lord willing next week we're going to do what we covered this past Sunday, and that is dig into the first part of chapter two. And so I hope you'd join us this week as we dig into this passage. I'm excited about the content of what we're going to talk about. These are some really rich truths. And uh I've gotten a lot of feedback from people that they just really appreciate these scriptures and how much it has fed and encouraged them. So I hope that you'll join us as we dig into this. I know it's an introduction But it's it's going to be a little bit more in-depth than the typical introductions because we're going to sort of set it in its context. And what I want to remind you about is that Paul is praying for the church. And at the end of his prayer, he is praying that they will have a fuller, richer understanding of how great the Lord Jesus Christ is. And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter 1. I'm going to read verses 18 through 23 together and then kind of remind ourselves where we've been and ultimately where we're going to go, not this week, but next week. Here's what it says. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints What is the exceeding greatness of his power to us who are to believe according to the working of his mighty power, which he brought in Christ when he raised him up from the dead? And set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places far above all principalities and powers and might and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come And hath put all things under his feet, and gave him to be the head over all things the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all. Now, as we think about this passage, I want us to go back and consider where we've been leading up to this final portion of Paul's prayer. Paul is expressing in the early part of the book his deep love for the church and his desire for them to grow. And the things that we're going to mention here are not growth in position, but in comprehension or understanding of the position that we have. And so think about some of the things that Paul's talked about earlier in the epistle. He talks about the security of the believer in Christ. And that really is the overarching focus or thrust of that first portion of chapter 1. you are secured in Christ. And this is all because of the grace of God. He talks about the riches of the inheritance that we have in Christ. And this is something that we are looking forward to when it comes to the experience of that. Third thing that he mentions is the greatness of the power of God. And this has been displayed in the conversion of the believer. It is all of God's grace. And so when we think about the plan, when we think about the the working out of that plan, we think about the cross, we think about the resurrection, we think about our conversion, all of this. is a display of the power of God. Fourth thing, the greatness of Jesus as a person who he is. Now each of these things, we know them to be true. The question is, do we comprehend them? to the extent that we should. What Paul wants is for the love of the believer and the knowledge of the believer to not stagnate. He wants it to grow. He wants it to expand. He wants the infinite to be processed a little bit more by the finite. That's what he's doing. And so there are two texts that that really kind of drive this home for me. The first is in Romans chapter 11. We know that Romans 9, 10, and 11 are talking about the fact that God is going to fulfill his promises to his covenant people. And so at the end of this section, when Paul has laid out all of these truths about God's promise and God's faithfulness, the fact that he's going to fulfill his word. It says, O the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. Another way to put that is, you can't fully comprehend it. It's too great. But you can grow in it a little bit at a time. Or in Ephesians 3, where we'll go later on in our study of Ephesians, he talks about our affection. And he says that you being rooted and grounded in love may be able to comprehend with all the saints the breadth and the length and the depth and the height, and to know the love of God, or the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that he that ye might be filled with the fullness of God. So what's he talking about? Growth in knowledge, growth in affection, growth in maturity. These are all things that he desires the believer to experience. That there would be an expanding of growth and maturity. And so he's praying to that end. Growth is possible. And this growth is possible because of the things that he mentions. For instance He uses the Ares tense multiple times when expressing certain principles in these verses. Issues like the death of Christ. He was wrought for us in Christ, chapter 1, verse 20. Or the resurrection, verse 20, when he raised him from the dead. Or, verse 20, when he makes intercession for us. He set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places. Or verse 22, he is now in his rightful place over the creation. He's put all things under his feet. All of these are eros tense. This has happened. And because this has happened, you and I can grow. It is possible. But then he shifts from the death and the resurrection and the intercession and his position over the creation and even his position over the church. And he emphasizes the perfect tense. And the perfect tense is something that happened in the past, and I continue to live in the light of it. I experience the effects of that particular thing. And you say, well what does he mention in the perfect tense? Here are the two phrases. The first one is verse 18. The eyes of your understanding be enlightened. The way that we would traditionally translate that would be, your eyes have been opened. They have been enlightened. Or verse tw again in verse 18. that you may know what is the hope of his calling. You have known this. That's what the perfect tense is indicating. So this happened. And now you're living in the light of it. And I wanted to go to even a deeper level. That's what he's saying. Now the reason that I bring that up is to simply say this. Because of those events in history. We can grow. Because God has worked in us. He will continue that work in us. And so Paul is praying that the church will grow in its depth and breadth. and knowledge of these wonderful truths. And so that is what we want to do this week. We want to highlight those things so that we will pray to that end as well. I'll summarize the passage in the following way. Paul prays that God would give his children a deeper and richer understanding of the insearchable greatness of Christ. God wants us to have this depth of understanding of the greatness of Christ May God help us to have that this week. Well that's what I have for you. Lord willing, I'll get the rest of these Anchored in the Words series out a little bit earlier in the morning than today. It's Monday and trying to get everything going for the week But I hope you have a wonderful day. If it's been an encouragement, share that. Perhaps share it with someone who can be encouraged by it. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow morning as we keep digging into the Word of God. Bye now.