Good morning and welcome back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Very excited about the text that we're going to deal with this week, and that is Luke chapter 17. We're looking at verses 11 through 19. And this passage is dealing with a miracle that Jesus performed. when he heals ten lepers and how nine of them do not express gratitude and one does. And we're going to focus in on this text of scripture this week. And as we work our way through this passage of Scripture, what we're going to see is that we can see God's goodness through suffering, not just despite suffering. or when we're not suffering, but we can actually see it through suffering. God uses suffering to reveal Himself as good. And so let's go ahead and dig into our Bibles this morning. We're going to look at Luke chapter 17, and I'll begin reading in verse eleven. And it came to pass as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered into a certain village, there met him there ten men that were lepers , which stood afar off. And they lifted up their voices and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go show yourself unto the priests. Came to pass that as they went, they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back. And with a loud voice glorified God, and fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks, and he was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten lepers cleansed? But where are the nine? They are not found to return to him, to give glory to God, save this stranger. And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way. Thy faith hath made thee whole. What a great text of scripture. Well, if we're going to understand this passage and apply it properly, it's sometimes helpful to kind of step back. and analyze the context a little bit before we jump into the details. And so that's what I'd like to do in our introductory episode this morning. I'd like us to first of all look at the big picture. What are the things that we're just talked about in the book, and then from that, I'd like us to zero in on the immediate context. So in the big picture, this event takes place in the final period of Christ's pre-cross ministry. And so we see in verse 11 that it says, It came to pass as he went to Jerusalem. So actually for a period of several chapters, It's talking about Jesus moving his way to Jerusalem, and this is the last little part of that trip that he is taking to go celebrate the Passover, and ultimately he's going to be crucified and then rise again. Second thing I want to mention is that it is the first miracle that's been recorded in the last several chapters. The last miracle was recorded in Luke 14, where Jesus heals a man who has a dropsy on the Sabbath day. Another thing I want you to notice about each of the miracles that are recorded during this portion of the book, and there are five of them leading up to the cross. In each of these situations, he uses the circumstances of those miracles to teach a lesson. And so it's not just about Christ having mercy, and certainly it is that. But it's also about him demonstrating something about himself. It's also about him revealing who he is as Messiah and also showing how the people are responding to that. And then I'd like us to narrow in on the immediate context, which I think is also significant because it's about discipleship. And this portion of teaching is in fact very difficult. Let me remind you of some of the things that we read in these verses. For instance, in verse 7 he says, Which of you having a servant ploughing or feeding cattle will say unto him by and by when he's come from the field, go and sit to eat meat? You say, well, what's Jesus saying here? He says, servants are giving rather than receiving. The servant is working for the master, not the other way around. The second thing he points out is in verse 8. He says, Rather, he should make ready wherewith I may sub, being the master, and gird thyself and serve me, till I have eaten and drunken, and afterwards thou shalt eat and drink. The second thing he's pointing out is that they put the master's will ahead of their own will. Now when we say these two things, it might be easy for us living in the modern era to think Well, that's obviously cruel and harsh and evil. But in that time period, no one would have thought anything of this. This would have been just common sense. It would have been saying, like, if you're working a job for someone and you have a boss You work under your boss. You work for your boss. You don't set the rules. Your boss sets the rules. That would be the modern-day equivalent. A third thing that he says, verse 9, he says, doth he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him? I trow not. He's saying, we're not commended for doing our basic duties. If you clock in on time, your boss doesn't say, wow, that's amazing, great job. He simply makes note of it when you don't clock in on time Because that's your basic duty. When someone does the job that they've been assigned, no one celebrates that. They simply expect that. That's what they were supposed to do. And then fourthly, in verse 10, he says, When you so have done all those things which are commanded you, say, We are yet unprofitable servants. We have done that which was our duty to do. He's saying that we should endeavor to be faithful in our service and to do it with a humble heart, where we don't think so much of our service and start celebrating it personally and making ourselves feel like we're really good and have done something great because we're just doing our duty. Reminds me of when Jesus talks about prayer and fasting and giving. He says, don't let your right hand know what your left hand is doing. Or when you pay your alms, do it secretly. Or when you pray, go into your closet. Don't stand on the corner and pray openly so that people can celebrate you The idea is that doing our duty is something that we should do with a humble heart. And so as we move our way into this passage of scripture, we're remember reminding ourselves that this is the big picture. that he is going to Jerusalem to die for our sins. And in the immediate context, he's just talked about some things related to discipleship. We also see in these verses, not necessarily in the Luke text, but in other passages that are cross-references, that when Jesus talks about discipleship and humility and serving a master, He presents himself as the foremost example, the perfect example, because he completely submitted to the will of his father. He says, Whoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant, even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. So before we turn the tide the table and say, well, Jesus is very harsh in what he expects of his servants, we need to stop and remind ourselves that he's doing nothing, he's asking us to do nothing more than he has done himself. He has even laid down his own life so that we could be redeemed to the Father. And so there's nothing that Jesus expects of his servants that is more than he has given himself. These numerous records of miracles are meant to show us things about his character, how he served, how he ministered, who he is, his power, his authority. And then to also reveal the brokenness of human hearts as they respond improperly to him. How would I summarize the text? I would put it this way. The passage commends God's compassion for hurting people Even those who are ungrateful, as he uses difficult circumstances to expose human hearts. He wants us to see him as a good God who is merciful, and he wants us to see it through The context of suffering. Well, I hope that you will reflect on that as we prepare our hearts to dig into this passage throughout the week. I hope you have a wonderful day. If you think that this series will be a help to someone, please take a moment to share that. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. and send them to uh to me uh either through Facebook, uh YouTube. Um uh we could do lots of different ways. Email, I'd love to love to interact with you on those things. Have a blessed morning and Lord willing we will meet again tomorrow. By now.