Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to a new week of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And I do apologize that this week I'm getting this video out quite a bit later than normal. Lord willing the rest of the week I won't do that. But I've been wrestling with a lot of different things as far as the topic that I'm going to address. I know there's been a lot in the news and I I'd like to reflect on those things a little bit today in our introduction. So while I am going to introduce um our Psalm 50 discussion on grace, justice, and cultural Christians, I do want to talk a little bit about what's going on in the news. And just some of my reflections on it. I know there are lots of other people that have reflected on these things, and so what I have to say probably will be very consistent with a lot of other things that you've heard. But this past week has been a very difficult week for a lot of people. And there are actually a series of things that really stand out in my mind this week. And um not just uh the political assassination of Charlie Kirk, which has really affected a lot of people, but it's really a series of incidents. In fact, if I go back uh to the Labor Day weekend, I think about the fact that over fifty people were shot in Chicago. It's really a stunning thing to think about. One US city. Over fifty people shot. It's shocking. And then a few days later um we come to the situation that happened in Charlotte and there's a young woman who's on her phone, she's scrolling. and she's brutally murdered by a man on a train. And the thing that really stood out to me about that story is not just that this woman was brutally murdered. But the response of the people as they just sat there on their phones and they scrolled and and I just I look at situations like that and I say, what is going on in this country? What's going on in the hearts and the minds of people? And then on Wednesday I got the news that Charler Kirk had been shot and These incidents, these situations, these three tragedies, these three very evil acts, they all remind us of the brokenness of the society that we live in. And I want to remind you, as we think about the times we live in, these are dark days, but these are not empty days. The truth is we as the Church of God have the answers, and the answers are that people need to be converted. They need to be genuinely born again. Their lives need to be transformed by the gospel. And what we're seeing is lives on the line because this is a battle between what is true and what is false, what is good and what is evil. ultimately God's purpose for humanity and then the the the forces of darkness uh this world system and how it wants to destroy all that is good and what God has created. And so this past Sunday, we spent some time just praying for our nation. And I really want to encourage you over the next several weeks, pray for our nation. God is sovereign and God rules and God's going to use everything that has taken place. All of these evil things, He's not going to make them good. But he's going to use them to accomplish good. He's going to use them to wake up a nation, to wake up a generation of young people, to turn people to the truth. And my prayer is that gospel preaching churches all over this country. Will be places that when people are converted, they can grow in those churches. They will hear the Word of God expounded week in and week out, that there will be a gospel-centered approach to ministry, that there'll be true biblical expositional preaching and teaching. There'll be real disciple making. And the passage of scripture we're going to deal with this week is really going to talk about the danger of a cultural Christianity as opposed to real vibrant walk with God that comes through transformation. and regeneration. And so we're going to really talk about those issues this week. So this is really on my heart as I think about it. But I want to challenge you. Let's pray for our nation. Pray for our pastors. Pray that our our people, that our believers, will be salt and light in this generation, and that God will mightily move in our nation. in a way that he hasn't in really several generations. We desperately need God to work and move and for people to be gloriously converted. In the same way that we read about in church history, uh very dark seasons in the in the lives of nations and God moves. God moves the church. God converts many, many people, volumes uh of people f uh flooding into the churches. Why? because of God's work. God can do that again, and I pray that He does. So this week we're going to be in Psalm fifty. And I think it's a very helpful text of Scripture for us to think about. It's a sober sober warning text of Scripture because it talks about justice. and cultural Christianity and God's grace. And I think all of this should really be on our minds this week. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. We'll read through the first little portion of this. I'll give you some final thoughts. And then I'm just going to take a moment to pray for our nation because I think that that's what we really need to do at this time. Psalm 50, verse number one. The mighty God, even the Lord, hath spoken. And call the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof. Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined. Our God shall come and shall not keep silence A fire shall devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him. He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that they might judge his people Gather my saints together unto me, those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice, and the heavens shall declare his righteousness. For God is judge himself. Seela Now, as we look at this passage of Scripture, I'll summarize it in the following way, and this will really shape the discussion that we'll have this week on Psalm 50. God's grace should be magnified in the minds of people. as they soberly consider the severity of his justice against sin. What's interesting about this scripture is he's going to emphasize that when the believer does not live distinct like he should And the unbeliever is comfortable in the context of a covenant community. People are in trouble, and God is going to judge But it also reminds us that God is not just a judging God, but God is a merciful God. He's a gracious God. And He calls people to repent and believe and to walk with Him. And so we're going to see that this week. So as we work our way through the passage, we're going to see that God offers salvation to whoever will repent and believe. For the believer He offers that they can get back on track, and for the unbeliever, that they can be forgiven of sin, and they can stand righteous in Christ, and their lives can be transformed by the power of the gospel. So, why should we be sober by these texts? Join us this week as we work our way through this passage of Scripture. I'd like us to just take a few minutes to bow in prayer for our nation. And I want to encourage you. May we be motivated in these days to live in a way that is consistent with our position, that ultimately brings glory to God and draws people to Himself. Let's pray. Our Father My heart has been so deeply burdened as I think about all of the pain and all of the suffering that people have experienced over the last several weeks in this nation. We think about the horrible violence that we have in our inner cities, particularly what took place in Chicago just a few weeks ago, where over fifty people in one weekend were shot. Father, I think about this young woman who was brutally killed and attacked on a train in Chicago and the callousness that was shown by the people as they sat there and continued scrolling on their phones. Father, I think about how we just remembered 9-11 a few days ago and how over 3,000 Americans died when those towers came down. Father, I think about the political assassination of Charlie Kirk. Father, our hearts grieve as we think about all of the evil that has been demonstrated or remembered in these days. Father, we're reminded that the only hope for this nation is that in massive numbers people would be genuinely converted, that their lives would be transformed by the power of the gospel. That they would begin to walk as new creatures in Christ, that they would begin to grow in a knowledge and love of Christ. That their lives would be transformed by the renewing work of the Spirit of God in their lives. That their lives will be transformed and conformed to the image of Christ, that it'll shape the way that they raise their children, that it'll shape whether or not they desire to marry and even have children. that it'll shape everything about the way that they live their lives. Father, I pray that you would send a genuine moving of your spirit in this time in our nation's history. Not because we desire ease, Not because we want to see something big happen, but because we desire the glory of God to go forward in this land We desire for your mercy to move and your grace to move in the hearts of people. We desire to see the Lord Jesus Christ magnified and exalted. And we desire to see your kingdom expanded. Father, I pray that you would bring healing to this land and that healing would come to the only way possible, the Lord Jesus Christ. Not through cultural religion, not through moralism, not through some therapeutic viewpoint, but rather the transforming work of the gospel. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Well, thank you for joining us this morning. I know we did it a little bit different than than typical, where I reflected on some things that are going on in our nation, spent some time praying for our nation. If any of you have any questions, concerns, you need to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we start working our way through Psalm 50. Have a blessed day. Bye now.