Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And today is the day where we dig into application, we try to tie it all up, and hopefully leave you with some final thoughts that will be a challenge. and uh can actually be put to practice. And so let's go ahead and read this text one more time together this week. Again, it's Luke 19, verses 45 to 48, and then I'd like to share with you some final thoughts of application. Here's what the text says. And he went into the temple and began to cast out them that sold therein, and them that bought, saying unto them, It is written, My house is a house of prayer. But ye have made it a den of thieves. And he taught daily in the temple. But the chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him. and could not find what they might do, for all the people were very attentive to hear him. Now as we move to the application side of this passage, I want to begin with this statement. Christ alone Is supremely qualified to call out corruption in the religious context and hypocrisy. What I mean by that is that anytime you and I are looking at a situation We may have a bias. There are certain things we can't see. He sees all. He knows all. He is the absolute standard. It is his church. It is his doctrine. The true faith is built on him alone. And so we see that Christ in this passage absolutely was qualified, not the religious leaders, to make a judgment about the true faith Secondly, corporate worship is something that is sacred. It is a duty. And anyone is going to take the faith seriously. is going to be dedicated to that duty. So if I say that I'm a Christian and I really mean it and I'm serious about it, that means that I'm going to do the things that God commands me to do. I'm going to prioritize essential in my life the things that God says are my Christian duties. And with that is going to come a commitment. And it's going to be a conscientious commitment. But that conscientious commitment can open the door to vulnerability. And the reason I say that is because when a person is conscientiously giving of themselves for a cause that they believe comes from God, if there are people who enter into that sphere and claim an authority that they do not have. If people say, Thus saith the Lord, and he has not spoken, you know what it does? It opens the door to tremendous kinds of abuses. And when we look at the book of Jeremiah and Ezekiel, God through the prophets, Jeremiah and Ezekiel, calls out this religious corruption where there is an abuse of authority. The shepherds of Israel were not shepherding the people the way that God called them to be to be doing then. So when someone gets up and preaches the word of God and says, This is God's word, hear it and listen to it, submit to it, If it's true, then that's our responsibility to do it. If it's not true, and we're following it, we may be following it not just in error, but to great detriment. And so we see the vulnerability Next, it wants you to notice that because this is true, God hates the abuse of authority. on the vulnerable, especially high-handed. What I mean by high-handed is presumptuous. People who know what is true and they are choosing to work despite it against it. And that's what these religious leaders were doing. This is why the Word of God gives us qualifications for those in spiritual leadership. A bishop must be blameless, husband of one wife, vigilant, sober. Given to hospitality, apt to teach. He talks about all of these different qualifications. Why does the Scripture give these qualifications Because not just anyone should get up in a pulpit and say, Thus saith the Lord, because there needs to be a tried and true a a tested kind of character that is consistent with the the office that is being held This is why he gave instructions regarding corporate worship, how people are supposed to approach God. This is why we are constantly reminded that spiritual leadership is answerable to God. I think of 1 Peter chapter 5. Peter says, when the chief shepherd shall appear, then you will receive a crown. And the crown is associated with those who have been faithful to Shepherd under the chief shepherd. And so we're reminded that any time a person is in authority on this planet They're in delegated authority, and God is ultimately their authority, and they're answerable to Him, and they're to do that work according to His wishes and His commands. Next, this is why he gave us the word. The scriptures leave this unchanging standard, and that standard is supposed to hold us accountable. That standard is supposed to make very clear to everyone what is true and what is not, what is an error and what is found. So as we process all of these things together this morning, let's be reminded that when we approach God It should be done in humility. It should be done with a conscience that is void of offense. It should be in reverence, godly fear. And it should be out of a desire to genuinely honor the Lord with our time and with our energies. As we think about this, we should delight in the fact that God uses anybody. And when we think about this, we should recognize that he actually delights in using and drawing those who the world maybe disdains, doesn't think much of. God wants to use and work in those lives. May God help us to be sobered by the things we've heard this week. The seriousness of our religious duties, the seriousness of abusing religious authority, the seriousness of corruption in the church, and the seriousness of having the heart of God for the nations May God help us to really take these things to heart this weekend. Well, if this has been an encouragement to you, I hope you take a moment to just share that, perhaps share it with someone who can be benefited by it, and Lord willing, we'll meet again next week Hopefully we'll see many of you on Sunday, bye now