Good morning and welcome to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. Hope that you've had a great weekend and I am very excited about the text that we're dealing with this week. This is the passage that we looked at. on Resurrection Sunday. And what we're going to do throughout this week is we're going to look at four individuals who were key witnesses as John is narrating the story of the cross and the resurrection. And what I really love about the way that John lays this out is he talks about so many unique personal details. And the reason is going to become very clear at the end of the week. And that comes down to the whole point of his book. And his point, his book was written to drive home a very personal need to respond to the gospel. So if you have a Bible, let's take it and turn together to John chapter 20. We're looking at verses 26 through 31. And then we're going to examine these individuals that John highlights in this section of his account. It says the following. After eight days again, his disciples were within. Then said he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands. and reach hither thy hand and thrust it into my side. Be not faithless, but believing. Thomas answering said to him, My Lord, my God , Many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. And that believing you might have life in his name. This is a great text of Scripture, and really it's kind of the crowning jewel of the book of John And so as we look into this text of Scripture, I want us to examine the names of the people that are mentioned in John chapter 20. The first person that we're introduced to is Mary Magdalene. And we know that there are several women that actually went to the tomb on the first day of the week. Mary was only one of them. But she is the one that is highlighted because John is going to highlight her as the very first individual that sees Christ, talks to him, touches him, and then ultimately delivers this message that the Lord has risen. Now she is described in Luke as a woman who had a tragic past. She was enslaved to sin. She was demon-possessed. And the Lord Jesus Christ. Healed her, delivered her, and because her life was transformed as she became a disciple of Christ, she deeply loved the Lord Jesus. And his grace in her life was very apparent. So she is the she is a person who was at the foot of the cross. She was among those women that went to the tomb. She was the first to see the Lord. She was the first to deliver the message. that in fact he was risen. And so Mary is a a very important figure in this account. The second person is the narrator, and that is John. In fact, it's it's interesting that when John talks about himself in the book, He doesn't speak of himself as John. He talks about himself as that one disciple, the one who Jesus loved, things like that. He he doesn't name himself. He actually is almost a little bashful in the way that he presents himself. But John is a key witness to the resurrection. He was a fisherman, and formerly he worked with James's brother. These are the sons of Zebedee, the sons of thunder. and their partners Peter and Andrew. Now John and Peter are the ones who are very prominent, but but John was a very important person in the story. Now he was described as a very compassionate person. He's often described as the closest of the disciples to Jesus. He was present at the trial. And not only was he present, but the high priest family actually knew him. And so he was taking a great risk by being there physically when Jesus was standing before trial. And he is the only one of the twelve. who is mentioned at the cross. In fact, he is also the one that Jesus speaks to and says, take care of my mother before I die. He's also the first disciple that the text says believed that Christ was risen. And I add, he believed, not having seen the risen Lord, but reflecting on scriptures that he had not formally understood. Then we come to this third witness, and that is Peter. And Peter is an intense man. He is also a fisherman. And out of all the disciples, he's Usually the first to speak, he's the most dogmatic, he's presented as a very impulsive person, but he's an impactful person. He's someone that God used mightily. He's present at the trial. But he is reluctant to go in. In fact, John has to bring to bring Peter in. And then when Peter is confronted three times about his identity, he he denies that he knows the Lord. And he denies emphatically, and in fact he stumbled, and it was a very defining moment of failure for him, not the final moment for him, but it was a defining moment in his life. We also see that when he denies the Lord, he's ready to go back to fishing, and Jesus is going to pursue him. We also see that when the tomb is empty and he receives word, He runs with John. He's not as fast as John, but when he gets to the tomb, he goes in and he looks at what is there and he's beginning to process. You know, the scripture never says. in that text, if indeed Peter believed. But we know that he did by the end of the story. And though he was broken by his failure, Through the night of the betrayal, Christ takes care to go to this man and to reinstate him, to reaffirm his purpose for him. And so John highlights that in his book. So Peter is a critical witness. in this story. But then we come to Thomas. And Thomas is perhaps the greatest case that John is going to leave us with to kind of process. And that is because of the kind of person that Thomas was and the nature of his resistance to believe that Christ was risen. He was a plain-speaking person. He just told it like it is. He looked at situations very practically and he had really a healthy skepticism. He wasn't just going to take a person's word. He was going to investigate. He was honest about how we assess the situation. He wanted evidence before commitment. And so though he gets a bad rap sometimes, I think that Thomas is really an important witness in the story. He's the last of the twelve that the scripture says affirmed that in fact he believed that Christ was risen, but he was also the most definitive. in his affirmation. And that is what makes his story so very, very important. So before we dig into the rest of the passage, I just want to set the stage for what we see. On that first day of the week, what we see is a woman who doesn't understand what's going on, and she's approaching this way very, very simply, and that is Mary Magdalene. When we look at verse number one, it says, On the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene, early in the morning, when it was dark, goes to the tomb. Now, what is her purpose? Well, her purpose is this is simple. She wants to honor the Lord. And we know from John's earlier writings that Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus took the body of Christ when he was crucified, they wrapped him, and they gave him a proper burial, but it was done hastily. And it was done hastily because it was the preparation for the Sabbath, and they had to get it done before the evening time. And so here is Mary and the other women, but Mary highlighted Who basically want to complete the process properly. They want to go back and make sure that the job was done the right way. They want to be involved in what took place. They want to pay their last respects. and they want to give honor to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so what you see in these verses is a woman who does not expect to see an empty town. And so when she finds that empty tomb, what does it do? It leaves her shocked, perplexed, she doesn't know how to process it. I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this text of scripture. As we see the various components of the story unfolding piece by piece, and we see how what they do is they shout and they testify. to the reality of the resurrection, that he is not here, he is risen just as he said. May the Lord help us to enjoy this study, to learn from the study and for our faith to be strengthened. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through this text of Scripture by now.