Well, good morning and welcome to Friday. Hope that you've had a great week and looking forward to a wonderful weekend and hope that many of you will be able to join us this Sunday for church if you are part of our church family. And if not, we look forward to joining you back on Monday with our Anchored in the Word studies. We've been in Luke chapter 12, looking at verses 1 through 12, and this morning what I'd like to do is read the first section again, and then I'd like us to look at some practical implications and final thoughts related to this section of Scripture. Luke chapter 12, verse number one. In the meantime, when there were gathered together an innumerable multitude of people, insomuch that they trod one upon another, he began to say unto his disciples, First of all, Beware ye of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. For there is nothing covered that shall not be revealed, neither hid that shall not be known. Therefore whatsoever ye have spoken in the darkness shall be heard in the light, and that which ye have spoken in the ear in the closet shall be proclaimed upon the housetops And I say unto you, my friends, be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after that have no power that they can do. But I will forewarn you whom ye shall fear Fear him, which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell. Yea, I say unto you, fear him. Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings, and not one of them is forgotten before God? But even the very hairs of your head are all numbered, fear not therefore. Ye are of more value than many sparrows. Now Amazing passage of scripture. And in this passage of scripture, we have seen the audience that Jesus is addressing. We have seen the fact that sin is something that's not neutral. He refers to the leaven of the Pharisees. Yesterday we talked about how the antidote for the Levin and the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy, that antidote is a healthy view of God. And what's amazing about these verses is he talks about the fact that a person who does not know the Lord as their Savior, someone who is not saved from wrath through Christ, someone who's not trusting in Messiah. is a person who should be terrified of the judgment day, because on that day they're going to face the full weight of God's wrath against their sin. Yet at the exact same time, the people who have been rescued from that wrath to come through the redemptive work of the Messiah, those people who he describes as his friends. should not fear God, but should rather rest in him. They should delight in him. They should find him to be the source of strength and protection, someone who is with them at all times. And so that really is the sense of this passage. We see that the same God who is righteous and holy and just is a God who should terrify those who have rejected the gospel. and who should bring tremendous delight to those who have embraced it. So what do we take away from this this week? What are some practical thoughts that we can grab a hold of and then seek to implement in our in our personal walk with the Lord. Well, the first implication of the text this week is that how we think about God is not a small matter. It's a big deal. And you cannot think right about God if you neglect the scriptures. How do you know God? You know him through the scriptures. The scriptures are the truth. Everything that God wants us to know about him, he has moved those holy men of God who spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. He has moved them to write these words. And so the scriptures are the sole authority for faith and practice. And if you want to know God, you've got to be in the Word of God. And a healthy longing to know God is something that will always drive us into the scriptures. If I want to know him, I'm going to get into the word. And if I want to know him and I get into the word, it's going to elevate my view of Scripture so that I'll have a high view of Scripture. To put it simply, a person who knows God is a person who knows him because he's in the Word. And a person who knows God, who is in the Word, is someone who values the absolute authority of the Scriptures. And we will always put ourselves under the Scripture's authority, not the Scripture under our own thoughts. And it's always going to cause us not to question God, but to question ourselves. And so a high view of Scripture and how we think about God is no small thing. The second takeaway is that hypocrisy finds its roots in a low view of God, which we could also say is going to lead to a low view of the scriptures. This low view of scripture and this low view of God, they are always working together. And hypocrisy is going to be more concerned with how people perceive us and how others think about us and how we look than how we stand before a holy and righteous God. And so hypocrisy will find its roots in a low view of God. The third implication is that false teaching provides a fertile environment for hypocrisy. Now, a person who is not rightly dividing the word of truth is a person who is going to be prone to communicating doctrinal teachings that are not just false doctrines, but they're doctrines that lead to a low view of God, a high view of our of ourselves and ultimately a desire to conceal who we are as sinful people and present ourselves in a way that's not consistent with reality, the facts. False doctrine always is connected to this idealistic view of human nature. We see people as basically good And guess what comes on the other side of that? Well this idealistic view of human nature will be coupled with a low view of God Rather than talking about his holiness as it is, we create uh we get a false impression of his holiness. Or rather than understanding God's righteousness as it is. We bring this standard down and we compare it to ourselves and we view ourselves as good because we're comparing ourselves to other people. And this low view of God is going to lead to a man-centered theology that is guided by how we feel rather than what is concrete and true, biblical principle. The fourth implication from this text is that our relationship to God through Christ is what makes all the difference. And I think we really highlighted that yesterday for sure. If I am in Adam, I should be terrified of God's inexhaustible knowledge of everything. He knows me inside and out. He knows my thoughts. He knows the intents of my heart. He knows the things that I've said. He knows the things that I would have said if I wasn't concerned about what others would think. He knows the heart of mankind. And that should cause us to tremble as we consider how high his righteous standard is and the guarantee of God's future judgment against our sin. We are going to face death, and this reality is something that should cause us to tremble if we've never embraced the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. But on the other side, if I'm in Christ, I should be comforted by this inexhaustible knowledge of everything. He knows my struggles, he knows my burdens, he understands what it is like to face temptation like we have yet without sin. He is a high priest who understands human frailty. He remembers that we are but dust. This is the God that we serve. And he should comfort us because of the weight of the cross and what the cross teaches us about God's wrath against sin and the tremendous purity of that sacrifice. that God accepted, and the triumph of the resurrection, and the gift of his righteousness that we have, because we are justified by faith alone, and the comfort of eternal glory. A relationship to God through Christ makes all the difference. And so I ask you this morning to think about this. Or whenever you are watching this video, how do you think about God? Do you have a hypocritical mindset that ultimately is revealing that under the surface there's a low view of God in Scripture? Do you realize that false teaching, it breeds hypocrisy, so we must have discernment to recognize it and to reject it and not to contribute to it? And are we in Christ or in Adam? If you've never placed your faith in the finished work of Christ, my encouragement to you is that right here and right now, as you are listening to this uh episode. . You would turn to Christ. Trust in his death on the cross for your sins. Trust in his triumph over death and the resurrection from the dead. Embrace the gospel, trust in Him alone, and receive the gift of His righteousness that gives you a perfect and righteous standing in the presence of a holy God. May the Lord help us to be a people who have a healthy view of Him. If this has been an encouragement to you this week, I hope you could take a moment to share that Lord willing, we'll see many of you this weekend, and if not, I hope you'll join us on Monday for our next Anchored in the Word episode. Bye now.