Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And we are back in Ruth chapter 1, so I hope that you'll join us this morning as we dig into this passage. And I hope that you're having a great week. Hope that your Wednesday morning or whenever you're watching this is going very well. So let's dig into the text. Ruth chapter 1, verses 1 through 5. Here's what God's Word says. Now, it came to pass in the day when the judges ruled, that there was a famine in the land, and a certain man of Bethlehem Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons And the name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife, Naomi, the name of his two sons, Melon and Chileon, Ephraithes of Bethlehem, Judah. And they came into the country of Moab and continued there And Elimelech, Naomi's husband, died, and she was left, and her two sons. And they went and took wives of the women of Moab The name of the one was Orpan, the name of the other Ruth. And they dwelled there about ten years. And Melon and Chileon died, both of them, and the woman was left of her two sons and her husband. Now we've been working our way through this passage this week. We've been talking about the tragedy of the beginning of this story. And this morning, what I'd like us to focus in on is the grace of God and how God never abandons us when we're in difficult situations. Now, that doesn't mean that when we're in difficult situations , we won't feel as if God has abandoned us, but he does not. And we're going to see that in the text in front of us. So first of all, I want you to notice verses 6 through 13. It says, then she arose with her daughters-in-law, that they might return from the country of Moab. For she had heard in the country of Moab that God the Lord had visited his people in giving them bread. This is really the first positive statement in the book, to be very frank. There have been so many negatives. She's lost her husband. She's lost her boys. Her boys married Moabite women. They left the land of Bethlehem, Judah in a time of famine, living during the time of the judges. All of these are negative things. But here in verse number six, she leaves Moab, or she intends to leave Moab with her daughters-in-law And the reason is because she has heard. Why did she hear this? Well, it's because God had brought it to her attention through just normal uh normal circumstances. that she hears about what's going on. And it piques her curiosity and she decides she wants to go home. Well let's kind of reflect a little bit about uh on on how how isolated she was at this time. I mean she was physically broken and mentally broken, isolated in Moab. She had nobody, it says this in verse five, that her boys died and the woman was left of her two sons and her husband. She has nobody. And she's consumed with what she's missed most. We see this in verses eight and nine. She as she's talking to her daughters-in-law and telling them to go back to Moab and not to return with her, she says The Lord deal kindly with you, and the Lord grant you that you might find rest, each of you, in the house of her husband. Now why does she mention that? Well, this is because this is something that is consuming her. She has lost her sons, she has lost her husband, she is vulnerable, and she desires that they not have the same problem. that she has. That's what we see. We also see that she's lamenting the pain that she's experiencing and how she sees that God has been harsh with her. She views him as if he is angry and he's treated her as if he's an enemy. And so in verse 13, she says, It grieveth me much for your sakes that the hand of the Lord is gone out against me Though she was feeling this isolation, and though she could see uh what was going on around her as a negative thing, what she couldn't see, and what we see as we look back on this passage, is that God in his grace is working. And the first evidence of this grace is that statement that he opens up the passage with, that we opened up the passage with. In verse number six, she heard from Moab that the Lord had visited his people. I think it's interesting, even how it's worded. It doesn't say how the Lord had visited her people. It says his people. It's emphasizing the fact that these people belong to God and she feels as if she is separated from Shah. them. She's isolated from them. She's outside of the the care that God is giving him, giving them. And we see that in these verses. Well, the question we should ask is what do we take away from this? I know this is just a little shorter than than yesterday, but I want to leave with you a couple of thoughts before we move into what we'll talk about tomorrow, which will be a bit longer and a lot more involved. First is this. The word grace is one of the most important words in the Bible. I think about Ephesians 2. 8. It is by grace that we are saved through faith. It is not of ourselves. It's the gift of God. What is grace? It's God doing something for me that is good and benevolent and kind, and I don't deserve I didn't earn it. This story is a beautiful picture of God's grace. The second thing that I want to mention is that God does not walk away from us. When we are hurting and fail to see him correctly, and when we fail to understand what he's doing in our lives. Now, we often, when we are dealing with people who are hurting and grieving, And maybe they're acting in a way that is is hurtful to us. You know how we respond? We we tend to distance ourselves from people like that. Or we tend to feel that people are distancing themselves from us when we feel this way. But that's not how God is. He does not leave us and he does not forsake us, the scriptures say. There is nothing that can separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. And so when we feel as if God has abandoned us, we're wrong. It's not true. It's a lie that we've embraced. We need to get back to thinking correctly, biblically. And that is that God continues to work in our lives and continues to love us and continues to care for us even when we are hurting and we have failed to see Him correctly. In our most vulnerable moments, God continues to pursue us. And God continues to work in our lives. And he does it just as he did in the lives of these people. people. Well, I hope that that will encourage you this morning. That is my prayer. And if this has to encourage you or challenged you, take a moment to share that, perhaps share it with another person who you think could benefit by this. And Lord willing, tomorrow we'll meet again as we We continue working our way through this passage and we dig into this a little bit more thoroughly as we talk about the hope that this woman experienced in these very dark days. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.