Good morning. Welcome to our second Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And today what I'd like to do is kind of dig into the details of the story before we start working into some of the theological implications. We're going to just kind of get a general flow of what's going on. And part of that will be talking about what took place during the Passover, who the main players are. in the story, the characters, and then really to kind of step back and see how each of the different Passovers played out during the ministry of Christ, because I think all of those details are extremely important in appreciating what's going on. So if you have your Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Luke chapter 22. We'll read verses 1 through 7 again. And then we'll talk a little bit about the story. Here's what the text says. Now, the feast of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called the Passover. And the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him, for they feared the people. Then entered Satan into Judas, surnamed Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve. And he went his way and communed with the chief priests and captains how he might betray him unto them. And they were glad, and covenanted to give him money, and he promised and sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence of the multitude. Then came the day of unleavened bread when the Passover must be killed. Now as we look at this passage, I want to give you kind of the basic story structure. What we have here in the statement is uh the the timing of the event. It says it was the feast of unleavened bread, which was drawing nigh, and this is called Passover. What's also going on is the chief priests and the scribes are seeking how they might kill Christ. So first of all, comment about the timing. When he talks about the feast of unleavened bread, drawing nigh, and the Passover, it's important for us to understand that the Passover was one meal in the midst of a festive season. And that festive season had several different aspects to it. In fact, it would have covered several weeks. The first week would have been preparation for the Passover And so people would have been cleaning their houses out. They would have been removing anything that had leaven in it. This is called the preparation for the Passover. Now on the tenth of Nissan, Nissan would have been the first month of the year. On the tenth, they would take a lamb. This would have to be a lamb in the first year. It would have to be a spotless lamb, and they would set it aside and they would call it the Paschal Lamb. Then on the 14th of Nissan, so later in the week, they would kill that lamb. And when they killed that land, they would take it up to uh the temple, and there in the temple the priest would kill it, its blood would be sprinkled on the altar, and then they would roast the land. The ram the land would not be completely burned, it would not be a full burnt offering. but rather it would be roasted and then they would take the lamb home and the family would prepare it for a meal on that evening. And that meal would have been called the Passover the the Passover meal. And this basically was the transition from preparation, Passover, to now a seven-day feast called the Feast of Unleavened Bread. And as the family gathered together, this would have been really a Sabbath season. And then the Sabbath during the week would have been a high and holy Sabbath day. So when we think about Christ being crucified and then laid in the grave. And that Sabbath that is coming, this would have been a high and holy Sabbath day because it took place in the midst of the Passover week and unleavened bread, and the feast of unleavened bread. So during the Passover, what the people would do is they would gather together in families. And they would begin by opening up with scripture reading, and they would read from Psalm 13 and 14. And then at the end of a meal, they would read from Psalms 15, 16, 17, and 18. And the reason they would do that is because these psalms would focus their attention on the purpose of the Passover meal. They would discuss the story of the Passover so that especially the children would know what was going on. They wouldn't just see it as a festive occasion, but they would recognize that there was spiritual significance, there was national significance. It told a story about God bringing his people out of enslavement in Egypt. And then they would eat the Passover lamb, they would have unleavened bread, and they would have bitter herbs, and then they would drink uh wine or the fruit of the vine. And so during that time period, the family would be focusing their attention on that deliverance. Also, the Psalms 113 and 14, and the Psalms 115 to 18, called the Halel Psalms, would have really focused their attention on looking back to PA uh looking back to the original Passover. But what's very interesting is that Psalm 118 points forward to this event. And so the Passover wasn't meant to just look back, it was also meant to look forward. And this is a piece that a lot of people didn't understand. I also want to make some comments about Christ's ministry and the various times when he celebrated the Passover with his disciples. Jesus' ministry would have been three and a half years. At the beginning of his ministry, the very first miracle that he performs is at the wedding at Cana of Galilee. And this was at the time in preparation for the Passover. I think it's very interesting that he performs a miracle at a wedding. Inaugurating the kingdom and really kind of letting the people know that we're aware of that, which is a private miracle that in fact he's coming to establish a kingdom. Then in John chapter 5, we see what it says about his second Passover. And this is where there's the confrontation where Christ calls himself the Lord of Sabbath. And when he says he's the Lord of Sabbath, that's really telling the people that he is the Lord who created everything. He's the one who ordered, who created, who designed, and said rest on the seventh day. And so this emphasizes his deity. And then the third Passover, John chapter 6, mentions that Jesus calls himself the bread of life. And so in these first three Passovers, we see that there are different things that are highlighted about Christ's person and work. Then of course the fourth Passover, John 13, he is the fulfillment of the Passover. And so in each of these Passovers we see that something about who Christ is and what he came to do was being highlighted Then I want to move from the timing issue into some of the characters. Who are the characters that are described as major players in the story? Well, first of all, you have the chief priests and the scribes, and these people were where they were very divided amongst themselves because of their theological differences and their political alignments But they were aligned together when it came to their desire to kill Christ. We'll see throughout the rest of this week how this plays out. Their desire was to quietly kill Jesus when the people were not around, not during the the festive occasion, so that they could be done with him Then we have Satan. We talk about Satan, we're talking about that angel Lucifer, who fell from heaven, he rejected God, ultimately He is the one who provided that temptation to Eve in the garden to eat the fruit, and then ultimately Adam eats the fruit, and by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, so death passed on all men for that all have sinned. Satan hates God. He wants to destroy God's work. He walks around as a roaring lion, seeking him he may devour. And he is a major player in this story because it is his uh putting in the mind of Judas the timing. That ultimately pushes the scale toward when this occurred. And then we have Judas. Judas is one of the twelve. And he was a trusted disciple. In fact, um we see that he is the one who held the money bag. He was like the treasurer. Interestingly, it was Judas, not Levi the tax collector, who was the one who carried the money bag. But we also know that Judas was a thief, and Judas was dishonest, and at some point along the way, Judas decided to put his hand against Christ and to betray him. And we see on the night before Christ goes into Jerusalem for that final week that he is anointed there at Lazarus' house. And as the ointment is broken and as the aroma fills that that room, one of the disciples, Judas, says, how could you waste all of this ointment on Jesus. And what does it show you? It shows you the true intent of his heart. And then we see the flow of the week. It says, He promised and sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence of the multitude. Then came the day of unleavened bread, when Passover must be killed. These verses talk about how there is a plot and a scheme on the part of the Sanhedrin, there's a plot and a scheme on the side of Judas, and then ultimately Christ is betrayed on the night of the Passover when the Passover lambs were killed. And so it's important to kind of understand how the week broke down. On Saturday before the Passover week, as people are making their final preparations for the Passover week, the anointing of Jesus at Bethany and the confrontation with Judas takes place. And then on Sunday, after that event, we have what we call the triumphal entry as Christ is coming down from the Mount of Olives, up into Jerusalem. out of uh the Kidron Valley and during this time Jesus is being celebrated and the people are saying Hosannah Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. He is rebuked by the religious leaders. And in fact, they're even quoting from Psalm 118, which is the final psalm that the people would have reflected on after the Passover meal Then on Monday, he goes back into Jerusalem and he disrupts the temple, he overthrows the money changers, he drives them out, and he talks about how they have made his father's house, which is to be a house of prayer for all nations. Aden of Thieves. On Tuesday, we see the story of the Olive Discourse, which is what we've talked about for several weeks now This is likely the night when Judas goes to the religious leaders and makes the decision that he's going to betray Christ. Then on Wednesday there's not much recorded, it's likely a day of final preparations, and then Thursday is the actual day of Passover, and Jesus is there in the upper room with his disciples, and We see the rest of the story. He is crucified, he rises from the dead, and then we have redemption through his work. And so this gives you a sense of the flow of the story. So I hope that as we dig into this passage You understand that the timing is significant, the flow of the story is significant, the players are significant, and all of those things point us to one very simple fact. That while people decided, the timing was impeccably planned by our God who works providentially in the lives of people. And he works in your life and in mine the same way. Well, that gives us some things to think about. Have a blessed rest of your morning. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep breaking down this passage of scripture and the significance of what takes place in them. Bye now.