Morning, I'd like to welcome you back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And what I'd like to do today and tomorrow is I'd like us to look at two parts of application. This morning we're going to talk about some of the direct application, and then I'd like to take one of those final application points that I'll make today. I'd like to expand that from a New Testament passage of scripture. And so that's where we're going this morning and Lord willing tomorrow. If you have your Bible, let's turn again to Psalm 42 and we'll read the scriptures and then dig into some applications that I I think flow from the passage that we've been dealing with this week, Psalm 42. It says, As the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God. For the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me, for I had gone with the multitude. I went with them to the house of God, with the voice of joy and praise, with a multitude that kept holy day. Say, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance. Now as we look at some applications this morning, I want us to just work our way through on the practical side what we've talked about. The first thing that we we mentioned in our study this week is that we should not be surprised. When these seasons come. We are living in a fallen world. We are emotional creatures. There are people that are trying to influence us. There are circumstances that can cause us discouragement. All of us have a temperament that may make us more or less inclined towards these kind of seasons where we are cast down and discouraged and wearied. If we don't get enough rest, we're going to end up finding ourselves discouraged place. If we take on too much um uh responsibility more than we can physically handle um if we neglect the scriptures there is a a Satan who hates us and he wants to destroy the work that God is doing in our lives and so spiritual warfare is something that is a part of this as well. We should not be surprised when these seasons come. They are going to happen. Second, we need to realize that there's not a true cure for these seasons. It's almost like a cold. You care for a cold, you don't cure a cold. A cold is something that comes and goes. Every single year you're going to You're going to come in contact with people who are sick. You're going to get a runny nose. You're going to get a fever, a headache, coughing, sniffling. Those things are going to happen. And so when that happens, when our immune system is Weak, what do we do? We care for the cold, and then eventually our body becomes strong enough, and then we can fight it off and we move on to the next thing. Well, the same kind of situation happens when it comes to this internal turmoil that we feel in during these seasons of life. We need to learn how to care for our souls or care for the souls of others in such situations. What we need to do is we need to learn to work through these seasons in a healthy way. And as we mature and grow in the Christian life, we will hopefully be better equipped and have a better handling of the tools that God has given us. To work through these things personally and with others. We need to be circumspect. We need to understand our temperament. We need to be very careful about the influences that we choose. We need to make sure that the influences that we we choose are choose are biblically grounded. They're helping point us to truth, not turn us away from truth. We need to be careful that we don't withdraw from godly people when we're down. And as I mentioned yesterday, this is one of the common responses. It's very natural, it's very easy for us that when we feel downcast and discouraged and wearied, that we want to withdraw from people. bury ourselves in our sorrows. And that's not the way that we should respond in such situations. We need the Church of God. We need strong believers around us who can uplift us, strengthen us, pray with us, pray for us, speak the truth to us. encourage us, sharpen our ideas. This is extremely important. This is why we need the church. We need to be careful that we don't just deal with symptoms, but we get to the root of why we are in a downcast state. It could have something to do with how we view circumstance. It could be something about how we view God and his character. It could be how we view ourselves. It could be a misunderstanding of how God works and what his ways are like. But we need to get to the root cause of what is going on in our hearts. We need to learn how to speak stabilizing truth to ourselves It's so important that we are daily in the Word of God. And as we're in the Word of God, we are reminding ourselves of truth. I encourage people learn how to journal. What I mean by journaling is as you read the word, write down what you're learning about God. Write down those truth And then take what you've written down about God and state God is, God does, God cares in such a way. And then express it in gratitude to him. And by going through that, you are reminding yourselves, and sometimes when things get very dark and discouraging and frustrating, you need to rehearse the truth back to yourself because that provides the stability that you need internally And then determine to praise God for what you have been reminded about concerning yourself. And so as we are reminded that God is and God does and God has promised, We remind ourselves these things are true, therefore I must praise God because of who he is and what he has done. Remember, he is the help and the health of our countenance. A God-centered life is what we desperately need when we find ourselves in very dark places. Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to dig into this a little bit. bit further. We're going to talk about some of those stabilizing truths that we need to speak to ourselves. And we're going to speak about that in the light of Ephesians chapter 6. Christian armor. Hope that you'll join us tomorrow as we look at those final thoughts. Have a blessed rest of your day. And as always, if this has been an encouragement to you, please take a moment to share that. If this uh you think would be helpful to someone else, share that with them if you need need anything. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. Our desire is to simply be an encouragement to you. Have a blessed rest of your day, Lord willing. We'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.