Good morning. Welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we've been telling the story of Aquila and Priscilla and how God used them and specifically Paul's interaction with them in their daily work. And so today I'd like us to focus in on one word, and that's the word multiplication. What was the end result of the time that Paul spent with Aquil and Priscilla? just doing their daily work. What what was the end result of what was a difficult story of frustration for Paul as his ministry plans were disrupted, for Aquila and Priscilla as they were kicked out of Rome. Well, I'd like us to dig into that concept a little bit this morning. And so if you have a Bible, let's take it. Let's turn again to Acts chapter 18. I'm going to read through this little portion, and then we're going to focus on how God used that interaction to expand his work all throughout the various portions of the Roman world. Here's what the text says. After these things Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth, and found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius, lately come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome. and came unto them, and because he was of the same craft he abode with them, and wrought, for by their occupation they were tent makers. And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks, and when , Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the Spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. Now, let's go back to remembering how God's providence was at work. We talked about the frustration that Paul experienced. The frustration of Aquila and Priscilla, the injustices, the short stays that Paul has in the various cities, and all of those things came to a head when Paul and Aquila and Priscilla end up at Corinth. There they're making tents, and as they're making tents, they develop a relationship. Paul is able to expound the gospel to them. They are believers. They grow as disciples. Their friendship develops and blossoms. And then we're going to see how that work compounded over many years. In fact, over a 15-year period. In verse 18, it says that Paul, after this, all of his time at Corinth, about a year and a half, He tarried a good while, and then took his leave of the brethren, and he sailed thence into Syria, with him Priscilla and Aquila. Why did Paul bring this couple? It's because they were effective in ministry. And we're going to see how effective their ministry actually was. For the next 15 years, Paul is going to give us little clues in the epistles that he writes and various things that are stated in the book of Acts of how effective and how far-reaching their ministries were. In verses 18 and 19 we see that Paul leaves them at Ephesus. When he leaves them at Ephesus, he goes on to Jerusalem, and during the time that Paul is away, Aquila and Priscilla come in contact with a man named Apollos. Apollos is an eloquent man. He knows the scriptures, but he does not know the totality of the gospel. He doesn't understand the Spirit. He doesn't understand that Christ has already come and died and risen from the dead. He only knew the baptism of John. He is looking for the Messiah, not looking back at what the Messiah did. And in chapter 18, verse 24, it says that this Jew, Aquila, or Apollos, who was an eloquent man and mighty in the scriptures, came to Ephesus. This man was instructed in the way of the Lord, and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught diligently the things of the Lord, knowing only the baptism of John. When Aquil and Priscilla had heard, they took him unto them, and expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly. What I love about this text is it tells us that this is a man who is willing to learn But it also tells us this is a couple who was capable of teaching a man who was very gifted. They were able to present the scriptures clearly. They were able to approach him in a way. That did not bring unnecessary offense. They were able to lay the truths before him, and he took those things, and God used him mightily once he was properly instructed. This is the first example of Aquila and Priscilla having a ministry that we see going on in the absence of the Apostle Paul. But it's not the last example. In fact, there are going to be many more examples of their ministry, clues to their ministry without Paul in the picture. The next one I want to mention is in Romans chapter 16. At the end of Paul's letter, he writes this little portion that we often overlook, and he talks about various people that he loves, he's thankful for, and he's wanting to encourage or greet. And it says in verse 3, Greet Priscilla and Aquila, my helpers in Christ Jesus, who have for my life laid down their own necks, unto whom not only I give thanks. But also all the churches of the Gentiles likewise greet the church that is in their house. Boy, there's a lot there. We see that these are people who have helped him in the Lord. They've been willing to lay down their lives. They have a church that is meeting in their house and people know this couple. There's a church at Rome, not because Paul has been there, but because Aquila and Priscilla have been there. We see the ministry connection. And don't forget They had been kicked out of Rome, and now they're back in Rome. And so they didn't hold a bitterness or a grudge. Instead, they go back when the opportunity arises, and they're used of God in that capacity. We also see another clue of them ministering at Philippi in 1 Corinthians 16. He says, the churches in Asia salute you, Aquil and Priscilla salute you much in the Lord with the church that is in their house. Paul is writing to the church at Corinth from Philippi. And obviously the people at Corinth knew Aquila and Priscilla because that is where they met Paul and were converted and grew as disciples. Another example, 2 Timothy 4, verse 19, is at the end of Paul's life. It says, salute Priscinaquila and the household of Oneph Anecephrus. So here is Paul, 15 years later, sending greetings to Timothy and ultimately the church at Ephesus and this couple, Aquila and Priscilla, who are back at Ephesus. So what we see is clues within ministry in Corinth, in Philippi, at Ephesus, several different locations. Aquila and Priscilla were used of God. During this time period, Rome, Ephesus, Corinth, they were faithful And they were encouragers. And in these passages, we see that Paul indicates the encouragers that they were. They were willing to open their homes. For young churches that were being started. And there in those homes, people came in, they heard the gospel, they were being discipled, they were being instructed. And this couple was influential in those early churches They personally discipled influential ministers. We know that because of the example of Apollos. And so they pull him aside, they teach him the way of God, and God uses him to proclaim the gospel mightily in those regions. This is fruitful ministry, the expanding, the compounding, the manifestation of simple ordinary work through difficult and frustrating circumstances. And we also know that they were known to other Christians throughout regions like Macedonia, Achai, Asia, Rome. All of those places in the Roman world were places where they were known. And they were known because Paul talked about them Because they traveled with Paul. They were co-workers with Paul. They were encouragers in the Word. And so I want to conclude with this very simple thought. If you and I will be faithful, And the ordinary duties of life, if we will become grounded, if we will pour our lives into the grounding of young Christians, we have no idea how God may take that work and expand it As time goes on. Now, I'm not saying that you're all Aquillas and Priscillas and you're going to end up doing what they did. I'm not suggesting that. They lived at a unique time. They had a unique relationship to Paul. They had unique opportunities and challenges. But what I am saying is that God uses ordinary faithfulness. God compounds his work. And so may we be faithful in the daily ordinary things. May we give our lives fully to making and being disciples of Christ. And may we be faithful in giving the word in any context that God puts us in That's my encouragement to you this morning. Hope that you have a blessed rest of your day. If this has been an encouragement, maybe take a moment to share that. If you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out. Perhaps share this video with others who will be encouraged by it. And Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow for some more thoughts on this passage of Scripture by now