Good morning. Welcome back to our fourth anchored in the word morning reflection. Hope that our study this week has been a challenge and encouragement to you. We've looked at a lot of negative what not to do. What I'd like us to do this morning is look at how we are to give in a godly way. And so let's go ahead and turn our Bibles again to Luke chapter 20. We're going to look at this text together. And then we're going to dig into another passage of scripture that I think gives us an excellent example of what it looks like to give in a way that truly honors the Lord and is very healthy. So here's what the text says. Beware of the scribes, which desire to walk in long robes, and love greetings in the markets, and the highest plates in the synagogues, and the chief rooms at feasts. which devour widows' houses, and for a show make long prayers. The same shall receive greater damnation. He looked up and saw the rich men casting in their gifts into the treasury, and he saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two mites And he said, Of a truth I say unto you, this poor widow has cast in more than they all. For all these out of their abundance cast in unto the offering of God, but she from her penury has cast in all the living that she had Some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts. Now, as we think about all of the different negative examples, how the system that was predominant during that time when Christ is uh doing his public ministry, what we see is that it started, the wrong the wrong responses and the wrong expressions of worship started with a wrong view of God And the passage that I want to invite you to turn to is from 1 Chronicles chapter 29. Now, to give you a little bit of background, we know that David desired to build the temple for God. And sadly for David, David's desire to build the temple was stopped. God said, you can't do it. Now, God did provide a blessing, and he said, I'm going to build you a house. You're not going to build me a house. And he did permit his son Solomon to build the temple. And so what David did was rather than have an angry attitude towards God and to be resentful for what he wasn't able to do. He said, I'm going to put my heart into what I can do. And so what David could do was he could prepare so that when his son came on the scene, he'd be able to do the work very rapidly and he'd be able to do it efficiently and effectively. And so David did all that he could to prepare Solomon to be successful. Great example of really how we should be with our own children. We should pour into them in a way that provides opportunity for them to be successful. And then in 1 Chronicles 29, we see that David expresses his gratitude to God for what he was able to be a part of. Notice what it says. It says, then the people rejoiced, for that they offered willingly, because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the Lord. And David the king also rejoiced with great joy, wherefore David blessed the Lord before all the congregation, and David said, Blessed be thou, Lord God of Israel, our Father, for ever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness, and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty. For all that is in the heaven and in the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. Both riches and honor come of thee, and thou reignest over all. And in thine hand is power and might, and in thine hand it is to make great and to give strength unto all. Now, therefore, O God, we thank thee, and praise thy glorious name. Who am I? What is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? For all things come of thee, and of thine own have we given thee. What an outstanding passage of Scripture to demonstrate what healthy, godly giving as an expression of worship actually looks like. And I want you to notice the details, and I want you to see how these contrast with the example of the Pharisees and Sadducees of Christ's day We see in this example that giving starts with a healthy view of God. Now, where did this wrong attitude towards giving started that Jesus is pushing back against? Well, it started with the wrong view of God. They viewed God as a peer. They viewed their religious practice as a means to an end of attaining God's favor. But David's view of God is entirely different. He says that God is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. That the kingdom belongs to him, that he is the head of all. Riches and honor come from him. And it's of his own hand and power and might that these people have the ability to do what they do. Now what does this show you? That David has a big view of God. He sees God as the one who is sovereign over all. He rules and he reigns. Everything that David has comes from God's hand. God is all powerful. God is infinitely wise. God is gracious, God has been kind and benevolent to David. All of that is built into what is causing David to give the way that he is. A second thing we see is this is coupled with an accurate view of self. Notice how he expresses it. He says, Who am I? What is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after the sort? He says, I'm nothing. These people are nothing. The fact that we can give is because God is allowing us to do it. It's not because we we deserve it, it's not because we've earned the right to it. And so his view of self is very accurate. He recognizes himself as a dependent to God. He says, all things come from thee, and of thine own have we given it thee. And so when a person views themselves accurately before God, it shapes how they give. It shapes all of their worship. It also shows you that he was motivated from the heart in a pure way. It says, then the people rejoiced. They offered willingly. With a perfect heart, they offered willingly. You see the emphasis of that statement. They're rejoicing. They are willing. Their heart is accurate or it is perfect in the sense that it's it's it's not with duplicity. It's it's being done the way it's supposed to. That's the idea. And so there's a genuineness in the way that they're giving. This is what godly giving looks like. And then thirdly, here we see it is generous. And this is something that we see both reflected in this 1 Chronicles passage, but another passage in the New Testament that I want to draw your attention to is 2 Corinthians 9. This is another good example. He says, Every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give, not grudgingly, not of necessity, the Lord loveth a cheerful giver. So he's saying don't give out of compulsion. Don't give because you feel like you have to. Give because your heart really desires to give back to God. what is ultimately the result of his blessing toward you. And purpose in your heart. Think it through. Give in a way that has calculated the cost and truly wants to show your love for God. And so this is what giving in a godly way looks like. It starts with a right view of God, it starts with a right view of self, and it is free, it is it is pure, and it's expression, it is worship out of gratitude. And so I want to encourage you, this isn't just about money, this is about your time, this is about your energy, this is about the use of the gifts that God gives you. Every area of our life, every expression of worship ought to be free from the heart, out of a genuine love for God, and out of a recognition that He is infinitely great. He has been extremely kind to us, and there's nothing that we have that we've earned and deserve. It is all a result of the gracious hand of God in our lives. May that be the way that we approach giving in our lives. Have a blessed rest of your morning, Lord willing. We'll meet again tomorrow, one more time, as we look at some final thoughts pulling all these things together. Bye now.