Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you've had a wonderful week. I know it's been a cold week. It's been an interesting time of the year. And as we've been working our way through Psalm 43, my hope is that this passage has ministered to you. Each time we read it, that you would think about the content of it as we've reflected on some of the little excerpts from the sermon. My prayer is that some of those things would have really resonated with you and been helped to you. And perhaps it was helpful to just go back and listen to the whole sermon or to look over the notes that are posted online. And as you work your way through that, my prayer is that God's word has ministered richly to you. The Holy Spirit has taken that and really used it to strengthen you in your walk with the Lord. We're going to go ahead and read this passage one more time this morning, and then we are going to listen to, Lord willingly, another excerpt from this passage, or from the sermon that was preached on this passage. And try to talk a little bit about that concept. So let's read the passage together. Again, it's Psalm 43, verses 1 through 5. Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation. O deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man, for thou art the God of my strength. Why dost thou cast me off? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? O send out thy light and thy truth. Let them lead me. Let them bring me into thy holy hill, and to thy tabernacles. Then will I go into the altar of God, unto God my exceeding joy. Yea, upon the harp will I praise thee, O God, my God. Why art thou cast down on my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope in God. For I should yet praise him who is the health of my countenance. and my God. Let's go ahead and listen to this little section and then we'll talk about it. Learn to process frustration in a biblical way. The last verse is a verse that we hit pretty heavily the last time we were in the Psalms in Psalm forty two. But notice Lee says, Why art thou cast down on my soul? Why art thou despised within me? Hope in God, I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance and my I want to remind you just very quickly what that passage reminds us to do when we find ourselves in this place. I want to remind you that it's not an accident when God permits us to encounter difficulties. And there are lots of potential causes. for the kinds of situations that we encounter. Sometimes these are simply tests of our faith. Sometimes this is part of the process how God refines us. And he pulls away those things that we're depending on and he points us back to himself. Sometimes it's to cause us to not love the things of this world as much as we do. Sometimes it's God allowing us to learn from the consequences of our own actions. Sometimes it's an opportunity for us to give uh a a strong testimony of the power of the gospel around people who are either either very immature, young Christians, weak Christians, or maybe they're not Christians at all. God has lots and lots of reasons. He permits us to go through these things. But when we are in the midst of struggles, it is so important that we ask the question, am I processing this in a godly way? Am I processing this like a Christian? Am I processing this from a uniquely Christian worldview? And I do want to add that processing something from a a uniquely Christian worldview does not mean that we will never have questions or that sometimes there'll be questions that we just can't answer. or sometimes the questions that we get from the Word of God, they don't go as far as we wish they would. It doesn't mean that processing it is without pain and frustration and sometimes a struggle. And it doesn't mean that we don't process with without ups and downs. All of those things are part of the process that we go through. But one of the things that I've noticed when I read the Psalms is that As David goes through these cycles of grief and lamenting, and then reminding himself of truth and finding strength in the Lord and then praising God. And then he finds himself in a similar cycle over and over and over again. What you see is that David matures through that process. He is strengthened through that process. His thinking is sharpened through that process. And so despite the ups and the downs, and despite the questions that may come, he ends up back on a solid footing, and that solid footing is the character of God. and the ways of God, and the heart of God for his people, and the promises of God. And so processing in a godly way is though we go through those struggles and though we go through those questions and through those trials and we experience those pains, we end up back on a firm footing and we are found our that footing is is founded strongly on Christ and the gospel and the character of God and the promises of God and the ways of God. And so my encouragement to you this morning is to ask that simple question. Am I processing these struggles in a truly Christian manner? When I get drifting away from where I should be, do I turn back and find that sure footing on the truths of Scripture? When I go up and down, am I be beginning to progress? Am I becoming bitter against God or am I submitting to his ways? May God help us to be a people who learn to process things in a biblical way. I remind you again of what that Psalm says several times. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God. I will yet praise him, who is the help of my countenance. Have a blessed weekend. I hope that we will see many of you this coming Sunday, and that it will in fact be a great encouragement to you as you're gathered together with God's people in the Lord's house. Have a blessed weekend. Bye now.