Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our fourth Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a great week, and I hope that these studies have been a challenge to you. I haven't said this in the other videos, but I did want to say this today. If you have any questions or you need to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that. And my desire is not just to be an encouragement through the videos, but in fact sometimes it uh kind of stimulates thoughts, uh, provides the need to ask some questions. And I would be happy to get into conversation with you about areas related to these topics that could be help to you. And don't hesitate to reach out in any way through Facebook. uh through the church app, uh through email, lots of different ways. The passage that we've been looking at is A heavy passage, but a practical one. And last uh last time we were talking, we we looked at how God rewards faithful endurance by giving us in time an experiential as opposed to simply academic knowledge of Him. This morning what I want to do is go beyond that and look at what we would call an eschatological reward for faithful endurance. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles, turn together to Psalm 44. Verses 1 through 8 is what we are reading together. We'll listen to a little excerpt and then jump into the topic in front of us. It says, we have heard with our ears, O God, our Father. They have told us what work thou didst in their days, in the times of old, how thou didst drive out the heathen with thy hand and plantest them. How thou didst afflict the people and cast them out. For they got the land in possession by not the land in possession by their own sword, neither by their own arm. But by thy right hand and thine arm and the light of thy countenance, because thou hast favor unto them. Thou art my king, O God, command deliverance for Jacob. Through thee will we push down our enemies Through thy name will we tread them under that rise up against us. For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me. But thou hast saved us from our enemies, and thou hast put them to shame that hated us. In God we boast all the day long and praise thy name forever. Selah. Let's go ahead and listen to that little section God rewards those who endure difficult tests of their faith. Second Corinthians 4. 17 says, our light affliction. That's a really interesting statement. Our light affliction, which is but for a moment worketh for us. A far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. Romans 818, I reckon that the suffering of this present time is not worthy to be be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. James 1 12, Blessed is the man that endure temptation when he is tried. He shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to them that love him. Now, suffering and testing is such an important topic for Christians to work their way through. And we talk about testing, we have to recognize that there there are at least three things that we could say about testing that um are true to help us get through those things. One of the first things it that we can learn is that God uses testing to build us and to mature us and to make us the people that he wants us to be. So we are literally shaped through the process. In the same way that going to the gym and lifting weights and and that training process builds strength and endurance. God uses the trials of our faith and the tests of life to build us and to strengthen us. A second thing that we've seen to be true about testing and trials is that God wants us to go from having an academic understanding of Him an academic understanding of his ways, an academic knowledge of him, to an experiential knowledge of him. He wants us to know him personally within the context of relationship. And so when we read the Bible, we're reading a history of how God has dealt with a people, ultimately pointing to his redemptive purposes. for those people and through those people. And so this book isn't written as a systematic theology or as something academic for us to write tests on. The Bible is written as a history of people. and how God works in their lives and how God will also work in our lives similarly similarly to how He has worked in their lives But then there's this third side, and this is what we would call the eschatological side. God uses the trials and the tests of life to provide a basis for us to be We could say rewarded for faithful endurance. And so God wants us to build and God wants us to manage and God wants us to a plan and God wants us to work through matters so that at the end of that time, God is able at the judgment seat of Christ to reward us for our faithfulness. And so when we think about this concept of difficulty and trial and tribulation struggle, we see that the scripture teaches that God, who is sovereign, causes us to go through these circumstances so that he can build us, so that he can give us an experiential knowledge of him. And yes , to give us the opportunity to earn reward for faithfulness in the manner in which we do the things that we're supposed to do as his children. And so that's what he means when he says when he is tried, he will receive the crown of life which God has promised to those who trust him. He says, I have not hear, I have not seen, nor ear heard, the things that God has promised for them that love him. Our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more and exceeding eternal weight of glory. There are lots and lots of scriptures that emphasize the fact that God causes us to go through testing so that after we have endured He can give us a crown for that faithful endurance. Well, may God help us to endurance him who is invisible. May we stay the course And do the work that we're called to do, the way that we're called to do it, with the attitude in which we're called to do it, so that on that day when we stand before our Savior, he will be able to reward us as good and faithful servants. May God help us to endure faithfully no matter what we're experiencing. Well, that's what I have for you this morning. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow, one last time. As we give you some thoughts to go into the weekend with, by now