Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word and More Reflection. Also a new week, and I'm thankful for the text that we're getting to deal with this week. I got a lot of feedback from this passage of scripture when we were looking at it on a Sunday morning. And I think that the things that we looked at in this passage were extremely practical and helpful. So I hope that you'll join us this week as we work our way through this passage of Scripture and we talk about the importance of putting discipleship into perspective. This morning what we're going to do is give a couple of introductory thoughts to this topic and we're going to look at the first point dealing with the issue. of persecution. So if you have your Bible, please let's take it together and let's turn to Luke chapter 17. We're looking at verses 1 through 10 today, but we'll be focusing in on basically the first half of that section. Here's what the text says. Then said he unto his disciples, It is impossible, but that offenses will come. But woe unto him through whom they come. It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck and he cast into the sea. than that he should offend one of these little ones. Take heed to yourselves. If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him. If he repent, forgive him. If he trespassed against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day, he turn again to thee, saying, I repent. Thou shalt forgive him. And the apostle said unto the Lord, Increase our faith. Now as you look at this passage, I want to give you a summary statement. Think about how God would have us in the general point of this passage to respond to it, and then look at this first issue of persecution. So first of all to summary, those who follow Christ should prepare themselves for difficulty both outside and within the church The remarkable advance of God's kingdom through the Spirit's work in the hearts of people, and the need to maintain a humble spirit. As we think about this passage, we digest it, we process it, we consider the implications, we're going to see that God ultimately wants us to face the Christian life with a healthy perspective about this issue of discipleship. And so the first piece that Christ addresses in these verses is the issue of external hardship. And the word we've used. persecution. The idea is if a person is going to live for the Lord Jesus and they're going to be identified with Him, they should anticipate that at some point along the way or at times along the way, they're going to experience persecution, hardship, heartache, as a result of that identification with Christ. And so we see it stated this way in verses 1 and 2. It is impossible. That word impossible is important for us to To c keep in mind, it is impossible, but that offenses will come. But woe unto him through whom they come. It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck. and he were cast into the sea, than that he should offend one of these little ones. Now there are two pieces to what Jesus is saying here. And the reason that he's saying this is to help us to understand that part of discipleship is recognizing this is going to happen. So the first piece is that of warning. External pressures will come. It is impossible, but that offenses will come. When we think about how the world looks at Christ, the world looks at Christ as an offense. And Scripture has a lot to say about this issue. In fact, starting out our missions month this past Sunday, we talked about the fact that when the world looks at the Christian gospel and the world thinks about Christian ethics, and the world thinks about Christ himself as the person that he is. That message and who Jesus is is offensive because it says you need to repent and believe. You need to be saved from sin. The way that you're living actually is contrary to God's purposes. You need to submit to his authority and his lordship. And so when they're a group of people that are visibly aligned with Christ and they're actually striving to live in this way, and they're submitting to his doctrines and teachings, and they say, I actually believe these things, that's offensive to people. It's going to create contention potentially. Not because people are living in an unagreeable manner. but because of what they are us aligned with, what they represent. The second thing that is emphasized in these verses is that God will deal with those who attack his people. He says it this way in verse 1. Woe unto him through whom they come. While God does not insulate the believer from every single hardship and difficulty. He does say, I will one day deal with those who turn against me and attack my church. I love These people. They are my people. They are my children. And it's it's fascinating how he uses the phrase, these little ones. We would think he was talking about children here, but he's not speaking of children as in the age of people as much as he is, these disciples are ones that he loves very dearly, as if they belong to him because they do belong to him, as if they are vulnerable because in fact they are vulnerable. And we will see the vulnerability of this disciple later on in what Jesus says. So he's the he's trying to prepare them to face these e in these external hardships. And there are a lot of scriptures that talk about this. I could have gone through the epistles, I could have looked But the one passage I wanted to mention is in the Sermon on the Mount. Matthew 5. 10 he says, Blessed are they which are persecuted. for righteousness' sake. That word blessed means they're happy. That means that you can actually experience persecution and still maintain a frame of mind that is contented, that is joyful, that is happy, because while you face that persecution, you are also looking at the position you enjoy with Christ. And you're also looking at the fulfillment of that position and the security of that position and the way that God uses those things to accomplish good. But it doesn't negate the fact that persecution is real. And so he says that they are blessed who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. He says, blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you. and say all manner of evil against you, this word's important, falsely for my name's sake. So these are false accusations. These are accusations that are because of their alignment with Christ, not because of sin that they've done, not because of the nastiness of the way they carry these views. It's about their alignment with Christ He says, rejoice, great is your reward in heaven. So they persecuted the prophets. And so I want to remind you as we think about the implications. We've got to be prepared. We've got to be prepared that at times we will face heartache, persecution, difficulty. And we also need to remind it that we can be comforted in the fact that when we are in that position, God is not aloof and standing off and just watching this as one who doesn't care, but in fact he loves his children. And he is going to protect them and he's going to vindicate them. And we can take comfort in these great truths. So as we think about it today, I do hope you have a wonderful rest of your day. I hope that you think circumspectly about life and discipleship and recognize that there is a difficult side to walking with Christ and being aligned with him But that difficulty pales in comparison to the joys that await us in eternity and the joys that we experience today as those who are forgiven, cleansed, accepted in the beloved, and having the privilege of enjoying. A walk with him. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow by now.