Good morning and welcome to our Wednesday edition about a very negative topic, and that negative topic is the fact that all of us are born into this world spiritually dead, separated from God. Today, we're going to look at the second option, and that is a being alive in Christ. And we're looking at how God in his rich mercy has been kind to us and put us in this position And so if you have a Bible, I'd like you to ask you to take it. We're going to turn to Ephesians chapter 2. We're going to begin reading in verse number 1, and then we're going to work our way into this concept this morning. And I hope it's a great help to you. It says, In you hath ye quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins, wherein in times past you walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience among whom also we all had our conversation in times past, fulfilling the lust of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath even as others. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead in sin. Hath he quickened us together with Christ, by grace ye are saved. What an amazing statement that he closes out He has quickened us together with Christ by grace we are saved. That's what we're going to focus in on this morning. And that is the fact that if you are a Christian, You are now alive to him. You were dead to him. You're now alive to him. You were dead in trespasses and in sins. You now have been, as it says in the passage, quickened with Christ. He says we were dead, now we're quickened, we're alive with Christ. What does he mean by that? Well, there are several aspects to that concept of being now alive in Christ. First thing I'll say is this. It's a new position and it's a real positional reality, a spiritual positional reality. When he says you have he quickened, it doesn't say it's as if you became alive. He says you have been made alive. It's something that's true of you, and it's true of every Christian. It's true of strong Christians. It's true of weak Christians. It's true of Christians who have had debilitating struggles their entire life. It's true of Christians who are very spiritually mature. It's true no matter how long you've been a Christian or whatever your background was. This is true of everyone who is in Christ. You are alive in him. Second thing, that life is because we've been united to him. We are connected to Christ. Verse 6, it says he hath raised us up together, and he's made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus In Romans chapter 6, he talks about us being buried in the likeness of his death, and we have been raised in the likeness of his resurrection. So in the same way that Jesus died and rose, we have been united to him, we are dead to who we were, we're not that person anymore, and now we're alive in him as new creatures in Christ. And that is the sense But the third thing I want to mention, which I think is probably one of the most amazing, the most profound things here, is that we are now living with this anticipation of a rich eternal inheritance And I think it's neat how he says it in verse 7. He says, so that in the ages to come, he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. Have you ever gotten in your mind this thought that, well, when I get to heaven, I'm just going to understand that and I'm going to figure it out? I've heard people say that, I'm sure I've said it myself. But the question I gotta ask you is this. Are you gonna become an infinitely smart, wise, and knowledgeable person when you enter into eternity? Or will you still have those human limitations of being finite? In my opinion, we will all still have a finite mind. We're not going to have a full, comprehensive knowledge of everything There are things that we're going to grow in for all of eternity. And so when we think about this concept, what we're saying is this. We have a God Who is infinite? He's infinite in wisdom. He's infinite in power. He's infinite in goodness. He's infinite in holiness. He's infinite in all these areas. And you and I, as creatures, we are finite. That means we have limitations. It's like you're sitting in a classroom and you're listening to someone lecture or teach. And the fact is You're a student in a classroom because you don't have a full comprehension of everything there is to know about that particular topic. And by the way. The person teaching your class doesn't have an infinite uh scope of knowledge of that topic either. In fact, the more a person studies a matter, the more they realize that while the diff the difference between them and the average person when it comes to what they know about that issue is quite substantial the difference between what they know and a full comprehension of that concept. In fact, you realize it even more and more you fall short of it. We do not have the capacity to fully grasp God in every single way. And so even in eternity, there are still going to be things that we learn about God. There are going to be things that we grow in our appreciation of Him with. Even in eternity. We will still, as finite creatures, grow in a knowledge of Him. Throughout all of eternity, we're going to continue to appreciate His greatness more and more and more. And I use this illustration. If you and I walk out and look up into the sky on a very dark night, and there's no moon, it's just the stars, you and I see all these stars out there, and we go, wow, there's a lot of stars, and there are. But if we can go and get a telescope and look up at those same stars, we'd realize something. Some of those stars aren't stars. They're clusters of stars. Some of them are planets. Some of them are even galaxies that are filled with stars upon stars upon stars. And if we could go and we could actually go into an observatory where they have satellites out in space, we would see even further out and have a clearer picture of what's there. And the truth is that as technology grows, our ability to see what's out there, it increases massively, but it hasn't reached a full comprehension, understanding of everything that's out there. As medical science progresses, guess what? We learn more and more about how things work, but we don't figure it all out. And so when we talk about God, we're talking about someone who is infinite And we're going to grow for all of eternity to understand him. And what I think this text is saying is this, he's made you alive. And for all of eternity, you will begin to grow more and more and more in your love for him and your appreciation of the greatness of his grace. Well that's what I have for you this morning. Aren't you glad that you're alive in Christ if you're a Christian? If you're not a Christian, you can be made alive in Christ. And the question is how? Well tomorrow join us as we talk about that very, very important topic. Have a blessed day, Lord willing will meet again tomorrow. By now