Good morning. Hope you're having a great Friday. And if you're reading this or listening to this first thing in the morning, I hope that you have a wonderful day today. If it's late in the day, I hope you have a great weekend. And the passage that we've looked at this week has been one of great comfort and encouragement. And so I'd like us to leave on this final note of hope as we think about our final thoughts. And so if you have your Bible, let's turn one more time to Ruth chapter 1. We're reading verses 1 through 5, but we're really looking at the entire passage of Scripture. And uh so if you have your Bible, let's turn there. If not, look up on the screen here, and we'll read this passage together. Here's what it says. Now, it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled that there was a famine in the land. And a certain man of Bethlehem Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife, and his two sons. The name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi The name of the two sons Melon and Hileon, Ephraithes of Bethlehem, Judah. And they came into the country of Moab and continued there. And Elimelech, Naomi 's husband, died. And she was left, and her two sons. And they took them wives of the women of Moa of the women of Moab. The name of the one was Orpah and the name of the other Ruth. They dwelled there about ten years And Melon and Hilian died both of them, and the woman was left of her two sons and her husband. Now, when we start this book, it's obviously a very sad story. We see pain and suffering. We see that Ruth really is a vulnerable person, and a lot of her heartache was not the result of her own decisions. But what we've also seen is the grace of God. And this principle has really resonated throughout the book. God's ways are far higher than we perceive in the moments that we're living through. through. And I want to zero in on the things that are stated at the end of the book as the women are talking about Naomi. In verses 14, 15, and 16. It says, the women said to Naomi, Blessed be the Lord who hath not left thee this day without a kinsman, that his name may be great and famous in Israel And he shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life and a nourisher of thine old age. Now there are three pieces that I want to draw your attention to. In that statement. The first one is a statement that should have uplifted her the moment she heard it. And in verse 14, it says, Blessed be the Lord who hath not left thee this day without a kinsman. Now, the story is focusing on really two pieces. I mean, probably more than that, but two big themes are. Number one, God takes care of these people in a moment in history. But number two, that moment in history actually has purposes far beyond that moment in history. God's redemptive promise the Providence is being displayed in stunning detail. And so when they when they say God has not left you without a kinsman, they're thinking about her immediate situation. But the second part of this is a little bit deeper, and I'm not sure that these women would have even understood fully what they were saying and the significance of it. But in verse 14 later it says, so that his name may be famous in Israel. Now the question is, how is the child of a Moabite widow who is remarried? a man named Boaz, how is this child going to be great in Israel? He's going to be great in Israel because he's going to be the grandfather. of this man uh of King David. And King David is going to be the person that God makes promises that on the st of the throne of the seed of his throne, there'll be no end. There's going to be a descendant who's going to sit on the th throne of his father David forever, for eternity. He's talking about the Messiah. And so this child who was born to Ruth and to Boaz is going to be the grandfather of David the king, who's ultimately going to be a part of the lineage of Christ. And so this is a messianic prophecy. It's more than just God's meeting them in this moment, but he is doing something history. And then the third piece is great. The third part is so rich because it's emphasizing both the immediate and the future significance. Of this event. He says that he shall be to thee a restorer of thy life and a nourisher of thine old age. Now, when he talks about a restorer of life and a nourisher of old age, I think that what they're thinking is as you get older, this child is going to take care of you. And this child is going to be a comfort to you in your old age and bring joy to your life. But this child is going to be a piece of God bringing the Messiah into the world. And the true healing that a person needs. is the healing that comes through the gospel, being delivered from the penalty of sin, being made alive in Christ, and ultimately having a life that is conformed to God's purpose. And so this third part has both an immediate and future significance. When we examine God's plan of redemption, we see that this story, and every piece that is a part of it, is an inescapable piece of that story. And he was working behind the scenes, despite all the pain, all the suffering, all the trouble, to keep his redemptive plan intact. So that's a lot to process. That is really a rich, rich truth to consider Another piece of this is that we see how overwhelmingly good and comforting his presence is and how comforting he is to people. In Psalm 68, verses 4 to 6, it says, Sing unto God, sing praise unto his name. He is a father to the fatherless and a judge of the widows. That word judge means he's a vindicator. He sets the solitary in families and he bringeth out those which are bound in chains. That is exactly what Ruth and Naomi experience. God took care of these two very vulnerable women. And he did it because he's good and he's compassionate. It also reminds me of the passage that we alluded to a couple of weeks ago in Psalm 40. Where David writes that waited patiently for the Lord. He inclined into me, he heard my cry, he brought me up out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay. And he set my feet on a rock, and he established my goings. He put a new song in my heart, even praise to our God. Many shall see and fear and put their trust in What's the point? The point is, God is good. So what can we take away from this passage of scripture? What are the final thoughts for us to meditate on and reflect on this week? Well, here's what I'd like to leave you with first. Life can be relentless, painful, frustrating, leaving us broken and feeling like there's no hope. But there is hope. When we feel isolated and hopeless, God hasn't abandoned us. He never leaves his children or forsakes his children. children. He is full of grace and he works meticulously behind the scenes to accomplish his loving purposes in our lives. He can restore our joy And our strength, even when our lives have been severely broken by the hardships that we encounter. He can bring good out of the most difficult and painful circumstances. circumstances. That gives us a lot to think about, does it not? May God help us to have a renewed sense of His goodness and His wisdom as we go into the weekend. I'd like to share one final thing with you and that is this. I hope you have a wonderful weekend. And I hope to see you, Lord willing, on Sunday. Take care and we will meet again, Lord willing, next time. Bye now.