Good morning. Welcome to a new week and a new series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And this week the topic that we're addressing is probably the most important topic I could imagine addressing. And that is the nature of the gospel. And I love our series that we're doing in the book of Ephesians because there are so many rich topics that we're addressing. And this right here. is a heart of what it means to be a Christian. So if you uh are uncertain of whether or not you are a believer, um, that you have eternal life, I hope that you'll listen to these anchored in the word studies because these studies are going to just take the word of God. and just lay out for you exactly what God has done for you and how you can know for certain that you have eternal life. And if you are a believer and you have people in your life that you are very concerned about their salvation Pass these along because these are going to be just walking piece by piece through the nature of the gospel, how we respond to the gospel, how the benefits of the gospel. The blessings of salvation are how we receive those blessings. That's all going to be a part of this discussion. So please take the time to watch these videos. to share these videos and be blessed by them. And if you're a believer who just wants to rejoice in what you have in Christ, that's really what this is all going to be all about. So This is going to be an introduction to the study we're doing this week. And so if you have a Bible, take it and turn with me to Ephesians chapter 2. And we are looking at verses 8 through 10, but for the sake of just getting the full context, we're going to read verses 4 through 10 each day this week. Here's what the scriptures say. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath he quickened us together with Christ, by grace you are saved and hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are ye saved through faith, not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. Now, when we think about this passage of Scripture, the question we should ask is, well, what's the main point? Well, here is the main point. I'll summarize it like this. Our salvation is by grace alone. through faith alone, in Christ alone, and for the glory or to the glory of God alone Maybe you've heard of the solas of the Reformation. This is what we're talking about. Grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone, for the glory of God alone. And by the way, it is the scripture alone that gives us this message. And so when we talk about This passage of scripture, this is just laying out for us how a person is reconciled to God. And so the intent is let's rejoice in this great salvation. Let's understand it. When it talks about grace, what does that mean? When it talks about faith as the instrument through which the blessings of the gospel are applied to us. Let's understand what that faith is talking about. And then when we talk about it being to the glory of God alone, we'll ask the question, well, what 's that all about? Why is it to the glory of God alone? This is going to be a great study this week. So join us as we dig into this passage and we understand these things hopefully a little bit better by the end of the week. How do we do this? Come and join us as we dig into that. Lord willing tomorrow we're going to talk about the first component and that is how the south how salvation is by grace alone. The basis of our salvation is not in something we do for God, some commitment we make to God. It's based on what Christ did for us. And we're going to talk about that. So have a great rest of your day today, and Lord willing, tomorrow we're going to dig into that first component, and I hope that you'll be ready for that. We'll talk to you later. Bye now.