Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection for this week. And uh this is uh an interesting episode because it's episode one hundred and uh we're not quite to the midpoint of the year, but This is an important topic that we've been addressing. And so for a 100th episode, this is going to be emphasizing the practical side. How do we actually apply what we've talked about this week? And so let's read the text one more time And then I'd like to give you some final thoughts that I hope will leave you with encouragement, challenge, and ultimately will be a blessing to you. Here's what it says, 2 Timothy 1. 2. To Timothy, my dearly beloved son, grace, mercy, and peace. From God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. I thank God whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day. Greatly desire to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy, when I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee which first dwelt in thy grandmother, Lois, and thy mother, Eunice, and I am persuaded is in thee also. Now, what can we take away from the passage that we've looked at this week? What encouragements can we find? First thing I want to say is this. Do not underestimate the importance of shaping the next generation. Now there are a lot of things we don't know about Paul's parents, mom, dad, grandmother. But what we do know is that mom and grandma were faithful Christians. In fact, we don't know if mom and grandma were actually Old Testament believers who were looking for the Messiah. And then when Paul comes along, they understand the gospel. It all clicks, but they had been looking for the Messiah all along. We have no idea what the situation was. But what we do know is that these two women were invaluably investing in Timothy, shaping him as a person, and Paul took note of that That reminds us that we should not underestimate the importance of shaping the next generation. The next generation of pastors, the next generation of missionaries, the next generation of Christian school teachers, the next generation of deacons, of Sunday school teachers. of people who are working on finance committees, people who are involved in apologetics, all of these areas, those people Who are going to be that generation are being shaped right now. I'm talking about the kids in the nursery. Yes, the junior high boys. Their lives are being shaped right now. And we should not underestimate the importance of that. Secondly The labor of raising children and working with our youth is immense. It's not easy to work with young people. There are a lot of challenges. There is the time element, there is the energy element, there is the wisdom element, there's the fact that we're constantly being scrutinized by young people. There are generational gaps between parents and grandparents and their children. But the fact is that the reward is eternal. And God is going to bless, and God is going to reward at the judgment seat those who have faithfully endured in the labors he has given them and have invested in that next generation. I think another thing that we can take from this is the importance of not embracing a victim's mentality. I mean, Timothy had a lot working against him. He he had a lot working against him as a child, as a young man. All kinds of things that we've talked about this week. The fact that he has a Gentile father and a Jewish mother, the fact that he doesn't really have a true cultural allegiance The fact that he saw that that Paul experienced so much heartache and difficulty at the beginning of his ministry where where Timothy is converted. And then we think about his first introduction to ministry at Philippi. All of these things remind us that a person could easily take a victim's mentality and say, I can't do this, woe is me. But what did he do? He overcame them. Don't miss the importance of what God has laid before you by being a victim in your mindset. Every season is a gift. You won't get it back. It matters. Invest in it Every soul is valuable, eternally significant. Everyone is going to spend eternity either with God or separated from Him. And so every life matters. We are image-bearers. We're reminded that every task that God would give us is going to be accompanied with tools, strength, wisdom. He will enable you to do what he's called you to do. And so if God has put us in a place and God has given us a duty and we must step into that role, let's realize God will give us what we need to do that. Whether you're a man, a woman, a parent, whatever the situation, God has given you opportunity and you need to embrace it. He's put mentors in our lives. We gotta thank them for that. You know, some of the most influential people in my life, beyond my mom and my dad. will be people like Sunday school teachers, elementary, junior high, high school teachers, coaches, baseball coach, wrestling coach, lots and lots of different areas where coaches influenced me. I think about the first church that I interned in when I was a college student. I think about uh some of the people that invested in me early on in ministry, missionaries that I develop close friendships who are a lot older than me, pastors even today, who I would say we have a bit of a mentoring type of relationship. God brings people into our lives for a reason. We need to invest in those behind us. We need to learn from those before us. It's a lot to process. We can do it. I want to challenge you. Take the word of God and apply it. Don't just hear it, do it. May God help us to have a great weekend, and I hope that we'll see many of you on Sunday. If not, we'll see you, Lord willing, on Monday as we continue working our way through a new topic of anger in the word, born reflections. Bye now.