Good morning. Welcome to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. Throughout the month of October, we're focusing in on missions, and part of that focus on missions is just thinking about how God has worked in really remarkable ways all throughout church history. And this week we will be focusing our attention on the Church of Ephesus and the founding of that church. And so today what I'd like to do is kind of set the tone for what we will be discussing, and that is to kind of consider some of the spiritual dynamics of what's going on in our own nation here in the United States of America. First of all, if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. We'll read Acts chapter 19, just a couple of verses, and then we're going to talk about a few statistics to just kind of set the tone for this week. Here's what the text says And he went into the synagogue and spake boldly for the space of three months, disputing and persuading the things concerning the kingdom of God. But when divers were hardened, he and believed not, but spake evil of that way before the multitude, he departed from them, and separated the disciples, disputing daily in the school of one Tyranus. And this continued by the space of two years, so that all they which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. As we come to this passage, we're going to talk about the remarkable work of God in a very dark city. Part of our discussion will be how unlikely it was that Ephesus would have become just one of the central uh church plants in all of the New Testament time period. But I want us to think about what our own times are like that we're living through right now. We can talk about other times in church history where The western part of the world was really the place that was sending out missionaries all over the world. It was the place where Christianity was vibrant. We talk about Western Christianity. I know a lot of times that is a cultural Christianity, not necessarily vibrant biblical Christianity, but I want us to think about how there's been a tremendous decline of Christianity in the Western world. A couple of statistics. One would be about the United States. This is from pre-Pew research in 2022. So a little bit dated, I understand that. If anything, we would expect it to be a little bit worse than it was when this was given. says those who identify as Christians in the United States are projected to fall below 50% within the next 50 years. Now if I was to go back to when I was a kid, Back in the 1980s and then going into the early 90s, if you were to ask that same question, you're talking probably 75-80% of Americans. would have said they're Christian. Now it doesn't mean they're actually Christian, born-again believers, they understand the gospel, they've embraced it, but they would consider themselves cultural Christians. That's just a significant statistic because it's telling you that those who do not claim Christianity are about to be higher than those who do. Now that is the case in the United Kingdom. In fact, 46 % of those who were asked this question in the United Kingdom identify as what we would call religious nonce. They do not have a religious association. That's opposed to only 43% of people in the United Kingdom claiming to be Christian. To dig into the details a little bit more, I think it's important to look at the state. of the church in the United States, not just those professing to be Christian. So a few interesting stats here. One would be that 70% of US churches are smaller than a hundred people. In fact, if you were going to the Southern Baptist Convention, this is the largest evangelical denomination or affiliation, most of those churches, almost four over 43% of those churches, would be smaller than fifty people. What that tells you is that probably another twenty -thirty years a lot of those congregations will not exist In the next 10 years, over 50% of current pastors are no longer going to be in the ministry, either because they've died, they've retired, or they're just burned out, they're no longer in ministry. When we talk about some of the beliefs of Americans, we talk about something like civic engagement. I know there's a lot of struggle in our society about morality and whether Christian values should actually influence our culture. Over 70% of Americans believe that religious belief should have no influence on political decisions. It's pretty shocking to think about. That's telling you a lot of people who profess to be Christians believe that their religious beliefs should not influence public decisions. Or when we talk about the Bible, only about 30% of Americans believe in the inerrancy of Scripture Only about 30% believe in justification by faith alone. And only about 12% believe that the local church is something that they have a strong conviction that they should be committed to and engaged in. That tells you that there's a tremendous decline, not just of Christianity in a cultural sense, but in a more particular, those who are truly believers practicing their faith Yet I do want to leave you with a couple of, we could say, counter-trends that are actually positive. For instance, Gen Z and Millennial Americans are more frequent to attend church than their parents or grandparents' generations. I think that probably surprises a lot of people, but there are statistics that are clearly stating that that's the case. Gen Z Americans are slightly more likely to attend church than their millennial uh counterparts. And so what it's telling you is that younger Americans, though More progressive in probably larger numbers are more committed when it comes to this issue of church. Even when it comes to this issue of family, the divorce rate amongst younger Americans is much lower than that of older Americans. In fact, right now the divorce rate in America is at the lowest point it's been in 50 years. Millennials are less likely to divorce than their parents or grandparents' generations. Now I'm sure that that's partially a reflection of those that are choosing not to marry, and what it's telling you is that those who do get married are committed to to marriage as something that is an important institution. But it's telling you that there are some some positive counter trends. You might say, well, well, Joe, why do you start there this week? Well I start there to simply say this. We need to be objective about the culture that we live in. This is a dark culture. There is a decline of Christianity. And a lot of Americans, most Americans, the vast majority of Americans do not hold to biblical values, do not hold to a high view of scripture, do not hold to a biblical understanding of the gospel. Do not believe that church is important. The question is, should we be discouraged and quit? Or should we actually recognize there is room for hope? I believe that the second option is the one we should hold to. In a time of great darkness, the light will shine brighter than ever. In a time of great need, there are people that God can raise up and can step into that need. And I want us to see this week as we work through This passage talking about the church at Ephesus, I want us to see what God can and has done when people are willing to step in and fulfill their biblical roles. So I hope you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage. There is room for hope, and that hope is in the power of the gospel. May God help us to walk away this week with that hope. All right, well if this is something that you'd like to uh share with others, take a moment to do that. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.