Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a good Tuesday morning. Hope that you have had a good start to your week. And the text in front of us is Luke chapter 12 verses 49 through 59. And we are looking at the need for discernment in our day and the stress of the text that we will focus in on this morning is the need for urgency. And so let's go ahead and take our Bibles out. We'll turn to Luke chapter 12. Verses 49 to 59, and uh we'll read most of the section, not every single part of it, uh just for sake of time, but I want to to read what's there. Here's what it says. I'm come to send fire on the earth. And what will I if it be already kindled? But I have a baptism to be baptized with. Now am I straightened till it be accomplished? Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on the earth, I tell you, nay, but rather division. From henceforth there shall be five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three. And then we skip down, and he says, and he said also to the people, When you see a cloud rise out of the west straightway, you say, there cometh a shower, and so it is. And when you see the south wind blow, you say, there will be heat, and it cometh to pass. Ye hypocrites, you can discern the face of the sky and of the earth, but how is it that you do not discern the times? Yea, and why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right When thou goest with thine adversary to the magistrate, as thou art in the way, give diligence that thou mayest deliver be delivered from him, lest he uh hail thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and the officer cast thee into prison Listen, I tell you, thou shalt not depart thence till thou hast paid the very last might. Now part of discerning the times that we are living in Is understanding the urgency of God's program. And Jesus is going to address that in verses 49 and 50. Notice the way he puts it. He says, I am come to send fire on the earth. And what will I if it be already kindled? But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how am I straightened till it be accomplished? Now there are two pieces to these verses that I want to draw your attention to. In the light of Christ's teaching, we see these two pieces. pressing matters. One, the world needs to be set right. Now in verse 49 he says, I am come to send fire on the earth, and what will I if it be already kindled? Now that word fire there is really referring to the fact that God is going to, in the end, he is going to take this world, he's going to judge wickedness. He's going to destroy this world in fire, and he's going to create a new heaven and a new earth, and the first heaven and the first earth will be passed away. It's another way of saying that this world has problems that need to be put right. And Jesus says, I wish it had already started. The second statement is that it cannot happen without the cross and what Christ is about to do. In verse 50, he says, but I have a baptism to be baptized with. And how am I straightened till it be accomplished? Now, this statement, I have a baptism to be baptized with, is Jesus speaking proverbially about his death on the cross. He's talking about the fact that this world needs to be put right, but before it can be put right, there needs to be an established basis for people who are sinners to be able to have entrance into the kingdom of God. Think about what Jesus said to Nicodemus in John chapter 3. He says, Do not marvel that I tell you you must be born. again. He says, if you are not born again you will not see the kingdom of God. Well there's no new birth if there is no cross and no resurrection. And so Jesus is saying that he is pressed in his heart about these two issues. One, the world needs to be put right, and two, there needs to be a basis. for people who are sinners to be redeemed and to enter that kingdom. So when Christians look at this world, they should feel some measure of conflict. Because this is a fallen world that does need to be put right, and we should long for it to be put right. We should see the conflict, we should see, we should experience conflict in our souls as we think about the physical pain and the suffering that's all around us. Or when we see the terrible effects of sin in our own lives, in the lives of people around us, in people's families, you should feel conflict in your soul. You should feel conflict in your soul when you see the injustices that go on in the world. Or when we think about the misery of what we experience in this world. We should lament about these things. We should long for things to be put right. And that is the sense. Jesus looks at this fallen world and he says, I wish that I had come to deal with this once and for all. And so when Christians feel this conflict, they've got to be discerning about how this conflict can be resolved. What is the true solution? Well, the ultimate solution is not through some human mechanism, a political movement, an advancement in medicine or education, or people becoming more wealthy. When we feel this conflict, we need to embrace the purpose and the timetable that God has for us in this And the fact is that God has purpose to redeem mankind and to establish a new creation. But before he does this, he leaves us in the world as a preservative. The Bible says in Matthew that we are the salt of the earth. Not that God wants us to be the salt of the earth or that we should try to be the salt in the earth. He says that we are the salt of the earth. And equally he speaks on the fact that we are the light of the world. We are there not just for the preservation of humanity, but for the exposing of people to truth. And so God leaves us in this world until his timetable has unfolded, and we have to submit to him in that. Well, what does that look like in a practical way? Well, it looks like walking by faith And so in 1 Thessalonians 5, he puts it like this. Ye are the children of light, and the children of the day. You are not in the night, nor of the darkness. Therefore, let us sleep. Let us not sleep as as do others, but let us watch. and be sober. For they that sleep, sleep in the night, and they that are drunken are drunken in the night. But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and for an helmet, the hope of salvation. For God hath not appointed us to wrath. The point is we are to walk by faith. And so that leads me to my final thoughts for the day. The first is this. We've got to have this sense of urgency about the return of Christ. Jesus longs to put things right. He longed at that moment to go to the cross to establish that basis. And we should have this sense of urgency as we think about the brokenness and the trouble of this fallen world. So I want to secondly say, let's not be complacent about where we live in history. We are still looking forward to that day in the same way that people who were anticipating the Messiah's first advent who were living with this anticipation that God could send his Redeemer at any time. We ourselves should be living in such a way, not in a complacency, but with an urgency. Let's prepare ourselves for his return. We need to hope in the coming of Christ and let that sustain us. And so I hope that this morning, as you think about these things, it'll give you some things to ponder and it'll motivate you to come back tomorrow so that we can continue breaking down these truths. If this has been a challenge to you, take a moment to share that. Maybe share it with someone else, and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow. By now