Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And as we always do, we're going to look at some final thoughts of application. As we've looked at this passage of scripture, we've seen a bit of attention that's being presented here. We see a positive and a negative We see an immediate failure and then a future reinstatement. We see conversion in the sense of a positional reality and also something that is a part of our growth into Christ-likeness. How do we make sense of all this and put it together in a practical way? Well, I hope that you'll uh give some thought to these final thoughts by beginning, first of all, reading the text one more time. Here's what it says in Luke 22. It says, And there was also strife among them, which of them should be accounted the greatest. And he said unto them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them. And they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors. But you should not be so. But he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger, he that is chief as he that doth serve. And I appointed to you a kingdom, as my father hath appointed unto me, that ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. Now what can we take away from this passage? Three words I want us to remember with the application, expanding those words. The first is the word comfort. I think that's really a big part of what we're looking at here. When I say comfort, what I mean is this. God's love for us as his children is something that's consistent. He doesn't love us because we're good or because we're noble or because we have everything figured out. He loves us because he's good. That's why it's consistent. And that love secures us. That's the whole point of Romans chapter 8. If we stumble, and when we stumble, what does God do? He continues to hold us with his good hand. We must take comfort in the consistency of our Savior's love, even when we have stumbled. It's so important we do that The second is perspective. When I say perspective, we need to think big picture when we're thinking about the Christian life. For instance , Testing, stumbling, these are an inescapable part of the Christian experience. We're all going to go through times where we stumble. We're going to go through times where we're in pain. when things don't make sense, when our faith is tested. That's a normal part of the Christian life. Don't be surprised when it happens, because it happens to everybody. And the scripture couldn't be clear about it. Second, we see that Satan is a very fierce, angry, nasty foe. But even though he is a fierce foe, he's a limited foe. He cannot go beyond the boundaries of what God permits. And that tells us that God does permit, but God limits. And God always provides a way of escape. The third thing I'll mention is that God wisely limits suffering and hardship for a purpose. He does it to accomplish good in our lives. God would never allow Satan to touch you in any way or to tempt you in any way unless God had a purpose in it, and that purpose actually served a good end. And that good end is conforming us to the image of Christ. He uses everything, all things, even the bad things. He uses them to accomplish good in our lives. Fourthly. He demonstrates the genuine nature of our position when we go through these seasons. Our faith is tested, and our faith is purified, and our faith is demonstrated to be true. He also uses these tests to build us and equip us and to make us stronger so that in the future we can serve him and minister to others more effectively. When we face the trials of life, we need to recognize that it is God's purpose in our lives. Let's be mature, let's think biblically. That's what I mean by perspective The last word that I want to leave you with is a word of encouragement. I know comfort and encouragement are pretty similar, but there's a slight difference. There's a nuanced difference between those two words. When I say encouragement, I want to say it like this. God is always with us when we suffer. He never abandons us. He never forsakes us. He's always there. He will always provide a way of escape. No exceptions. We may not immediately recognize what those ways of escapes are, but in fact they are there. Thirdly, he lifts us up when we stumble. It's an inescapable part of what we do with. We are a flawed people. We're going to stumble at times, but God picks us up when we do. When we do, what does he do? He reaffirms his purpose for our lives. He encourages us because we desperately need it. And lastly , Well I want to remind you, do not allow yourself to accept the lie that you can't get up when you've fallen down. It is a lie. It's not true. When you believe it, it's something that in fact has not come from God. Do not accept the lie that he has abandoned you. Do not accept the lie that he's done with you. We've got to seek truth and stand on the truth. Well that's what I have for you this week. Hope that you have a great weekend. Hope we'll see many of you on Sunday, this Lord's Day. And if not, I hope you'll join us on Monday as we dig into a new passage of Scripture. Have a blessed weekend. Bye now.