Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection for the week. And I hope that you have a wonderful weekend and I hope that the things that we've talked about have given you some things to think about, have challenged you and encouraged you. You. And I do want to say this before we look at some final thoughts of application. As you have been listening to these videos, if you need to reach out to get some encouragement, some thoughts about how to handle a situation, please don't hesitate to do that. I want to be a help to you any way that I can and reach out to your pastor and encourage, ask him to be an encouragement or help to you. The fact is we want to see the body of Christ strengthened, and the only way that happens is if we are confronted with God's word, we actually internalize it, we think about it, and then we prayerfully seek to put into practice the things that we are seeing in God's word. And sometimes individual conversations and some accountability and encouragement are an important part of helping us develop in those ways. Let's go ahead and take our Bibles and we'll read it one more time. 2 Timothy chapter 2, verse number 1, and then we'll look at some practical ways to hopefully apply what we've learned. Here's what the text says, Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to able to teach others also. Thou therefore endure hardness, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that worth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. And if a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned except he strive lawfully. The husbandman that laboreth must be first partaker of the the fruits. Consider what I say, and the Lord give thee understanding in all things. Now as we think about how we are to apply the text, I want to begin With this concept, we have to be considerate of how pressing the need is in our day. We've got to consider it. We've got to reflect on it. We've got to understand that the times that we are living in are serious times. Now I don't want to give the impression that there's ever been a generation that the need wasn't pressing and it wasn't great, but the time we're living in in this country is a time where we need to stop and think about where we are. We need to ask the question, how do we get here? We also need to ask the question, how do we turn the tide? Let me give you a couple of statistics to think about about. According to some recent surveys, I read an article published April 2023, I believe it was, uh, from Christianity Today. And here are some of the some of the uh the different stats that were given that I think are very startling. The first stat is this: one in four pastors are going to be retired in the next five years. Now the question we should ask is When we think about it, the average age, according to this uh this this article, is fifty-two years. And oh fifty-two uh for for a lot of people in churches isn't very old. In fact, uh that would be younger than probably the predomin predominant number of people in most of the churches uh of people that attend uh uh the churches that are attended by people that watch the this video. But the fact is that that's quite a bit older than what the average age of a pastor was, say a few decades ago. Only 16% of current pastors today are 40 years and younger. Now I actually technically not in that category anymore because I'm past that. But the idea is if you were to go back, say, to the nineties, that number would have been quite a bit higher. It would have been 33%. If you were to go back into the 60s 1968, the number would have been 55 , %. Now what that's telling you is that in the 1960s and the 1970s and in the 1980s, pastors were primarily quite a bit younger than they are. today. And I think that that's a reflection of the fact that a lot of people came out of Bible college and they went and they planted churches. And there were lots and lots of churches that were planted in the 1960s, 70s, 70s. And the reason that you have older pastors today is because there are fewer churches being planted, and most of those pastors are aging out, and they're getting closer. to retirement. Now I don't think it's a bad thing for us to have seasoned people who have life experience pastoring. The question isn't do we have seasoned older people pastoring? The question is do we have people who are coming back behind them who are going to step into their shoes when they are no longer doing what they're doing. This last stat I think is important. Nearly 80% of pastors today are concerned that their churches are not rising to the responsibility to tranct the next generation of church leaders. Now I would add, for sake of perspective, that if you are a pastor who is concerned about it, then you need to be doing something about that. And that's why I'm teaching this lesson. And that's why we're trying to do some of the things that we're doing in our church. We don't want to be in the position where we are caught flat-footed when we come to the generational change that's going to naturally take place as pastors get older. Second thing I want to mention is this. The reason, in my view, for these statistics, is that there is a massive breakdown of the family. And this breakdown of the family leads to cultural crisis. And this trickles into every area of life. There's also a failure of churches to intensely Now I know this isn't across the board in every single church. There are some churches that actually are doing a great job in preparing their families to raise their children. And there are churches that are doing a great job in discipling those who are in their congregation. But that's probably not the norm. That's probably more of an exception. And that's got to change. There has to be a movement in churches where there's a true reformation of the church where people start focusing on families more than they used to. used to, equipping parents to raise their children better than the generation before them, and that's doing a better job of intensively discipling those who are growing up in the church, becoming Christians later in life, and then growing as disciples of Christ. Churches that properly invest in their families and then thoroughly disciple those who are members of their church. are the key to reversing the dangerous trend that's going on in our cultures. The second thing I want to mention is that we must realize how easy it is to fail to do this well. I think there are very few people that fail because they don't care. Now there are people out there that fail because they don't care. care. They're not concerned about the next generation. They're not raising their children with a desire to see them grow and mature. There are some, uh we could say deadbeat dads and moms out there. But most of the people in our society who are failing are probably not failing because they don't care, but because they don't have the tools they need. Or maybe they do have the tools that they they need, but they're not engaged in the process. need They're not staying focused and they're not being diligent in the process. We often fail because we go with the trend of the culture. And we compare ourselves to the people around us, which is ultimately a flawed standard. And so some of the failures are a result of just going with the tide and going with the flow of society. We also are failing many times because we fail to properly prioritize. And this is something that I observe, especially on the pastoral level Lots and lots of families prioritize the wrong things in their homes. And you might say, well, that's a very judgmental thing for you to say as a pastor. Well, my job as a pastor is to shepherd and care for the flock. And there are far too many pastors that that are unwilling to simply tell families, listen, you need to have your kids church every Sunday. Yes, there's baseball, and yes, there's football, and yes, there's wrestling, and yes, there are these activities that can go and family activities and vacations. But the fact is if you don't prioritize the local church and you don't have your children there sitting under the ministry of the word in Sunday school, and they're not sitting in church on Sunday morning and you don't bring them back on Sunday night and they're not engaged on Wednesdays. Why in the world do you think that your children are going to prioritize the local church better than you did? They're just not going to do that. There are rare exceptions, and I thank God for them. But one of the reasons that we are losing the generations behind us is because we're just not engaged. We're not prioritizing things properly. It's not that we don't think church is important. It's that we don't prioritize it first. And Sunday is the Lord's day. It's not the day to go out and chill and sleep in and do fun things in the community. It's a day to gather with God's people. It's a day to worship corporately, to be instructed and challenged in the Word of God. And I'm just going to say it very bluntly. Families that don't prioritize the local church are going to pay for it when their kids get older. They're going to see it in their children's decisions as adults. and they're going to see it in their grandchildren. So we've got to prioritize this issue. Another area is that we fail because we get distracted. And I I find myself with this a lot. It is so easy to disengage from what's going on in our homes. It's very easy to get on social media. to watch YouTube videos, to listen to podcasts, to walk around the house with earbuds while our children are just running crazy. And we've got to learn to sit down with our kids, have conversations, with them. Be engaged in what's going on. Put the phone away. Don't worry about the notifications that are there. Don't worry about what you're missing out on on social media. Be engaged with your kids. We've got to put the responsibility of shaping our children on our own shoulders, not the shoulders of other people. We often fail too because we don't think ahead. We don't miss, or we miss out on the most formative seasons of our children's lives. This is a common problem. So once your kids become teenagers and we start having problems with them because uh they're beginning to express their opinions a little stronger than they used to. They're beginning to challenge us. They they don't admire us the way that they did when they were little kids. and they don't necessarily respect our judgment as much as they did. And now they're taller than we are, they're bigger than we are, and they start feeling like, hey, I know how to use technology better than dad and mom do. And all of a sudden we start having these conflicts. But the truth is we've got to get the hearts of our children's ear children early. We've got to teach them the Word of God. When they're little children, we've got to put into their heart at a very early age the importance of the local church, the body of Christ. and being engaged in what God is doing in the world. We've got to get ahead of the curve, not catch up later on in the game. And a lot of times it's it's very late in the process and we start realizing that we need to get engaged. We've got to stay ahead of these problems. Next, I'll mention this. When we fail, we don't get back up. And the reason that I say the things that I'm saying is not because I want to hurt anybody that's listening to this. I don't want to put a dagger in anybody. I want to encourage you. I want to encourage you to step up. I want to encourage you if you've stumbled and tripped to get back up and to get in the process. And maybe you've lost time, but you can get back into it. Some of the conflicts that we deal with when we are dealing with teenagers, those are prime opportunities. for us to engage with our children on a heart level and invest in them and to be involved in their lives. And maybe we're having those problems because we didn't do a good job when they were six, seven, and eight years old. But we can still get engaged at the time that we're meeting these issues. We often sometimes fail when we don't get help early enough in the process. I really want to challenge you if you are a parent who has very small children, get around the wisest Christian parents you know and ask them questions. Let them invest in you. Let them tell you what they've learned. Don't go to someone whose kids aren't doing well. Go to someone who's a good example and ask them and learn from them and listen to what they have to say. Listen to what those who are shepherding your souls have to say. We've got to get help while our children are young, or we're going to get behind in this process. And the third thing I'm going to mention is this. We've got to purpose to do this in every sphere that God gives us. When I think about church leadership, and this is kind of the primary focus of what's in front of us. We've got to do everything that we can as pastors to invest in our church families. This is why we have MBI classes at Anchor. And and I want to encourage you in our church, if you're a member of our church, come to these classes. And I I would encourage you to just watch them on the live stream. Come physically to the class. You say, well, I have teenagers and I need to spend time with that. Hey, we have a lot of teenagers who come to the ABVI classes and I'm glad when I see teenagers in those classes because this is an opportunity for them to get a little bit more depth in the teacher. for them to ask questions that can come up. ABBI classes are a tool that in our church we're trying to utilize to help the next generation develop and the generation that's here to become more more grounded in the faith. Friday preaching cohorts is something that we start doing in our church staff. And basically what we do is on Friday mornings before we go to the rescue mission. we sit down and we discuss the sermon that's going to be preached on Sunday. So the guys that are preaching on Sunday nights, we generally go through theirs. If we have a guest speaker, then we go through the Sunday morning message that I'm going to be preaching. And what it does is it gives us an opportunity to talk about the text, to talk about preaching, to sharpen our skills and our abilities in these areas. Why do we do this? Well, because we want to become as effective as possible. And teaching the word of God. And here's what I'm going to say. Anybody in our church who wants to come to this, I don't care. You can come. And I you say, well, I work on Fridays. I get that. If we had to move it to a different time so that we could include some of our guys, I would do that because I want us to develop a love for preaching and develop a passion for preaching and to get better at it. Saturday Ministry Talks is something that I'm going to start doing down the road. We're going to give people the opportunity to come and I'm going to just talk about topics that are ministry related. Why do I want to do this? I want to do this because we need to see a generation of young men who are developing the skill sets that will help them be effective in ministry. If God were to put that into their heart and will help them to be effective fathers, deacons, Sunday school teachers, we want to develop the future leadership of the church. church. And then I think of young Christians. Discipleship studies. We have lots of people in our church who have been saved, baptized, and gone through discipleship studies and are continuing to be involved in discipleship. studies that are one-on-one, one-on-two, one-on-three. These are very important times in the development of a young Christian's love for the Lord Jesus. desire to develop spiritual disciplines and learn basic doctrines. We're doing Freedom That Last class and connection groups. Why? Because this is a discipleship tool. Our ABBI classes as I mentioned and then midweek prayer time That the teaching on Wednesday night is a little less sermon and a little more instruction. And our time of prayer together is where we can get together with others, share our burdens, and pray together. Young Christians need to be discipled. The third one is the one that I might be the most passionate about, believe it or not, and that is our children. The greatest number of people in our church who need to be discipled. discipled are those who are born in the families of the people in this church. The fact is that there is the potential for tremendous influence on the building of the kingdom of God in this church right now. And there's also the potential for tremendous heartache. And a lot of it is going to come down to what do we do as we teach our children in this most formative period of their lives. We've got to faithfully bring our children to church. If you're not doing that, then I'm telling you that as a parent, you are not prioritizing your life properly. You're just absolutely not. You've got to be faithful in the local church. Two, be actively engaged in your children's education. I'm not telling you you have to homeschool your kids. That's what we do. But the truth is that if you send them to a Christian school, or even some of our families, they're not able to afford sending their children to a Christian school, and they're in the public school system. Be engaged in teaching your children. Be engaged in knowing what they're learning. Be engaged with dealing with the worldview issues that are that are being developed, the things that they're experiencing in the school context, in in a group that they're going to, in their baseball practices, we've got to be engaged in the education of our children And we've got to organize the regular practice of family worship. Dad, your job is to lead the family in family worship. You say, well, my wife is the spiritual leader in our family. If that's true, then then father, husband, you need to step up. It is your job to lead your family well when it comes to this issue. It's your job to make sure that your kids end up in church. It's your job to make sure that you are engaged in your kids' education. It's your job to sit the family down, open up the word of God, teach them on a level that they can understand. understand, lead them in singing hymns of praise and then lead them in prayer. We've got to be engaged in this process. I know this is a very pointed series of teachings this week, probably more pointed than most of the ones that I deal with. with but I believe that we will see God work amazingly through our families if we will do this. And if we don't, I think that we're going to really regret it down the road. My prayer is that the Lord will help you to be faithful in these areas. Stay engaged in their development and God will bless. Have a blessed rest of your weekend and Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday. Bye now.