Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. This week, the passage that we're dealing with is very short, but it is a very important text for us to understand. And it's also very important for us to kind of put these truths that we're going to read about in this passage into perspective in our current time and how we should relate to uh this issue of religious corruption and that is something that uh we need to take a lot of time to think about this week. So um I want to invite you to dig into the passage with us, uh maybe share this with folks that you think could potentially be benefited by it. And if you have any questions, Please don't hesitate to reach out. The passage we're looking at is Luke chapter 19. We're looking at verses 45 through 48. I'm going to go ahead and read it, and then I'd like to kind of talk about a couple of introductory thoughts. And just notice at the beginning what Christ is so concerned about. Here's what it says. And he went into the temple and began to cast out them that sold therein. and them that bought, saying unto them, It is written, My house is the house of prayer. Ye have made it a den of thieves. He taught daily in the temple, but the chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him could not find what they might do, for all the people that were there were very attentive to hear him. I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts about the relationship between what we might say as church and state And uh traditionally when we think about Baptist distinctives, one of the things that Baptists are very well known for is their belief that there should be a distinction between the church and the state. Now when we talk about distinction between church and state, we're not suggesting that the church should have no influence on laws or practices or the culture. That's not at all what we're saying. What we're saying is there should not be an established church state. And the reason for that is that there is a great danger in the desire to use religious practice to establish political power. And when you have a church state, what you have is the potential for people to use the church for political power And so people can be attracted into the church not because they are believers and they have a firm view of Christian doctrine and practice, but they may be attracted into the church because of the potential status that it might bring and the access to power that it might bring. And this was the problem in the time of Christ. By the way, this is also a problem that we've had at various times, say in the UK during the Victorian era or even in the United States at various times. When we talk about the early days of the colonial powers, there were there were state governments that were established by state churches. And so I want us to think a little bit about this this morning. The church is not like a political party. Political parties rally people emotionally and they work to try to find consensus. And so when someone's running for political office, there are certain principles that guide them, but Honestly, when you look at political parties, you recognize that those parties shift based on political expediency and how people in the culture are viewing things. Also, it's important to recognize that it's not like a political party that rallies around big personalities. And it is true that uh an effective teacher is someone who people are going to come to listen to, but the church isn't built on personalities. It's not built on individuals. The church is built on an individual, and that is Christ. And so The danger of pol political church life is that a person could become this party kind of individual that people follow. And there can be an incentive to have alliances with groups where there's really tremendous doctrinal difference. And it's not so much about there being Christian unity in a godly way, it's about there being unity to establish political power. And so we have to be so very cautious of this. The church and true Christian practice are completely different in the way that the church grows. and the way that the church influences. We talk about the growth of the church. The church grows through the preaching of the gospel And sometimes the church grows despite the assumptions of culture. People might say when a church is under a lot of pressure, the church obviously won't grow. And that may not be true. In fact sometimes God uses pressure and he even uses persecution and suffering to cause the church to become purified and the church to grow exponentially. It's also true that churches do suffer when there is trouble in the culture. But God builds the church in his own way, by his own power, through the preaching of the gospel. The other thing is that the church is established through the people being changed at the heart level. And this is why healthy churches are so important, because when people are changed at the heart level, It influences every aspect of their life. It influences how they how they relate to their spouse, how they raise their children, how they engage in their work. how they interact when it comes to issues of civic duty, how a person may vote, how a person may engage in their concerns in society, how they're going to interact with their neighbors. The gospel changes people at the root, at the source, at the heart, and then that change causes the person to have a distinctly Christian perspective and distinctly Christian character being brought into every area of life. When the church drifts from its mission, bad things happen. Seriously bad things happen. Tremendous evils happen. Well, the religious system in Christ's day is a classic example of what happens when true faith is supplanted by activism and political maneuvering The truth is that the political establishment in Christ's Day was a religious political establishment. The Sanhedrin had both religious and political power. And they were working very hard to maintain that power in their interaction with the Romans. And so it wasn't so much about them preaching and teaching the Word of God. and conducting their religious practice according to principle and duty toward God. It was really about it was really about personalities. It was about power, it was about manipulation, it was about establishing status, and that kind of church life, prior to the church, but we could say religious practice was in fact extremely corrupt. And so I would summarize the text we're going to look at this way. Christ's second temple cleansing reminds us God hates religious corruption. He desires people to approach him in a godly, properly ordered sincerity. We come to the Father through the Son, and our worship must be in spirit and in truth. He wants us to be sobered by the seriousness of religious corruption. When I think about how Christ looked at the established faith of his day, He was deeply grieved by the corruption that he saw. And this week we're going to dig into that. Notice what it says in Matthew 23. He says, Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, you shut up the kingdom of heaven against men, for ye neither go in yourselves, neither suffer ye that they are to enter in. Ye devour widows' houses, and for pretense make long prayers, therefore ye shall receive a greater damnation. You pay tithe of mint and annis and cumin. And have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith. You strain at a gnat and swallow a camel. You make clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full of extortion and excess When we think about the things that Christ had to say to these people, we need to recognize that it is our duty to have discernment. to look objectively at the time in which we are living, at the state of the Christian Church in the United States as a collective and then to think of even our own congregation, and we need to pray that God will help us to be a people who are distinct, who are gospel-centered, who are living in the light of the true Christian faith. We are not allowing corruption to seep into our religious practice, that we're not allowing corruption to seep into our church life And that if we will be the church as we are supposed to be, the reality is that we will be a faithful people, we will truly leave an impact on our society, and we will do it in the absolute best way possible. Well, that's a lot for us to process Lord Willing tomorrow. We're going to look at a second part of this passage of Scripture. And so I hope that you'll join us And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. If you have any questions, feel free to reach out. If this has been an encouragement to you, take a moment to share that or like that. And we hope that you will be blessed by these things. Have a blessed day. Bye now.