Good morning. Welcome to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And I'm looking forward to digging into this text with you this week as we talk about the praise of the Father. and how he is worthy of all praise. And we see this in Ephesians chapter 1, verses 1 through 6. It's really celebrating the Father's role. in our salvation. What did the Father do so that we might be redeemed to him? And so let's go ahead and dig into this passage together. We're going to read it this morning and then look at the first part of what the text says. Here's what the Word of God says. Paul an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the saints which are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ. Grace be to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame, before him in love, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ Himself. according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. Now before we dig into these verses, I just want us to think about why we praise people. And when I preach through this passage, I mentioned someone who was very impactful in my life and that was my wrestling coach when I was in high school and in college. Actually my coaches were twin brothers. And there's a little book that they wrote about their life. And the reason that those men really had an impact on my life is because of who they were, but especially because of how they ministered. and how they guided and how they coached and how they mentored me and really several of the guys that were a part of our team, several guys even at our church here at Anchor. uh we're we're impacted my really quite a bit by those two men, Dave and Jim Heswinkle. And when we think about why we praise people, we praise them because they have commendable qualities. We perma we praise them because of the commendable things they do or have done. But there's a third element, and that is they've taken a personal interest in our lives. And so when it comes to those two guys, um both were all three were there. They were commendable individuals, they accomplished commendable things, but they took personal investment time in my life and the lives of other guys. Now when we come to the text in front of us, we're going to see that really those three elements are there as it relates to God the Father. The passage talks about his worthiness, and his worthiness is emphasizing his character, his nature. Notice what it says in verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings. in heavenly places. Now that word blessed has the idea of this is someone who should be praised or they should be commended. In fact, we have an English word, eulogy, that comes from this Greek term that's used here. And when we think about eulogizing someone at a funeral, we talk about their commendable qualities, the commendable things that they have done. what we remember well about them. So when this passage says that we are to bless the Lord, it's saying where to praise him and where to speak of his greatness. And there are two texts. in the Old Testament where this term is used in the Septuagint, and we see this parallel between the Ephesians 1 passage and 1 Chronicles 29 and then the Psalm passage we'll mention. Notice what it says in 1 Chronicles 29. David blessed the Lord before all the congregation and said, Blessed be thou, Lord God of Israel. That's our word right there. Our Father forever and ever. And he says, our God, we praise you and we thank your glorious name. What's in between those two statements? What's in between them is celebrating God's character, who he is Or we see Psalm 103 verses 1 and 2. Bless the Lord. There's our word. Know my soul. All that is in me. Bless his holy name. Bless the Lord. Forget not all of his benefits. And so in those the Psalm and in the 1 Chronicles passage, there's an emphasis on character, action, and how personal he is. The second fact that Paul presents here, a reason to celebrate the Father, is because his nature. When he talks about his nature, and we see this in 1 Chronicles 29 , He says, yours is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. All in heaven and earth is thine. Thou art the kingdom. Thine is the kingdom, and thou art exalted as head above all. What do those verses talk about? Well, God's nature. What does Ephesians 1 talk about? God's nature. Psalm 103, verse 8. The Lord is, that's his character, merciful and gracious, slow to anger, plenteous in mercy. The second thing pointing that I want to point out in these verses is he commends because of how he has worked. Who has or who have. Again back to 1 Chronicles and Psalm 103, he says, Riches and honor come from thee, and thou reignest over all, and in thine hand is power and might, and in thine hand it is to make great and to give thanks unto all, to strengthen to all. Psalm one three eleven through thirteen As the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him. Like a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him Now, what I want you to notice here is that these verses are speaking of how he has dealt with others. Now it won't stop there. But we know he's great, he's worthy of our praise. We know that he's good because of how he relates to other people, but the question is, what about us? And the passage doesn't leave us falling short of that because the third reason he mentions to commend and praise God is because he is benevolent, he is kind, he has personally been kind to us. And so he says he's blessed us, the believer. You and I are the recipients of this good God who does good things, his personal grace and mercy toward us. And so when we go back to the Chronicles passage and the Psalm passage, we see this coming out. He says, Who am I? What is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? For all things come from thee. And of thine own have we giv have have have we given thee. And so he's saying, Not only are you good to them, but you're good to me Who am I to give to you? Everything that I have comes from you. That's personal benevolence from God. Or when we talk about Psalm 103, verses 3 to 5 or 10 and 14. He says, who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases, who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies, who satisfies thy mouth with good things. So that thy youth is renewed like the eagles. He's not dealt with us after our sin, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. He knoweth our frame. He remembereth that we are dust. So in these verses you see words like die, we, us. What he's saying is, God has been good to me And so this is why we should praise him. I want to remind you this morning of this very simple truth. God is worthy of our praise because who he is. Because of how he works and how he has dealt personally with us. We should be a thankful people. That doesn't mean everything in our life is smooth and easy. It doesn't mean that everything in our life's exactly how we want it, but what it does mean is that God is consistent and God is good and God is kind and he has personally worked in our lives. If you're a Christian, all those things are true about you. If you're not a Christian, I can be. God has been kind to you even if you haven't acknowledged it, even if you don't understand that, even if you haven't seen that. And a message like this one is really one of those aspects of God showing his kindness to say, hey, I have made it possible for you to be redeemed to me. I've sent my son to die for you. Are you going to respond to it by repenting and believing, or will you reject it? God's mercy extends to us, even in our unbelief, and even when we doubt, and even when we stumble. Well, it gives us some things to think about on this cold and dreary Monday morning. Well, I hope you have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, tomorrow we will keep working our way through these verses, and by the end of the week, we'll have some final thoughts for you. Have a blessed day. Bye now.