Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. I do want to say at the outset that this week will be our final week for um this season of episodes and so I'm going to be taking a break during Christmas and New Year's and then Lord willing we'll pick back up when we come into the new year and so Just wanted to kind of put that out there so that you're aware of that. I'll also try to remember to mention that at the end of the week. But it's been a great series of studies. We've been working our way through the book of Luke. We've been talking about some of the psalms. And now we're getting into our series on the book of Ephesians. And so I hope that as we work our way through this book, you'll find it to be extremely encouraging and helpful. And this morning is going to be an introduction that focuses in on some very important truths in relation to the gospel. And I think this is a wonderful way for us to close out the year just reflecting on the work of Christ. And the fact that He shed his blood so that our sins could be removed and we could ultimately be reconciled to God. And we're going to talk a good bit about that this week. because that is the focus of the text in front of us. So if you have a Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Ephesians chapter 1 and we're going to begin reading in verse number 3. We're going to actually focus on all the way to verse number 10 this week. Here's what it says. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him. And love having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved, in whom, being Christ, we have redemption through his blood the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace, wherein he hath made it where it has abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence. Now, this morning what we're going to focus on is the object of God's grace in the text in front of us. The object is you and me. people who have been redeemed to him. But before we get into that, I just want to kind of give you a very simple basic articulation of the gospel because this study this week is the heart of the gospel. If we don't understand this, if we reject this, what we are rejecting is the heart of how a person is redeemed and reconciled to God. So what is the gospel? Well, first of all, when we talk about the gospel, we need to begin with who we are and who God is. God made us in his image. The reason he made us was to bring glory to him, and he loves us. He desires for us to know him and to enjoy him forever. But though God loves us, we have a problem, and this problem is a fatal problem. It is a wall that separates us from God, and that is sin. And so this holy and righteous God looks at us sinners. And he sees people who have an absolute inability to in any way make themselves acceptable to him. There's nothing we can do to remove our sin. There's nothing that we can do to change our identity. There's nothing we can do to remove our guilt. And so though we are image bearers, and though God loves us, And desires for us to have a relationship with Him forever, our sin stands between us and Him. And God is holy and just and righteous And God will not compromise his justice. That would be a compromise of his nature. And as God, he will never do such a thing. He cannot ignore our sin. He can't ignore our guilt. He has to address it because he is a holy and righteous God. And so that's what the gospel is all about. It is the good news that God in his wisdom and in his love provided in himself the one and only perfect resolution to this problem. And that problem is Christ and His finished work. So as we dig into this passage, we're going to see the highlight of that resolution, which is the sacrifice of Christ. So moving back to what we stated earlier, what is the object of salvation. Well the object is you and the object is me. God has redeemed us by his grace through the work of Christ So we are the objects of this salvation. And we see this in verse 3. He says, Blessed, he has blessed us, that is personal, with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. We are the ones that God has redeemed. And it's important for us to appreciate this by, first of all, looking back at what we were and then considering what we now have in Christ. And there's a startling contrast. In fact, if we move forward one more chapter, we will see that Paul references back to what every believer was before his conversion. In verse 1, he says that we were dead in trespasses and sins. We had no ability to have a relationship with God. We were separated from Him in our sins. We were described as children of disobedience. Now we could talk about that in the sense of our nature. We could also talk about that in the sense of our actions. Children of disobedience. And then the third is the consequence of that sin and that disobedience, and that is that we are children of wrath. We deserve the wrath of God. In fact, just the other day I was reading in John chapter 3, and he says that Christ did not come into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. And he says He that does not believe is condemned already because he has not believed on the name of the only begotten Son of God. So you can you could put it like this. We are born into this world, sinners. Disobedient children, children of wrath, and having no hope in this world unless God does something for us. And that's where we Contrast this with who we are now, and that is we are God's children. Verse number three of chapter one, he describes us as holy. We are set up set apart to God. You can use the word saints. We are without blame, and we are adopted. And we could also add the fact that we are accepted in the beloved. Now, all four of these ways of describing the Christian have nothing to do with our ability, and have nothing to do with our perfection, and have nothing to do with our performance or our righteousness or our works. They say everything about the one whom we are united with, and that is Christ. We are holy in him. We are without blame in him. We are adopted in him. We are accepted in him. And so this is critically important. So as we get into this passage of Scripture this week and as we dig into the nuts and the bolts and the heart of the gospel message, I hope that you will not forget. This is all about God's grace. It's all about his love. And it's about the radical transformation that has taken place both positionally and practically in the life of the Christian. because of what God has done for us. Well, that's some things to think about. Hope you have a wonderful rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep digging into this passage of scripture. Bye now.