Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And the psalm that we've been dealing with is Psalm 44. And this is a Lament Psalm. And today the topic we're going to address is the relationship between faith, doubts, and confusion. And so I hope that this will be an extremely helpful discussion, concept for us to dig into. And this is a major major theme, I think, in Psalm 44. And in a lot of these Lament Psalms, this would be a major theme. Faith, doubt, and confusion. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles out and turn to Psalm 44. We're looking at verses 1 through 8. is what we're reading, but we will be kind of looking at the entire psalm and how it relates to this concept. So here's what the word of God says. We have heard with our ears, O God. Our fathers have told us what work thou didst in their days, in the times of old. How thou didst drive out the heathen with thy hand and plantest them, how thou didst afflict the people, and cast them out. For they got not the land in possession by their own sword, neither did they by their own arm save them But thy right hand and thine arm and the light of thy countenance, because thou hast favor unto them. Thou art my king, O God, command deliverance for Jacob. Through thee we will push down our enemies. Through thy name will we tread them under that rise up against us. For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me. But thou hast saved us from our enemies and hast put them to shame that hated us. In God, we will boast all day long and praise thy name forever. Selah. Let's go ahead and listen to this short little section and then we'll talk about the concept of faith and doubt and confusion. The psalmist cry reveals the complexity of trust and doubt and confusion. These people were trusting, but they experienced doubts and pain that were a part of that trust. You know it's possible to trust God and have doubts pop in your head? It really is. Trust is a choice. I'm going to take God at His Word. But when I take God at His Word, I may have some questions that pop into my head I may wonder. I may get a little weak in the knees. I may get really weak in the knees. I have found this to be an incredibly important concept to think about. And I make a distinction in my mind between what we call unbelief and doubt. When we talk about unbelief, unbelief is a willful choice to reject something and to choose not to take it, take, take God at His word. So for instance, if God talks about the nature of salvation, he says Salvation is through the death of Christ and his resurrection alone, and I do not believe it, then I say I reject it. I'm going to try a different way, or I'm going to explain why I don't need to consider the gospel. Or if the scripture says that, in fact, um God uses all circumstances, even the difficult, the bad. circumstances, he works them together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. And I just say I don't take God as word. I reject that. I choose not to believe it. That is unbelief. But when we talk about doubt, doubt is something that we experience in the context of faith. What I mean by that is that there are times that a person hears the gospel, They are convicted of sin and righteousness and judgment. They come to understand that it is the death of Christ, his substitutionary death on the cross. His resurrection from the dead and his impeded righteousness that is the one and only way that they can be reconciled to God They take those those those claims of Scripture at face value, and they say, I choose to take God at his word. I will trust alone in what he has done for me on that cross. Now, once a person has placed their faith in the finished work of Christ, They've taken God at His Word. That does not mean that over the course of their life they will never experience times where thoughts pop into their mind, is this really true? Times come where someone tries to undermine their faith, and in fact they begin to get shaken and they begin to have questions, and perhaps they even begin to wonder if in fact this is true. Sometimes when someone begins to have these kinds of internal thoughts, especially those that tend to be compulsive in nature, where they kind of fixate on something that they say, I know I'm not supposed to think this, I'm not supposed to believe this. Sometimes a person in that situation will start to wonder, do I really believe God? Have I really trusted in the gospel? Have I really taken God at His Word? And I want to remind you that the Bible is full of examples of people who chose to trust God, but in fact, after they chose to trust Him, they still were shaken in the process. I take a great example of Abraham and Sarah. Now in the New Testament, when the scripture in Romans talks about Abraham, it talks about him as a great man of faith, how he took God out of his word. How he wasn't shaken in mind. So from God's perspective, as it is being presented in the book of Romans, this is a man who trusted God explicitly. He took God at his word. Yet when we read the narrative of the life of Abraham, this is what we see. We see ups and downs. We see a man who when God makes this promise, he's willing to leave Ur of the Calides. And to look for a land that in fact was going to be given to him and his descendants. He has no children, and he has no idea how this is going to play out. He takes God at his word and he leaves his homeland. Yet then we see a situation where he begins to have questions. He goes down into Egypt and he tells Sarah, his wife, he says, tell them that you're my sister. so that they don't kill me. And what what happens is he tells his wife to lie for him because he's afraid. Now what's interesting about this Is that when Abraham is confronted on this, God reaffirms his promises and he trusts him And then we have another example of how he goes and he takes Hagar and he has a child by Hagar. And what does God do? He says, no, Abraham, this is not the child of promise. And he reaffirms his promises. And we see that when God says you're going to have Isaac as a child and your wife Sarah is going to have a baby, what does the scripture say? Sarah laughs. Abraham laughs. Yet God reaffirms those promises. And one of the things that you see is through the course of of Abraham's life, from the point where he exercises what we would call saving faith, where he is justified, from that point in his life until him being willing to offer Isaac as a sacrifice. There are many times that Abraham appears to be weak in his faith. He appears to waver in his faith. He appears to have doubts in his faith. And so what are those? Not Abraham rejecting the promise and saying, God, I won't take you at his at my at your word. It's more an example of Abraham being shaken. And so when we come to Psalm 44, we see this word confusion. He says, we have heard these things, we have trusted in you, yet we are not experiencing in the day-to-day the kinds of things we anticipated, and we are now shaken and confused. And one of the illustrations I think is helpful for this is a word like endurance or a word like fearlessness, or we could say a person who is courageous. A person who is courageous is not necessarily someone who goes into a dangerous context without doubts in their mind or fears that start to plague them. A person who is courageous is someone who's able to persevere through those doubts, through those questions, and they continue to stay the course and do their duty. Or you might talk about a person who perseveres or a person who has endurance. This is a person who maybe feels the pain as they're running that three-mile race. and they feel like quitting and they have doubts in their mind as to whether or not they can complete it and they say, I'm going to push through it. I'm going to stay the course. I'm not going to quit. So the question is, does this person with endurance ever have questions? Pop in their heads. Of course they do, but they stay the course. And so that's what we mean when we say faith and doubt and confusion. Faith is the willingness to take God at His Word and trust what He has said. Doubts are what sometimes plague us in the context of faith. And confusion is when we don't always fully grasp what God is doing and understand his ways. But we continue to stay the course and walk and trust in him. I hope that that helps you a little bit this morning. As we think about this concept of faith, doubt, confusion, may we be people that when we get shaken, we stay the course and we continue to take God at His Word. Let us be a people that walk by faith. Have a great rest of your morning. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as I upload the next video, and I pray that that will be an encouragement to you by now.