Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And if you joined us on the first or the second episode, just want to remind you of where we've been. We've talked about the importance of understanding understanding that every single person in ministry is eventually going to have a generational transition and it's important that that is done well. And so we've moved our way through the concept of generational change, the importance of of doing it the right way in a biblical way in a way that honors the Lord. And today what we're going to do is we're going to dig into the illustrations that Paul uses to talk about how we prepare the next generation. generation and how we approach the work of ministry and of making disciples. And so there are three illustrations that he's going to use that are really foundational to doing this well. And this morning we're going to talk about the first one. So with that in mind, let's take our Bibles and turn together to 2 Timothy chapter 2. We're going to read verses 1 through 7 together and then we're going to dig into this first illustration. The text says this Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men. who shall be able to teach others also. Thou therefore endure hardness, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that worth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. And every man strives for the master, as yet is he not crowned, except he strive lawfully. The husbandman that laboreth must be first partaker of the fruits. Consider what I say, and the Lord give thee understanding in all things. As we reflect on this passage, we move to this second fact, or I should say third fact, really. The church must develop three qualities, resilience, focus, and patience. And this quality of resilience and the quality of focus and impatience is something that should characterize those who are in the established generation, those who are leading the church, leading homes. And also it should be patterned in front of the next generations so that as they grow and mature and they learn these things, they will develop these character qualities, resilience, focus, and patience. And so Paul gives three illustrations to help us to think about how we are to approach this issue of making disciples and doing the work of ministry. In verses three to seven he says, Endure hardness as a good soldier. If any man strive for masteries, he's not crowned except he strive lawfully. The husbandman that laboreth is the first partaker of the of the fruits. So he gives these several illustrations, the soldier, the athlete, and the farmer. There's a lot that we can glean from those three illustrations. First of all, let's consider The soldier. Endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. When we think about the soldier, the soldier is a person who loses his identity as an individual. and assumes a role in a unit. And if we think about ancient warfare, and it's not just ancient warfare, but even up to this day, But especially in those days, they understood the concept of being a part of a unit. If a person was in the infantry, they would have their shield, and the person next to them would have their shield and they would lock their shield. together and they would move as a unit almost like a battle tank that is filled with soldiers. The idea is that instead of you being viewed as the individual, you're a part of the of a team. And so the soldier endures hardness as one who is a part of a team. He also has an absolute commitment to victory. And so when he uses the illustration of the soldier and the imagery of the battle, he uses that imagery because a soldier is committed to the unit, which is committed to victory. No retreat, no surrender. You've got to win the victory because lives are on the line. The third thing I'll mention is this. You can't allow yourself to become distracted by civilian. And that's what he means when he says, no man who warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life. He's got to be committed to an absolute focus, free from distractions. Don't become entangled with civilian pursuits. And the question is why? Why do you do this? Is it because you want to be a hero? Is it because you want to satisfy yourself? The answer is no. It's so that you might please him who hath chosen you to be a soldier. The highest goal of the Christian soldier is to please his master, the Lord. Lord Jesus Christ. And so he uses this analogy to say you are part of a unit, be committed to victory, don't be entangled with civilian pursuits, desire to please the Lord in the manner in which you do the work that you do. Well, this is an illustration that he used often to describe the Christian life, because the Christian life has a battling dynamic to it. For instance, in 2 Corinthians chapter 10, he says, though we walk in the flesh, the physical life, we do not war after the flesh. But the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. So he's using this as a picture, as an illustration. The battle isn't a physical battle. It's a spiritual battle. But in the same way that we must be engaged physically, if we were involved in a military pursuit, as a part of a unit fighting in a war, we have to recognize that the same thing will be true in the spiritual realm. And so it's a very important illustration for us to look at. Or also Ephesians chapter 6, he says that we are to put on the whole armor of God. so that we may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, powers, the rulers of the darkness of this world, spiritual wickedness, and high place. So Paul likes to use this analogy because there's a lot for us to learn from it. Well the question is why do we need to teach these things? The reason is that the Christian life is a challenge and Christian ministry is a challenge. And it's not easy. People have to be committed and focused and diligent. They have to be willing to lay aside their rights. They have to be a part of the big picture. and and recognize that their individuality and the expression of their individuality is really to fall under the fact that we're a part of a unit. And as Christians, we're engaged in a spiritual battle. We have to believe this ourselves if we're in the established generations. We have to pattern this to the generation coming behind us. us. We need to teach it. We need to pray for them and as much as possible work with them so that these skills and these convictions and these values will shape the way they approach the Christianity. life. Have a blessed rest of your morning and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow as we look at the other two illustrations that Paul uses in his his instruction to Timothy. Have a blessed day. Bye now.