Good morning and welcome to our fourth Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. I'm really excited about today's study because we're getting into the heart of the text, and that is Christ extending his grace to Peter. And this is where the passage really encourages us a tremendous amount. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to John 21. We're going to read the text again. And then we're going to work our way through the various ways that Christ demonstrates his grace to Peter. It really gives us insight into the character of our Savior. Luke 20, or excuse me, John 21 says the following. After these things, Jesus showed himself again to his disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. And on this wise showed he himself. There were together Simon Peter, Thomas called Didymus, and Nathaniel of Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, two others of his disciples. Simon Peter saith unto them, I go fishing. They say unto him, We also go ahead. They went forth and entered into the ship immediately, and that night they caught nothing. But when the morning was now come, it was Jesus. When the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. Then Jesus said unto them, Children, have you any meat? They answered him, No. He said unto them, Cast your nut on the right side of the ship, and you shall find. They cast their four, and now they were not able to draw in for the multitude of the fishes Now this passage demonstrates the grace of God. We're going to work our way through it piece by piece. The first thing we see is that it is the grace of God that pursued Peter. And we could go all the way back to Luke 5, where Peter is called by Christ and say grace started there, and it did. But this is a reminder that it is the grace of God that pursued Peter when Peter was really going away from God. In verse 1 or verse 2 it says, When the morning was come, Jesus stood on the shore. They did not know it was Jesus. He said unto them, Children, have you any meat? They said, No. Now who is the one that is doing the action here? It's Christ. Not Peter, not the disciples. It was grace that led Peter to face his initial calling. I mentioned earlier this week that this is a repeat of an event very similar that took place almost three and a half years earlier. And on that day, Peter saw Jesus perform a miracle of a great catch of fish, and here he is being brought back to the same type of event. In verse 6 it says Jesus said, Cast your net on the right side of the ship, and you will find. And they cast their four, and they were not able to draw in for the multitude of the fish. You can see that Jesus is bringing him back to that event in his past. Third thing is that it is the grace of God that invited him to fellowship, communion, before he sends him out. Before he re-establishes the calling, he says, Come and dine. And I love this. In verse nine, as soon as they were come to the land, they saw the fire of coals and the fish that were laid thereon, and the bread. And Jesus said unto them, Come, dine. It reminds us that Christ wants our heart. He wants to commune with us, fellowship with us, before he wants to send us out to work. And then the fourth thing that I'll mention is that his grace reaffirmed he had a purpose for this man. In verses 15 through 17, we see a very interesting dialogue between Jesus and Peter. It says, when they had dined, Jesus said unto Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, what dost thou mean more than these? He saith unto them, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep, feed my lambs. He saith unto him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep He saith unto him a third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved, because he said unto him the third time, lovest thou me. He said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep. There's a couple things that we can't really see in our English translation here that are a part of the text. There are two different words for love that are used in this passage. One is the typical term used for uh agape love. We tend to think of this as the unconditional love And the second is Philet Love, or we think of more of a brotherly love. We think of Philadelphia, okay, which is the city of brotherly love, at least that's what it's called, okay? In these verses, Jesus says to Peter, Do you love me, agape? Peter says, I flew you. Jesus says, do you love me, Peter? He says, I philet o you. Third time, Jesus says, do you philet o me? Peter says, you know everything. You know that I love you. He's obviously grieved. What's going on here? What we see is Jesus is reminding Peter that he still has a purpose for him. And he's kind of bringing him back to those three times that he denied the Lord and said, I'd never do this He's being reminded of this. You can see that Peter's conscience is being pricked here. But I don't think the ultimate intent is that Jesus is trying to prick his conscience He's trying to meet Peter where he is and tell him I'm not done with you. I still have a purpose for you. We even see that how we adjust the term philato to Peter To say, do you follow me? And he tells him three times to feed a sheep. What's the point? The grace of Christ is being demonstrated here The last thing I'll mention is that he does reaffirm to him that he's not only going to use him, but he's going to finish well. And verses 18 and 19 it says, when you're old. Thou stretch forward your hands, another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldest. They spake he spake this signifying but what death he would glorify God. When he spoke this he said, Follow me. Now what's Jesus saying? He's saying, Peter, you are going to finish well. You did stumble here, but you're going to get back up, and I'm going to use you. And this is a great encouragement to us You say, why does that matter? Well it matters because that's how God deals with all of us. We all are flawed instruments. We all stumble. We all have seasons that we go through where we get away from where we need to be And Christ draws us back to himself. And he has a purpose for our lives. Let's get active in it. And let's remember the God that we serve. Well, that's a lot for us to process this morning. But we have one more day. I hope you'll join us tomorrow as we look at some final thoughts of application as we review over this passage. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for our final thoughts by now.