Good morning and welcome back to a new week and a new set of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And the passage that we'll be dealing with this week is a very familiar text. It's from Luke chapter 18, and we're reading verses 9 through 14 together And this is a passage dealing with the story of the Pharisee and the publican. And so we're going to read it together, dig into some some uh some video clips from the sermon and my my desire is that as we work our way through this you'll find it to be um extremely encouraging and helpful. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles together. We'll turn and read this text together. Listen to a short excerpt and then dig into the passage. Here's what it says. Luke chapter 18, verses 9 through 14. And he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves, that they were righteous, and despised others. Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee and the other a publican The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I think thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the publican standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For every one that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Let's go ahead and listen to this short little section. You know what Paul's saying? Before I became a Christian, my mentality was, do good. Be good. Look good. Compare yourselves to all the people around you. And as long as you are better and you are more meticulous in your care and your moral position. is superior to theirs. God's good with you. All those things that he heaped up as his credentials and said, God, look at these, accept me. He came to a point of brokenness. And he said, God, it's all rubbish. It's dumb. It has no value. God be merciful to me, a sinner. I really love looking at the example of Paul, and I think this is a great way to start out looking at this passage of Scripture because if we dig back into the text. It lays out pretty simply. He begins by telling us who he's speaking to when Luke records this passage. It says that Christ spake this parable unto those who trusted in themselves, that they were righteous. These are people who had a trust problem. Their trust was in themselves rather than God. They had a problem with their standard, and the standard that they had was their own standard of righteousness as opposed to God's standard. standard of righteousness, and then as a result of that, they look down on other people. Now when when Luke records that Christ spoke this parable to people like that, the Apostle Paul was a classic example of this before he became a Christian. And so when we go to Philippians chapter 3, and Paul talks about the way that he viewed himself and God and righteousness before his conversion, he basically lists off all of these things that he did for God. And all of those things that he had once put all of his trust in and all of his confidence in, when he came face to face with the reality of the righteousness of God , versus his own righteousness and he realized that he is not the standard, but rather God is the standard. All of a sudden he was humbled and he was repentant before God. And he recognized I have nothing. He had to come to that place where he recognized that in fact this is rubbish, this is dung, this is of no value. And so when we dig into this passage of scripture, it's important for us to be able to identify how it is that we will know if we in fact have this problem. And the the big question is what is your standard? Is your standard your own thinking? Is the standard your own conscience? Or is the standard the scriptures, the word of God? If you are the standard, you have a huge problem, and you need to listen to the rest of this. Or if we know when it comes to intellectually that we are not the standard and we understand that we've had to place our faith in Christ, the question is Do we live as if that's actually the way that we think? Do we live as if this is actually the guiding principle of our lives? And so I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage of Scripture. that you'll ask the Lord to really open your eyes if in fact this self-righteousness comparing everyone to ourselves as opposed to us looking at the standard of Christ and his righteousness and living out our position As opposed to trying to build up a position to draw God's attention to it. I hope that as we think about this, the Lord will really speak to your heart and that this will be a help to you. And also. If you are a believer and you're walking with the Lord and you're looking at this issue correctly, I hope that this will give you great tools to be able to handle gospel conversations. . . more effectively to use a parable like this one to talk about some of the passages of scripture that we'll address throughout the week. So I hope that gives you some things to think about this morning. I hope they have a great rest of your day. And uh Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep digging into this pastor of scripture by now