Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection for the Week. And this passage of Scripture is such a rich passage. We could spend a lot of time digging into lots and lots of details. We could uh we could analyze the way that Christ teaches, where he uh presents this contrast. We could emphasize the negative side of what Christ is teaching, how he is really driving to the point that people need to humble themselves. We could look at the positive way that Christ is teaching where He encourages the one who is broken over us and that salvation is available. We can look at the downstream side of Christ's teaching, seeing that who we are and how we think and what we love. And the true content of what's going on in our hearts is going to come out in our interactions with other people and our attitude towards God. We could look at the general principle. Whoever lifts themselves up will be brought down, and whoever humbles themselves will be lifted up. We could look at all those different aspects. But this morning what I want to do is I want to look at one final thought of how we should be living consistent with what we know to be true. And so let's go ahead and read to this text one more time, Luke chapter 8, 18, verses 9 through 14. And then we're going to listen to another little excerpt, and then we're going to break down this concept a little bit this morning, Lord Willie. It says, and he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves, but they were righteous, and despised others. Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee, the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself. God, I thank thee, I'm not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all I possess. The publican standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me a sinner. I tell you this man went down to his house justified rather than the other, for everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased. And he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Let's listen to this little section, and then we will try to expound it going into the weekend. We betray that thinking when we have a problem with another person. We betray that thinking when it comes to why we come to church and why we give and why we pray and how we do it. And and and how we order our families, and we're very, very concerned, not so much about just doing right because we love God, but it's all about building up credentials in front of the people around us and ultimately before Him. And so this mentality of self-righteousness should never characterize us as God's people. It is so critically important. that our practice is consistent with our theology. And the fact is that as we get older in the Christian experience, And we become more and more familiar with the Bible and biblical concepts and biblical theology, it becomes easy for us to become complacent And to start allowing our practice and our theology to not be consistent with one another. There are lots of Christians who they believe that God exists and that He created them. And that he has ordered his creation and he upholds all things by the word of his power. But when it comes to the way that they live their lives, When it comes to the way that they suffer, when it comes to the way that they make decisions, when it comes to the way that they handle injustice, when it comes to the way that they handle uh temptations and struggles and Whether or not they're willing to admit their faults or whether or not they're willing to extend grace, they do not live like Christians, but rather they live almost as if they have an atheistic worldview. That all there is to life is the here and the now. There's no God who's going to settle this matter. They're not atheists, but they live as practical atheists. Or there are some people that if you talk to them about God's character, they're going to give you this big view of God and they're going to lay out these grand explanations of his character and ways, but then when they get tested in a practical situation, their life doesn't reflect practically the theology that they hold to. Well, in this particular passage, what I'm really trying to hammer out is the fact that we may understand that salvation is a gift It is free. It is by grace alone. It is through faith alone. In Christ alone. It is not by works of righteousness that we've done. It's only by his mercy that he saved us. We do not have a pharisitical view of the gospel, but we have a pharasidical view of the way that we live the Christian life. And we have a pharisetical practice as it relates to how we think about God and relate to Him and how we think about others and relate to them. We live as practical Pharisees. that we understand a grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone gospel. And this is really precisely the problem of the people that Paul writes to in the book of Galatians. This is really kind of part of the problem that the Jerusalem Council had to had to had to meet together and they had to address the issue of what do we expect of the Gentiles? What about circumcision? What about The festivals and what about holy days and what about the meats that we can or can't eat? Those kinds of questions are necessary questions because sometimes people's practice and the theology are not the same. So I want to challenge you. As we go into the weekend, let's live consistent with the position that we have Let's live consistent with the theological persuasion that we espouse. Let's live consistent with what we believe about God and the gospel and salvation. And so when it comes to the Christian life, don't live your life as a Pharisee who is trying to build up credentials to prove to God that God should accept them. God isn't going to accept you more or accept you less because of how well you live day in and day out. Your acceptance is entirely through what Christ has done for you. God isn't going to love you more or love you less because of how you live your life today. Now am I suggesting that the way you live your life today doesn't matter at all? The answer is of course not. In Romans chapter 6 it says, Shall we continue in sin? That grace may abound? God forbid. How shall we that are dead to sins live any longer therein? We don't live for God because we're trying to prove to him that he should love us. We don't live for God because we're trying to maintain this position that we have. We live for God. Because we have new affections, because we are new creatures. We live for God because we have a new source of desire. and thinking with the presence of the Holy Spirit inside of us that was not there before we became Christians. We worship and we live for God because we love him. We have affection for him. And so the Christian life is not lived as a performance to hold a position as a performance to convince someone to love us. The Christian life is lived as an expression of love. for a God who has saved us. And the Christian life is lived with deep-rooted affections that are the evidences that demonstrate that in fact there is real life in this person that they did not have before. And so I want to encourage you this week, live the Christian life. as one who is alive and live the Christian life as one who loves God and live the Christian life as one who recognizes the security of your position. and delight in the God who has done everything for you to enjoy that position. Have a blessed rest of your week as we go into the weekend. I hope that you'll spend time in the Word, that it will be encouraging to you. And Lord willing, we'll see many of you this coming Sunday as we gather together for worship. Have a blessed weekend, and Lord willing, we'll talk soon. Bye now.