Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And if you joined us yesterday, you saw that we are dealing with this issue of authority. And today we're going to go into that concept a little bit deeper. Obviously the passage is all about who is Jesus? Does he have the right to command? Does he have the right to speak as if he is God? Does he have the right to speak as if the temple belongs to him? These are the kinds of questions that we're going to analyze this morning. And so if you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's turn together to Luke chapter 20. We're going to pick up in verse number one as we read this passage together. And then we're going to look at the first part of this, and that is. this contention of right to be able to say what he does. So it says the following. It came to pass that on one of those days, as he taught the people in the temple, And preached the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes came upon him with the elders, and spake unto him, saying, Tell us, by what authority doest thou these things? Or who is he that gave thee this authority? He answered and said to them, I will also ask you one thing, and answer me, the baptism of John, was it from heaven or of men? And they reasoned with themselves saying, If he shall say from heaven He will say, Why then believest thou him not? But if we say of men, all the people will stone us. For they'd be persuaded that John was a prophet. And the answer to that they could not tell whence it was Jesus said unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things. Now as we think about this passage, we are reminded that the primary contention between Christ and the religious leaders. And it is really not so much on Christ's part as on the religious leaders here because they're the ones that are forcing the issue with him. He is speaking in terms of who he is. They're questioning that he has the right to do that. We see that in verse number two It says, tell us by what authority doest thou these things, or who gave thee this authority? The immediate catlass for the confrontation is something that we read about in chapter 19. In verse 46 it says, it is written, my house is the house of prayer. But you have made it a den of thieves. Now what 's going on here in chapter 19 is that when Christ comes up into Jerusalem, he goes into the temple and he sees that there are people who are abusing the Lord's house and using it to get money unjustly. And so what he's seeing is all these people who have come to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover who are going to have to offer sacrifices. They are being cheated in the exchanging of money. They're being cheated in the cost of the sacrifices. There's a lot of stuff going on that that Christ is infuriated by. And he's infuriated because this is his father's house. And I think the point that I even made when we looked at this passage some time ago was that what really irritated Christ was the fact that this was a house that wasn't just for the Jews. It was for all nations. And that's actually mentioned in another passage. And so when Christ sees what's going on, the people who are being the most mistreated were the people that made the greatest effort to be there. And so when Christ sees this, he overthrows the money changers and he says, this is my house. Now that is a very strong claim. He is saying, I own this place. It belongs to me. And that is a truth claim that needed to be flushed out. And the religious leaders were livid when they thought about this Now when the word authority is used here, it means right, not strength or enabling And so he's not saying, do you have the strength to do this? He says, do you have the right to do this? This is an authoritative concept. And they're looking at it in two senses. The first question is, who do you think you are? Do you have the inherent authority to do this? The second question is, who do you claim to represent? Do you have the delegated authority? And so in their minds, it's not just that he doesn't have the right of himself, but he's not been sent by someone who has the right to command such things. And they're wrong on both senses. But there's a great irony with what's going on in these verses as well. And the irony is that while they are concerned with Christ's right to do what he's doing, they themselves have no right to be in the roles that they are in. And I want to break this down a little bit this morning. First of all, when we talk about the priesthood, not anyone could be a priest. Someone had to be a Levite. And when we talk about someone being the high priest, they didn't have to just be a Levite, but they had to be a Levite who was of the lineage of Aaron. And by the way, it was not all of Aaron's sons. There were only particular individuals who could meet this criteria that they would be qualified to be a high priest. And so in Numbers chapter 18 it says, You and your sons with thee shall keep your priesthood, your priest's office, everything on the altar within the veal. ye shall serve. I have given your priest's offering unto office unto you as a service of gifts, and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death. Now when he uses the word stranger here, he's saying someone who does not have the rightful authority to be in the role of high priest. And then we see that this issue comes up actually during the time of Ezra. The reason it comes back back during the time of Ezra is because you have the captivity, and people have been exiled into Babylon and then Persia. And now they're coming back after several generations have passed and they're trying to re-establish the priesthood. They're going to rebuild the temple and they're going to need people doing sacrifices. And there's a great concern that the people who are going to be established as a part of the priesthood actually are qualified to be in those roles. And so we see that coming out in Ezra 2. Where he says, these sought the registration among those that were reckoned by genealogy, but they were not found, therefore they were considered polluted, and they were put from the priesthood. So this issue of qualification to the priesthood was an important issue to the people. And that leads us to the men that are bringing this accusation against Christ. The current situation is fascinating because these men were not established by right through the Levitical law, but they were actually put in that role by the Romans. And this had been the case for over 50 years. So several generations of high priests were political appointments by the Romans. They did not have legal right through the Levitical system to be in the roles that they're in. They were political puppets that were basically bridging the gap between Judaism and the Romans. And so it was a very politically oriented office when it was supposed to be a religious, sacred office that was to follow to the T what God had given in his word. And so in John 11 this comes out. It says, if we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and and nation. And one of them named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said, It is expedient for us that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not. Fascinating statement. Because what does it tell you? What it tells you is that they were concerned that Christ, if he lived, would ultimately disrupt their position. And so the point of authority is an interesting one. Christ's authority is highlighted all throughout the Gospels, and I want to show you a couple of examples just to kind of hammer this out. The first example I'm going to mention is in Luke chapter 4. It says they were astonished at his doctrine, for his word was with power. He taught as one who possessed inherent authority. Or Luke 4. What a word is this. With authority and power, he commandeth unclean spirits that come out. He commands demons as one possessing inherent authority over them. Or we see a third example in Luke chapter 5. That ye might know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sin, he saith unto the sick of the palsy, I say unto thee, arise, take up thy couch. Go into thine house. He healed and forgave sins as one possessing inherent authority of the effects of the over the effects of the curse. And so we see in the sense of forgiveness and also in the sense of sickness, he's actually addressing both those issues. Luke chapter 12. Fear him, which hath the power to kill and the power to cast into hell. And so he's speaking of his inerrant authority over final judgment. The whole point of this is that Christ has the authority, the right, to do and say what he has done and said. They were rejecting this authority. So important when we think about Scripture, when we think about Christ, that we in no way diminish his right to absolute rule over our lives. and his right to say and do what he has done. And so as they bring this charge against his authority and they give the impression he has no right to say and do what he has done, what does Christ do? He bolter bolsters his authority. What does Luke do? He demonstrates Christ's right to speak and do as he does. And so may we submit to him today. Have a blessed rest of your morning, or whenever you are watching or listening to this, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.