Well good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And as we always do on Fridays, we deal with application. We try to pull everything together. And hopefully this will be a very helpful and very practical section in our discussion on the life of Elijah and that great struggle that he had after the um the time at Mount Carmel. So if you have your Bible, let's take it and turn to uh first Kings chapter 19 and we're going to read the passage again and then kind of pull it all together with some final closing thoughts that I hope will be very helpful to you. It says, And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and withal how he had slain all the prophets with a sword Then Jezebel sent a messenger unto Elijah, saying, So let the gods do to me and more also, if I make not thy life as the life of one of them by tomorrow about this time And when he saw that he arose and went for his life, and came to Bearsheva, which belonged to Judah, and left his servant there. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, and came and sat down under a juniper tree And he requested for himself that he might die, and said, It is enough now. O Lord, take my life, I pray, for I am not better than my father's. As we think about everything we've talked about this week, we've talked about the weakness of Elijah, we've talked about the grace of God and his mercy and his wisdom. How do we pull it all together with some final concluding thoughts that are hopefully very practical? Well the first thing I want to mention is that the most obvious thing to take away is the We have to be honest about the personal limitations that we all have. So here's Elijah, this great man, but the fact is he was human, and you and I are as well. And so we have to pace ourselves in life. There's a reason that God created a seven-day week, six days of work, one day of rest. There's a reason that we get tired. There's a reason that we get sick. There's a reason that we need to eat healthy. We have to learn to take care of our bodies. We have to learn to rest when it's time to rest to exercise. When it's time to exercise. We've got to pace ourselves and manage our stress and our and our we could say our normal routines in a very healthy and wise way. But there's a second piece to this. Not just the management of pace and stress, but we do have to realize that sometimes situations are unavoidable. Think about when a person has a child that is born. A child is going to be up every two hours throughout the night as it's nursing and when our children get sick or go through difficult situations, we can't just say Well sorry, I put in my eight hours for the day and I'm not going to help you. We can't do that. Or maybe we have a family member who is sick or going through a a a crisis situation or someone's a pastor and person calls them on their day off. The reality is that sometimes there is stress in life that's completely unavoidable and we're gonna have to deal with those things and that's a part of life. And so while we should pace ourselves and while we need to learn to manage our stress, we have to recognize that we're going to have to sometimes just draw on the grace of God that He gives us. And when God puts something on our plate, he's going to give us the grace to manage it The problem is when we take things on ourselves that in fact we shouldn't have. We also need to be careful that we rely upon that grace and don't try to do it on our own flesh and our own strength. Second thing I want to mention is this. We've got to be honest. about how people think when they get into those places. And when I say people, I mean how we view life when we are in this situation. When we look at Elijah, he clearly saw himself as a victim. He said, God, you're not being fair to me. These people that you've given me to minister to, they don't care. Not only did he feel like God was unfair to him, the people didn't care, but he felt like the enemy was trying things. And so the question is, what's the point? Why do I can why do I continue doing what I'm doing? But then he switches from this victim mentality to being the hero. God, I'm the best person that you have. There's nobody else that's doing the work that I'm doing. And so all of a sudden he says, I'm the only person doing what's right. God, I'm the only one that that you can use. There's no hope if you if you don't have me, and so I'm the hero He was done with the people. Now do you see how inconsistent this is? Either you're the victim or you're the hero. And the fact is probably neither of those things is true. Yes, it's true that the ministry was hard, and yes, it's true that he was suffering, and yes, it's true that there's a lot of people that rejected the truth, and yes, it's true he was being faithful, but was also true. Is that he didn't know the whole picture. He didn't know that there were 50 other prophets of the Lord in that nation. He didn't know that there were 7,000 pro uh people that had not bowed the knee to Baal. He didn't know all that God was doing. In fact, his perspective was was skewed. We could also say it like this. The reality of the situation and how he thought about the situation, they weren't consistent. He was not alone, though he believed that he was. He thought he was the only prophet of God there, but there was Obadiah, and he hid a hundred faithful prophets of the Lord, fifty in one cave and fifty in another. He thought he was the only prophet. And if he was the only prophet, then why would you abandon the people at a time when they were turning to the Lord and they needed someone to guide them when they realized that he is the one true God If God had just demonstrated his power through the prophets of Baal being killed and him sending down fire, why would that be the time to quit? Doesn't make any sense. He's running for his life, but then he tells God to just kill him. None of these things make sense. Well, here's the truth When we get burned out, we get into a low place, we start thinking like this too. We think we're the only ones that God can use. We think that there's nobody else around us. We start thinking in a way that's very inconsistent. And it's sometimes helpful to see someone else do it. because we can't see it when we do it ourselves. We can also thirdly take tremendous comfort in how kind and wise God is. This passage really demonstrates that. When Elijah fell, what did God do? He went to him. He goes after us when we fall down as well. He knows exactly how to address us. He didn't argue with him. He asked him questions. He he didn't go straight to the spiritual issues first. He let him sleep. He gave him food. Why is that? Because the physical was affecting his mental state and his emotional state and his spiritual well-being. God spoke the truth to him in the right way. And God does that with us as well. He is good. He is kind. He is wise. He was like that with Elijah. He's also like that with us. And you know, the greatest comfort and the greatest reminder of God's goodness and wisdom and kindness is the gospel and God's attitude towards us as sinners who need to be reconciled to Him. We also see in this passage that God always tells us to get back up. There is a way forward. There are responsibilities for us to be involved in. They could change, they could be different, but the reality is God always has something for us to do. And he's going to provide people to shoulder that burden with us when we finally come to the place that we see that we need this. The last thing I'll mention here. Is that in the same way that God deals with us, we are to reflect that same attitude towards others. We should be kind and we should be wise and we should be principled. And the way that we respond to other people in these moments of weakness. When people fall down, we need to go to them and shoulder their burdens with them. We need to come alongside of them in the same way that he comes alongside of us. We need to point them to the Lord, who is the only one that can truly bear their burdens and will never leave them or forsake them. We have to be patient with them, just like God is patient with us. I hope that as you think about those things this week, It will give you a great start to your weekend and that God will allow you to take the trees of Scripture that you have learned this week or you've been reminded of this week and apply them. Hopefully not because you burned out. But because you have an opportunity to minister to someone who's really hurting. If you need anything, if there's any need to reach out and be encouraged, please don't hesitate to do that. We hope to see many of you this Lord's Day coming. And if not, then Monday, we'll be back in our Anchored in the Word studies, and I hope you'll join us for that. Have a blessed rest of your day. Great weekend. Lord willing. We'll see many of you over the weekend. Bye now.