Good morning. Welcome back to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And uh last week I took the time off because we got together with family for Thanksgiving. And I do hope that you had a good Thanksgiving week and that you're able to spend some time either resting with family, friends, that it was a good time. If it wasn't, I'm sorry about that. I hope that these anchored in the words studies will be an encouragement to you this week as we go into the Christmas season. And what I'm going to be doing for the next couple of weeks is we're going to be starting our Ephesian series. And then right at the end of the year, probably around the Christmas period. I'm going to take a little bit more time off. So we're starting up through number 30, 230, and we'll probably do like two more weeks after that. But I'll give you a heads up. on what we're doing between now and the end of the year and then after we come back in January, we'll jump into some more Anchored in the Word studies that will be focused on our Ephesians series primarily. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's turn together to Ephesians chapter 1. Well look at this first section of the book of Ephesians, and then Lord willing this week we'll be going through and just kind of laying out some groundwork for the rest of this study. Again, it's Ephesians chapter one, and we'll pick up in verse number one. Here's what the scriptures say. Paul an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the saints which are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus Grace be to you, and peace from God the Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings and heavenly places in Christ. According as he has chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame, before him in love, having predestined us unto adoption of children by Jesus Christ Himself. according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. As we work our way through the book of Ephesians, I want to start by reminding you of some important details about the nature of the book itself And so today our introduction is going to focus on the church plan. If you were with us throughout Missions Month, you'll know that we talked a lot about the church at Ephesus. So some of the things that I'm going to share with you this morning are things that you've kind of already heard. First of all, I want to mention this. Ephesus was a location that was fairly unlikely for a vibrant influential church. And we know that the church at Ephesus was an extremely influential church in that first century. God used the church mightily. A lot of theological teaching was was done at Ephesus. A lot of uh men were sent out from the church at Ephesus. Many of the church plants in Asia Minor probably started in that city. And so the question is, why this place? For instance, it was a place that was a city in decline. It had once been a strong port city, the the port tilted in, and there was a transition from more of an industrial type of location where trade and commerce were going on. and to being a place that was primarily focused on making icons and it was kind of like a tourist trap location. And the reason for that is what took place in the port itself. And this is going to be an important part of the story, by the way, because when we talk about the idolatry of the city, as soon as the gospel really begins to take root and people's lives are being transformed by it. People that were making a lot of money and were surviving based on creating these icons, these people were very upset about what was going on in the city. They didn't like the fact that their their trade and what they were living off of was potentially in danger because of what the gospel was doing. So it was an a an idolatrous city. And even the Jewish community that was there in that city was not an asset to the advance of the gospel. In fact, that's really the first place that in the in the church at Ephesus they experienced contention. And so as Paul is preaching in the synagogue and people embrace the gospel, those who rejected the gospel, they created a lot of confusion for Paul. We also know that Paul's initial plan was to go to Ephesus, or at least into Asia Minor, and in Acts chapter 16, God told him no. In fact, twice he forbids him to go down into Asia Asia Minor. Minor. The third time he tells them rather to go over into Macedonia and Achai. And so this doesn't seem like a likely place for the gospel to spread to all of these regions. We do see that once Paul eventually gets to Ephesus, he sees ministry success, but that success comes at a cost. And the cost is that the city is in a great uproar. In fact, in Acts 19 and verses 11 through 18, we see that there are seven Jewish exorcists who see what Paul is able to do in casting out demons. And they say, let's do it ourselves. And when they do this, trying to imitate the ministry of Paul, rather than them being able to do what Paul is doing, they're humiliated and Paul's ministry is validated. And this is pr pretty much the first step into the gospel really starting to take root in the city. After this event, many people are converted And when these people are converted, their lives are dramatically transformed by the gospel. In Acts chapter 19, it talks about how of their own will, not because Paul In the text that tells them to bring all of the stuff that they've been doing, but they recognize this tremendous break with the old life. They are new creatures in Christ. And so they take all of these books and all of the things that were a part of their uh their their paganism and the witchcraft that they were practicing in the city, they bring all these books to a location and they burn those items. And the Bible tells us how much stuff was burned, or which what we could say is the value of those things. And to give you some perspective on how much the value of these items would have been. If we were to kind of break it down this way, the value of the material is staggering because first of all, it's talked about in days wages. And so when they talk about pieces of material of silver. A piece of silver is a day wage. The amount that they're talking about, I believe it was about about 10,000 days of work, is essentially like $8 million worth of material in the modern equivalent. And so for the sake of perspective, if you had 200 people that participated, which might mean more than actually would have, then the entire value per person of material that was being destroyed was the equivalent of a full year's work. And so a lot of money had gone into these materials. And this is showing you how how passionate these people were. about breaking from the old life. In fact, even we see the story of of Mary who anoints Jesus before his crucifixion. That's the equivalent of how much material she was using as well. This ointment that she used was probably about a year's worth of pay And so it tells you there's a great sacrifice. It tells you that a lot of people saw the potential disruption that's coming. And the people in the city who are making money off of the icons said, we've got to stop. what's going on. And we see that in the next couple of verses in verses 23 to 29 where the city is in an uproar. And one of the silversmiths It says the following about him. At the same time, there arose no small stir about that way, meaning the way of the disciples of Christ. A certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, which made silver shrines of date for Diana, brought no small gain for the craftsman. And called together the workmen of like occupation and said, Sirs, you know that by this craft we have our wealth. By the end of the story it says the whole city was filled with confusion. Now why does this matter? This matters because despite all the odds, despite how unlikely this was for a place for a large church, a powerful church, an influential church, a theologically sound church, a church planting church to be established, though all the odds seem stacked against it. This is what God did He raised up a work in that place. And this brings us great encouragement. We may look at the times we're living in and say, very dark. Very difficult. There's no way that God's going to continue his work. And that's just not true. You don't know what God will do if you'll be faithful and given the gospel. And so I hope that you'll join us the rest of this week as we work our way through this introduction to the book of Ephesians. As we talk about the structure of the book, the various themes that are in the book, I pray that these things will be an encouragement and a challenge to you. So I hope you'll join us tomorrow. Have a great rest of your day. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out, Lord willing. We'll meet again tomorrow and I'll get this video out earlier in the morning so that you can get your day started with it. Have a blessed day. Bye now.