Good morning and welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good week and we're at the midpoint. And today what we're going to do is really dig into the details of the parable. So Um there's going to be a lot of content in our focus this morning and we're just going to work our way through what Christ says in this parable and then ultimately what he is driving at. And that is the need for us to be faithful stewards with what He has entrusted to us. So if you have your Bible, turn there to Luke chapter 19. We're going to begin reading in verse 11, and then we'll jump into these details. It says as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable saying as he was nigh uh because he was nigh Jerusalem, because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear. And he said, therefore A certain nobleman went into a far country and received for himself a kingdom, and to return. And he called his ten servants, and delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, Occupy till I come. But his citizens hated him, and sent a message a message after him saying, We will not have this man to reign over us. Came to pass that when he was returned, having received the kingdom Then he commanded these servants to be called unto him, to whom he had given the money, that he might know how every man had gained by trading. Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained ten pounds. He said unto him, Well, thou good servant, because thou hast been faithful, and a very little, thou shalt have authority over ten cities The second came, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained five pounds. He said likewise to him, Be there also over five cities. Another came, saying, Lord, Behold, here is thy pound, which I have kept laid up in a napkin. I feared thee, because thou art an austere man. Now the emphasis of this passage is about being a faithful steward. And so I'd like us to work through the details of what we see here In verse 13, we could summarize everything that is talked about with this statement, occupy until I come. He calls ten servants, he delivers them ten pounds, and he says, Occupy. This is the focus of the parable And the fact that he's teaching it is indicating that even though you are a servant of God and you've been entrusted with something to manage, it you can still be unfaithful with what he's given you. We have a will, and we can Be faithful or unfaithful, depending on what we do with that. So look at the details here one by one. First of all, ten stewards were given a pound each to manage. Verse number 13. He calls ten servants, delivers them ten pounds, says, occupy till I come. Occupy means be engaged in business, kind of like an investment banker. Take what I've given you. And multiply it, compound it, be a faithful uh investor with what I've given you. And the second statement, till I come, reminds us that his return is imminent. That means he's going. He's absolutely going to come. We should be anticipating him. We don't know exactly when it's going to happen. So we should just be engaged in this work until the day that he comes, which certainly is going to happen. We move a little bit further into the details. Christ focused on three of those ten stewards. It says it came to pass when he was returned, having received the kingdom, he commanded these servants to be called unto him whom he had given the money that he might know how much they had gained by trading. In addition, he says that two of them managed their pounds very well but not equally. In verse 16 it says one gained 10 pounds. In verse 18, one gained five pounds A third didn't do his job. It says he came and said, Behold, Lord, here is thy pound which I have kept laid up in a napkin, and he's rebuked. Next detail. He highlights the cause of why the unfaithful steward did not do the work that he was supposed to do. In verse 21 it says, I feared, important word, because you are an austere man, very important word You take up what you did not lay down and you reap what you did not sow. So notice the details of what he's saying. He's saying you are austere. You are someone to be feared. You are someone who is unfair. In other words, the unfaithful steward 's view of his master was twisted. I feared, you're austere You take up what you did not lay down, you reap what you did not sow. The word austere is actually a transliteration of a Greek term that has the idea of to be harsh or to be inflexible And so he's afraid of his master. He views him as this inflexible, tyrannical kind of person. His perspective is wrong. Let me just pause and say something about this issue of perspective. Our perspective about God is critical here. How we view Him is going to determine so much about the way we live our lives. In Psalm 18, it says With the merciful thou wilt show thyself merciful, with the upright, upright, with the pure, pure. With the froward, froward Thou wilt save the afflicted people, thou wilt bring down high looks. Now what is the purpose of that passage? Well, it's to emphasize the fact that God deals with people in many ways according to how they respond to him. when he deals with them. We'll say someone's done something wrong and God comes to them very gently and he coaxes them, he pushes them. He brings circumstances into their lives to humble them. When that person humbles themselves, guess what he does? He's very merciful to them. And sometimes God has to ratchet it up a little bit. More forceful, a little bit harder with people. Why? Because they are being harsh in their own responses. And sometimes God has to be very hard on individuals. God deals with people in a harsh way when they are very resistant to what he says. And he responds to people very gently and deals with them very gently when they respond humbly to his word. And so this is a great passage for helping us to understand how God deals with people. Even when we look back over the illustration, it's important for us to notice a few details about it. He he he gave all the people the same amount, but not everyone invested equally. And he didn't compare the two that that were unequal. He didn't say to the person that was ten, hey You did a whole lot better than the guy that had five or the guy that invested and got five. You didn't say, Well, what's your problem? You didn't get to the guy with t up to the level of the guy with ten. He didn't do that. He simply he dealt with them based on how they worked. We also see that if the person who had just buried the money had simply put it in the bank and gotten a little bit of interest back he would have been so that would have been sufficient. And so what it shows you is that in fact he's not a cruel and harsh and vindictive judge. He's just, he's righteous. And if you're foolish with how you deal with what he's given you, well there's going to be consequences. So the parable is very important for us to notice. I also will add one other detail. It doesn't indicate that the servant who was unfaithful was dealt with in the same way as the enemies of the king. In other words, he simply took away what he had and gave it to those who were good investors. And so we see these things about God. He is a good God. He is just He is merciful, he is gracious, he is patient, but he does deal swiftly and firmly with those who resist him. And so we see God's goodness in this In each situation, God deals justly with the quality of the work that has been done. Verse 17, he commends the one proportionate to how responsible he's been. In verse 19, he does the exact same thing. In verse 24, he rebukes and he demotes the one who's been unfaithful. So what we see is that Jesus is highlighting the principle that God is going to deal with people based on how they have been faithful with what he's given them. Verse 25, he hath he that 10, I say to the one that which has been given from him that has not, even that which has been shall be taken away. And so God is going to bless us And God is going to give us responsibility based on what we do with what He has given us. His point is simple. And so I'll summarize it like this. Faithfully manage what has been entrusted to you. Not only should we be faithful, but be focused on performing the duties that God has given you. Don't be ungrateful. or bitter against God in the process. Realize one day you will present your work to Him, and the true quality of what you have done is going to be revealed So that's a very simple challenge. With the time that God has given us, we need to be faithful. With the details that He has given us, entrusted to us, we need to be faithful. We need to manage this stewardship that he has entrusted to us. A stewardship of marriage, a stewardship of family, a stewardship of children. a stewardship of ministry gifts, a stewardship of financial resources, a stewardship of opportunity. We need to be faithful in managing the things that God has given us Well, I hope that that gives you some things to be thinking about the rest of the day. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing. We'll meet again tomorrow as we dig again into God's Word. Bye now.