Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And what I'm going to do these last two days, today and tomorrow, is we're going to break this down into some applications. And the episodes that we've looked at this week have been a bit longer than usual. And so I want to break this down to some shorter applications that I think will be an encouragement to you. Let's go ahead and read the text one more time today and then we're going to look at the first of the applications that we'll address going into John chapter 4, verse 27 says the following. And upon this came his disciples, and he marveled that he talked with the woman. Yet no man said, What seekest thou, or why talkest thou with her? The woman then left her water pot and went her way into the city, and said to the men, Come see a man which told me all things I ever did. Is not this the Christ? Then they went out of the city and came to him. In the meanwhile his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat. But he said unto them, I have meat to eat, that you know not of. Therefore said the disciples one to another, Hath any man brought him aught to eat? Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work. Say not ye there yet four months, and then cometh Behold, I say unto you Lift up your eyes, look on the fields, for they are white already unto harvest. And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto eternal life. He that reapeth may rejoice together. And herein is that saying true. One soweth, and another reapeth. I send you to reap that whereupon you bestowed no labor. Other men labored, and you have entered into their labor. And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him, for the saying of the woman which testified, He told me all that I ever did And the first of the applications that we're going to address going into the weekend is the following statement. We are not the apostles, but we have three powerful promises. Now there's a reason that I make this careful statement, we are not the apostles, but we have. Whenever we're reading a narrative passage of scripture, especially when we're dealing with something that a prophet did or something that an apostle did. We should be careful not to try to inject ourselves into that story and say, well, if Paul could do this, then I can do this. Or if Elijah can do this, then of course I can do this. Or if Peter can do this, I can do this. The fact is, we're not apostles. We do not have the authority that the apostles had. But what we do have is something that is parallel to this. There are promises that clearly apply to us that we can look at and say, you know, in the same way that Jesus worked in this passage of Scripture, We can claim these promises that are in front of us. So the first of those promises that I want to address is this. God has promised a glorious end to his children. church. Revelation 5. 9 he says, and they sang a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take up the book. And to open up the seals thereof, for thou wouldst slain, and hast redeemed this to God by thy blood. And here's the statement: Out of every kindred and tongue and people Now why does this promise matter to us? Well it should matter to us because we recognize that God is saving people. from every people group, and because he is saving people from every people group, we can take great comfort in the fact that when we preach the gospel, we anticipate God will save people. Second thing, he has promised that his word will not return void. Isaiah 55, 11, so shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth. It shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereunto. I send Now, when we preach the gospel, when we teach the word of God, we can take to heart the great great comfort in the fact that that what we have stated is not going to fall flat. God would use it to accomplish his intended purpose. And this is a second problem. The third promise that we have is that he has proclaimed that his gospel is filled with power to save. Romans chapter 1, verse 16. I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth. Or I think of another passage, Romans 10, 17, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. You say, well, why does this matter? Well the reason this matters is that I can take comfort in the fact that God has promised to save people. He has promised his word will never return void. And he has promised that his word, being preached, the gospel, has the power to save. And so with this in my mind, I can go out and I can proclaim the truth. With a confidence that God's going to save people, that when I teach the Word of God, it will not fall flat, and when the gospel is preached clearly, God uses it to save people. That's the first of our applications that we're going to take from the text in front of us. I hope that that gives you some encouragement today. Maybe take some time. Share the gospel with someone. Pray that there would be a divine appointment, an opportunity. Give a track. Take a moment to share the gospel with someone. You never know how God will take the word and use it to draw people to Himself for salvation. Have a blessed rest of your day. The Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for a few final thoughts. By now