Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we have been in Luke chapter 17 this week and we're dealing with the topic of putting discipleship into perspective. This morning we're going to look at the topic of humility. And we're going to see how it relates to what Jesus has said in this passage of Scripture. And I want to remind you that everything that Jesus is saying in this passage seems to be built together. It is a part of the same passage tapestry or quilt however you want to look at it and so these are not individual pieces that stand alone but they're actually pieces that are put together that help us to understand how we as disciples should think about the Christian life and being a follower of Christ. Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles again to Luke chapter 17, we're looking at verses 1 through 10 together. And again, we'll read the first half of that section, but we will be looking at the second half of it this morning. Here's what it says. Then said he unto his disciples, It is impossible, but that offenses will come, but woe unto him through whom they come. It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he cast into the sea, than that he should offend one of these little ones. Take heed to yourselves. If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him. If he repent, forgive him. If he trespass against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day turn again to thee, saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him. And the apostle said unto the Lord, Increase our faith. Now yesterday we talked about faith and how important it is that we are willing to trust God, even if it's small, even if it's weak, we need to trust him. And he can do amazing things. through that little mustard seed faith. And in the context he's talking about the things that are going on, persecution, interpersonal relationships. What we're going to look at this morning is the second part to what Jesus is saying. Saying. He doesn't just say have faith. He says also remind yourself that you are a servant. And as a servant of Christ, your attitude toward him and circumstance has to be tempered by the role of a servant in relation to his And so we're reminded in this next section that we have to serve the Lord with a humble spirit. Discipleship is a humble service kind of role. And so we see this in verses 7 through 10. He says, Which of you having a servant ploughing or feeding cattle will say to him by and by when he has come in from the field, Go and sit down to meet? Will not rather say unto him, Make ready wherewith I may sup and gird thyself and serve me, till I have eaten and drunken, afterwards thou shalt eat and drink. Does he thank that servant? Because he He did the thing that was commanded him? I tro not. So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you, say, We're improfitable servants. We've done that which was our duty to do Now what Jesus is saying is not meant to say, oh, it's okay for people to abuse those under them. That is in no way what Jesus is saying here. What he is saying is that when a person is serving another person, they're not in charge. They're under the authority of another. And he lays out several pieces to this, four basic truths. about serving in humility that are directly related to the things that he's just stated. The first is this, servants give, not receive. Verse 7, which of you having a servant ploughing in the field will say unto him when he comes in, go and sit down to meet? He says, You need to come and prepare the table before you sit down to eat your own meal. Why is that? Well because the servant is in the position of giving, not receiving. Or a second example, they are to put the will of the master first. Verse number 80 says Will not he rather say to him, make ready wherewith I may sup and gird thyself and serve me, till I have eaten and drunken, and afterwards thou shalt eat and drink? He says, put the master's will ahead of your own will. Thirdly, they don't they are not commended for doing their basic duties. He says, does he think that the servant, because he did the things that he was commended, say I uh commend him? He says I true not. The idea is if you if you if you're working a job and you're supposed to be there at 8 o'clock every morning I mean, does your boss applaud you when you show up at 7. 59 or 8 o'clock? No. But if you show up at 8. 01 and 8. 05 and 8. 10 and 8. 15, you're going to be in trouble He's saying, you know, the fact that you came on time and the fact that you put in a real day's work is not something to be commended. It's it's expected. That's what people do who are faithful and who are doing their duties appropriately. And so he reminds them that that's the sense. Fourthly, they should endeavor to be faithful in their service with a humble heart. In verse 10, he says, when you shall done those things that were commanded of you, saying, Say we are can we are improfitable servants, we've done that which was our duty to do. Now the question is, why does Jesus give this teaching? The reason he gives this teaching is to help us to realize that the things that we encounter in life are things that are dealt to us by a sovereign Lord. We are under his authority. And so when we are commanded to respond to people a certain way and circumstances, and we do it, we shouldn't say, well, God, are you going to applaud me because I obeyed you? He's going to say, well, that's what disciples do. That's what servants do. They follow the Lord. They follow the will of the Master. They submit themselves to his purposes rather than their own purposes. They do their duties faithfully. That's what he said. So when we think about this issue of there being a conflict. And during that conflict, the person, rather than getting angry, they look inside and they say, you know, I need to self-reflect. God doesn't go, well, well done. You've done such a great job. I can't believe you actually did this. He's like, well that's what you're supposed to do. Or when somebody instead of internalizing bitterness, they actually address issues. He's not saying, wow, what a shocking thing. He says That's what you're supposed to do when you forgive a person. It's not like you've done something commendable, you've done your duty. This is the idea of what Jesus is saying here. And Christ is the perfect example of this. We have to realize that Jesus never commands us to do something here. that that doesn't actually fall short of what he gave for us. And we need to remember that the reason that we are servants to Christ is because he has purchased our redemption by laying down his own life. He came to seek and to save those who are lost. through his own sacrifice. And so we're not talking about some cruel and harsh authoritarian master who despises those who are under and abuses them. We're talking about a good God who loves us and gave everything so that we could be redeemed. And so we see in Matthew 20, he says, You know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise lordship or dominion over them, but and they that are great exercise authority upon him, but it should not be so among you. Whoever will be great among you, let him be your minister, and whoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant, even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for man This is the pattern of the Christian disciple. Even the pattern of Christ. He says, let this mind be in you, which was what? Also in Christ Jesus Being in the form of God, he thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon himself the form of a servant, was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. When I think about Christ's command to us, it is someone who has done far more for us for us. And we need to keep this in our minds. I hope that you have a wonderful rest of your day. As you think about some of the hard sayings of being a disciple of Christ and some of the challenges of what we're asked to do, always remember that your Savior did it first. And your Savior did it more, and your Savior did it for you out of love. And may that sustain us and strengthen us and help us as we may endure very complicated and challenging situations. in our life. Have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts to conclude this very important teaching on putting discipleship in perspective. Have a blessed day. Bye now.