Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to a new week and a new series of Anchored in the Word of Morning Reflections. And last week the study that we did I felt was very, very practical because it was so much of a focus on the gospel. Well, this week it's also going to be a super practical topic, and it's going to talk about the nature of forgiveness and reconciliation. and how our horizontal relationships are connected to the issue of vertical reconciliation between us and God. And so I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage of Scripture The things that are going to be presented, I think will be really, really practical and helpful. And so I hope that you work your way through this. I know it's an introduction. A lot of times people kind of pass over the introduction and want to get into the meat, but I think that today's introduction is going to give us some really good things. to consider going into this study. So if you have your Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Ephesians chapter 2. We're looking at verses 11 through 18 and we'll read most of that section each day as we look at the text. Here's what the scripture says. Wherefore, remember, that ye being in times past, Gentiles in the flesh, who were called uncircumcision by those which are called circumcision in the flesh made by hands. At that time, ye were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope without God in the world But God, who is ri- but now in Christ Jesus, you who sometimes were far off, are made nigh by the blood of Christ, for he is our peace. who hath made both one and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us, having abolished in his flesh the enmity. Now there's a lot more that we're going to talk about other than just a little section I read, but just for sake of time, we're going to do that each week, or each day of the week. We're going to look at this first portion. But I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts. I want to start with some questions that I think are very important for us all to ask. The first question we're going to ask is, should we forgive people who have wronged us? Simple question. Second, should we let go of bitterness? Third question, why should we or why should we not? Three simple questions And the truth is whether you're a Christian or whether you're not a Christian, whether you're looking at this biblically or just pretty pragmatically, I would say the answer to those questions is yes. Yes, we should be willing to forgive people who have wronged us, and yes, we should be willing to let go bitterness. And we we really could look at this from two different angles. The first I want to present to you is an angle that is very practical, but not necessarily biblical. The Bible doesn't make this argument. It's more of a therapeutic approach. But I want you to see how the secular person It doesn't have a biblical framework how they approach this question. So if they were if you were to ask, should I forgive? Should I let go of bitterness? Here is kind of the basic way that someone would approach the issue. First of all, they'd say something like this, holding on to bitterness. stimulate stress hormones that are physically detrimental to our bodies. Is that true? Absolutely it's true. If I am being eaten up inside because I'm constantly mowing over things that I'm angry about, guess what? That raises my stress level and that stress level being sustained over a long period of time, it's gonna wreck my body. It's gonna be very detrimental to me. Secondly, this stress on our bodies can damage our cardiovascular system and our immune system. So recently I got this little uh this little watch that tells me my heart rate, how much heart I'm sleeping, how much stress I have, all kinds of different things. It was a it was a a birthday present from my wife. I don't know if she was trying to tell me something, but anyway. Actually it's it's been really a nice tool because what it what it does is it shows me like how hard am I actually exercising, how does exercise affect my body, am I getting enough sleep? Well the truth is that when we talk about this issue of stress, there is a there's a physiological side to this. And our bodies are going to be damaged by stress that's connected to bitterness and unforgiveness. And so Yes, it's going to hurt our immune system. Yes, it's going to stress our heart. We should consider it simply from that standpoint as well. Third, constantly reliving painful circumstances can increase our risk of anxiety and depression. No question that's true. It's not the only cause for anxiety and depression, but it can contribute unquestionably. This is medically demonstrated. And then a fourth, and I think this one's also super practical. Ruminating over things that we can't control or resolve takes energy away from personal growth. and productivity and it channels it onto this little wheel that just turns around and doesn't go anywhere. So here's the point. It's not good for us to hold on to bitterness. And to hold on to grievances and be unwilling to show deference and grace and look over matters where we've been wronged. It's not good for us. And you know what? You don't have to be a Christian to understand that. But I want to give you this assessment. First of all, while it's good and practical, there are also some some shortfallings or some limitations here. You don't have to be a Christian to embrace this model. You don't have to have biblical values to embrace this model. You simply need to recognize that it's good for you not to hold on to and internalize grievances and hurts. It's not healthy. But this model has two glaring shortcomings. The first is this. It really doesn't offer you true justice. And when I mean true true justice, I mean cosmic justice. How is the wrong dealt with? If I don't forgive, it's obviously not being dealt with. And even if I do forgive, how is it really being dealt with? Where is justice in this model? And then secondly You're simply overlooking it for the sake of your own well-being, but you're not really addressing the issue. And someone might argue and say, well, you're being too general on this or something like that. Look, my point is not To get too deep into this issue simply to show you this. There's two basic approaches to how to address this issue. On the other side, we have the biblical model. You say, well, what's that? Well it's what's going to be presented this week in the study. But it's to forgive as God has forgiven us. That's really what it's all about. This text gives us an alternative solution that doesn't compromise justice. We'll talk about how wrongs are actually dealt with by God And it also gives us a real and compelling basis to forgive and to reconcile. And by the way, I will make this point. Reconciliation and forgiveness aren't necessarily the same thing. I can choose to overlook a matter. I can choose to put it in God's domain and not to hold on to it. I can choose not to nurse a wound and constantly mull it over. And when I'm beginning to struggle with that bitterness, I I give it over to God and I I process it in a biblical way, it doesn't mean I have reconciliation with a person. Reconciliation involves a true repentance on both sides where there is repentance necessary. and a willingness to actually meet someone where biblically they should. So we have to make that distinction. But this week we're going to talk about how this passage of scripture helps us in this issue. And so I'll summarize the text in front of us in the following way. We once were helpless until God in His mercy bridged the gap to the work of Christ. He wants us to live as if we are reconciled people. And so this week, we're going to answer the question, how exactly we do that. So I hope you'll join us this week. I hope that you'll pass this along to those who might be encouraged by it. Hopefully not somebody that's bitter against you and you're trying to be passive aggressive. That's not the point. It's to help people process their hurts, and we all have them. to process them in a godly way that is centered on the gospel. So join us this week as we do that. Have a great rest of your morning and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we work our way through this text. Bye now.