Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And it's Wednesday, midpoint of the week, and I hope that your week's going well. and uh hope that this study has been an encouragement to you. As we've been working our way through the passage, we've looked at a couple of different things on Monday. Uh we looked at how the flow of the text points us to turning turning to God, our need to turn to God, when we are in very dark and broken moments. And then yesterday we continued digging into that and we saw that the complex nature of the sufferings that we we experience in these moments, the physical anguish, the emotional anguish, the isolation that we feel from other people, the isolation that we we feel from God. All these things should drive us to Him and into His presence. And so yesterday kind of set the stage for what we're going to talk about this morning. And that is how we find hope in the Lord in these moments. And so this will be a very important study for us today, and I hope that it will encourage encourage you. So let's turn in our Bibles again to Psalm 38. We're looking at verses 1 through 22. Obviously we're not reading the whole text each each morning, but we're getting the highlights. So here's what it says Psalm 38, verse number 1. O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. For thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore. There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger, neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin. For mine iniquities are gone over my head as a heavy burden. They're too heavy for me. My wounds stink and are corrupt because of my fool. Foolishness, I am troubled, I am bowed down greatly, I go mourning all the day long. Forsake me not, O Lord, O my God, be not far from me, make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. Now, this morning what I'd like us to do is dig into this a little bit deeper. And to see how the way that God brings us through suffering calls us to turn to Him when we are broken. Notice the word. Through. It is not God 's will that we go through life with complete ease. And there is never struggle. You say, why in the world would a good God allow his children to suffer? Is he cruel? Is he harsh? Does he not care about us? And the answer is, of course he cares about us, and of course he loves us, and of course he knows what's best for us. And God is making us the kind of people he wants us to be. He is shaping us into the image of Christ. He is directing us to him. He is teaching us of him so that we can know him in a very personal and experienced manner. And so if God is going to build grit and strengthen us, he has to allow us to pass through hardships. And how God matures us in these things is something we need to understand. And we're going to see that here in these verses. So the first thing I want to mention is that David grew and worked through these low moments in his life. And we can see it in these verses. For instance, in the first cry, he is crying out in misery. All that he could see as he cries out is pain, suffering, God's displeasure, isolation. Notice the words he uses. He says, Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. From David's perspective, as he feels the weight of his sin and the guilt of his conscience and the misery of his physical and emotional state. All David can think is that God is angry with me and his wrath is hanging over my head. Now, we know that theologically that's not the way that God is toward his children. We know that there is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. We know that God looks at his children with pity and compassion, and we know that he chastens us because he loves us. But that's not the way that David saw God and felt toward him at that moment. But in his second cry, what we see is a slight improvement. He realized that God saw him and was aware of his misery. Now, it's not that now God sees him, but before he did it It's that now David can see that God sees him and that he knows about his misery. David's eyes are being opened as he's being directed to truth, though he is not yet where he needs to be. And so in verse number nine he says, Lord, all my desire is before thee, my groaning is not hid from thee Then David cries out a third time. And the third time he cries out, he tells God that he was his hope. And that he knew that God could hear him. Now when I say he could hear him, not like it's possible for him to hear him, but he does hear him. He listens to him. His ear is attentive to David's cry. In verse 15 he says, In thee, O Lord, do I hope. Thou wilt hear, O Lord my God. That word hope in the Bible is not like Boy, it'd really be nice if this is the way things are. I wish that this is how things are. It's possible this is how this is not what the word hope in the Bible and re as we talk about God is is Is referring to. This word hope is a steadfast, confident assurance that's built on the promises of God and the way that God has revealed Himself. And so when David says, I hope in you, He says, you're going to hear. That is a statement of confidence. You hear what I'm saying. Not I hope you'll hear. I know you hear. And you see the improvement. And then the fourth cry, he's confident that God is his salvation. He just wants him to act as quickly as possible. In verse 22 he says, make haste to help, O Lord, my salvation. What you can see in these verses is that he experienced a very distinct an emotionally draining cycle. And if you've been in a place like this, where you're currently in a place like this, especially if you're on the other side of it and you can look back and you can ponder the way things flu was were fly flowing in your life, you can see what we're about to talk about. He cries out. He pours out his heart, he cries out again, but there's an a little bit of an improvement in perspective. And then the cycle continues until God mercifully delivers him from the misery of the state of his soul. So we see crying and pouring and growing in perspective and continuing in this cycle. Whenever he looked up Whenever he looked within, it was different. He looks in and what does he see? Trouble, misery, challenges, hardship, strife. When he looks out, sight of who he is. is and he looks out to God, what does he see? Hope and strength. And so each time David directs his attention to God, his perspective improves. What is the takeaway from the text in front of us? What can we learn today as we think about it? And how can this help strengthen us this morning? The first thing I'll mention is this. Each time David looked to God, he grew. His perspective matured ever so slowly. You know, when we think about our children growing up, we look at pictures, and sometimes I look back at a picture, and it's just three, four years ago. It's not a very long time ago. And I look at I look at how small my children were and I look at where they are today and I'm like, what happened? When did they go from from from that to that? How did this happen? Well what's amazing is as we're growing, we don't we don't really see it. And as other people are growing, we don't really see it. It's when we haven't seen someone for a while or we're able to see a picture from a couple of years ago that all of a sudden we step back and we go There has been growth. There has been change. There is maturity. There is strength. They are growing. And in the same way that people grow physically, we grow spiritually Each time we look to God in these circumstances, the perspective matures a little bit more. We develop a little bit more grit and a little bit more strength and a little bit more dependence upon the Lord. There's no moment where we are completely immediately over this. It's not like we get on our knees one time and then we pray and then all of a sudden our our our strength is there and we're mature and we don't have these struggles anymore. That's not the way that it works. This is a little at a time. It's incremental. It's gradual. They're ups, they're downs. They're ups, they're downs, but it's growth in the right direction. And so as we think about this, this is how we grow in seasons. of life. In the same way that David grew, that's how we grew. And so I want to encourage you, my prayer for each of you is that you will have hope in him. that you will see from this how God changes us and how he matures us and how he develops us and it will help shape your perspective in the these moments. Thanks for joining us today. I hope it was encouragement to you. I hope you'll join us tomorrow. If this has been a blessing, perhaps share it with someone else who could be encouraged by it. And as we in in as we get near to the end of our study, I think the next couple things we're going to say are going to be really, really important as subtopics to this discussion that we're having on how God helps us in these moments. Have a blessed rest of your day, Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow. By now