Good morning. Welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good start here Wednesday morning. And the passage that we've been working through the last couple of days is 2 Chronicles 32. And we're talking about walking by faith and what that looks like. Yesterday, we looked at the issue of walking by faith, taking responsibility, and how it's not inconsistent with walking by faith to walk in wisdom or prudence. to be active in our responsibilities. Well today what we're going to do is look at sort of the counterbalance to that and that is to give us the full perspective. There are two concepts that have to be set side by side. One would be that we are responsible and we need to do what we are called to do. And then the second is that God is sovereign and he works through those ordinary means and sometimes outside of those ordinary means. And we have to learn to trust God with what is outside of our control. So let's take our Bibles and turn together to 2 Chronicles 32. We're going to read beginning in verse 1, and then we're going to talk about that concept this morning together. It says after these things and the establishment thereof, and the Senacrib, king of Assyria, came and entered into Judah, and encamped against the fenced cities, and thought to win them over to himself. When Hezekiah saw that Senacrib was come, and that he was purposed to fight against Jerusalem, he took counsel with his princes, and his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains which were in the city. And they did help him. So there was gathered together much people who stopped all the fountains and the brook that ran through the midst of the land. Now, what I want us to notice is how Hezekiah recognizes that though he has done all these things There are still limitations that he has. And that's where his ultimate confidence is going to lie. We're going to see that as we move our way through the content. Walking by faith rests in God's power and his care when our responsibility ends. You do what you need to do, you let God take care of the rest. And so we see it in verses 7 and 8. When he goes to encourage the people, he encourages them not from what he's done, but from their God. He says, be strong and courageous. Be not afraid nor dismayed for the king of Assyria, nor of his multitude that is with him. Now he could have said, we've prepared adequately. Look at all the work that we've done. We have our military ready. We've gathered all these shields. We've created all these darts. We've raised up the walls. We've done everything possible to beat them. That's not what he says. He says, there are more with us than there are with him. With him is an arm of flesh. With us is the Lord our God to help us and to fight our battles. So he doesn't point to his preparation as his ultimate confidence. He points to the power of God who is on their side. He will fight for them. This sounds very similar to what we see in Joshua chapter 1, where he says that he is to be strong and courageous. Almost the exact same wording. God has to encourage us many, many times in the midst of these kinds of challenges, and he's going to encourage us out of his might, not our preparation. Again. We we want the the full perspective here. We are to prepare and we are to labor and we are to think and we are to reason and we are to walk in wisdom, but we have to trust him. And so we see that. We also could say it like this. Hezekiah looks ahead, he was supposed to do that. He prepares for war on many levels, he was supposed to do that. But is that where he trusted? No. He prepared the people to fight, but is that where he trusted? No. What does he trust in? Not his limitations. He rests in the hands of God. There are more with us than with him. With them is an arm of flesh. With us is the Lord to help us and to fight our battles. And so I want to leave you with that this this afternoon or this morning. Hezekiah encouraged the people out of God's power and not his preparation, and you and I need to do the same. So let's do that this morning. Let's go out and do the things that we are responsible to do, but let's trust God with what is outside of our control. If this has been a challenge to you, take a moment to share that. If you think it'd be an encouragement to another person, share that with them as well. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we work our way through this passage. Bye now.