Good morning and welcome to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we're going to talk about the primary concern that David is communicating in the Psalm. And I want to get into a little bit of the structure of the Psalm just so that We can have a little bit of insight into how to interpret Psalms and it's not just Psalms, but actually a lot of scripture follows some of the pattern that I'm going to talk about here. So if you have your Bible, let's take it and turn to Psalm 54. And we're going to read through the psalm and then dig into the primary concern that David is communicating here. Here's what the text says Save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me by thy strength. Hear my prayer, O God. Give ear to the words of my mouth For strangers are risen up against me and oppressors seek after my soul. They have not set God before them. Sila Behold, God is my helper. The Lord is with them that uphold me. He shall reward evil unto my enemies. Cut them off in thy truth. I will freely sacrifice unto thee. I will praise thy name, O Lord, for it is good. He hath delivered me out of all trouble, and my eyes have seen his desire upon my enemies Now when we look at this psalm, the question is, what's the main point? And the main point is actually something that the way that the psalm is structured, it's going to be communicated. And so one of the one of the ways that a lot of Psalms are written is in what's called a chaosic structure. And a chiassic structure structure, basically, the way that we write poems is sometimes we'll have a refrain that's stated several times and that's an emphasis. Sometimes we talk about a hymn. A hymn will have a chorus. A psalm was structured sometimes with what's called a chiasm. And what it does is it shows you parallel concepts that are worked out throughout the psalm and they move toward a point. And so you'll see in just a moment what I mean by that. For instance, when we're reading this psalm, the first thing that we see, the first theme that's presented is the theme of deliverance. And in verse 1 he says, Save me. He wants God to deliver him. The second theme that he presents is in verse 2. He says, hear my prayer. The idea is I'm in trouble. Please listen. Be attentive to my prayer. The third thing is that he's emphasizing that he has enemies who are godless. Verse number three, strangers are risen against me, oppressors seek after my soul. And then the fourth thing, which is actually the focus of the psalm, is that God is always with him and God delivers. He says, behold, God is my helper. The Lord is with them that uphold my soul. And so what is the flow of theme? The flow of theme is, I'm in trouble, save me. Please listen to my prayer. I have enemies that are godless. But you're with me, and I know that you work in my life for my good to protect and deliver. That's where it's going Now, as we work our way through the rest of the psalm, what's interesting is he revisits each of those pieces and he does it in a way that kind of answers the question, will Did God listen to his prayer? How does God deal with the godless? Is God really going to save? That's the way that the psalmist work out. So The next thing that we see is that he tells us, yes, I have godless enemies, but God's going to reward the godless appropriately. Verse 5, he will reward evil unto my enemies. He will cut them off in truth. So even though I have these enemies, God's going to deal with that. And the question is, is God going to hear my prayer? The answer is of course he is. And not only is he going to hear my prayer, but he's going to preserve my life, and I'm going to be able to worship and praise him. And so he says in verse 6, I have confidence. I will freely sacrifice to them. I will praise thy name. And so you see that that thing gets worked out as well. And then we move back to the first thing that he states, save me God, verse 7, he hath delivered me out of all trouble. and my eyes have seen. And so what we see is that the psalm is structured in a way that reveals to you the focus. I'm in trouble. I have vicious enemies. I need God to listen and hear. I know he's here. I know he's present. I know he works. He will cut off the wicked. He will hear my prayer. He will save. That's what he's saying. And so what are the main themes that David has mentioned? What are his basic concerns? Well, there are three. The first one is his life is in danger. And that's why he says, save me. The second theme is that the people that have turned against him have betrayed him because they don't fear God. Strangers are risen against me. Oppressors seek after my soul. They have not set God before them. Very, very interesting how he puts it, he calls them strangers. They are Judean brethren. technically fellow countrymen. He calls them oppressors and they're seeking after a soul. So you can see that David's very concerned about the viciousness. And the godlessness of the people that are his enemies. They do not set God before them. It's like they have no restraints. And so that's the second concern. His third concern, and this one I think is very important in interpreting the psalm, is that it appears at the moment that injustice is prevailing. And so he's concerned that God will set the record straight. David's enemies had aligned themselves on the wrong side of God's covenant and redemptive promises Yet they seem to be prevailing. They seem to be able to do whatever they want without any intervention. And so what does David do? He prays. And he says, cut them off in truth. Verse 5. Reward evil unto them. And when he says, in thy truth, he's not saying, cut them off because I don't like them. He's saying, cut them off because they're aligned on the wrong side of justice. He says, secondly, that it's God's desire that will be worked out on his enemies. Verse 7, my eyes have seen his desire on my enemies. So the reason that David has confidence is not because He's some special person who's the center of the universe who just gets what he wants. David is confident because he knows what God says is right and wrong. David is aligned with the correct side. They're not. And that is why David is confident. And so I want to encourage you as you think about this psalm to consider the concerns of David because that is going to help us with the interpretation. Well, I hope that gives you a couple things to think about this morning, not just in the themes, but also the structure and how David is communicating that in the Psalm. If you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out. Hope you have a wonderful rest of your day. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow by now.