Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection and hope your week's going well and that this passage of Scripture is one that has given you Some things to think about. And this morning, what I'd like us to do as we focus on this topic of self-deception and God's grace is I'd like us to focus in on the hope that we find in this text of scripture. Scripture. And interestingly, when we look at the passage, that is actually the primary focus of the passage in front of us. So let's read the text again, and then we're going to dig into this topic. Luke sixteen fourteen says this. And the Pharisees also who were covetous heard all these things, and they derided him. And he said unto them, Year they which justify yourselves before men, but God knoweth your hearts. For that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God. The law and the prophets were until John, since that time the kingdom of God is preached, and every man presseth into it, and it is easier for heaven and earth to pass than one tittle of the law to fail. Whosoever putteth away his wife and marrieth another committeth adultery. And whosoever marrieth her that is put away from her husband committeth adultery. This passage focuses in on the fact that the gospel is our final and only hope. And we see this in verses 16 and 17. seventeen it says, the law and the prophets were until John. Since that time the kingdom of God is preached, and every man presseth into it, and it is easier for heaven and earth to pass. Why is the gospel our only hope? Well, we see that this is actually the focus of the passage based on the structure That's in front of us. And if you can remember back to our introduction on Monday, we talked about the fact that this section has a kiestic structure. And the idea is that There are parallel concepts that are found in the text, and they zero in on the verses that we just read. The law and the prophets and the preaching of the gospel are the Focal point of the passage. Second thing I want to mention is this. The scriptures present a unified story where every single piece of it emphasizes that it is going to come to pass in the person of God. Work of Christ. Notice how he puts it. He says that the law and the prophets were until John. It is easier for heaven and earth to pass than one tittle of the law to fail. Now, when he talks about the law and the prophets, he's talking about the Old Testament. When he says it's easier for heaven and earth to pass than one till of the law to fail, he's saying everything that God said is going to come to pass perfectly. And we see this in Luke chapter 24 at the end of the book of Luke. He says, O fools, and slow of heart to believe All that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to have entered into glory, and beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. So what is Luke 24 saying? Well, it's basically saying that what is claimed here in the text that we are examining this week, Jesus Did it. He had to do it because not one of those laws and not one of those uh prophecies could fall apart. It had to Be accomplished fully. Third thing I want to mention is this. The law presents a perfect standard, and the purpose of that standard was to point people to Christ. Romans chapter 3, verse 19, he says, We know that whatsoever things the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. Therefore, by the deeds of the law, there shall no flesh be justified in his sight. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. So when he says that the law and the prophets are not going to fail, he's emphasizing the fact that there is a standard in the law that says you are guilty, you need Christ. Fourthly, we see that the prophets on the other side present the details that provided an anticipation of the Messiah. And it also provided a standard that gave people the ability to be able to To identify that in fact this is the Messiah, this is the Savior. We see this in Isaiah 53. He says, When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin , He shall see his seed, and shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. So when we think about this passage, what we are saying Is that we could identify who the Messiah is and we would anticipate what he was going to do based on scriptures like this one. Fifth observation: John pointed people to the Savior. So he mentions the law, he mentions the prophets, and he mentions John. But what did John do? John said in John 1. 29, Behold Beholds, the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sins of the world. John preached the law and repentance toward God. John proclaimed the prophecies that pointed to the Messiah. And then when he sees the Messiah, he says, that's him right there. Believe on him. Trust in him. He is the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. The gospel is our only hope. Observation. The preaching of the gospel compels people to repent and to believe. And so when the law is presented and the prophets are presented, and John preached his message, what did they do? They said Repent and believe in the gospel. That's what he means when he says in the text, the kingdom of God is preached. It is the heralding of a message that you You must repent and believe in the gospel if you want to enter into the kingdom of God. And the seventh thing I want to mention is that tragically, many were striving to enter Into this kingdom through their own labors, even as they were being compelled to enter the kingdom by repentance and faith. That statement every man presseth into it is an interesting statement. The word presseth into it, that statement literally means to strive with all their might to enter into And it gives us the impression that there were people who were striving to enter the kingdom of God, but they were doing it through means that were different than God had provided. The reason for this is because of Matthew twenty two he says, Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, you shut up the kingdom of heaven against men. Suffer you to enter in and go in, you can pass compass sea and land to make one proselyte, and when he's made, he made you make him twofold more a child of hell. than yourself. His point is that people are striving to enter the kingdom of God through their own righteousness and labors because you were teaching them that that's how it works. And when they strive, they are failing, and they are missing the preaching of the gospel. It says, repent and believe, and ultimately you're leaving people in this position where they're condemned. This is why Paul in Romans chapter 10 says the things that he says. And these are interesting because they give us insight into the prevailing problem of the day. Here's what he says. My heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. I bear them record that they have the zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. For they being ignorant of God's right righteousness and going about to establish their own righteousness have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God. Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone that believeth. Now, Paul is saying this as one who understood what it was like to be in such a position. He had once been a man preaching legalism You go to heaven through the keeping of the law. He had been trusting in this legalism. He was trying to build up his righteous credentials so that he could earn God's favor. And now he is preaching against such a message. Repent and believe in the gospel rather than trust in your own righteousness, which is just filthy rags. This is what the text is striving at. The only hope for a person in such a situation is to turn to Christ. And that's why he's preaching the gospel. Well, if you're hearing this message this morning and you've never placed your faith in Christ, I want to encourage you to turn to Him and place your faith in His finished work, his death, resurrection, and righteousness. You might say, well Joel, I don't know how do that. Well please reach out. Send us a Facebook message. Reach out to us through through YouTube or through sermon audio, send us an email in the church office, and I would be absolutely thrilled to be able to take a Bible and dialogue with you, have a conversation with you over the phone, perhaps have a video call, meet in person, whatever is necessary. I want you to understand what Christ has done for you and how to respond to it in repentance and faith. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing tomorrow We will have some final thoughts as we think about the text in front of us by now.