Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a great Friday and looking forward to a wonderful weekend. And as we always do, we we deal with some practical applications to go into the weekend. that we find in the text in front of us. So let's turn in our Bibles one more time to Luke chapter 20. We're going to look at this passage and then dig into some final thought applications. Here's what it says. And he said unto them, How say they that Christ is David's son? And David himself said in the book of the Psalms, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit down on my right hand till I make thine enemies thy footstool. David therefore calleth him Lord. How is he then his son? Then in the audience of all the people he said unto the disciples, Beware of the scribes, which desire to walk in long robes and love greetings in the markets and the highest seats of the synagogues and the chief rooms at feasts, which devour widows' houses, and for a show make long prayers, the same shall receive greater damnation. I want to break this into two parts. Those who do not know the Lord, non-believers, non-Christians, and those who are believers. The first thing I want to say under this is that you might be in a position Where you believe that religion is full of hypocrisy, and maybe that's because you've seen the evidence of religious hypocrisy I want to remind you that Christ 's religion is powerless to transform people. And because that is true, religious hypocrisy is going to be common. We shouldn't be surprised when we see hypocrisy in religious practice. Some might say, well, I I see that religion is manipulative and abusive. People use it to get money. And you know what? It's sad, but it's true. There are a lot of religious systems. A lot of people call themselves Christians that in fact are extremely manipulative. They're manipulative in how they give appeals for people to respond to the truth. They're manipulative in how to try to get money. They abuse their authority. These are things that happen. I'm sad to say that. I wish it wasn't true, but in fact it is true. But again, this is not something that should shock us, because Christ's religion is going to produce manipulative and abusive behavior. That's exactly what we see in the text in front of us. And leaders are going to be uh abusing their authority and those who follow them are going to do the same thing. Thirdly, perhaps you can pick apart the inconsistencies of true Christians. People that are proclaiming the gospel. Yes, they're doing it accurately. Yes, they claim to be Christians, and in fact they really are. And the fact is that Christians are not perfect. We are all sinners saved by grace. And while it is true, the gospel transforms, we are still sinners who are growing into Christ's likeness, and this needs to be considered. The fact is you will find inconsistencies everywhere. And so I want to remind you whether you can point your finger at hypocrisy or inconsistency, you need to recognize That there is a need to turn to the gospel alone. There might be someone as well who says, you know, as I sit here today, I think that I'm a part of a religious system that is Christless. I've always believed that you could earn your way to God and it was through keeping the law and following traditions. That's how you get to heaven. And in fact, it's not true. Don't allow yourself to rest in dead religion or the filthy rags of your own righteousness. The Bible calls you to repent and believe in the gospel alone. We are saved by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. There is no other place that we can turn. But then I appeal to the believer. And I want to ask you some questions. Do you see the marks of Christ 's religion developing in your own heart? The fact is all of us can fall into this trap. We can become enamored with religious pomp. We can get into a position where our devotion is more about promoting self than it is about truly serving God and worshiping Him in spirit and truth. We can use the church to prop up our egos, to get the reputation, uh to get reputation in front of other people, or to get the honor of others And so there is the possibility that a person who's a true believer, who truly does know the truth and has embraced the truth, can drift from the truth in these areas. Are we becoming greedy? Are we using God as a means to our own end? Do not allow yourself to drift into a crisis religion. that is enamored with the things we have built and uses religion to promote self. I also have a second question. Is it possible that the culture of our church has drifted or is it unquestionably built on the gospel? Well the culture of a church is built on the teaching of the church, the leadership of the church. And really the mindset of the average person in the congregation. Are we gospel-centered in our focus or are we moralists? Are we worshiping Christ as he is, or have we created a Jesus in our own image? Are we resting in the death and resurrection of Christ alone? Or are we laboring to convince God to continue to love us and accept us? How we answer these questions ultimately reveals whether or not we are living in a way that is consistent with the gospel and our position in Christ. or whether we have drifted from where we ought to be, we must reject any system that replaces or diminishes Christ alone. May God help us to delight in his person and his work alone. Have a blessed weekend. Lord willing, I hope to see many of you on Sunday. And we look forward to getting back into these Anchored in the Word series studies in the following week. Have a blessed weekend. Bye now