Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And the passage that we are dealing with this week is Psalm 12, looking at verses 1 through 8. So if you have a moment and you have your Bible, let's take it together, turn to the text, we'll read it. And then we will continue working our way through this passage by considering the history that is being talked about in these verses. So Psalm 12, verses 1 through 8, here's what What the text says. Help, Lord, for the godly man ceaseth, for the faithful fail from amongst the children of men. They speak vanity, every one with his neighbor. With flattering lips and with a double heart do they speak. The Lord shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that speaketh proud things, who have said, with our tongue we will prevail. Our lips are our own. Who is Lord over us? For the oppression of the poor and for the sighing of the needy will I arise, saith the Lord. I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him. The words of the Lord are pure words. Words, as silver tried in a furnace of earth purified seven times. Thou shalt keep them, O Lord. Thou shalt preserve them from this generation. forever. The wicked walk on every side when the vilest men are exalted. Now as we look at this passage of Scripture, it's important for us to consider this Very simple fact. Every generation has lamented the wickedness of their time. Uh I was I was listening to uh a history podcast this morning, and as I was listening to this hid history podcast this morning I was struck by how tumultuous the United States was after the Civil War, during the Reconstruction period. And as I was listening to uh the different discussions that were going on. I said, you know, we get frustrated with the times that we're living in and we talk about how bad things are and I think it was a pretty bad time to live in America during that time period. And what about the years before that, the Civil War, the years before that? The fact is, every single generation of people has lived through tumultuous times. There have been wicked people who have prospered. There have been righteous people who have gone through hardships and difficulties, and the text in front of us reminds us of that fact. Here's what it says in verses 1 and 2. He says, Help, Lord, the godly man ceases. The faithful fail from among the children of man. They speak vanity everyone with his neighbor. With flattering lips and with a double heart do they speak Now let's remember that David is writing this during the golden age of Israel's history. He is the king. And so from the times of David to Solomon, we're talking about the pinnacle. the height of the Jewish nation's preeminence and this is some of the most stable uh one of the most stable periods in Israel History. Yet what does David say? The godly men cease, and everyone is unjust. And this lament was rooted in two observations. that David made about life. The first is that there was a desperate lack of godly men. He says, help, Lord, the godly cease, and the faithful cease. fail. The second is that the wicked were prospering and they were in authority. He says they speak vanity, everyone with his neighbor, with flattering lips and double heart they speak. As David looks at this, he is so troubled in his soul. The fact is, most people lack historic perspective. Unless you read a lot of history and you study those things, a lot of times All you think about and all I think about is what's right in front of us. We think about what we're experiencing in our lifetime. And we fail to recognize that history repeats itself. history goes in cycles. And the kinds of struggles that we're dealing with today, though there are unique aspects to them. At the core, at the heart of it, they're essentially the same because of human nature. We tend to think that our struggles are unique, but in fact, they're actually not. I mean, look at what is stated by Asaf in Psalm 73. He says, truly God is good to Israel. Even to such as have her a clean heart. But as for me, my feet were almost gone. My steps were now well nigh slipped. I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. Asaph considered walking away from the Lord because of what he saw. Or another example is Elijah in 1 Kings 19 nineteen. He says, I have been very jealous for the Lord of hosts, for the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, and thrown down thine altars, and slain thy prophets, and I even I only am left, and they seek my life to take it away He says, there's no one in this country who's serving you. Or I think again of the book of Ezekiel, and Ezekiel writes in Ezekiel 22. He's he says, God says, Son of man, say unto her, There's a conspiracy of her prophets, like a roaring lion ravening with the prey. They've devoured souls. Her priests have violated my laws and pervained my laws. holy things. They put no difference between the holy and the profane. Her princes in the midst of her are like wolves ravening the prey to shed blood and destroy souls and get dishonored. The people of the land have used oppression and exercised robbery and have vexed the poor and the needy. And the oppressed, they've oppressed the stranger wrongfully. And I sought for a man among them that should make up the hedge and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, and I found none. Well, these are just three examples, but there are far more than that. And so when we think about this, there have always been a clash of two kingdoms, where God's people faced the hardships of living in a fallen world. at the hands of the world. And so the question is, well, what do we take away from our study this morning? Well what we take away from it is that we are here today because of God's preserving hand. We have the gospel. We have a true church. We have access to opportunity. And even though there's been wickedness in every generation, here we are today because God preserves us. the righteous. And God preserves his truth and God preserves his people. And that's going to be the focus of all of this. And so if this morning you are feeling very disheartened and very discouraged and very frustrated and you say There's never been a worse time. Pause and say, that's not true. There is perspective that needs to be reclarified. And we need to get back to the basics. Psalm 12 is for us And so let's take time to reflect on that the rest of this week. Well, I hope you have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.