Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection for the week. And it's hard to believe it's Friday already. Hope that you have a great weekend and hope to see you on Mother's Day. And the text of scripture we've been looking at this week is Luke chapter 13, verses 1 to 9. And we've been looking at how God takes tragedy and he uses tragedies To cause us to think about what is most important, to simplify and refine our focus, and then ultimately to reveal himself as a God who is perfectly balanced in all of his ways. and in all of his nature and character perfections. And so this morning what we're going to do is take everything we've talked about and kind of wrap it up. with some final thoughts. So we're going to read this text one more time and I hope that you'll uh read it with us uh either on the screen or there in your Bibles and here's what it says. There were present at that season some that told him of the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galileans were sinners above all the Galileans because they suffered such things? I tell you, nay. But except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Or those eighteen upon whom the tower of Saloon fell and slew them, think ye that they were worse sinners above all men that dwell in Jerusalem? I tell you, nay, but except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. He spake a parable. A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard. And he came and sought fruit thereon and found none. Then said he unto the dresser of the vineyard, Behold, these three years I've come seeking fruit on this tree I find none. Cut it down. Why cumberest it the ground? He answered and said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also. Till I shall dig it, about it, and dung it, and if it bear fruit well, and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down. Now, when we think about everything we've talked about this week, this is where we need to come. We've got to act on what we've seen in the scriptures. We can't just hear the word and walk away in complacency. We've got to hear the word and take action upon it And so there are two thoughts, and then I want to break it into different categories. The first thought is this, we've got to take the scriptures revelation of God seriously. Do not think about God in terms of how you want him to be, or how you feel he should be, or how you believe your justice system says he should be. You need to take the scriptures and read them carefully, digest them and say, this is who God is. This is the God that created all things that I'm answering for And he has given me the privilege, and it is all of his grace, to be able to enter into his presence through the finished work of Christ. So take his revelation of himself seriously. See him as he is, respond humbly to him as Yes, he is. And so I want to break it down into a couple of different groups. First of all, those who are complacent. If you are in a position Where you have been resisting God and you've been lulled into thinking that you can just live however you want, it doesn't matter, and that God doesn't care, He doesn't exist. Please listen carefully. Your complacency is something that God is waking you out of. In his mercy, he is warning you. Do not lay in that position. and ignore what he's doing. Proverbs 122 says the following. How long will ye simple ones love simplicity? And scorners delight in scorning, and fools hate knowledge. I have called, and ye refused. I have stretched out my hand, and no man regarded. But ye have said it not all my counsels, and would none of my reproof When your fear cometh is desolation, then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer. They shall seek me early, but they shall not find me, for that they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the Lord. Lord, therefore shall they eat the fruit of their own way and be filled with their own devices. What is the point of what Jesus is saying in Luke chapter thirteen? And what Solomon writes in Proverbs chapter 1. The point is this, when God gives you opportunity, do not, do not Do not ignore his warnings. Take action immediately, because there will be a line that when we cross it, there will be no return. And that's the point of what he's saying. here. God's line is is far. He is patient. He is kind. He is merciful. But he is just and he will punish evil. But there's another possibility. You may not be complacent and resisting God. You may be broken. and feel as if you can't get back up. And there's nothing that you can do for God to love you again. And you feel as if he's abandoned you and thrown you to the side. If you are in a broken position, be comforted by his kindness and flee to him. He is a merciful God and he loves his children And he desires to lift them up and to strengthen them. And we see the balance in God's character. And think of Isaiah 42, verse 3. He says, A bruised reed shall he not quench. and a smoking flack shall he not or Pris reed shall he not break, and a smoking flack shall he not quench. When the reed has been damaged, he doesn't snap. And when the the candle is just barely showing its light, he doesn't extinguish it. And when you and I are proverbially in such a position where we are broken and we're just barely a light burning. He doesn't crush us and stamp us out. He lifts us up. In Psalm 40, verses 1 to 3, he says, I waited patiently for the Lord. And he inclined into me and heard my cry and brought me up out of a horrible pit and out of the myriclay. And he set my feet This is a passage of scripture that we really emphasized this past Sunday. And so I hope that if you are in a position where you feel broken and defeated, as if you cannot get up and God has abandoned you. you don't allow yourself to accept that lie. He is a God who desires to comfort you in his kindness and lift you up and so flee to him To the unbeliever , the command from Scripture is simple. Repent and believe. Repent and and be converted that your sins may be blotted out. Today is the day to act on the word of God. Don't delay. Don't push it off to another day. Turn to God and be made right with Him through the work of Christ. And to the believer, we need to walk soberly by faith and labor and love, resting in his promises and finding comfort in him as we live in a world that is full of trouble and difficulty. And so I want to leave you with this text, 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. It says, let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch. and be sober, for they that sleep, sleep in the night, but they and they that are drunken are drunken in the night. But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love. for in helmet the hope of salvation, for God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, comfort yourselves and edify one another, even as also ye. do. This is just unquestionably connected to what Jesus is talking about. Be ready for the coming of Christ. Let those who sleep let us not sleep as those who are of the of the night. That's what he's saying. So my encouragement is have a great weekend. May God help us to take the tragedies of life. And in his mercy, use them to accomplish great good. That when he is working, we will respond properly and we will see him take us and strengthen us and build us. I hope that this Lord's Day we will see you. I hope that you'll be there. I hope that it'll be an encouragement to you. And look forward to getting back into our Anchored in the Words next week. Have a blessed weekend, and Lord willing, we'll meet on Sunday.