Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope that you're having a great week and we're at the midpoint in our week. And I do hope that you'll be able to join us this week. for our midweek study if you are listening to this on Wednesday before we have our Bible study. And we're working our way through the Sermon on the Mount and the text that we're dealing with is in Matthew chapter Chapter 7, and this will be our third part to that study to the section that we are looking at, and it's dealing with the issue of getting biblical wisdom. And we're really trying to break down this concept in a very very practical way and so hope that you can join us for that if um if you're able to. Let's go ahead and take our Bibles out and turn to Luke chapter 15 and we're gonna read verses 1 through 10 together. And then we're going to kind of examine the content a bit to consider the parables that Jesus is teaching and what he's communicating in those parables. So here's the text, Luke 15, verse number one. Here's what it says. Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him. The Pharisees and scribes murmur scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sin And he spake this parable unto them, saying, What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he leaves one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is left And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. When he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my Sheep which was lost. I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no repentance. Then the second parable states this. Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle and sweep the house and seek diligently to And when she hath found it, she calls her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the peace which I have lost. Likewise I said Say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. Now, as I've mentioned throughout this week, there are three parables. That are given in this text. And each of these parables is meant to reveal the immensity of God's grace. And you could almost say that they're sort of building in The progression leading up to the third parable, which is the parable of the prodigal son, and we could almost put it this way. The parable of the lost sons, because both sons had a problem. And what he wants us to do is take each of those parables and just consider the content. The first parable is found in verses four to six. He asked the question: What man of you having in hunting Hundred sheep. If he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost until he find it. When he hath found it, he layeth it On his shoulders rejoicing. When he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, I have found my sheep, which was lost. Now, what are the details that we find? In this parable. The first is that his focus was not on what he had, but rather on the one sheep that went missing. We also see that he went and he pursued that sheep. He didn't uh just say, well, I'll ignore it and not worry about it. It's just collateral damage. It's just the price of doing business. Sometimes, sometimes you'll lose some of what you're raising. if you're a farmer and things like that. Or I'll just send someone and see if they can half-heartedly look for the sheep and find it. That's not what he did. He personally goes and pursues the lost sheep. And when he finds the sheep, he rejoices that he has found it. He puts it on his shoulders. He brings it home. But he doesn't just rejoice alone. He calls others to rejoice with him. And so this is a very sweet parable because it shows you the affection that the shepherd has for an animal, a sheep. The second parable is found in verses 8 and 9. He says, what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle, sweep the house, seek diligently till she finds it. When she hath found it, she call her friends and her neighbors together. saying, rejoice with me. I have found the peace which I had lost. You can see the par the parallels between these two parables. This this woman looks for the details and it's almost exactly the same way. Then we see the third parable. It says, there was a certain man who had two sons. Well, what is the emphasis of these parables? Well, the first two parables is that it is natural for people to look for lost things. It's also that it's natural to rejoice when you have found something that was lost. Lost. So whether it's a sheep or maybe it's a dog that got away or a cat that went missing or a hamster that's missing if you have little kids and they have a hamster, whatever it is, you lose an animal. you're you're you're gonna look for it and when you find it you're happy. Or when you lose a a coin, something of value, and you search for it and it's bugging you and you're looking and tearing the house Department to try to find this thing. Maybe you're looking in all the couch cushions or something like that. You're looking in the car and all the little nooks and crannies. Well, when you find it, there's satisfaction, there's joy. It is natural to rejoice over lost things. How much more over lost people? And when I say lost people, I'm not using this in the sense of a person who went missing in a grocery store or in a park, or someone who uh ha ha has not been seen for for days or weeks. We think about how joy how much joy there would be when you find someone who you have lost in that sense, but even to a greater degree, a lost soul. Someone whose life and eternity is in the balances. Where they were will spend eternity. And when that person is found, how much more valuable are they than sheep and animals? And coins. That's the point of what he's saying. And what he's also emphasizing is that God's grace is celebrated every single time a soul is saved. And you see that where he says, how much more do the angels rejoice in heaven over one sinner who repents? God's grace is immense and to be celebrated. And then the third parable, which we're going to deal with in far greater detail next week, is that God's grace is incomprehensibly good. And it defies even the best natural inclinations of people. So here is this son who turns against his father, disrespects his father, wastes all of the substance that his father had accumulated over the course of his life. He wastes it on Un sinful and absolutely unspeakable things and then he's at the bottom of life. He has nothing. He's literally about to die in a pig pen. He comes to his senses And his father receives them. What is this all about? It's well, it's showing that God's goodness is something that it even goes against our best inclinations. It is so far beyond our natural expressions. Of kindness, that it's something that even makes us uncomfortable sometimes when we see it. And that's what's being expressed by the Pharisees and the scribes. So when we think about these verses, we need To recognize it's about celebrating the grace of God. It's about talking about how God's ways and our ways are different. It's about helping us to recognize it is natural and normal to rejoice when things are lost and found. And it's even more natural to rejoice over the salvation of a soul, an image bearer, than over finding an animal or a thing. And so I hope that this this morning as you reflect on this, or whenever you uh listen to or watch this video, I hope that you will think about the value of souls. And you'll rejoice in God's grace as it's being demonstrated in the salvation of souls. And I also want to say, have a great rest of your day. Hope that you'll join us tomorrow. as we continue developing what we find in this text. I hope that these things are encouragement to you. If they have been, take a moment to share that either in a comment in the comment section or perhaps share the video. video with someone who you think uh could be benefited by it and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow. Have a blessed day by now