Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And again, we are in season four now, and I hope that you enjoyed our study that we did yesterday. as we talked a little bit about the background. This morning we're going to move to a topic that I think is central to this storyline, and that is celebrating God's kindness and delighting in it. And that is exactly what David does in this text, 1 Chronicles 29. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's turn together to this text and we will read it and then we'll listen to a little short video clip That kind of highlights that, and then we will expand the topic a bit this morning, Lord Willie. Here's what it says. Wherefore David blessed the Lord before all the congregation. And David said, Blessed be thou, Lord God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty For all that is in the heaven and the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. But riches and honor come of thee, and thou reignest over all. And in thine hand is power and might, and in thine hand it is to make great, and to give strength unto all. Now, therefore, our God, we thank thee, and praise thy glorious name But who am I? What is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? For all things come of thee, and of thine own have we given thee. Let's take a moment and listen to this little short clip. We need to remind ourselves that every good thing that we enjoy finds its ultimate source in Him. Time and chance fall as God ordains. Strength, wisdom, and skill come by his good hands Health and seasons come from his good hand. Mercy and grace come from his good hand. All of these things are from him. And we need to pause and we need to remind ourselves of that. We need to remind ourselves afresh. So think about that. The passage in front of us is important because David is expressing not just how great God is and how kind God is. But how it almost makes no sense that David would have the privilege to be able to give to God. Now, this is a little bit of a fascinating concept for us to consider. When David is saying that he is thankful that he has the privilege to give to God, he he bases that statement on the fact that he realizes that everything that he is giving to God God doesn't need it, technically. He owns everything. And God is simply receiving something that is the fruit of his enabling in David's life. So when David talks about this opportunity to give, he's saying, if I didn't have uh the position that I had, I couldn't have done it. this. If I didn't have the physical strength that I had, I couldn't have done this. If I didn't have the mental abilities to to to to accumulate this wealth, I couldn't have done that. If I had made different decisions at another time in my life, I would be too old to do this. And so David's saying all of these factors that go into my ability to accumulate these. things and for people to get behind this project and for me to be able to give this ultimately goes back to you. You're the one who strengthened my hands. You're the one who gave me the wisdom. You're the one who gave me the insight. You're the one who stirred up my heart. You're the one who uh caused me to think about this at the stage in life that I did so that I would actually be able to contribute to that. And so what is David doing? David is celebrating God's goodness on lots of different levels. He's celebrating his goodness on the character level. He is greatness and power and glory and victory and majesty. He's celebrating it on, we could say, the the sovereign side, the fact that everything that exists in the universe, it is ruled by God, it was created by God, it's sustained by God. He says, it's all of your work in my life that I have the ability to do this. And so David is really expressing great gratitude to God. And the reason that I highlight this I highlight it in the sermon, obviously because of the content. But the reason that I highlight it this week as we enter into the new year is that we need to see that giving of ourselves That would be giving of our time, giving of our strength, giving of our financial resources, giving of our energies, giving of our seasons of life. That's something that should be very natural for Christians to do. We should very naturally be willing to give of ourselves to God. And the reason for that is that we recognize that that we're in this position entirely by grace and we're sustained by by God's grace and everything that we have is ultimately from his hand And so we should really go into this year thinking in terms of, hey, what I'm able to give to God, I am privileged to do it. And I want to do it from the heart with a genuine spirit of gratitude because that would be the only appropriate way to look at the things that I have. And so I want to leave you with that simple thought A simple thought is God is good. Every good thing we have comes from Him. He doesn't need anything from us, but He sustains us, He blesses us, He strengthens us. so that we will be privileged to actually give back to him from his blessings to us. And we will be able to enjoy the fruit of that investment of time and energy and race. resources and see the way that God uses it. And for for David, David did not have the opportunity to necessarily see how his son Solomon took all of those things. and he invested that. He wasn't able to see the long-term investment, but he anticipated it and it brought him tremendous joy at the later stages of his life. So may God help us to be a kind of people who are very grateful, very humble, very giving, and we recognize that it is a privilege to do that. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll expand a little bit more in our thoughts on this passage of scripture. Bye now.