Good morning and welcome back to our fourth anchored in the word morning reflect reflection. And uh today and really yesterday and also tomorrow we're really going to be looking at the the practical side of this passage of scripture, not so much what David said, but we're looking at how we can learn from what David said and why he said it and how he was able to say that. And so while we focused earlier in the week on the fact that David proclaims God's greatness and God's kindness toward him personally, And the fact that he feels overwhelmed that a God who owns everything and sustains everything and everything David has has come from his hands, that he has the privilege of giving back to God and God doesn't even need it. As we reflect on all of those facts, what we're doing is we're looking at how we how this really can inform our start to the year. And so this morning I want us to focus in on how we could start out the new year right. And so let's look at the text again, 1 Chronicles 29. We're going to read verses 10 through 14 together. Here's what it says. Wherefore David blessed the Lord before all the congregation. And David said, Blessed be thou, Lord God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty For all that is in the heaven and the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. Both riches and honor come of thee, and thou reignest over all, and in thine hand is power and might And in thine hand it is to make great and to give strength unto all. Now, therefore, our God, we thank thee and praise thy glorious name But who am I, and what is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? For all things come of thee, and of thine own have we given thee Now let's listen to a little section of the sermon, and then we will discuss it. We need to start the new year with a matured and godly perspective. In some sense , January the first is just another day. In another sense, it is an opportunity for you to go, the calendar changes. I'm going to reflect in the last 12 months and I'm going to purpose to do some things different in the next 12 months. It gives us a moment where we can pause and reflect and we can plan and we can purpose. And we can worship our great God. You know, as I think about days like January 1st. I know a lot of people like to do New Year's resolutions. Some people are contrary and they say, not me, I'm not doing a New Year's resolution. I'm going to break it anyway. If I want to be consistent, I'm going to be consistent. And I I understand that. In fact, I I sometimes kind of lean more towards the second opinion more than the first. But this is something that I've observed in life, uh, both uh in my own personal experience um seeing things with my own children growing up. I think about this even as a pastor. One of the things that that we see in life is that God builds into the the the patterns of our life seasons where he makes us stop and look back and prepare to look forward. He does this. And so if you were to look at the Jewish calendar for instance, the Jewish calendar had all of these religious events. these religious festivals. And these festivals were to cause the people to look back at how God had worked in their nation's history. And they were supposed to enjoy the moment with family and friends in their community. And then it was supposed to inform how they looked forward. And so we talk about things like the Passover, we think about things like the Feast of Booths, or we think about Pentecost or the Day of Atonement. When we talk about the Jewish calendar , God put into that 12-month period, he put in seasons where they were to stop and they were to reflect and they were to enjoy God in community And God even put this into our work week. So the scripture tells us that we're to work for six days, and on the seventh day we're to rest. And that day of rest is a day of worship, a day of delighting in the Lord. It's a day where we We just enjoy our community of believers in the local church. God wants us to learn to work hard and then he wants us to stop and he wants us to rest and he wants us to delight and he wants us to go through these patterns. And and even when we think about situations that we encounter in life, God in his providence doesn't just give us a smooth life all the time. Now, you know, everything that we want comes to us and and and we never run into interpersonal conflicts. We never get sick. We never get weak, we never go through seasons of discouragement. That's not how God works. God allows us, maybe we could even go so far as to say He causes at times us to encounter difficulties for a reason. That reason is to cause us to stop what we're doing and to have to look in, which will cause us to need to look up. which will cause us to think correctly about what's around us once our lives have been oriented back to God appropriately. And then from that we move forward with resolve and with purpose We even see this pattern a lot of times in the Psalms. And so I want to challenge you as we go into the new year to make this a time Where you stop and you reflect back at where you've been, what you've learned, what heartaches maybe you've encountered, not to dwell on those things and not to um not to mull over them, you know, where it becomes an unhealthy introspection, but but to recognize God's brought you through that, to recognize that God's grace has sustained you, to consider some of the lessons that you've learned And then to purpose, based on what you've learned, to worship the Lord and to move forward in a more healthy pattern. And this is how we grow, and this is how we change, and this is how when we're getting off track, we get back on the right track. This is what God wants us to do. And so may I encourage you. To do that. Perhaps today is the day to do that, maybe over the weekend, but take some time to look back to reflect, to look up, and then to move forward with a godly purposed resolve. Have a blessed rest of your day. If this encouraged you, maybe take a moment to share that. If you think it'll be helping somebody else. Perhaps pass it along so that they can be encouraged by it as well. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. And Lord willing, we'll look at some final thoughts tomorrow as we get ready for the weekend. Have a blessed day. Bye now.