Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another series of editions of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. The passage that we're looking at this week is the story of Christ speaking to two disciples who are on the road to Emmaus. And this is the passage that we dealt with on Resurrection Sunday in our church. And so I'm very excited about the details that we're going to dig into this week, Lord willing. And I hope remind you of those things that we talked about and also give you a more thorough understanding of what's going on in this passage. Today what we're going to do is we're going to begin by looking at how this conversation is a conversation with us in a story. And so we want to step back and look at some of the details that Luke has already recorded for us in the gospel account. so that we'll know what's going on and kind of put this conversation in its context. So let's go ahead and begin reading in Luke chapter 24 verse 13. This morning my plan is to read through the entire section that we're going to address But I will not do that at at great length the rest of the week because it is a lengthy passage of Scripture. So here's what the text says. And behold, two of them went that day to a village called Maas, which was from Jerusalem about three score furlongs. They talked together of all these things which had happened, and it came to pass that while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them. Their eyes were holding that they should not know him. He said unto them, What manner of communication are these that ye have one with another as ye walk, and are so sad? One of them, whose name was Cleopus, answered and said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem hast thou not known The things which are come to pass there in these days? He said unto them, What things? They said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty indeed, and word before God and all the people. How the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and he and have crucified him. We trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel. Beside all this, today is the third day since these things were done Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre. When they found not his body, they came, saying that they had seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive. And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre and found it even as the women had said, but him they saw not. He said unto them, O fools, slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and have entered into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. This is a fascinating passage because we have the opportunity to look in on a conversation that Christ had with these two disciples. We're able to see their mentality, their mindset. We're able to see what their perspective of the events were, and we're able to see how Christ relates to them. And so there's a lot we can glean from this text. But first of all, I want us to talk about how this is a conversation within a story. I want us to go back and kind of look back at the details of where we are in Luke's Gospel. The first thing I want to draw your attention to is that this is probably the climax of Luke's gospel. In fact, this portion of Luke is kind of a hinge point between Luke, the Ministry of Christ, and acts the ministry of Christ through the apostles as he has ascended up into heaven. And so this is a high point in the book. In the same way that if we're reading the book of John, we come to the story of Thomas. And Thomas says, I don't believe unless I can see the the nail prints in his hands and thrust my hand into his side. I will not believe that he's risen from the dead. And then Jesus appears to Thomas and he says, Look at my hands and my feet and touch them. And this is kind of like the high point, the climax of the book. The same kind of thing that's going on here in Luke's gospel. Luke has dedicated nearly half the book. to Christ's ascent from Galilee up to Jerusalem. And this is really interesting. When we're reading the book, it's not like he's giving the same amount of detail to all three of the years of Christ's ministry. This is a very short period of time, but it's half the book. And so this is really the focal point of Christ's ministry, his ascent up to Jerusalem for the final Passover, and then his sacrificial death so that our sins can be removed and we can be reconciled to God. Third thing I'll mention is this. Just one week before this conversation, he was coming down to Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives. And as he's coming down from the Mount of Olives, that ascent down into the Kidron Valley, and then back up into Jerusalem, which is up in the high country of Israel. As he's doing that, the crowds are crying out, save us now, or uh Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. They believe that their king has come and he's going to establish their kingdom. They just don't understand the nature of that kingdom or how he's going to go about doing it. Throughout the week of the Passover, there's this building contention between Christ and the religious leaders. Now, this is not a new thing. This is something that's been going on all throughout Christ's ministry. But it's really coming to a head. And there are three major controversies or confrontations between Christ and the religious leaders that ultimately are going to c culminate in then in them delivering him to the Romans to be condemned to death. We also see that despite the fact that Christ is innocent, the crowd is whipped up into a frenzy, they turn against him, and they demand that he be crucified. And it's ultimate ultimately because they're religious leaders Who despised Christ and were jealous of him were able to manipulate the crowd and encourage them to turn against Christ. Luke takes a lot of time, a lot of attention. to record the innocence of Christ. And interestingly, he uses very unlikely sources to give testimony to the fact that the people knew Jesus was innocent. Three times Pilate says he knows that Christ is an innocent man. One of those three times, he's communicating that Herod Antipas, who was one of the people that Jesus stood before, also knew that Jesus was innocent. We see when Christ is interacting with the thief on the cross, the thief on the cross who believed in him, declares, we know that this is a just man. He's innocent. He doesn't deserve to die. We do deserve to die. And then at the end, when he dies, the centurion is overseeing his crucifixion, declares, truly, this is an innocent man. So Luke is taking a lot of time to record the well-known reality of Christ's innocence. He is not dying for his own sins or because he's broken the law. He is dying for a very different reason. We also see that on the preparation of the Sabbath, this would be the Friday going into Passover during the Passover week. Christ dies. And his death on the cross is ultimately the Passover lamb that is pictured in the Passover all the way back in Exodus He's removing our sin through his death on the cross. We also see that God confirms the significance of this through two sign events. One of those is that there was a complete darkness for three hours. And during this time, it's demonstrating that God is pouring out his judgment on Christ so that Christ can deliver the gift of eternal life to those who place their faith in him. We also see that he's confirming that the sacrifice was accepted and through this sacrifice there's now access directly to God through the sacrifice of Christ. And this is signified by the the the veil of the temple being ripped in two from top to bottom saying, now you have access to me. And so there are a lot of pieces to this story On the first day of the week, the women come because they want to anoint the body. We know that they understood that Christ had died. They didn't have time to to properly anoint his body for burial because There was a rush to prepare for the Sabbath day, and so they were waiting to the earliest possible time to do this, the first day of the week, which is Sunday, so that they could go and properly anoint his body. But what do they discover when they go there? He's not there. He's risen. That's the testimony that they hear. And so all throughout the day, the disciples are wrestling with the testimony of these women. Are they speaking the truth? They confirm for themselves that the tomb is empty, but the question is what is the explanation for the emptiness of this tomb? And so that leads me to a summary statement. The disciples' disappointment literally blinded them to the fact that Christ was risen until God graciously removed the blindness. and gave them the firsthand confirmation that in fact Christ is risen just like the scriptures promised. As we work our way through this passage this week, we will see that God wants us to glory in the Savior. And so I hope that's exactly what you will do this week. If this has been an encouragement to you, please share that. If this is something you think will be an encouragement to others, take a moment to share that, maybe on a Facebook feed or in some other capacity. And Lord willing, as we work our way through the passage, you will be very richly blessed by the things that we see from the Word of God. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.