Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And this week we've been talking about the Passover, the Cross, and the New Covenant. And yesterday was the most technical of all of the different uh days that we've been studying it. We talked about the body of Christ and the significance of our of our sin being placed on Christ and him being punished in our place. We talked about the blood of Christ that was shed for the remission of our sins, and we talked about the significance of that both with the word Ephesus and Paressis. And the fact that it is through the cross and through the shedding of Christ's blood and dealing with our sin at the cross that God can justly forgive our sin without compromising his holy character in any way. And then we talked about the new covenant and the fact that the old covenant was ended with the death of Christ and the new covenant was established by the Lord Jesus Christ going to the cross. And so the question we should ask is, well, what are some final thought applications that we should take from this study? And obviously the most important of all of them is that this is how we're saved. This is how we are reconciled to God. But I want us to go even a little bit further than just the concept of this is academically how we're reconciled to God. I want to break it down a little bit further. So if you have your Bible, let's turn there to Luke chapter 22. We're going to read this passage one more time, and then I'll give you some final thoughts of application. Here's what it says. And when the hour was come, he sat down, and the twelve apostles with him. He said unto them, With desire, I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. For I say unto you, I will not any more eat thereof, until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. And he took the cup and gave thanks and said, Take this. divide it amongst yourselves. For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God shall come. And he took bread and gave thanks, and brake it, and gave unto them, saying, This is my body, which is given for you. This due in remembrance of me. Likewise also the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood, which is shed for you. Now, if you remember when we dealt with this passage last Sunday, we actually celebrated the Lord's table. And this passage of Scripture is such a practical one in dealing with the Lord's table. But just realize that the applications I'm going to give are going to be given in the light of remembering the Lord's table. So this week we're not going to be remembering the Lord's table, but every single day. We should go back to the gospel and remind ourselves fra uh frankly again and again and freshly of these timeless truths The first is this. When we talk about the Lord's table, this is a sacred time of remembrance. It's not a time for us to feel misery and for us to beat ourselves over the head or to declare something about how perfect we are. When the Bible talks about making sure that we don't partake in an unworthy manner, the idea is that the attitude that we have, the way we approach the Lord's table, should be one of sacred remembrance and reflection. It should be a joyful time. It should be a time where we're comforted by the work of Christ. We are coming to proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. And we need to regularly remind ourselves of what God did for us. what was accomplished through that, what we have as a result of that, and what it tells us about our sin and also God's character. We also need to remember that this should be a time of delight, delighting in what God has done for us, delighting in what God has given to us through Christ's sacrifice And so I want to start with that. That is where we should always end. But there's a second side to this as well. We need to remember Very specifically, that it is his body that bore our sin, that he was wounded for our transgressions, and he was bruised for our iniquities. And so when we go back to the cross, we remember it. We need to remember that he truly suffered in the flesh for our sins to be paid for. We should remember afresh that the chastisement of our peace was on him, and that he was the one who redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. What should this do? This should remind us of the tremendous love and the tremendous value that God puts on your soul and on mine. And it should remind you of how serious our sin is and how great the punishment that we deserve for our sin is. We should remember that we have in the present forgiveness of sins through the redemption of his blood. This isn't something that we hope to have or something that we will have, it's something that we do have. And it's because it is rooted entirely in his work for us in the past on the cross. And we need to be reminded that we are the recipients of a better covenant than the first. And this is because by his own blood he entered in once to the holy place, and he obtained eternal redemption for us through it. So as we think about the Passover and the Lord's table and the cross, may that be what we think about constantly. May this give us strength. May this humble our perspective. Might it fill us with joy and comfort? May we be a worship-filled group of people because of what God has done for us I want to leave that with you as we go into the weekend. I hope that we'll see many of you this coming Lord's Day. If not, I hope that you'll join us on Monday as we keep working our way through Anchored in the Word Studies. Have a blessed weekend. If you think it's been an encouragement to you and that somebody else could benefit from it, share it. And if you have any questions, you want to feedback, give us any feedback, I'd be happy to answer any questions that you have. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll see you next week. Next time by now