Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And as we always do on Friday, we try to take everything that we've talked about throughout the week and try to put it in a real practical way with some final applications. So we're going to do that this morning as we normally do. Let's turn one more time to Luke chapter 20. We'll begin reading in verse number 9, then we'll break down some final thoughts. Then began he to speak to the people this parable. A certain man planted a vineyard and led it forth to a husbandman, went into a far country for a long time, and at the season he sent a servant to the husbandman. that they should give him the fruit of the vineyard. But the husbandman beat him, sent him away empty. Again he sent another servant, they beat him also, and entreated him shamefully. sent him away empty, and again they sent a third, and they wounded him also, and cast him out. Then said the Lord of the vineyard, What shall we do? I will send my beloved son. It may be they will reverence him when they see him. As we think about this passage of scripture, there are three fundamental truths that I think we see illustrated in the text that we should walk away kind of reflecting on. The first is this, the system that rejected Christ would be destroyed. And that destruction would be both righteous and certain. As these people said, His blood be on us and our children We reject him, send him to be crucified. They knew he was an innocent man. God was not going to overlook that. In fact, one day he will judge it. And he did judge it as was predicted by the parable of Christ. The second thing is this. The system that would replace that system that was broken would be a new way built entirely on the one who had been rejected. This is an amazing thing for us to consider. The one who is rejected is called the chief cornerstone. If we want to talk about the foundation of the Christian life, it is all built on Christ. Everything is rooted in him, everything is grounded in him, everything flows out of him, everything in our lives is oriented toward him and toward his glory. And so as one system that is broken is replaced, it is replaced by the right way centered on Christ. The third thing I'll mention is that this rejection and judgment are necessary and will ultimately accomplish God's good redemptive purposes. Now, when we talk about the Old Testament, the Old Testament was not able to save people. It was able to point people to the one who would save them. People could be saved in the Old Testament because they were trusting in the coming Messiah, but it was powerless to remove their guilt. Only through the sacrifice of Christ could their guilt be removed. And so the cleansing that we see in the Old Testament is a temporary cleansing. It's one that had to go over and over and over again. Whereas the Lord Jesus Christ offers himself once and for all. and he removes our sin once and for all. But then we talk about the system that was in place at the time of Christ. This was a perversion of the Old Testament system. The Judaism of the first century was rejecting Christ because it either did not understand the Old Testament, how it pointed to Christ, or it had purposely rejected it and built its own structure. And so this judgment and this rejection was a necessary part of the redemptive purposes of God. Because it is through these things that God accomplishes redemption through Christ. Second thing I want to mention is this pathage drives us to some practical implications, not just theological truths, but also applications. And the first is this. We need to examine God's purposes from His perspective, not our perspective. It's very dangerous for us to pick up our Bible and say it has to say what I think it should say. Or when we read it and we get uncomfortable maybe with the way that God handles things, that we begin to be his judge rather than him being our judge. Rather than us submitting to his word, we expect it to submit to our expectations. We need to see things from his perspective. Secondly, there's no acceptable alternative to a worldview built on Christ alone. I think about what Paul says in Romans chapter 10. He says, My heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. They are ignorant of God's righteousness, going about to establish their own righteousness, and through that they have not submitted to the righteousness of God. Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to all who believe. And so you cannot take any alternative and say it is true. Thirdly, those who labor to build alternate systems ultimately disregard him and his righteousness. Think about what Christ says, or what Paul says. He says, if righteousness comes through the law, then Christ has died in vain. There is no need for the cross, for the shedding of blood, for Christ bearing our guilt and being punished in our place, if in fact we can be saved through the law And so we understand that all systems that replace Christ are ultimately saying God's righteousness is not what it says it is. And God does not demand the sacrifice that in fact the scriptures say that he does. Fourthly, God will judge any system that falls short of Christ alone. He did this in the first century. He's going to do it at the end of the age. Lastly, we've been saved from this judgment by resting in his sacrifice. One of the things that really encourages me about this passage to think about is that there were people on that day who rejected Christ, but God still gave them opportunity. One of those people, the Apostle Paul, When Christ meets him on the road to Damascus, what does he say? It's difficult for you to kick against the pricks. Paul says, Lord, what do you want me to do? He was a militant hater of Christ. And what does he become? He becomes the most faithful of all the apostles. God used him mildly. And the question is how and why? It's because of God's grace. He repented, he believed, he trusted in the finished work of Christ. It's a lot to process this week. I hope that as we think about these things, they'll encourage and strengthen your heart. Have a blessed weekend. Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday. Bye now