Good morning and welcome to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And let's go ahead and turn back to Luke chapter 20. We're looking at verses 27 through 40. And this morning we're going to look at The triumph of the resurrection as Christ affirms that in fact there is a resurrection from the dead, and this is clearly found in the scriptures. So here's what the text says, Luke chapter 20, verse 27. Then came to him certain of the Sadducees, which deny that there is any resurrection. And they asked him, saying, Master, Moses wrote unto us, If any man's brother die having a wife, and he die without children, And his brother should take his wife and raise up seed unto his brother. There were therefore seven brethren. The first took a wife, died without children The second took her to wife, and he died childless. The third took her, and in like manner the seven also, that left no children and died Last of all, the woman died also. Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife of them is she? For seven had her to wife. And Jesus answers in the following way. The children of this world marry, and are given in marriage, but they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage. Neither can they die any more, for they are equaled unto the angels. And they are the children of God, being the children of the resurrection. Now, that the dead are raised, even Moses showed at the bush, when he call when he's called the Lord the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. He is not a God of the dead, but of the living. For all live unto him. Then certain of the scribes answering said, Master, thou hast well said. After that they durst not ask him any question at all I want us to focus in on the triumphant tenet that Christ affirms from the Scripture. And we find this in this statement in verses 34 to 36, that the dead are raised, even Moses showed at the bush. First, Christ corrected their flawed questions. We look at this example, verses 34 to 36. It says, Jesus answering said unto them, The children of this world marry and are given in marriage, but they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage. Neither can they die anymore, for they are equal unto the angels, and are the children of God, being children of the resurrection. Now notice what Christ is doing here. He's recognizing that their question has a bias. It was framed to trap. He recognizes that it is flawed in an assumption. It assumed that the hypothetical resurrection that they were trying to mock had to be exactly like life is now. Also, he doesn't just leave this flawed prepos per uh presupposition alone, he addresses it He very bluntly goes after it and he says, it's wrong. Your assumption is in fact not correct. Second thing he wants you to notice is that he affirms the resurrection from Scripture We see this in verse 37. Now that the dead are raised, even Moses showed. So notice what he's doing here He 's not taking an illustration to prove the point. They brought an illustration to try to disprove the resurrection. He didn't counter with an illustration to prove it. He didn't lay out some philosophical argument to prove his point. Now that's what they're trying to do, disproved by philosophy, but rather he does something different. He goes directly to Scripture. He proves his point from what the Scriptures say. In other words, he's elevating the authority of Scripture, and he's not going into philosophy or illustration, but rather letting the Scriptures speak for themselves. Thirdly, he uses an example that demonstrate how natural and fundamental the resurrection is to a correct view of Scripture. When we see what he says in verses 37 and 8, he says, At the bush he is called the Lord the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. He is not a God of the dead, but of the living, for all live unto him. Now this is such an interesting illustration This is not an apologetic type of statement. This is not, let me prove to you the resurrection is true kind of a statement. This is an example that shows you how fundamental, how natural, how foundational the resurrection is to biblical thought. He gives an example that he personally understood because when he says, I'm the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, This is the angel of the Lord speaking, and that is Christ. So Christ not only uses this example, but he actually spoke this example in this particular text of Scripture. But we look at other scriptures that speak very naturally of the resurrection in the Old Testament. Job says in Job 19, I know my Redeemer liveth. that he shall stand in the latter day upon the earth. And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God. Clearly he believes in the resurrection. Or another example, Psalm sixteen. My flesh shall rest in hope. Thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither shalt thou suffer thine holy one to seek corruption Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy, and at thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore. And then Psalm 23, surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. All of these passages show us that the resurrection is naturally understood in the Old Testament. The last thing I want to mention here is this. His answer silences the opponent. It says in verse 39, Master, thou hast well said, and after this, they did not ask him any questions at all. What this shows you is that when we have questions of theology, the way to answer those questions is not to create some illustration that we think proves our point. or not to go to some philosophical argument to prove our point, but rather to engage in the scriptures, let them speak for themselves, let scripture interpret its scripture and look at scripture with a clear and the natural reading of the text. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow on the 4th of July to look at some final thoughts in this text. Bye now.