Good morning and welcome to our Friday, Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And my prayer is that this has been a great week of studies. It's been an encouragement to you. And today is our application day. And I do want to kind of touch on some of the last little details of what we find in Ephesians 13, 18 to 23. before we move into the application. But with that in mind, let's go ahead and take our Bibles, turn to the text again, Ephesians 1, verse 18, and we'll work our way through it. Here's what it says. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that you may know what is the hope of his calling, what is the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints. What is the exceeding greatness of his power to us for who believe, according to the working of his mighty power which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead? And set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places, far above all principalities and powers, and might and dominion in every name that is named And hath put all things under his feet, and gave him to be the head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all. Now as we think about everything we've talked about this week, when we talk about the greatness of Christ, here is one of the details that I think is one of the most profound about everything we've talked about. Not just that he is creator, sustainer. He took on human flesh. He died for our sins. He rose from the dead. He's seated at the right hand of the Father. He intercedes on our behalf. All of those things are wonderful things. He's the sovereign, the ruler over all. But here's the detail we don't want to miss. That God takes personal interest in us. His greatness is revealed in how he relates to the church. And we see the way that he puts it in verses 22 and 23. And he gave him to be the head over all things to the church. which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all. This great God cares about you and me as members of a community of believers, the church. He is the head. That means he is the the the one who rules over this church, the one who created it, relates to it. It is his body. That means that it's not just that he's a king over a kingdom, but the body, the church, is a living organism and we are united to Christ and we are members one of another. And he's revealing himself to people through the church. The church functions to actually proclaim light in the darkness. And to show people what God's character actually looks like. As the church reflects the nature of the Lord, then the church is functioning as salt and light the way that it should. So I don't want to gloss over those things. Those things are amazing. Now how do we take everything we've heard this week and how do we apply it? Well, first of all, if someone's not a Christian, they need to stop and they need to think about these things very much. To the unbeliever, here are my thoughts. That sacrifice that we talked about this week, where God takes on flesh and he goes to the cross and he dies for our sins and he rises from the dead, that sacrifice is available for you. You could not be saved apart from what Jesus did, but you can be saved because of what he did. Second thing is this, if you don't meet him now as your Savior, one day you will meet him as your eternal judge And we don't know how much time God gives us on this earth, but what we do know is every day he gives us is an opportunity. Don't reject it. Repent. Trust Christ. Depend on his sacrifice. Let him save you from your sins. And then you can be in the position to glory in him as the one who has mercifully saved you. And has reconciled you to himself. If you're not a Christian, turn to Christ, place your faith in him. Secondly, to the believer. There's a lot for us to think about here as well. Where on the other side, all of these blessings that we have talked about, they are ours. And they are secured for us through the work of Christ. And we should be very, very thankful for that. We know all these things, but the question is, do we appreciate them? Do we glory in them? Do we delight in them? Do we live in the light of them? That's what we need to do this week. So let's ask God to help us to have a deeper sense of the richness of these truths. That He'll take the truth and expand our understanding of them, expand our affection for Him. develop a deeper maturity as we grow in a knowledge of him. Let's rejoice in him. Let's praise him. Let's remember. the greatness of his sacrifice. When we dealt with this passage a few weeks ago, we we we partook of the Lord's table together. And so this is a this is an excellent text for us to think about the sacrifice of Christ with. But let's ask the Lord to give us a clearer understanding. Let's remember every day what he's done for us. And let's thank him for it. Well, that's what I have for you this week. Hope you have a wonderful weekend. Hope we see many of you on Sunday. And we praying that the Lord will use this in your life. Have a blessed day. If you need anything, don't hesitate to reach out. Share it with others. And Lord willing, we'll see you on Sunday. Bye now.