Good morning. Welcome to our second Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection for the Week. And this morning we're going to get into the meat of this tack, this text of Scripture, and we're going to talk about the substitutionary death of Christ. And when we talk about the gospel, the heart of the gospel is this transfer where our sin has been placed on Christ. And our guilt has been placed on Christ, and God has dealt with his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, as if he were the one who had sinned in our place. And it is through his sacrifice and through his death and the removal of God's wrath against our sin that we ultimately are able to be safe from our sins and reconcile to God. And so we're going to talk about that concept this morning that is really at the heart of the gospel. So if you have your Bibles, turn with us to Luke chapter 18. We're looking at verses 31 through 34 together. It says the following. Then he took unto him the twelve, and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written of the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished, for he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles He shall be mocked, spitefully entreated, and spit on. They shall scourge him and put him to death, and the third day he shall rise again. And they understood none of these things, and this saying was hid from them. Neither knew they the things which were spoken. Let's go ahead and listen to this little section together. Surely he hath borne our griefs. And carried our sorrows. He was wounded for, did you catch that word? For our transgressions. Hold on a second Hold on a second. Wounded for my transgressions, what is that? That's called my sin placed on Christ, him being punished in my place. How do you describe it any other way? Wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities. Do you see how this is a substitutionary death? This is such an important concept in a part of the Bible, a part of the gospel message. When we go to 1 Corinthians chapter 15, he says, Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. He was buried. He rose again the third day according to the scriptures. Notice the word for, or as I emphasize in that little section of the sermon, Isaiah 53. It says that the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. He made his soul an offering for sin. He will see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. By his sacrifice, he will justify many because he will bear their iniquities Or another passage of scripture it says, He made the just, he took the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God. Or Romans 5, 8. It says that God commendeth his love toward us while we are yet sinners. Christ died for us. All of these passages of Scripture emphasize that second element of God's grace, not just his grace that demonstrates his faithfulness to his promises. But his grace that demonstrates the nature of our redemption, Christ literally had to come, and he literally had to take on flesh. And he literally had to die. And he literally had to die as our sin-bearing substitute. I think about Jesus when he's in the garden. He says, Father, if it is possible, remove this cup from me. Yet Not what I will, but what you will. Why did Jesus pray that? Well, because he understood something. There was a cup. This is a metaphor that's referring to the fact that God's wrath was going to be poured out on the cross and Christ would have to drink that bitter cup. In fact, you look to the Old Testament, there are many, many examples. Of God's wrath being poured out against sin being referred to as a cup that is poured out. It's referred to in the Old Testament text dealing with prophecies, it's something that's talked about in the book of Revelation. And so Christ understands this. He understands that he's going to be separated from his father. He understands that that the guilt of humanity is going to be placed on his shoulders. He recognizes that God's judgment will be poured out on him, that his soul will be an offering for sin. And he understood the agony and the misery and the humiliation of that sacrifice. And he said, if it's possible, remove it. But it's not. That's the only way. God cannot just forgive our sins without there being a substitutionary death because of God's holiness and his justice. It cannot be compromised. And so when we talk about the gospel, it's important for us to recognize it's not just the good news that we can be forgiven, it's the good news that we can be forgiven through a very particular sacrifice, a substitutionary death, a triumph over death and the grave by a man, the man Jesus Christ, who is God in flesh. Emmanuel, a man who is perfect and sinless and righteous, so he can bear our sins as a sinless substitute, so that he can give a free forgiveness. All of those things are bound up in the gospel message. And so when we read this passage of Scripture, let's remember not just God's grace demonstrating his faithfulness, as we talked about yesterday, faithfulness to promises. But God's grace demonstrated in the nature of redemption that Christ was willing to take on our sin debt to be punished in our place. so that we could be reconciled to God and our sin debt could be removed and God's wrath could be satisfied. Propitiation. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we dig into this passage a little further. Take care. Bye now.