Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to a new week and a new edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And if you'll notice, this video has been put out a lot earlier in the morning than usual, and I want to talk about about what I'm going to do this week, which will be a little bit of a departure from the typical way that I handle our anchored in the words. Today I'm going to be putting out two episodes. So one in the morning, which is the one I'm doing right now. And then the second one will come out sometime in the afternoon. And the reason for that is I'm going to be taking the passage of scripture and the concepts that I dealt with on Sunday night in relation to Christians and their uh relationship to civic duty. And I'm going to talk about that in in three parts because of the election that is coming tomorrow. And so So my desire is to take the things that we talked about and to kind of break them down for you this morning, this afternoon, and then tomorrow morning. And I hope that for those who have not yet voted, that this will uh encourage you to go out and to fulfill your civic duty and vote. I would encourage you to pray and also I hope that it will shape the way that you approach this issue as a believer. And the truth is that as Christians, not only do we have a d a duty in relationship to our civic duty of voting, but we need to think about how we do it, that we do it in a way that would honor the Lord. And so we want to do this as conscientious religiously and biblically as possible. And so that that's the purpose of what I'm going to address today in two parts, and then Lord willing tomorrow. And then we'll do two more episodes. We'll take what what I dealt with. in the Sunday morning message two weeks ago and um we're gonna break that down into two parts so it will be um a little bit different the way we do it this week. So um if you are watching this video I hope that you'll look at all three of the videos because are going to go together. And if you'd like to hear it as it was preached, go back to Sunday evening and you'll see that there in the message that was preached at Anchor Baptist. Well, with that in mind, let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to two passages of Scripture that are going to help us as we dig into this topic of what is the Christian's civic duty. First Timothy chapter 2, verse 1. one says the following I exhort therefore that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men, for kings and for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life. in all godliness and honesty. The second text we're going to read is from Romans chapter 13. It says, let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. And then later on in the text it says that he is the minister of God. to thee for good. Now I didn't read the entire section of Romans 13, 1 to 8, and 1 Timothy 2, 1 to 6, but we will we will refer back to some of the details that were not read as we address this topic today and tomorrow. The first thing I'd like us to zero in on here is the fact that we as Christians have some very clear-cut, objective duties towards human government. And it's important for us to recognize that the kind of government that Paul is writing about in Romans and in 1 Timothy is a different form of government than than what we have today. Rome was in charge and their structure of government was different than ours. They did not have the ability to elect the person that was going to be their emperor or some something like that. In fact, most of the people that were living in Rome, in the Roman Empire, didn't have any kind of real obligation from a we we could say from a regional standpoint to Rome, apart from the fact that Rome had established his empire and that they had conquered the entire Mediterranean world. So it's important for us to recognize that that the things that Paul is writing are written to a government that was less benevolent, where people had fewer rights than we have today. And so we should preface what we're going to say with that in mind. So what are some of those objective duties? Well there are four that I'd like to draw your attention to today. The first duty is this we are responsible to pray for our government authorities. officials. And we have this in our prayer bulletins here at church. We uh we're reminded to pray for our civic leaders. And this is something that we we should regularly be doing as Christians. What is prayer? Well, prayer is us reminding ourselves that we are ultimately submissive to God and He is the one who has to work in the lives of these people. It's reminding us that God actually does work in the lives of the people that are in the government and He uses them to accomplish good in the world. It doesn't mean that the the leaders are all are all godly people. In fact, in most times in history there have been very few godly people who were ruling in the government for the peoples that we're talking about. And so it's important for us to remember duty one, pray. He says, I exhort that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men, for kings and all who are in authority. The second thing I want to mention is duty two. We need to be law-abiding citizens. He says in verses 1 and 2, let every soul be subject, that is, under the authority of the higher powers. There is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God. Now, I don't want to give you the impression that submission to the government is an absolute matter. I think we have to step back and we have to analyze a few things about this statement. First of all, let's remember that Christians suffered immense persecution in the Roman world at certain times because of their resistance to the government. And when I say resistance, It's not that they were trying to overthrow the government. It's that they chose to disobey the government in certain areas as it related to submission to God rather than government. So this is not an absolute statement that we always obey every single law that the government would have. But we also have to consider the nature of the government that we have here as American citizens. For instance, our government system is unique, and that's what makes this statement a little bit complicated. Our founding fathers wrote a constitution. and a Bill of Rights. And the concept of the Constitution of the Bill of Rights is that a president is not an authoritarian dictator or a king. He simply is the the chief executor of a branch. That would be the executive branch of government. And then we also have a legislative branch and we have a judicial branch. And we have this balance of powers. And so our system of government was different than just a king or a monarchy. Second thing I'll mention is this. We have some laws that would follow under what we call a federal jurisdiction. That means that these are laws that apply to everybody. The second area would be our state jurisdiction. These are unique to the state that we live in. And so Maryland laws some of the Maryland laws in the books are different than, say, Delaware laws, or different than Virginia laws, or Florida laws, or Mississippi laws, or California laws. And so we have this breakdown of both federal and state. And then we also have local jurisdictions. So sometimes the laws in Enrique County are different than, say, Calvert County or Montgomery County or Prince George's County. And so we have to recognize that when we talk about submission to the government, in our context, we have the Constitution, we have the Bill of Rights, we have federal jurisdictions, state jurisdiction. jurisdictions, local jurisdictions, and we have obligations that are differing to these various areas of jurisdiction. We also in our system of government have a judicial system that allows us I put this in quotes to protest laws that we believe to be unconstitutional So you could have a situation where someone believes that what I'm being told to do on the state level is unconstitutional, therefore it is illegal, and even though the state is telling me I have to do this. I believe that if this was to go all the way to the Supreme Court, in fact, I would not be violating the law, and I would be uh I would be considered innocent of violating the law. And in certain situations, a group of people may say, we're going to violate what is said to be a law because we believe that it's not actually the law. And uh we would fight this all the way to the Supreme Court. In fact, when we were dealing with the COVID issue, this is something that was actually discussed amongst our men. The question was, um, how do we handle some of these areas where on the local level we are being held to uh A stricter expectation than on the state level and then maybe on the federal level. And so these are discussions that we would have. So what that tells you is that when we talk about submitting to human government in a country like ours with the liberties that we have constitutionally, with the Bill of Rights, and then having these different levels of government, federal, state, and local local, we recognize that there is a little bit of complexity to looking at this particular issue. We also have a legislative system that we can influence. We vote on the people that go into the legislative system Legislature, when we're talking about the Congress, then we talk about on the state level. We can even talk about on the county council level. And so we can vote for these people, and we can we can also in we can engage with these individuals when they have bills that are coming through or policies. we can actually actively write letters and talk to them. The reason that I bring this up is to say we don't just simply blindly obey what we're told to do. sometimes we have to stop and ask the question, is that a legal? Is that a legal expectation? Is that law actually constitutional? And so we have a system of government that allows us to protest, in some sense, to be engaged and to vote. This is very important because when we talk about this issue of engagement as Christians in our civic duty. It's not just to blindly follow the law, but sometimes it's to engage with the people that are there. It's to vote. It's to write letters. It's It's to make phone calls. It's sometimes to even protest an issue in an appropriate manner. This is important that we recognize that those things would not fall outside of the jurisdiction. of being obedient to the text that we have in Romans chapter 13. So I say that all to say that there is no such thing as an absolute right to human authority in any context. Our highest allegiance has to be to God above all else. That leads me to a third duty. We must honestly pay our taxes. And this is a frustration. I think to many people, especially when the tax burden is great in a state where you have federal taxes, you have state taxes, you have local taxes. You have gas taxes, you have sales taxes, you have uh taxes on the property that you own. There's a massive burden. We pay taxes on the fuels that we consume. We have we pay taxes on things like water and electricity. And so there are times that we begin to say, this is an undue burden. This is unnecessary. And the fact is as Christians, we have an obligation to pay our taxes, to be faithful citizens just like everybody else. But what's unique about our situation is we get to actually have a say in those who write the bills and enforce these things. because we have a legal voting process. And that's just part of the reason that I'm bringing this up this week. Duty number four, and this is the last thing that I'll say in this morning. discussion is that we should show proper respect to those who are in the government. In verse number seven he says, Romans 13, 7, custom to him custom, fear to him fear, honor to him honor. One of the things that we need to be cautious about as Christians Christians. It's not just that we are good citizens in the sense that we're obedient to the laws, constitutionally of course, that we pray for those who are in authority, that we are faithful in paying our taxes as we should But we should be respectful to those in the government. I will say that there are many people in the government who I do not appreciate their values at all. I do not agree with them. I will vote against them, if you will, voting for the person running against them in those types of situations. Sometimes I will do that. But yet I am not a person that should be in the place that I demean and I mock and uh I'm arrogant towards those who are in office. The powers that be ordained of God. I may not like them as a person. I may not like their viewpoints. I may not like the way they legislate, but I need to treat them with dignity and respect, just like I would any other person And so I want to leave you with those things as we think about our first part of the three parts that we will talk about in relationship to our civic duty as beliefs. Hope that you have a great rest of your day, and I hope that if you've watched this, you will look out for our second video that we will have later today. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will meet again later today. Bye now.