Good morning and welcome to our Thursday Anchored in the Word of Morning Reflection. And we've been working our way through a complicated but also glorious concept, and that is the providence of God. And we're looking at it in the light of the cross. And so yesterday we introduced some concepts that demonstrated the meticulous care that God took. to accomplish this at the right time. And I'd like us to lean into this a little bit further and talk about the concept of God's providence. So if you have your Bible, please take it, turn together with me to Luke chapter 22. We're going to look at verses 1 through 7. And then we're going to dig into this concept a little bit more thoroughly today. Here's what the text says. Now, the feast of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called the Passover. And the chief priest and scribes saw it how they might kill him. For they feared the people, then entered Satan into Judas surnamed Iscariot, being number of the twelve. And he went his way and communed with the chief priests and the captains how they might betray him unto them. And they were glad, and covenanted to give him money. And he promised and sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence of the multitude Then came the day of unleavened bread, when the Passover must be killed. Now, what is the believer's perspective, or what should be the believer's perspective? on the events and how they how they played out. Well the first thing I want to do is kind of give you an illustration of this concept of God's providence. And an illustration is using the analogy of an onion. When we study history, we could look at several different layers of explanation in relation to historic events The first layer being what actually took place. And ironically, when people talk about history, um, history is often an argument about what actually took place. And sometimes people say, well history is always recorded by the victors. That's not necessarily the case. History r is recorded by those who are literate. And so sometimes the victors were the ones who were literate And sometimes the the uh the the people around the victors are the ones who are literate, they're the ones who wrote about the events. But the bottom line is the Bible explains what happened. And there are human explanations for what happened. There are people who analyze that. But then there's a second layer, and that is, you know, why the people did what they did. In fact, when we look at the story of the cross, we we could probably just give a basic human explanation. You know, Jesus uh he pushed against the religious elites. They liked their power. They wanted to contain They wanted to keep their power. They wanted to eliminate Christ. He made them angry. We could talk about it on those different levels. And that would all be true. Those things actually took place. But then there's another side to this that's even deeper, another layer of the onion. And that is the spiritual explanation. We think about the fact that there are things going on under the surface that are significant. Why did Judas decide he wanted to portray Christ? Well, there was a spiritual side to this. He was influenced by Satan. And why did Satan want Jesus to be crucified? It's because in his mind, that's the end of the story. In fact, It is the summation and the fulfillment of the story, but Satan is moving against Christ. But then there's a final piece, and that is the purpose of God. Now, each of those pieces work together as a part of the same story. You can look at them individually, but you really, if you want the full picture, have to look at it as a whole. And so let me mention a couple of verses in Scripture that talk about God's providence. And these are from Proverbs. Proverbs 20, 24. Man's goings are of the Lord. How can a man understand his own way? That verse isn't saying that people don't have a free will and they can't choose to do what they want to do. But the bottom line is they don't really understand the full implications of the choices that they're making. But God does, and God is working and moving. Or a second, Proverbs 1633, the lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord It's not random chance that causes things to unfold as they do. There is order. There is purpose. God is moving and working. Or Proverbs 21:1, the King's heart is in the hands of the Lord. As the rivers of water, he turneth it whithersoever he will. There is no one in life that is more powerful than a king with absolute authority. And here's a person who can impose his will on anybody. But as he imposes his will on people and as he chooses to do what he wants to do, what he doesn't understand unless he has a biblical worldview is that there is a God in heaven who moves this person and he guides him even as he makes his choices. because God has big purposes that are at play. And so what do these things show you? They affirm the the will of man and man can make choices, but also the ultimate purposes of God that guide all of these things. to God's big purpose ends. And so there's a human side. And the text tells us about this. Mark Matthew 26. When Jesus finished these sayings, he said unto his disciples, You know after two days is the feast of the Passover And the Son of Man is betrayed to be crucified. And then, as Jesus is saying this, it says, Then assemble together the chief priests and the scribes and the elders of the people. under the palace of the high priest, and they called Caiaphas and consulted how they might take Jesus by subtlety and kill him. And here's the point that's interesting. But they said, not on the feast day, lest there be an upper among the people. Now the question is, what do they mean by that? Jesus is saying, I'm going to die, and they're saying, not now. Well, how did it play out? Well, the way it played out was there was a spiritual side. Satan is influencing Judas. It says, Then entered Satan into Judas her name Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve, and he went his way in communed with the chief priests and captains, how they might betray him. And they were glad and coveted to give him money and promised and sought opportunity to betray him in the absence of the multitude. We have to remember there's a spiritual side. We wrestle not against flesh and blood. but against principalities, powers, the rulers of the darkness of this world, spiritual wickedness in high places. And then there's the grand purpose of God. And we see this laid out in the book of John. In John 2, when it talks about the Passover, Jesus says, mine hour is not yet come. What's the point? This isn't the Passover he's supposed to die at. Passover 3, then they sought to take him, but no man laid hands on him, because his hour was not yet come. It wasn't the Passover where Jesus was to die. John 8 20. These words spake Jesus in the treasury as he taught in the temple. No man laid hand on him. His hour was not yet come. Do you see what John's saying? Passover one, Passover two, Passover three. Those were not the ones that would be the fulfillment. Passover four, notice how things change. This is what it says. John 12, 23, as Jesus comes into Jerusalem. Then he answered, saying, The hour is come. The Son of Man should be glorified. John 16, 32. Behold, the hour cometh, yea, and is now come. John 17, these words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour is come. Glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee. What is the point of all this? The point is that this was the time. It demonstrates the providence of God. Well, how do we respond to this? Let me give you some thoughts. The first is this everybody is opportunity. Each person in the story had a legitimate opportunity. Judas didn't have to do what he did. Satan didn't have to do what he did. The Sanhedrin didn't have to do what they did. The people that said crucify them didn't have to do what they did, but they did. They had opportunity. But what do we also see? The influence. Each person was influenced by their own self-interest. They all made choices. They had the freedom to make those choices, but they experienced the consequences of those choices. And ultimately they played out to accomplish God's grand purposes. I want to remind you of one final thing, and that is God's grace. When I think of this story, I can't help but think of what Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 15. I am the least of the apostles, not me to be called an apostle. I persecuted the church of God, but by the grace of God I am what I am. What do we see in this story? Peter denies the Lord, yet God extends him grace. 3,000 were converted at Pentecost. Why? Because God extends his grace. Saul of Tarshus becomes the apostle Paul. Why? Because God extends his grace. And so as you look at this passage of scripture, Don't say God has a bunch of robots and they're all condemned to do these horrible things. No, no. These people had a will. They chose to do what they did. But it did not thwart God's purposes. In fact, he used it to accomplish his purposes. May God help us to have a bigger view of his providence after we analyze the story. Have a blessed rest of your day, Lord Willing will meet again one more time tomorrow to break down some final thoughts of application by now