Good morning and welcome to another Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a great morning and looking forward to digging into this passage again with you. Yesterday we talked about the importance of understanding our position in Christ. And today what we're going to do is talk about how God has given us a commission, a calling out of that position. And so if you have your Bible, Please take it. Let's turn together to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. We're going to read verses 17 down into chapter 6 and then dig into this topic. It says, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given unto us the ministry of reconciliation To wit that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not impeding their trespasses unto them, and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now then, we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you, by us we pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God. For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. We then, as workers together with him, beseech you that you receive not the grace of God in vain Now as we dig into this passage, we move from position now to how God gives us a certain calling. And notice what he says in verse 18. He says, all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. And here's the key we want to focus in on. And he has given to us the ministry of reconciliation. To wit that God was that the ministry of reconciliation, God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself. not imputing their trespasses unto them, and he has committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us. We pray you in Christ's stead be reconciled to God. Notice how he says that he has given to us the ministry of reconciliation, and now we are ambassadors for Christ And God beseeches you through us. This is the key to what we're going to focus on this morning. So we notice that word ambassador. What is an ambassador? An ambassador is someone who is a representative, and we are ambassadors for Christ. We have received a formal commission It's not if, it's where God has planted us and we are to follow this commission that He has given us. He has entrusted us with a message, and this message is the gospel, and the gospel has inherent power. It is through the preaching of the gospel and through the action of Christ on our behalf that we are able to be reconciled to a holy God. We are now in the position of representing him to the lost. We are the ones who are the mouthpieces that God works through. We are the hands that he moves through. We are the mouthpiece that he speaks through. We are the messengers that take the word to people. And so we are to represent God to the world. When they see us, They're supposed to see someone who points them up to God. And so we have this important ministry. Secondly, we've been given a word that we are to proclaim. And this is the word of reconciliation, the gospel. Notice what he says in verse 20. He says, We pray you in Christ's stead be reconciled to God. Now what does he mean by reconciliation? Well what he means is that everybody is born with a problem. And that problem is that we're born into this world separated from God. The way it's put in Ephesians chapter 2 is that we are by nature the children of wrath. We are at enmity with God This isn't something we choose, it's something we're literally born into, and we act out of that position as people who are estranged from God, even from the womb. Think about the passage in Psalm 51 where David says, In sin my mother conceives me from the womb. David could see that he was a fallen creature expressing his rebellion against God. Reconciliation comes through God's action for us and toward us. It's in Christ dying for our sins and God bringing the gospel to us through the preaching of the word. And he now calls us as believers to be peacemakers. We go in the place of of one who is a representative and we call people to be reconciled to God. And we basically say this is what God has done for you and He's calling to you through the gospel and through us as human instruments to proclaim the gospel. He's calling you to be at peace with him. He's in everything. You just simply respond to the message and you experience God's forgiveness. And so that's what we're to do. The third thing I want to emphasize here is that we should feel the weight of this duty. This is a heavy thing, that we are called to such a position. Called to such a ministry. In verse 19, he's committed to us the word of reconciliation. It has been put into our trust, and we are to be good stewards of the word, faithfully proclaiming it Verse 20, God beseeches you through us. And that word beseech has the idea of to come alongside and to and to appeal to people. And this word is the same word that's used to refer to the Holy Spirit being a paraclete, a comforter, a come alongside. Well, we're in that position to come alongside people and point them to Christ, and God works through us as his instruments. Also in verse 20 we see that we are to compel people. He says, we pray you, or we beseech you, in the stead of Christ, be reconciled to God. And so all of these statements emphasize the weight of this role. I leave you with a simple thought this morning. The question is not if you have been called to this position. It's where. We all who have been reconciled to God have been commissioned to take the good news of the gospel and to proclaim it to others. And so I want to encourage you this morning, wherever you're planted, whatever your position in this world, where you work, make sure that you are a faithful witness for Christ. that you point people to God so they can be reconciled to Him. Well that's a lot for us to process this morning. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we dig into this passage a little bit further, keep breaking down what's in front of us as we talk about the word that we proclaim, the word of reconciliation. And I hope you have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.