Good morning, welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And yesterday we began with an introduction dealing with the fact that the the reason that these people needed to hear the parable is because they didn't understand the purpose. for why Christ was coming to Jerusalem. And I'd like us to kind of develop that a little bit further this morning and talk about why the cross was necessary. And so if you have your Bible, let's turn together to Luke chapter 19, and we're going to look at verses 18 through 28 together, and then we're going to dig into this topic looking at three important reasons that the cross is an absolute essential. Here's what the Word of God says, Luke 19, verse eleven. And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable, because he was knight of Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear And he said, therefore, a certain noble man went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return. And he called his ten servants and delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, Occupy till I come But his citizen hated him, and sent a message after him, saying, We will not have this man to reign over us. It came to pass that when he was returned, having received the kingdom, Then he commanded these servants to be called unto him, to whom he had given the money, that they might know how much every man had gained by trading. Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy poundeth gained thee ten pounds. He said unto him, Well done, good servant, because thou hast been faithful in a little Thou shalt have authority over ten cities. The second came, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained five pounds. He said, Likewise to him, be thou also over five cities Another came saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound, which I have kept laid up in napkin, for I feared thee, because thou art an austere man Now, as we dig into this passage, there were three problems that had to be addressed in order for people to be entering the kingdom of God. And those three problems are all connected to the cross and why it was necessary that in his first coming Christ had to go to the cross. The first problem is that redemption is such that that God cannot allow people into his kingdom unless there is a basis for this. And that's why they have to be redeemed. There has to be a price paid for people to be able to enter the kingdom of God. There are two passages of scripture that come to mind when I think of this. The first one is Jesus' conversation with Nicodemus in John chapter 3. He answered and said unto him, Verily, verily I say unto you. Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. That phrase born again means that they have to experience what we call regeneration. There has to be new life where there is spiritual death. And so this is a symbolic way of saying that people have to be regenerated. And so as Jesus is talking to Nicodemus, he says, you can't enter the kingdom without this new birth. You have to go through a spiritual transformation where you have life where you are currently spiritually dead. The second is that that there has to be a basis of payment. And so when we go to Matthew 26, verse 39, it says, He went a little further, fell on his face, and prayed , saying, Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. This is a symbolic way of saying that Christ had to become the object of God's judgment. in order for our sin debt to be removed and us to enter into the kingdom of God. And so there are several scriptures in the in the New Testament that talk about this. They talk about the just for the unjust to bring us to God. He became sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. In the Old Testament, in Isaiah 53, it says that his soul will be made an offering for sin. And when he sees the travail of his soul, he will be satisfied. He will justify many because he will bear their iniquities. And so the first reason that the cross had to take place is because there needs to be a basis of redemption. People have to be born again. That means they have to die to sin and be raised alive to walk in newness of life in Christ. There needs to be a just payment for our sin. So Christ takes on sin for us, who knew no sin, so that we could be made the righteousness of God in him, and we can be redeemed because of this. A second is not just the word redemption, but it's the word redaction. The generation of people that were living at the time of Christ as a whole Rejected Christ as their Messiah. Now they wanted a physical deliverer, there's no question about that. But they didn't want a suffering servant who was going to go to the cross and die for their sins. They wanted an immediate kingdom reversal. They wanted Rome to be overthrown. They wanted Christ to rule and to reign, and they wanted to reign with him. And so this rejection of the Messiah is ultimately a rejection of his kingdom. And the rejection of the Messiah is because of a misunderstanding of the nature of his kingdom. When we think about Luke chapter 19, as Jesus is looking down over the city as he's coming down from the Mount of Olives, it says he beheld the city and he wept over it, saying, If thou hast known at least thy day, the things which belong unto thy peace, but now they're hidden from thine eyes. The day will come that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on every side. and shall lay thee even to the ground, and thy children with thee, and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knewest not the day of visitation. And so it's not just that there needed to be a basis of redemption, but there needed to be a reversal of this rejection of the Messiah. There needed to be a repentance toward God and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And then there's a third word that I want you to hear, and that's the word history. God has a very distinct timetable And he is bound to that timetable because he has purposed and he has prophesied to work and move in history in a certain way. Daniel chapter nine, verse twenty four, it says, Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon the holy city. to finish the transgression, to make an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness. and to seal up the vision and the prophecy and to anoint the most holy. And so as we think about that Daniel 9 passage, it tells us that there is a very distinct timetable in the mind of God for his purpose to make an end of sin, to finish transgression, to provide reconciliation, to establish everlasting righteousness, and to anoint the most holy And so there was a reason that the first coming had to be a humble and lowly sacrifice for our sin It's because of the need for redemption. It's because there was a rejection of the people, rejecting Christ, because of the movement of history. So I hope that you realize as we look at this text and as we go about our day, that in fact God is always working on his own timetable. He has purposes that are bigger than we understand sometimes, and so we need to learn to trust him with that. And really what this passage should do is it should cause us to glory in the Christ, on the cross of Christ. I think of what Paul said His only grow glory was in the cross of Christ, because the cross of Christ is what established a just basis. for Paul to be reconciled to God. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through this passage of scripture. Bye now.