Good morning and welcome back for our fourth anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And a reminder again, the topic we're addressing this week is God's compassion and dead religions, rotten We're looking at this contrast between what the gospel produces, what true faith in Christ produces, and what dead religion produces. And the fact is the contrast is very startling in the passage in front of us. But what I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to transition away from that contrast between false religion and the truth and what it produces. And I'd like this to see how God dealt with this individual. who was spiritually blinded to his condition and how he handled that when he was publicly challenged in the synagogue after healing this woman. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles again, please, and let's turn to Luke chapter 13. We're looking at verses 10 through 17 together. We'll read it and then we'll look at how Jesus stepped with this man. Here's what it says. It says. And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath, and behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity, eighteen years, and was bowed together. and could in no wise lift up herself. And when Jesus saw her he called her to him, and said unto her, Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity. And he laid his hand on her, and immediately she was straightened And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation because that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath day, and said unto the people, There are six days which men ought to work. In them, therefore, come and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day. The Lord then answered him and said, Thou hypocrite. Doth not each one of you on the Sabbath loose his ox? A not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound low these eighteen years, be loose from this bond on the Sabbath day? What an amazing account. So as this woman comes in and Jesus sees her, he speaks to her, he touches her, he heals her, and then the guy who's in charge of the synagogue, he stands up and he rebells rebukes Jesus in front of all of these people. her. And he basically says there are six days in the week to take care of this problem. And if she wanted to be healed, she could have done it any other day. And why did he do this? Well, it's because he was a calloused man. He was spiritually blind. He wasn't considering the implications of what was right in front of him. Well, the question is, how did Jesus handle this? Well, Jesus could have just sat to the side and said, Well, I've been falsely accused, but I'm not going to defend myself. That's not what Jesus did. Jesus handled this man very wisely, and he was quick to address the issue. He didn't back down. So let's look at what it says in these verses. We see God's wisdom demonstrated in verses 15 to 17. It says, Then the Lord answered him and said, Thou hypocrite. Did not each one of you on the Sabbath loose his ox? Ought not this woman who is a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day? When he said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed, and all the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him Now what does this show you? It wasn't just the guy that spoke up who was angry with Jesus. There were other people who were thinking the exact same thing. And Jesus' actions humbled those who were arrogant, and it also confronted this contrast between the two. And then also pointed people to himself to glorify God. So notice the details. He confronted their hypocrisy. He says, Thou hast Hypocrites. What you're saying you don't believe. Who you present yourself to be is not who you are. What you say that you are and what you say you believe, it's not true. That's what he's saying. Hypocrite He confronted the hardness of their hearts toward the dignity of this woman. He says, don't you take your animal and loose them on the Sabbath day? day? Don't you water them and don't you feed them? Don't you take care of them? If an ox falls in a ditch, don't you get it out? Or do you just leave it to die? The answer is, well of course you take care of it. He says, if you take care of an animal Well, do you have any respect for this woman? Do you care about her value and dignity? And the answer is no they didn't. This is not this woman who is a daughter of Abraham? Whom Satan has bound 18 years be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day? What's Jesus doing? Confronting Their hardness. And he exposed the root of her bondage and the authority that he had to heal. He says, Satan has bound this woman, and I have loosed her. What's the point? The point is that when the gospel is at stake and truth is on the line, you can't compromise. You can't just sit back and just watch people malign the gospel. And you can't watch people undermine the truth. You have to speak up. And so when Jesus was confronted in such a public manner Jesus pushed back in a public manner. And when the gospel was at stake, he stood on the side of truth. And we have to do that sometimes. There are times that we are forced, not because we're looking for a fight, but we're forced worse to speak the truth because it has been so undermined that if no one speaks, then the truth will be maligned and people will be given the impression that in fact it's not true. I think of the proverb that says, answer not a fool according to his folly, lest you be like him, answer a fool according to his folly. to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceits. Confront a false teacher in his folly, lest those who hear his message continue on in that deceit That is the sense of the text in front of us. Hope that gives you some things to think about this morning. Lord willing. Tomorrow we'll wrap up our study by giving you a couple of final practical thoughts. Have a blessed day. We'll see you tomorrow. Bye now.