Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And I hope that the study that we did yesterday was an encouragement to you, and we want to build on that encouragement. This morning. This morning, what we're going to be looking at is the audience of Christ and what we can take away from that audience. And we really kind of addressed that a little bit yesterday, but I I want to build on that concept a little bit. So let's go ahead and take out our Bibles, turn to Luke chapter 15. We're going to read verses 1 through 10 together, and then we're going to reflect on just some simple Here's what it the text says. Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners were to hear him. And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man And he spake this parable unto them, saying, What man of you, having a hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after And when he hath found it, he lay it on his shoulders, rejoicing. When he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto him , I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth more than over ninety He gives a second parable. Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, did not light a candle and sweep the head House, and seek diligently till she find it. And when she hath found it, she calleth her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the peace which I had lost. Likewise I say unto you, There is Joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. And what we're going to address this morning is really a simple concept. Christ's teaching was meant to instruct Both believers and unbelievers. And you'll notice this in verse 3 where it says, He spake this parable unto them. The question is, who is he telling the parable to? Well the answer is everyone who is mentioned in the text. The publicans, the sinners, those who were self-righteous, the Pharisees and the scribes. He's giving this Instruction to all of them. In fact, maybe you could argue that his instruction was primarily intended for those who said to him, How can you eat with sinners and publicans? But the truth is as we read these parables, what we're going to recognize is he's really addressing everybody. And that leads us to this question, why everybody the same message? And the answer The answer is everyone needs to hear the gospel. is Whether you're a believer or you're an unbeliever, you need to hear the gospel. When I think of our church services, especially on Sunday morning Mornings, those Sunday morning sermons are meant to be gospel , -centered, gospel-oriented sermons. Now that doesn't mean that those sermons are always meant to be strictly evangelistic. What we mean is that the gospel is central to the message. This is a truly Christian message. If someone's just preaching a message that has a bunch of morals and standards and principles, but it's never tied into the gospel, and we're not actually presenting a gospel sentence Message that flows out to those those moral instructions, if you will, those commands, those expectations, those principles. If the gospel's not at the heart of it, then we're really not preparing Preaching a truly Christian message. We are simply preaching a moralistic message. And so you can kind of see that here in the text in front of us. God's justice and his wisdom and his grace and his mercy. These are all the the elements of the gospel that are the elements of who Christ is, his perfections that are really tied into this gospel message. So we preach the gospel. We we preach about the justice of God. The fact that it is both good and necessary that God removes evil. And so at the heart of the The message of the gospel is the redemptive work of Christ, Jesus nailed to the cross as our substitutionary, sin bearing debt uh savior. He took our sin debt upon himself. He became sin for us. We use the term penal substitutionary death of Christ. This is a legal matter. God's justice is being satisfied. Well, for the unbeliever, what is this emphasis So in Romans chapter Chapter two it says, We are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth against those who commit such things. Thinkest thou this, O man, that judges them that doeth such things, and doest Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God God leadeth thee to repentance? After thy hardness and impenitent heart treasurest up wrath against the day of wrath and the revelation of the righteous judgment of God who So when the gospel is proclaimed, we're reminded that you reject the gospel, you face the wrath of God. Christ faith the judicial wrath of the Father. against our sin as they hung on the cross. But then we see the other side where the justice of God comforts the believer, because in 2 Thessalonians 1 he says, We ourselves glory in the church of God for your patience and faith and persecution. Which is a manifested token of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which also you suffer, seeing it is a righteous thing for God to rejoice recompense tribulation on them that trouble you and to save those who have embraced the gospel. That's basically what it's saying. And so we can see that when the gospel is proclaimed and the righteousness of God and his justice is being emphasized Whether you're a believer or an unbeliever, there's an application for you. Another example, God's love, his benevolent action to the undeserving object When we hear the gospel proclaimed, we are seeing the love of God being commended to us. And when we think about this, this is to cause the unbeliever to love God. It is to humble them it is to show them their absolute moral bankruptcy and the the unconditional love of God being demonstrated against a toward his enemies. And what does this celebration of God's love in the gospel do? It causes the unbeliever to recognize I need to turn to this God and love him and embrace his salvation. So first John three says, Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed on us that we should be called the sons of God. The world knoweth us not because it knew him not. Or in In 1 John 4 19, we love him because he first loved us. On the other side, this can cause the believer to grow in the depths of his love for God. Once we've understood the gospel, we've embraced the gospel, we've trusted Christ, we begin to love him, we can grow in that love for him. We see this in 1 John 4. 9. And this was manifest of the love of God toward us because God sent his only begotten son into the world that he that we might live through him. We're in chapter Chapter 4 verse 12. No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected. I love that statement. Perfected in us. It grows, it matures, it becomes Deeper. Or Ephesians 3, Paul prays that Christ would abound in your hearts or dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye being rooted and grounded in love may be able to to comprehend with all the saints, the breadth, the length, the depth, the height, to know the love of Christ which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with the full So you could see that the proclaiming of the gospel that emphasizes God's justice and emphasizes God's love has implication for the unbeliever as well as for As for the believer. Also think of God's mercy, his compassion on the infirmities of the spiritually broken. This is to confound the unbeliever. Romans 2. four. Why do you despise the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? When a person who is not a believer's eye eyes are opened to how they've rejected the mercy and the goodness and the kindness and the forbearance of God. This is something that should humble them and confound them. For the belief Believer, what does it do? It endears them to the Lord. Lamentations 3. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. His compassions fill not. They're new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. The Lord is my portion, therefore will I hope in him. The Lord is good unto them that wait for him, to the soul that seeketh him. Well, what does an understanding of God's mercy do for the Christian? It endears them to God. And so as we think about this, I want you to consider the different implications. For the publicans and sinners, the implication is you can Be saved because of the immensity of God's grace. And to the Pharisees and to the scribes it was: you need to be saved, and then rejoice in that grace. And so I ask you this morning, which of those two categories does the gospel apply to you in? Are you the one who can be saved but are not yet saved? Or are you The one who has been saved and needs to grow in your knowledge and then this overwhelming sense of the goodness of God as you reflect on the gospel. May the Lord help us today to apply the gospel correctly as we think about it. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing. Tomorrow we will meet again. Take a moment to share this if you think it'll be a help to somebody, and uh leave an encouragement if you think that that Would be appropriate. Talk to you all later, Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow by now