Good morning, welcome back to our fourth anchored in the word, morning reflection. Hope your week's going well. Hope that the things we're talking about in relation to the cross have been a great encouragement and a challenge. And our desire is to glory in Christ. and his finished work on Calvary's Cross. And this morning what I want to do is I want to focus in on the importance of glory in the cross while we have time, while we have hope. And we're going to focus in on a part of this narrative that is very important, and that is the two people that were on either side of Christ, the malefactors. How did they respond to Christ and what does it have to say for us this this morning as we think about this. So let's go ahead and take our Bibles again, turn to Luke chapter 23, and we'll begin reading in verse 33. It says when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified him. And the malefactors were on the right hand and the other on the left. Said Jesus, Father, for then said Jesus, Father, forgive them. They know not what they do. They parted his raiments, cast lots, and the people stood beholding. The rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others, let him save himself, if he be Christ. the chosen of God. The soldiers also mocked him, coming to him and offering him vinegar, and saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself. Now there's obviously more to this passage than what I just read this morning. We're going to look in on the second part of this, and that is the interaction between the two malefactors, and then ultimately Christ. The focus of this lesson today will be the time element. Glory while there's hope before it's too late. In verse 43, Jesus says to one of the malefactors, Verily I say unto thee, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. There were two criminals, both condemned to die. Both of these men are on either side of Jesus. It says in verse 32, they were also two malefactors, led with him to be put to death. Both criminals confessed what they believed about Christ. One would have been an unbeliever, thief number one. One of the malefactors which hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be the Christ, save thyself Those two words that stand out are the words he railed and he said, if he mocked Christ, he said, I don't believe you. The other, on the other hand, said something radically different. The other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost thou not fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? We indeed justly, for we receive our due reward of our deeds. But this man has done nothing amiss. Then notice the difference. One rails and says, If, the other says, Do you not fear God? You're in the same condemnation. We deserve this. He does not. One man believes that Christ is an innocent man. But he doesn't just believe he's an innocent man. Notice that statement. Do you not fear God, seeing you're in the same condemnation. And then later he says, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. This man understood who Christ was. One criminal turns to him before his death. He says, Remember me when you come into your kingdom. Now, before this man ever asked Jesus to remember him, he already believed he was the Savior. It's not like He said, Who are you, Jesus? And they had a conversation. He simply says, Lord, remember me. He's already convinced of who Christ is. That criminal receives comfort from the Lord. He says, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. Now what is Jesus saying? Jesus saying is, Jesus is saying, even though you've lived your life in rebellion against me, even though you're dying beside me on a cross, Even though you deserve it and I don't, there's hope, there's time. Turn to me before it's too late By the way, there's no reason to believe that the other criminal could not have turned to Christ as well. The problem is he chose not to. That leads us to us here today. How many of you today have been in the position where you know who Christ is? At least you know what the Bible says. You know what he did. He died for our sins. He rose from the dead. But rather than embracing it, you have rejected it. You have been callous toward it. You've been hardened to it. You have been like the one criminal who railed and said, if May God help you to humble yourself and say, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. May we be people who before it's too late turn to Christ and embrace the free gift of salvation through Christ Jesus our Lord. Well that's what I have for you this morning. I hope that you think about it, perhaps share it with someone who could be encouraged by it. Salvation is available. Anyone who responds in repentance and faith. will be safe from their sins and receive the free gift of eternal life. If you've never done that, may today be the day you do. Have a blessed day. Bye now.