Good morning and welcome to our Friday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And as I always do on Fridays, we do some final thoughts, conclusion. And um if you've been joining us this week, you've looked at uh both the positive and the negative side of wisdom. And the negative side first is he talks about it being folly to follow the wisdom of this world. to trust in riches and materialism. He talks about the emptiness of it. He talks about where real wisdom comes, and that is being rooted and standing upon the finished work of Christ and his redemption for us. And then this morning what I'd like to do is kind of pull all that together and get some final comforting thoughts from this text of Scripture. So let's go ahead and turn our Bibles again to Psalm 49. We will read it and then move our way through some applications. Here's what it says in the text. Hear this, all ye people. Give ear all ye inhabitants of the world, both low and high, rich and poor, together. My mouth shall speak of wisdom, and the meditation of my heart shall be of understanding. I will incline mine ear to a parable. I will open my dark sayings upon the harp. Wherefore should I fear in the day of evil, when the iniquity of my heels shall compass me about? They that trust in their wealth, and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches, none of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him. For the redemption of their soul is precious, and it ceaseth forever, that he should still live forever and not see corruption. But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave. For he shall receive me. Now that word comfort is where I want us to conclude our time together this week. This redemption that is talked about in this passage of Scripture. is what preserves us from an empty death. What I mean is it's living in the light of not just this world. but in light of eternity and our ultimate relationship to God. And so in verses 16 through 20, we see this simple statement that is the heart of this entire psalm. Do not be afraid. Don't be afraid. Why is that? The reason that we shouldn't be afraid is because there's a redemption. And that redemption is in Christ Don't be confused that redemption is in Christ, not in wealth or riches or some tradition that we can get from our forefathers. No, it is in Christ alone. Don't be deceived. Don't allow someone to trick you or to present to you something that in fact is folly and emptiness rather than the truth. Christ and Christ alone is our only hope in this life and in the life to come. So this passage is all about comfort by rejecting those things that would cause us to be fearful and confused and deceived that are ultimately leading us away from Christ and trusting in something outside of him. So as we apply this passage, we apply it by glorying in the cross. That is our one and only hope. When we think about the cross negatively, we recognize that we cannot allow ourselves to embrace an empty substitute to the cross. When we think about the cross negatively, we need to make sure we don't treat it lightly. This is something we are to glory in, something that we are to cherish, something we are to be grateful for. But then we see the positive side. We're to turn to him from all substitutes and trust in him alone for salvation. We're not to trust in riches, we're not to trust in our own righteousness, our own status, no. We must trust in Him alone, not our works, not our riches, not our status. We also look at the importance of not just turning from and turning to, but resting in Him and allowing those truths to bring us great comfort So don't be afraid, don't be confused, don't be deceived. Delight in him and worship him and him alone. I love that statement in Ephesians chapter 2 He talks about the darkness of our natural state. And then he says, but God who is rich in mercy. He says that he has done this that he might show the exceeding riches of his kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. And so it's not just about rejecting what is wrong. And embracing what is true. But it's about resting in him and being comforted in him. And then remembering him and rejoicing in him. This is supposed to lead us to real worship. Worship him and rejoice in him because of what he has done for us. Rejoice in because of not just what he's done, gone to the cross, but why he's done it. He's done it because he loves us. He's done it because he's a righteous and just God. Rejoice in what he's given us, the ultimate end, our salvation, glorification, the forgiveness of sins. our sins being removed and cleansed and washed away, our status being righteous in Christ. All of those things that we have been given are reasons to rejoice in Him. And so as we go into this weekend, I hope that that's exactly what you'll do. You'll rejoice in him. You will rest in him. You will trust in him. You will turn away from all substitutes. Hope that you have a great rest of your day, a great weekend. Lord willing, we'll see many of you on the Lord's Day. And if not, maybe we'll see you on Monday when we keep working our way through a new series of Anchored in the Word Borning Reflections. Have a blessed day. Bye now.