Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. I also want to say that want to wish you all a happy Independence Day. And I'm so thankful that I've grown up in this land. I'm thankful for the freedoms that we enjoy. And I really want to encourage you to take some time today to pray for our country. And to pray that as a country, God would turn our hearts to Him and that He would just continue to give us the opportunity to live a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness. And that we as Christians and the Church of God would have a tremendous influence for righteousness in our nation. And so I did want to say that before we dig into the text this morning one final time. with some final thoughts. If you have your Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Turn with me to Luke chapter 20. We're going to read it one more time and then give you some final thoughts. It says, Then came to him certain of the Sadducees which deny that there is a resurrection. They asked him, saying, Master, Moses wrote unto us, if a man's brother die having a wife, and he die without children that his brother should take his wife and raise up seed unto his brother. There were therefore seven brethren. The first took a wife, died without children. The second took her to wife, he died childless. The third took her, and she died as well. The man likewise this as he died as well, likewise the seven also left no children and died. Last of all, the woman died also. Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife of them is she? For seven had her to wife. Then Jesus answers in the following way The children of this world marry and are given in marriage, but they which shall be accounted worthy of to obtain that world and the resurrection from the dead neither marry nor are given in marriage, neither can they die any more, for they are equal unto the angels. And are the children of God being the children of the resurrection. Now That the dead are raised, even Moses showed at the bush when he when he's called the Lord the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob. He is not a God of the dead, but of the living, for all live unto him. Then certain of the scribes answering said, Master, thou hast well said, and after that they durst not ask him any questions at all Now what can we take away from this passage? Well, first of all, I want to say this. For anyone who's never placed their faith in Christ, Then the encouragement is very simple. There is a resurrection from the dead, Christ is risen, and you can be saved, and you can have the absolute guarantee of eternal life. And so I'd encourage you to turn to Christ and place your faith in the gospel. Acts 16. 31 tells us to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and we'll be saved. Don't allow yourself to reason away the gospel. Christ died for your sins. He rose from the dead from the dead. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And so he calls you to repent and believe, to place your faith in Christ alone. And so that's the first takeaway The second takeaway is one of being discerning. What I mean is this. We need to be cautious that we do not twist the scriptures or allow others to twist the scriptures. and ultimately influence our thinking uh in a way that is very detrimental. Says in Second Peter three, that they that are unlearned and unstable twist rest the other scriptures to their own destruct destruction. How we approach Scripture matters a lot. This passage of Scripture gives us a very clear example of how people can use the Scripture In fact, in a way that is detrimental, that can explain away what the scripture says. And we want to make sure that we don't do that ourselves We need to rest in the sufficiency of Scripture alone. We shouldn't take tradition and elevate it alongside Scripture and allow it to become a competing basis for our authority. We also need to be careful that we don't come to Scripture with an agenda where we try to explain away what we don't want to see or we try to force into the text things that in fact are not actually there. We need to be so very cautious. We should be careful that we don't build our doctrine on a proof text or some illustration that we have contrived or some philosophical argument that we have created. We want the scriptures to speak for themselves. The clear, plain, simple understanding of the text is what we're looking for. We need to recognize that sound doctrine runs throughout all of Scripture. There is a consistency there. And what we will see in the major issues of Theology and the primary foundational issues of the Christian faith, we will see them all over the Bible. And so let's approach the scriptures. with discernment. Thirdly, I want to mention this. Common ground does not have the ability to replace gospel clarity. What I mean by that is this. When we think about this group of people, they were very religious people. They were very well meaning. But we think about what Paul writes in Romans 10 about these religious leaders. He says, My heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. I bear them record they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. They, being ignorant of God's righteousness, and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted to the righteousness of God Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone that believeth. We talk about the gospel. I like this illustration. The gospel is like Uh all of the components of the gospel, the fundamental components of the gospel, are kind of like when I was in high school and I used to run my bike to school. And we had this uh this chain that I would use with a lock combination to lock my bike. Well it had multiple numbers and These numbers had to be the right numbers in the right sequence. And when all of those pieces were turned in the right sequence to the right numbers in the right order. then what you could do is open the bike chain. But if or the the the the chain that locked it. But if just one of those numbers was off, or the sequence was slightly off, or it was close but not exactly there then you could not open the lock. And the gospel is like this as well. It's not enough to just believe in God, or believe in the Trinitary nature of God. There is Father, Son, and Spirit. Or We believe in the incarnation, that Christ is God in flesh. In the facts of the gospel, that he died on the cross and he rose from the dead. And that historically took place We need to know more than that. We need to believe more than that. We need to actually believe in not just the components of the gospel, in the person who's central in the gospel. But in fact, the reason that he did it, he died for our sins. He rose from the dead to conquer death. And then it comes down to this issue of the point of response. We have to recognize that it is Christ alone, not Christ plus, Christ and it's Christ alone And so the problem with the Pharisees was not that they didn't believe in the resurrection, they did. It's that they didn't believe. that that God would accept them only on the basis of Christ's righteousness as opposed to their own. And so we need to recognize this issue of discernment in the gospel Lastly, I want to leave you with this because this is where we should look, and that is the triumph of the resurrection. We should rejoice in it. In fact, in 1 Corinthians 15 it says, If in this life only we have hope in Christ Jesus, we're of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the first fruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection from the dead. As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Every man in his own order, Christ the first fruits, after that, they that are Christ at his coming. And so what does this tell us? This tells us that we should rejoice in the resurrection. We have a hope and our suffering is not wasted. We have a sure hope and our labor is not in vain in the Lord. We have a sure hope physical death is not the end. We have a sure hope in life, in death, and beyond the grave. I hope that as we go into this weekend, that is where you will end. Not just the discernment side, but the rejoicing side. Have a blessed weekend. Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday. Bye now.