Good morning. Welcome back to a new week in another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And looking forward to digging into this passage of scripture with you this week. This is a passage that's a little shorter than what we typically have been dealing with. And what I want to do throughout the week is dig into some of the background so that we kind of set these statements that Luke is making about Christ and his lament. concerning his enemies in the city. I'd like us to kind of set this in the historical context and consider why it is so significant that Christ has the attitude that he has. And so this morning what we're going to do is just give you some introductory thoughts of how Christ views those who are set at enmity against him. So let's turn our Bibles to Luke chapter 19. We're going to read verses 41 through 44 together, and then we will look at a simple summary of the passage. It says, and when he was come near, he beheld a city and wept over it, saying If thou hast known, even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belong into thy peace, but now they're hid from thine eyes. For the day shall come upon thee, that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, encompass thee around, keep thee in on every side, and shall lay thee even to the ground. Thy children within thee, they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knowest thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. Now, if we go back to last week, we're reminded that Christ was going up to Jerusalem ultimately to die. And as he's going up to Jerusalem, he goes down from the Mount of Olives up into the city. And there as he comes up into the city, we see that the people are excited and they're saying, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And they're saying, save us, save us now. The Pharisees, in the Sanhedrin, on the other hand, are very upset at him, and they tell him, you need to stop your disciples from speaking in this way. What you can see is this building tension between Christ and the religious leaders, the Sanhedrin. And it's going to come to a head, which ultimately is going to lead to Christ's crucifixion. But here in this little passage we see God's attitude towards the city as a as a whole. And when we talk about the city, we're talking about those people who would have been his disciples and who were excited about him coming to the city, those who were basically just going with the flow. So if the people were excited about Jesus, they were excited about Jesus too. If the people were saying crucify him, they were on that side too. And then you have the people that are truly militantly against him. They're at enmity with Christ. How does Christ view the city? And the answer is he lamented their future judgment. And I think there's a lot we can pull from this. So let me give you a basic summary of this, and then that'll kind of conclude our introduction. Summary is this, despite Christ's full awareness of the horrible events that would transpire in Jerusalem in their future He lamented the severity of their future destruction. We talk about prophecy. We need to recognize that Christ is looking at what's about to take place in Jerusalem. He's going to be crucified, delivered into the hands of the Romans. And then down the road, we're talking about maybe 35 years from then, the city was ultimately going to be encompassed by the Romans, it was going to be destroyed. There would be a tremendous loss of life. The temple itself would be completely decimated. And so Christ is thinking about those two things together. He's thinking about the immediate and also the future. And as Christ thinks about that, he laments. What God wants us to do as we dig into this passage is to understand the mind of Christ and to live like him. Reminds me of Philippians chapter 2. It says, Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God. He made himself of no reputation, took upon himself the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself. Became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. That mind, the mind of Christ, is a mind we need to understand. We need to understand how he thought. And this passage will give us great insight into that. So I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage of scripture. Share it along the way if you think others will be encouraged by it. And Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow as we dig into this passage one piece at a time by now