Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our first Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the month of January 2025. And I hope that you've had a good Christmas break and going into the new year. And I'm excited about digging into the Word of God with you. throughout this year. And I hope you're enjoying the beautiful snow and I love uh winter when we get snow and ice and And I know a lot of you know that, but I'm also thankful for the opportunity to get to dig into the passage of scripture that we dealt with on the last Sunday of December. And really this passage was meant to kind of make us think about the last year and then look forward into the new year 2020 And so as I started at the end of last year, we're going to begin by listening to little video clips from the sermons, and then I will spend some time talking about the concepts that are built around those video clips. And hopefully you'll find it very practical, an opportunity to just kind of talk about some of the things that go into thinking through a passage of scripture and applying it appropriately. So the text that we're dealing with is 1 Corinthians Chronicles 29 and we're looking at verses 10 through 14. So I'm going to go ahead and read it and then we'll listen to our video clip together. It says, Wherefore David blessed the Lord before all the congregation. And David said, Blessed be thou, Lord God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. For all that is in the heaven and in the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. Both riches and honor come of thee, and thou reignest over all, and in thine hand is power and might, and in thine hand it is to make great and give strength unto all Now therefore, our God, we thank thee and praise thy glorious name. But who am I, and who are my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? For all things come of thee, and of thine own have we given it thee. Let's listen to a short clip, and then we'll dig into the topic that's addressed there. Well, 1 2 Chronicles and 1 2 Kings were written during this time period as the people were coming back from the exile. And two questions would have really stuck in the minds of the people. The first question is, how in the world is God righteous to let our people, his chosen people, experience so much tremendous horror as a people? Fair question, right? So what does he do? He has a prophet write first 2 Kings so that the people would realize God was absolutely just Okay, so what can we take away from some of the background of the book of 1 Chronicles and also 1 Kings? I mentioned in the sermon that 1 2 Chronicles and 1 2 Kings are actually two books that are put together in one in the Jewish Bible. So if we're talking about 1 2 Kings. It would be the Book of the Kings. If we're talking about First and Second Chronicles, we're talking about the Book of the Chronicles. And the focus of 1 and 2 Kings and the focus of 1 and 2 Chronicles, though they basically cover a lot of the same history The emphasis is different. Some of the details that are discussed in the books are different because of a different focus. So there were basically two questions that would have come to the minds of the people. During the post-exile period, when the Jewish people had been uprooted from their homeland, Jerusalem had been destroyed, the temple had been destroyed. They were living in a foreign country and they they were going back to the pran the land of promise that God had promised to Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and to David, and they're going back as a very broken people, a very troubled people. And one of the questions they would ask is, first of all, was God just in what he did in permitting the Babylonians to rip us out of our homeland, to destroy the temple, to destroy the the the the city of Jerusalem and so much horrible stuff took place during that time period. And then the second question is I mean, is God still going to fulfill those promises that he made to Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and especially David in the way that they relate to this issue of a Davidic line? And those two questions would have been massive lingering questions for the people. And so those two books address those issues. 12 Kings addresses the question of God's justice. And so the emphasis of that portion of the Old Testament is really laying out the justification for God uprooting the people out of the land. He says prophet after prophet, and what do they do? They ignore the prophets. And there's just a small minority amongst the people, a remnant of the people that have not bowed the knee to Baal, and God preserves that remnant. But as a whole, the nation is in rebellion. And so God demonstrates his justice and his righteousness in following through with uprooting them from the land for that period. The books of 1 Second Chronicles are focusing in on God's faithfulness to those Davidic covenant promises. And the book of 2 Chronicles and 1 Chronicles go all the way back to Adam and then move all the way to uh the command to rebuild Jerusalem. And so it really ends with Cyrus. And so we have this chunk of history. several thousand years of history that are God demonstrating his faithfulness to the covenant promises that he's made. And the ultimate crowning point of that will be that God sends the people back and it is going to be funded and it's going to be protected by a Gentile king. And we also see at the heart of these books is the story of David and his interaction with the desire to build the temple. and then his preparation for his son Solomon to build the temple, and then ultimately Solomon building the temple. Well in the center of that storyline is the text that we're looking at this week. And so when we're looking at this passage where David says, Thine Lord is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty Everything belongs to you and we are privileged to be able to give back to you from how you've blessed us. This passage of Scripture Is David kind of handing the torch over to his son? He's passing on the baton and he's saying, I have prepared all of these things for you so that you can be successful. And you could do the work well. And my whole uh life after that time period where I was told I couldn't build the temple, I have been preparing you to build the temple. And so this is really the height of that. And so it's important for us when we look at this passage of Scripture to kind of understand where it sets in the story of God's interaction with his people, the nation of Israel, the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. and the Davidic promises that God was going to establish a king forever on the throne of his father David, and he was going to use the nation of Israel to be a light, to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of God's people. And so this passage of scripture is critical in that story, and I hope that you will really appreciate some of the things That we'll talk about this week as it relates to David, his attitude, why he had this attitude, and how he was able to come to such a viewpoint, understanding a lot of the heartaches that he experienced in life Well, that gives you some things to think about starting the new year. I hope that you'll join us this year. If uh if you haven't, maybe in the past, or maybe you did in the past, then And he's stopped for a while, hoping to come back and you'll join us as we go through these studies. If this has been an encouragement to you, please take a moment to share that. If you think it'd be a help to somebody else. Take a moment to share that with them. And we look forward to getting into the Word of God again this year, as we have the last several years. And this is season four. So have a blessed day, and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow. Bye now.