Good morning. Welcome back to a new week of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And I'm extremely excited about the passage that we're going to deal with this week. and especially the topic that we're going to address, and that is the issue of God's providence and how the cross of Christ demonstrates how God works in the world. In fact there are a lot of different uh topics and subtopics that we're going to address this week. And so I hope that you will put out the word, hope that you'll join us for these anchored in the word reflections because they really are going to address some very important topics and so the topic this week is Providence and the Cross and I'd like to begin with some introductory thoughts which is basically a summary and then just kind of a little bit of information about where we're going to be going throughout the week. So if you have your Bible, please take it, turn to Luke chapter 22, and then we're going to work our way to verse number 7. It says now, the feast of unleavened bread drew near, which is called the Passover, and the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him. For they feared the people. Then entered Satan into Judas surnamed Iscariot, being a number of the twelve, and he went his way and communed with the chief priests and captains how they might betray him unto them They were glad and covenanted to give him money, and he promised and sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence of the multitude. Then came the day of unleavened bread when the Passover must be killed. Now I'd summarized the passage that we're going to look at in the following way. Despite all the evil schemes. God used every detail to send Christ to the cross at the right time and to secure every blessing purchased by Christ. Now when we talk about the evil schemes, we're going to talk about people like Judas. We're going to talk about Satan's personal involvement in the situation. We're going to talk about the Sanhedrin and the fact that they were plotting and scheming, they wanted to kill Christ, but the timing of when was something that was still up in the air, and we're going to see how it played out in history. Then we're going to step back and look at some of the pro prophetic implications, how in the book of Daniel there's actually a timeline that's given and he tells us how many days there are going to be between the rebuilding of Jerusalem being announced. And then ultimately the week that Christ is betrayed and then crucified. And so there are lots and lots of pieces there. We're going to look at the different Passovers that Christ um that he he uh experienced with his disciples and how the scriptures talked about in each of those first three Passovers it was not yet his time. The hour had not come yet in the fourth The language changes, so we're going to talk about that that concept. So many, many details that we're going to get into this week. I hope you'll join us for it. I hope you'll pass along the information because A lot of background and a lot of theological implications are bound up in the text that we're looking at. So again, the summary, despite the evil schemes of people like Judas, the Sanhedrin, even Satan God used every detail to send Christ to the cross at the right time. Notice it is Christ being sent by the Father, not just man controlling the situation or Satan controlling the situation. God sends Christ to the cross at the right time to secure all the blessings that are purchased for us by it. So as we dig into this passage, The predominant theme is going to be let's praise God for his care that brought about redemption. How do we do that? We're going to answer that this week. So please do join us as we dig into this passage. I want to remind you And this will be at the forefront of everything we say this week, that our God rules and he reigns. And there is no greater demonstration of God's rule and reign than we can. than in our redemptive story that Christ died for our sins at the right time. All the things that happened happened to fulfill the prophecies that were laid out in scriptures. And the ultimate blessing is that our sins are forgiven, we are cleansed, we are righteous in Christ, and we have eternal life. Well, hope that gives you some things to think about this morning. Have a blessed rest of your day. And Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow as we work our way through this passage of Scripture and those concepts by now.