Good morning. Welcome back to a new week in another series of Anchored in the Word of Morning Reflections. I know this is a holiday weekend coming up And so looking forward to our 4th of July week. My plan is to get all of these out, but uh there may be some times during the week that I have trouble getting them out. um at a normal time. So more than likely be able to get all these videos uploaded in the morning, but sometimes things will happen. So Bear with us, but I hope that you'll join us as we work through this passage of scripture. This is a text that we dealt with two weeks ago, and um Lord willing As we work through this passage, the things that were talked about will be a tremendous help to you and give you insight into understanding what is going on in the text. Luke chapter 20, verses 27 through 40 is where we are this week. And so I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles turn there, and we'll read this section. It's a little bit longer, but it's a very important text in Christ's interaction with the religious leaders on the week going into the crucifixion. It says, Then came to him certain of the of the Sadducees which deny that there is any resurrection. And they asked him, saying, Master, Moses wrote unto us, if any man's brother die having a wife, and he die without children that his brother should take his wife, raise up seed unto his brother. There were therefore seven brethren. The first one took a wife, and died without children. The second took her to wife, died childless. The third took her, and in like manner the seven also. that left no children and died. Last of all the woman died also. Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife of them is she? for seven had her to wife. Then Jesus answers, The children of this world marry, and are given in marriage, but that which is to be accounted worthy of to obtain that world and the resurrection of the dead, neither marry nor given in marriage Neither can they die any more, for they are equal unto the angels, and are like the children of God, being or are the children of God, being the children of the resurrection. Now, that the dead are raised, even Moses showed at the bush When he called the Lord the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, he is not the God of the dead, but of the living, for all live unto him. Then certain of the scribes, answering, said, Master Who have thou us well said, after that, they durs not ask him any question at all. So I want to begin with a few introductory thoughts, and what I'd like to focus in on in this general overview It was what was going on in the time of Christ. It is possible for us to get in our minds that the times we're living in are unusually contentious when we talk about uh the Christian church, um we see all the various denominations that are out there and the factions and the divisions and the debates about certain theological concepts. We sometimes can get into our minds, well, you know, these times are unique and past times they didn't have those issues. There's great continuity and uniformity of thought And the fact is that is not true. In fact, when we go back over history, we can look at an example like ancient Israel. Israel was a theocracy. That means that God gave them their law, they answered to him, they have the sacrificial system, they have the tabernacle, and then ultimately the temple. And even though we had all of that opportunity for people to be confronted with truth, we still have tremendous disunity. And in fact, throughout most of Israel's history, there's just a small remnant of believers. We could look at the first century Judaism that Jesus is interacting with. And I'm going to talk a bit about some of the various dynamics, not this morning, but Lord willing tomorrow morning. But first century Judaism has 1,500 years of religious and cultural tradition. They have the law and they have the prophets. But what do you see? You see this clashing of viewpoints amongst the religious leaders. We can even take the early church. You have the apostles and their immediate disciples. You have active prophets in the church and you have the apostles still alive, you have the scriptures being written, you have all of these things, but what do you have? You still have battles and struggles. Then we come to the kingdom rule of Christ for a thousand years. And at the end of that thousand years, what are you going to have? You're going to have this massive rebellion against Christ at the end of the age. What do we see? Purity in doctrine and in practice is something that is continually a struggle. No matter what period in history you go to, there has always been a struggle. People have had to earnestly contend for the faith and sound doctrine. This has always been true. There are no exceptions. And this will always be true until we are glorified in Christ. The reason for that is that you have people who are flawed, people who come to the scriptures with a bias, with a desire to make it say something that it doesn't, or to keep it from saying what it clearly does. And there will always be struggles. And so this passage of scripture is going to give us the interaction of Christ with people living in the first century who had massive contentions, not just with one another, but with him. And I'd like you to see how he responds to them because it gives us tremendous insight in how to live and function in a time like this. And so I'd summarize the text in the following way. With great wisdom, Christ confronted the twisted presuppositions of the Sadducees, and proclaimed the blessing of the resurrection. God wants us to reject skepticism, like these men had, and rejoice in the resurrection that Christ proclaimed And so I hope that you'll join us this week as we seek to do that. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow by now