Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good week. And at the midpoint of the week, we're going to really dig into the content. So on our first day, we've talked about the catlas that brought this to a head. Yesterday we talked a little bit of the context of the people that Jesus is teaching this parable to. Now this morning what we're going to do is look at the content of the parable itself. And see what is being illustrated here. So if you have your Bibles, let's turn together to Luke chapter 20, and we'll pick up in verse number 9 again We're not going to read the entire section. It says be then began he to speak to the people this parable. A certain man planted a vineyard and led it forth to husbandman. He went into a far country for a long time At the season he sent a servant to the husbandman, they that they should give him the fruit of the vineyard. But the husbandman beat him and sent him away empty, and again he sent another servant, and they beat him also, and treated him shamefully. And sent him away empty. Again they sent a third, and they wounded him also, and cast him out. Then said the Lord of the vineyard, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son. It may be they will reverence him when they see him. And we know the rest of the parable, in fact, they did not. They killed him, and then we see that Christ asked the question, what is that man going to do to the wicked husbandman? Well what I want to do is dig into the contents of this paraboline. In order to do that, we want to look at it as a story, because that's exactly what it is. Now It's not just a story, it's a story meant to draw attention to several truths that Christ is trying to highlight. And so, first of all, as we look at the content, I'd like us to see what it says in verse 9. He speaks a parable of the people, saying, A certain man planted a vineyard and led it forth to husbandmen, then went into a far country for a long time. Now if we want to appreciate what's going on, we need to know something about the culture and the practice of letting out land that was owned by someone to to farmers who are basically taking care of it as caretakers. And so in the first century, the practice of leasing vineyards was something that was a blend of both Jewish law and Roman law. And in those days you had people that had large tracts of land, and this goes all the way back to the original intent when God gives the land of promise to the people, he divides it up by family. But we have to realize that from that time to where we are today, a massive amount of time has taken place, uh has transpired. We have an exile, we have the return from exile, we have a lot of things that have gone down. And now we have the Jewish people who are under Roman occupation. And so we see a blend of Jewish practice and Roman law Now, in these re-leasing arrangements, the landowner maintains his control of the property, and he has the right to the produce. But he also is doing something that is beneficial to the tenant. The tenants now have have land that they can work, even though they don't own the land. They can get some of the proceeds, some of the profits. Uh but they have to respect the ownership rights of the landowner. And so there's a relationship where they're working together and there's a benefit on both sides. But you can see The tenants don't own the land. That still stays in the hands of the landowner. We also see that while he retains the land, he is going to share in the profits. He's not taking everything to himself, but he's going to take most of the profits to himself. And these tenants would have appreciated that because though they don't own land, they can still make a small profit. So that's kind of the background. Now I'd like us to think a little bit about the characters in the story. The first character that we end that we are introduced to is the landowner, and it doesn't say anything about his character, but the landowner actually represents God. God has a right to the land. In fact, we see this when we look at the the the Jewish system, the Levitical law. Every seven years we have a year of Jubilee where people are to be able to go back to their land, their debts are released. And what this is ultimately saying is you don't own this land. God owns this land. You are not indebted to one another, you're indebted to him. And so it indicates the fact that the true owner of the land is God. One of the problems is that is that these religious leaders were starting to take something that did not belong to them. He's going to highlight this in the parable Then we see the tenants. The tenants are farmers and they are given property and they're to use that property, but they're to share in the proceeds and they're not to assume that it's theirs. And guess who this represents? Well the religious establishment is represented by these people. And they were assuming authority that in fact did not rightfully belong to them. Interestingly, there is a clash of authority when it comes to religious leaders and their interaction with Christ. Thirdly, we have the landowner's servants. And there are three servants that are sent and that are mistreated very badly. And in the parable, these are the people that God has sent to his people. This represents the prophets all throughout their history. And we know that throughout most of Israel's history, they had wicked kings, the culture was was very antagonistic to God, the people were not following God's laws, ultimately leading to them being ripped from the land and being sent into captivity. And these landowners, as they are uh as as the servants are being mistreated, it's highlighting the fact that this is how God's people and especially the religious establishment and especially the kings treated the prophets. Then lastly we have his son. Who is the son? Well, this is Christ. And Christ is the one who's going to be crucified by the religious leaders. And they're going to crucify him because they want to take his rightful place. And so all of these things are being highlighted in the parable So let's go through the flow of the story. And it's a simple flow. I want to highlight it with you. First of all, the setting. In verse 9, it says, A certain man planted a vineyard, he led it forth the husbandman, went into a far country for a long time. As he is away He has this initial conflict that develops in verse number 10. At the season when the proceeds were beginning to come in and the prophets were beginning to come in. The landowner says, I need to go and get the proceeds. And so the servants say to the husbandman, we're not going to do it We're not going to give the fruit of the vineyard to this man. And so as he sends his servant, they beat him, they send him away empty The contention builds between the landowner and the tenants. And by the way, I'll say this. He had every right to come in by his own authority and remove them immediately, but he doesn't do that. He exercises restraint. It tells you something about the character of the landowner, ultimately reflection of God's character. He's patient with the people. He gives them generation after generation after generation, but they respond the same way one generation after another. And so in verses eleven and twelve it says again he sent another servant. And they beat him and entreated him shamefully and sent him away empty, and again they sent a third, they wounded him also, and cast him out. So we see that this contention is building. And it leads to the climax where the the man who owns the property decides, you know what, what I'm going to do is instead of sending a servant, I'm going to send my son. He's the rightful heir, he's going to assume the property. Certainly they'll reverence him, they'll respect him, because he's coming in my name as the rightful heir in my stead. And what do they do in verse thirteen? The Lords of the Vineyard say, What will we do? I will send my beloved son, that they may reverence him. And what did they do? It says, when they saw him, they reasoned amongst themselves, saying, He's the heir, let us kill him, that the inheritance can be ours. And they cast him out of the vineyard and killed him. And guess what? That's exactly what the religious leaders were about to do to Christ. And so we see this building tension, this shocking behavior. And the resolution is, he asked the question, what is the Lord of the Vineyard going to do to these people? The answer is, he will destroy them and he will give his vineyard to somebody else. Now what is the climax referring to? It's referring to the fact that this is what God is going to do with the people who rejected him. And so we see something here. God is patient. God gives opportunity, and when people are set in hardened rebellion, what do they do? They reject, they reject, they reject, and then eventually God will judge. We should see in these verses the patience of God, but also his justice. And that's going to lead us to how Jesus applies this passage of Scripture, applies this parable with several questions for them. So I hope you'll join us tomorrow as we dig into that a little bit further. Have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.