Good morning. We're going to look at our second section of this discussion on the devastating consequences of crisis religion. And today we're going to focus in on the theology. that was deficient that was being taught by the religious leaders of Christ's day. And we'd like to kind of take this into our modern era and ask the question, how were the same kinds of problems that were going on at that time, how are they continuing to affect the church today? And so let's go ahead, take our Bibles, read this text together, and then dig into this next section. It says, And he said unto them, How say they that Christ is David's son? And David himself said in the book of Psalms, the Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand till I make thine enemies thy footstool. David therefore calleth him Lord, how is he then his son? Then in the audience of all the people he said unto the disciples, Beware of the scribes, which desire to walk in long robes. love greetings in the markets, and the highest set seats in the synagogues, and the chief rooms of feasts, which devour widows' houses, and for a show make long prayers, the same shall receive greater damnation. Now I'd like us to notice the deficient theology of these men. And the way that this is highlighted is with Christ pursuing them with a question. Notice what he says in the text. How say they that Christ is David's son? And David himself said in the book of the Psalms, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool. David therefore calleth him Lord. How is he then his son? What an interesting question. Christ's question to the religious leaders was motivated by several things. And if we want to understand the why, we need to look at what he's saying. First of all, he's saying why do some people say, or why do they say, that the Messiah is David's son if David calls him his Lord. This doesn't make a lot of sense. When we talk about the son of David, we're talking about someone who is to come. Yet David is referring to him as a as if he is already there. And he's referring to him as if he is David's offspring. Yet David is referring to him as someone that he submits to. This doesn't make a lot of sense. Is he David's son or is he David's Lord? Well, the fact is it's not an either-or kind of thing, but this is the way that Christ presents it to them. Because he's trying to draw out what they do not understand or what they believe about the Messiah. If both of these concepts are true, then how are they to be reconciled? And so this is the sense of Christ's question. Now we move on to the motive. Why did Christ ask this question? Well, the reason he asked the question was to highlight the core problem of the religious system of these people. They simply did not need to understand the Messiah. And there was a reason for that. It's because their system, their religious beliefs, did not need the cross. They did not need the resurrection. The law and the traditions of the elders were enough for the Pharisees. They weren't looking for a Messiah who was going to remove their sin debt. They saw the law and the proper, they saw the law and the traditions as a means through which they build the religious credentials and God accepts them on that basis. For the Sadducees there was no resurrection of the dead. They didn't believe in it. So they didn't need a Savior who was going to save them from eternal destruction. They didn't believe that there was an existence after the grave. And then when we look at the zealots, they simply needed a military hero who would overthrow Rome. So in each of these systems, you can see that they didn't need a savior. And so they didn't have a theology of the Messiah that was built on scripture because they weren't looking for a redeemer. Christ's motive for the question wasn't just that though. It was secondly highlighting the danger of the opposition of people to a messiah they did not know. And this is important because this is a part of what he states as he quotes from Psalm 110. At the end of that section, it says, Sit thou on my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. Now the question is, who were the enemies of the Messiah? They were the people who rejected him In fact, these are the people who Jesus is speaking to in this context. If we look a little bit earlier in chapter 20, in verses 17 and 18, Christ warns these people of rejecting the Messiah. He says, the stone which the builders rejected, the same has become the head of the corner. Whoever shall fall on that stone shall be broken, whoever it shall fall upon it will grind him to powder. And so it's not just Christ pointing out the deficiency of the theology of these religious leaders, but it was also showing that their opposition to the Messiah was in fact very dangerous. And so I want to contrast that with a biblical witness regarding who Christ is. Christ is God in flesh. He came to die for our sins, to rise from the dead He is fully God, He is fully man, He is the second person of the Trinity. And we see this in several passages. In Romans 1 it says, Jesus Christ, our Lord, was made of the seed of David according to the flesh. This is referring to his humanity. He was declared to be the Son of God with power according to the Spirit of Holiness. by the resurrection of the dead. Now notice the way that he says Christ took on flesh. He was made of the seed of David, but he was declared to be the Son of God By the spirit of holiness, by the resurrection of the dead. In other words, he took on flesh, but he was declared, he demonstrated, he is God. And so when we talk about Christ, Christ was not human all of creation all all of throughout all of time. He takes on humanity at a point in time, but he is the eternal Son of God. Or in John 1 1-3 in verse 14 it says, In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God, and the word was God. All things were made by him. Without him was nothing made that was made. And then we see this statement. was made flesh, very similar to the statement in Romans 1. He was made of the seed of David according to the flesh And the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. Again we see the uniqueness of Christ, fully God, fully man. He is the eternal Son of God who took on flesh at a point in time. And then lastly I mentioned Philippians chapter two. Being in the form of God, he made himself of no reputation, took upon himself the form of a servant, was made in the likeness of men, being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross So when we talk about this system of thought, crisis religion is something that was rejecting a need for the Messiah. And this is not just the first century problem. This is something we still have today. In fact, it affects the broad tent of what we call Christianity in our country today. What I'm talking about is things like theological liberalism, where the doctrines of the faith have been redefined, whereas shallow evangelicalism, where they're not redefined, they're simply undefined. We don't know who Jesus is. Or legalism, where Jesus is simply our coach to help us to do what's right so that we can earn our way to the Lord. Or moralism, where he's our moral example. It's all about following the teachings of Jesus and the morals of Jesus. It's not biblical Christianity or a mysticism, where he's just our imaginary friend, and we really don't know who he is as a concrete individual who lived, who died, who rose from the dead. In fact, he's just a still small voice speaking into my ear. Or then Prosperity Theology, where he is this genie in the bottle who gives us whatever we want. Crisis religion is not just a first century problem. But biblical Christianity is distinct from all of those things. Biblical Christianity tells us that there is a person named Jesus of Nazareth who is the eternal God in human flesh. This person literally physically died for our sins. He shed his blood on the tree. He did this so that we could be redeemed to God. He triumphed over death. He rose on the third day. And not just he kind of rose, he literally, physically rose from the dead. And he commands all men everywhere to repent and to believe in the gospel. And all those who do are new creatures in Christ. And old things have passed away, and all things have become new. When we think about the theology of that time , May we not just think of it in terms of them, then. May we realize this is still a problem today. May God help us to have a vibrant, strong Christ -centered, not Christ-less, theological viewpoint when it comes to these matters. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow by now.