Good morning and welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the week. And I hope that this has been a blessing to you. And I've enjoyed getting to go through this passage of scripture this week with you. And I hope that it has been something that you could share with others and pass along to them and encourage them as well. This morning, what we're going to do is look at some final thoughts for the week. As we reflect back on Psalm 41. And I want to remind you that this text is teaching us that we are to glory in our merciful God. And so let's go ahead and turn our Bibles one more Time to Psalm 41, and I will read it again, and then from that we will look at some final thoughts. Psalm 41, verse 1. Blessed is he that considers the poor. The Lord will Deliver him in time of trouble. The Lord will preserve him and keep him alive, and he shall be blessed upon the earth. And thou wilt not deliver him under the will of his enemies. Strengthen him upon his bed of languish. Thou wilt make all his bed in his sickness. I said, Lord, be merciful unto me, heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee. Mine enemies speak evil of me When shall he die, and his name perish? And if he come to see me, he speaketh vanity. His heart gathereth iniquity to itself. When he goeth abroad, he telleth it. All that hate me whisper together against me. Against me do they devise my hurt. An evil disease say, They cleaveth fast unto him, and now that he lieth, he shall rise up no more. Yea, mine own Unfamiliar friend, in whom in whom I trusted, which should eat of my bread, and hath lifted up his heel against me. But thou, O Lord, be merciful unto me, and raise me up. that I may requit them. By this I know that thou favorest me. Because mine enemy doth not triumph over me, and as for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and setteth me before thy face Forever. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from everlasting and to everlasting. Amen and amen. Now, how do we apply this? What are the final thoughts? Let me give you some things that I hope you can chew on going into the weekend that will encourage you and shape your perspective and uplift you and point you to worshiping and glorying in our Savior. First of all, allow scripture to shape your view of God. Not your emotions, not your circumstances, not the opinions of the people around you. Let the scripture shape how you view God He is righteous, he is wise, he is good, he is kind, he is faithful. Let those things be how you view God because that That is what the scripture teaches about him. Secondly, allow these unchanging truths about his nature to cause you to take comfort in him. Rather than being upset at God Rather than viewing him as some tyrant who is cruel and harsh with us, we need to look at him as a good God who loves us and is merciful and is kind to us. And he cares about us in the So take comfort in him. Third, realize, and this piece is very important. Realize that since he is good He will at times allow what he hates when it is an inescapable part of accomplishing what he loves in your life. Let me say it again. because it's so important. Realize that since he is good, not if he is good, since he is good, he will at times allow what he hates when it is an inescapable And I'm going to give you what I think is the greatest example in Scripture of this. This was true of the suffering Of Christ in the incarnation. God had to take on flesh in order for you and I to be redeemed. And so for Jesus to take on flesh meant he had to hung Humble himself. That's what it talks about in Philippians chapter 2. He took upon himself the form of a servant, and he was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself. So, if God had not permitted such an act, we would never be able to be redeemed. Secondly, it was true of the sufferings of Christ and his humiliation. And betrayal. It's not just that he took on himself the form of a servant, but he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. So Christ was humiliated. He was beaten. He was mocked. He was spit upon. He was betrayed. He died in one of the most cruel ways possible. And this is an essential part of how you and I can be redeemed. There would literally be no redemption without the incarnation and without the sufferings of Christ. Thirdly, it's true because of how he suffered on the cross. It says in Isaiah that the Lord looked upon the travail, the agony, the misery of his soul, and he was satisfied. By his action he justified many because he bore their iniquities. And so literally the Lord paid our Christ paid the price for our sin on the cross. And that was an essential part of our redemption. This is true of the process that develops spiritual maturity. You and I will not grow. We will not become spiritually matured individuals without the process of suffering and struggle and difficulty. And lastly, it's true, as a test To provide opportunity for future reward. You and I cannot experience eternal reward at the judgment seat if there's not some basis for God to grant such reward. There has to be To be tests of our faith, tests, trials that give us opportunity to be able to do this. It's like a person who's on an athletic team. If all they did was practice, but they never actually You don't know until you step on the mat, you step on the court, you step on the field. And so there has to be Be a basis to say, well done, you have to go through the test. Let me mention one more before I forget it. It's also true to how we develop an intimate knowledge of God One of the ways that we know God personally is through these kinds of circumstances. That leads me to a couple of final thoughts. We must rest in His kind providence. As he actively manages every trouble and directs it toward his intended good end, rest in him. Celebrate the Savior, who through his suffering purchased I hope that gives you some things to think about. Have a wonderful weekend, and Lord willing, we will see many of you on Sunday. And then those who were not able to see on Sunday, I hope You'll join us on the live stream. And then I hope you'll join us the following week as we get back into our anchor in the word discussions. Have a blessed weekend. Lord willing. We'll see many of you this weekend. Bye now.