Good morning and welcome to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. Hope you're having a good Tuesday. And yesterday we talked about the fact that the Father is the object of our prayer. When we want to grow and we're asking God to work in someone's life, we pray to the Father because He is the one who actively works on our life from the outside. Today we're going to look at the source of confidence. How is it that we can be confident that the Father is going to work on us? Well the answer is found in the next little portion of these verses. And it is because of who indwells us, who is working in us. And that is the Spirit. He is the one who gives us confidence that the Father, in fact, is going to accomplish this purpose and it's going to work. So let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to chapter 3 again of Ephesians. We're looking at verses 14 down to verse 21. It says, For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named. that he would grant unto you, according to the riches of the glory of his grace, to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man. That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye being rooted and grounded in love may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height. and to know the love of Christ which passeth knowledge that ye might be filled with the fullness of God Now, as I mentioned just a moment ago, we talked about how the Father is the object of our prayer. He works on us from the outside. He chastens us, he prunes us, those are the things that he does. Well the question is what causes that work to be effective? The answer is the presence of the Spirit The reason we have confidence when we pray is because we rest in the Spirit's power to work within us. And we see this in verse 16. It says that you would be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man. That little phrase is the key. strengthened with might by his spirit. And the location is within us, in the inner man. The spirit who indwells us works in our hearts. to stimulate growth and to cultivate fruitfulness. That's what he does. And that's what we mean when we say strengthened with might by the Spirit. Now that word strengthened is a fascinating word used in a lot of places in the New Testament, but two really stand out to me as being parallel to the concept that's being communicated here He is strengthening us in the same way that someone like John the Baptist in Luke chapter 1 verse 80 as he grew and matured He also grew spiritually. He was strengthened in the inner man. It says that the child grew and he waxed strong in spirit. That's the same idea. Or even when we talk about Christ and his humanity. God in flesh, he is experiencing the weaknesses of human frailty. It says that the child grew and waxed strong in spirit, filled with all wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. Pretty amazing statement. As Christ lays aside the robes of his glory and he takes on the humility of humanity, Christ experiences In a body, what it means to grow physically and to be strengthened in the inner man. He experienced that. That's kind of the idea. So it's the spirit that works in us. And as the Spirit works in us, we see that he is working in a way that is actually unique from what he did in the Old Testament. For instance, in John 14, someone says, Well, that's a New Testament verse. Well, it is New Testament, but it's before the cross. This is in the upper room, before Christ is going to be crucified and rise from the dead. It says the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, Dwells with you and shall be in you. Now do you see the distinction? He's not in the world. He's with the Old Testament believer. He's going to dwell in the New Testament. believer. That's how he works in us, because he actually indwells us. And when we pray to the Father, what are we doing? We're taking confidence in two things. One is that the Spirit works, and two, we're taking seriously the means that He works through. We are not failing to exercise our responsibility. but we're not doing it in our own strength. We're doing it by the Spirit's enabling. And so when we talk about trusting in the Father, we we pray and we believe He's going to listen and work. Or when we talk about trusting the Spirit, we believe that He's going to work through the Word. And so I take the Scriptures, I put it into my heart, I dwell on it, meditate on it, and I'm convinced that the Spirit of God is going to work through that. And so we get into the word, we pray to the Father, we trust the Spirit to work. That's what we mean by taking seriously our responsibility. So I want to encourage you to do that this morning. Do you believe that your Father will heal your prayer? Well then pray to him. Do you believe that the Spirit of God indwells you and is going to work in you? The answer is yes, I do. I hope I hope that's your answer. Well, if you do, then pray with confidence. And if you understand that the Spirit works through the Word, then don't neglect it this morning. Get into the Bible, meditate on it, reflect on it. ponder it, allow the truths of Scripture to really resonate and nourish your soul today. Well that's what I have for you. I hope you have a great rest of your morning and Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again, middle of the week, as we keep working our way through this text. Take care, fine.