Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Yesterday we gave an introduction to the second the section of scripture that's dealing with the second coming of Christ. And what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like to dig into some of these details to show you the prelude to the second coming of Christ that is talked about in the text in front of us. So if you have your Bible, let's turn there and let's dig into this text together. We're going to read Luke chapter 21, beginning in verse number 20. It says the following. And when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that the desolation thereof is nigh. Then let them which are in Judea flee into the mountains, and let them which are in the midst of it depart out. Let not them that are in the countries enter thereunto. For these be the days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled But woe unto them that are with child, and them that give suck in those days. There shall be great distress in the land and wrath upon this people. And they shall fall by the edge of the sword, they shall be led away captive into all nations, and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles until the time of the Gentiles be fulfilled. Now as we look at this passage of Scripture, we we see the prelude to the second coming of Christ. And there are several important details that I want to mention in these verses. The first is that it describes what would be an historic siege on Jerusalem. Now, in my opinion, this is referring specifically to something that would take place really within the lifetime of the apostles. And that would be what's described in A. That would be what took place in AD 70. And so notice what the text says. It says, when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, Then know that the desolation thereof is nigh, and let them which are in Judea flee into the mountains, and let them which are in the midst of it depart out Now as we look at this passage of Scripture, what what's fascinating about the the the time when Jerusalem was destroyed in AD 70 is that the Christians who were living in Jerusalem actually recognized that these events were taking place and were going to be a fulfillment of this, and they did flee Jerusalem when they had an opportunity to. And so though Jerusalem was destroyed and the temple was destroyed and many, many people were killed in the city, the Christian community who believed the words of Christ fled the city and they were spared from those things. And so this is an event that I think is describing something that has already taken place, though it is also something that appears to be described during the book of Revelation, or during the tribulation in the book of Revelation, something very similar. So some might say this could be a near-term fulfillment and then there is a long-term fulfillment, but in my view, it's looking primarily at something that's already taken place. Now the question is why did this event take take place? Why did it happen? Well it's because God is judging a nation that has rejected him. And it's important to go back and look at some of the details that we've talked about. For instance, in Matthew 27. When Jesus is standing before Pilate, it says, When Pilate saw that he could not prevail, but rather that the tumult was made, he took water and washed his hands before the multitude and said, I am innocent of the blood of this just person. See ye to it. Then answered all the people and said, His blood be on us and on our children. It is shocking to think that people would say something so callous and so hardened But those words would actually come back to haunt these people by that time period of AD 70. And then again in Acts chapter 2, this is when Peter is preaching at Pentecost, it says He, Jesus, being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, you have taken and by wicked hands crucified and slain him. He's referring to exactly what took place in Matthew 7. And then we see another statement in Acts chapter 2 as Peter's preaching. It says, when they heard this, they were pricked in their hearts and said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, men and brethren, what shall we do? And he says, well, repent, turn to Christ, place your faith in the gospel. But there's another side to it, apart from repent, believe, be baptized. In verse 40 he says, with many other words he did testify and exhort them, saying, Save yourself from this untoward generation. And so this is, we could say, what is pushing toward the fulfillment of Christ's words. We also see that this is something that's referenced in many places in the New Testament. One example would be in the book of James, where it says in James 5, be patient unto the coming of the Lord, brethren. He says, be also patient, establish yourself your hearts, for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Grudge not against one another, brethren, lest you be condemned. The judge standeth before the door I think that in this particular passage, he's actually looking at how God is going to rescue his people who were being oppressed and they were ultimately being persecuted by the unbelieving Jewish communities where they lived. And so you see that this ties into that context. A second fact that we see is in addition to Jerusalem being crushed and the temple being destroyed, is that the Jewish people would be scattered all throughout the nations, and this would be for an indefinite period of time. But it would not be a permanent period of time. And so it says, they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and here's the key, and led away captive into all nations. Now this scattering abroad would not be permanent. And we see this in other passages of Scripture. In Luke chapter 23, as Jesus is going to the cross, he refers to the destruction of Jerusalem and refers to the terrible things that are going to happen. But there's some other passages that we should see alongside of this. For instance, in Luke 23 he says, daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me. Weep for yourselves and for your children. Isaiah 1112 says, He will set up an ensign for the nations and assemble the outcast of Israel and gather them together from the dispersion of Judah from the court four corners of the earth. What this is showing you is that what is referred to in Luke chapter 21 is not a permanent, but rather a defined period of time that's never actually never explained. And so there will be a time that God will regather the Jewish people. And Romans 11 talks about this. He says, I would not, brethren, that you be ignorant of this mystery, lest you should be wise in your own conceits. That blindness in part has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles become in. And so all Israel shall be saved. Even so, have these also obtained mercy, for God hath concluded them all in unbelief, that he might have mercy on all. And so what Romans chapter 11 describes is a time when God is going to bring the people back, and the nation that has rejected him will turn humbly to him, and there'll be a massive awakening of people placing their faith in Christ. We also see, thirdly, that Jerusalem would be dominated by the Gentiles during this period. where they are spread abroad throughout the nations. It says Jerusalem will be trodden down of the Gentiles, and here's the statement, until the time of the Gentiles be fulfilled. A fourth fact is that there will be visible and objective signs that immediately precede the second coming of Christ. Now it's important for us to recognize Is that while he talks about this, he doesn't tell us how much time will take place from the destruction of Jerusalem, that the the expanding of the Jewish nation, or the scattering of the Jews all over the world. the regathering of the people back to himself and the time of the Gentiles. There's no explanation for that amount of time. But during the day of the Lord, in that time preceding the second coming of Christ, there will be signs. And this is what he says. There will be signs in the sun, the moon, and the stars, on the earth, distress of the nations with perplexity. And the sea and the waves roaring, men's hearts fault failing for fear. And they will look after those things which are come on the earth. Now, I know this is a complicated concept, but there's a difference between what we call the day of the Lord and the second coming of Christ. This verse is talking about the things that will happen within the day of the Lord that precede the second coming of Christ. You say, well, what is the difference? The difference is that the day of the Lord will come upon people as a thief in the night. Christ's return will come after a series of clearly defined events that are described in the book of Revelation that will happen during the day of the Lord. And so we see that one event comes without signs, the day of the Lord, and the other comes with signs, the second coming of Christ. And so in Revelation he talks about seven seals being broken. He talks about seven trumpet blasts, seven bowls that are poured out. God's judgment on the nations. And all of those things are describing things that must take place within the day of the Lord preceding the second coming of Christ. And so it's important as we look at this concept. We recognize it is a complicated concept. There are lots and lots of pieces. But ultimately what Jesus is showing is that there is an immediate event that it's going to be terrible. That's going to ultimately point to another event that will take place during the day of the Lord that will accompany many events that are signs pointing to the second coming of Christ. What is his point? Be ready for the coming of the Lord. And that is how we must live every day of our lives, with an anticipation of the return of Christ. I want to encourage you, make sure that you are living with that hopeful anticipation of the coming of Christ. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through this passage of Scripture. Bye now.