Good morning, and I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you had a great Thanksgiving holiday and hope that you uh were blessed by our service uh this past Sunday And I know that it's December now and we are getting in the Christmas spirit and we are beginning our study looking at the birth of Christ and the significance of the incarnation. Christmas. But I did want to go back this week and I wanted to cover the topic that we dealt with two Sundays ago, and that was in Luke chapter 18 because I think it's a very po important passage of scripture for us to really reflect on. And so this will be the last of the Luke series that we'll look at until the new year. And the rest of our studies as we go throughout the rest of the Christmas season, are going to be focusing in on the birth of Christ. I did also want to mention that this is episode 236. And my goal is to go up to episode 250. So we'll have this week and then the next couple weeks, and then we'll be done for the year. And I'll take a little break and I hope that our studies have been an encouragement to you. If you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. Let's turn to Luke chapter 18, and we're going to look at verses 1 through 8 together. Let's read it, please, and then we'll dig into this passage. It says, and he spake comparable unto them to this end, that men ought always to pray and not to faint, saying, There was in a city a judge. which feared not God, neither regarded man. And there was a widow in that city, and she came unto him saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. He would not for a while, but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man, yet because this widow troubleth me I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. The Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge says And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry unto him night and day, though he bear long with them? I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth. As we dig into this passage of Scripture, I want to give you a summary statement and then talk about the difficulties of the last days. Which are at the forefront of the passage that we're dealing with this morning and throughout this week. So, first of all, a summary statement. Since the last days will be difficult days, And in some passages, they're called perilous days. Many will be unprepared for Christ's return. But God's people are different. They are in a position Where they are ready, but they must bring their burdens to him and rest in his providential care through the difficulties that they encounter in those days. He wants us to regularly take our burdens to him. and to trust him to do what is best. And so that's the focus that we will have throughout the week. That when we are burdened in these difficult days, We need to turn to the Lord and we need to roll those burdens on his shoulders and trust him with what's outside of our care. And so it begins with this topic that the last days are going to be hard days. In verse 1 he says that he spoke a parable unto them to this end, that men ought always to pray and not to faint. Now when he says that we should not faint, it's indicating that there's something going on in the lives of the people that would make them feel like they can't carry on. and that there is a need for them to come to God in prayer. And so this shows us the difficulty of those days. Now in the immediate context, he is continuing this discussion talking about the last days. And part of that discussion is reminding us that the return of Christ is imminent. There's nothing that is going to happen that we have to see. before the return of Christ comes. It could happen at any time, and we need to be living with an anticipation of that. And verse 1 he says that he spoke to this end. They are always to pray and not to faint. And verse 2 Verse number eight, he says, When the Son of Man comes, shall he find faith on the earth? What this shows us is that he's not bringing on a new topic, but he's continuing to build out the topic that he's been talking about previously. with the return of Christ. And as we think about the consistent teaching of Scripture on this issue, we're reminded that these are going to be challenging days. The Christian life is a rich life. It's a blessed life. But it's also a life that carries the potential for lots and lots of difficulties and burdens. And so we see passages like this one, 2 Thessalonians 1. He says, we ourselves glory in you in the church of God for your patience. faith, persecution, and tribulations that you endure. When you see words like patience and persecution and tribulation and endure, they tell you that the people who are in the position are going through difficult times. 2 Timothy 3, it says, in the last days there'll be perilous times. And he talks about the nature of those perilous times In 2 Timothy 3. 12, he says, all who live in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. In Acts 14, he says, continue in the faith. We must, through much tribulation, enter the kingdom of God. And then I think of 2 Peter 2, verse 9. He says that the Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation. and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished. Why do we start with these very difficult statements? Well, the reason that we start is because believers are compelled by Scripture to be circumspect and to be sober. We have to approach the Christian life with a mentality that is ready to endure the afflictions and the challenges of And so we're reminded in First Thessalonians 5 that we are to, those of us who are of the day, are to be sober, we are to put on the breastplate. of faith and love, and as an helmet, the hope of salvation. This passage is parallel to Ephesians 6, where it says that we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers. And we are to put on the whole armor of God so that we can stand in the evil day. And so I want to challenge you this morning as we go into this week. I know this is a festive season. I know this is a time that brings a lot of joy to people's lives. It's also a challenging time, but we need to recognize that in the days that we're living, there will be challenges. There will be difficulties, and we must develop an enduring principle, an endurance mentality as we get into the Christian life. life. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing tomorrow we're going to start digging into this concept of how the Lord Jesus teaches us to think and to respond to the times in which we are living. I hope that you have a wonderful day today. I hope that you enjoy the start to the Christmas season. And Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now