Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. And as I introduced yesterday, we are looking at Psalm 42, and we're talking about the topic of caring for a distressed heart. Yesterday we looked at some introductory thoughts and this morning I'd like us to look at the structure of the Psalm and kind of where it fits in the book of the Psalms because it will help set the stage for what we're talking about, and I think it will really really make this psalm hit home a little bit harder. So if you have your Bible, let's take it and follow along as we read in Psalm 42. Here's what the psalmist writes. As the heart panteth after the water brooks. So panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me For I had gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God, with a voice of joy and praise, with a multitude that kept holy day. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him, who is the help of my counter of his country. countenance. Now as we look at this passage of scripture, I want to kind of put it into perspective by talking about the structure of the Psalms and this Psalm and relation to the book of the Psalms. So Psalm 42 is the first book of or excuse me the first Psalm of the second book of Psalms. in the book of Psalms. I know that sounds a little confusing, but when you read your Bible, we think of there being 150 Psalms. in our English Bible. But one of the things sometimes we don't realize is that out of those hundred fifty Psalms, they're divided into five different books. And those five different books of Psalms is how it was recorded for us in the Hebrew Bible. And some of those Psalms actually are lumped together. For instance, Psalms Psalm 42 and Psalm 43 go together as a group that some believe was actually meant to be understood as one psalm. And so when we look at these psalms , Psalm 42 is the first one, and they go all the way to Psalm 72. What's also interesting about these five books of Psalms is that in the Hebrew tradition, they would say that the first book of Psalms corresponds to with the book of Genesis, the second book of Psalms corresponded with the book of Exodus, the third, with Leviticus, the fourth, with Numbers. And the fifth with the book of Deuteronomy. Now, I I don't think there's anywhere in the Bible that says that that's the case, but when we look at the second book of Psalms, where they start and where they end, we find some fascinating insight. When we talk about the Exodus, the Exodus is a narration of how God delivered his people from bondage in Egypt and established them as his covenant people at Mount Sinai. his peculiar treasure who was supposed to be a light to lighten the Gentiles and to point people to the Messiah. And interestingly when we look at Psalm 42, how it opens And in Psalm 72, how it closes, we see the same sense of the darkness of Psalm 42, and then we see the glory of Psalm 72. Let me show you what I mean by that In Psalm 42, 1 and 2, it says, As the heart panteth after the water brook, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear to thee? Now think of that in light of the position of the children of Israel as as slaves and are in bondage in Egypt. It says that they cried out to God because of the bondage of the land. And it says God heard their cry. And then he raises up a deliverer, Moses, who he's going to bring the children of Israel out of Egypt through. Then look at how it closes in Psalm 72. Blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel, who only doeth wondrous things, and blessed be the glorious name. forever and let the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and amen. The prayer of David, the son of Jesse, is ended. So you see how it starts with a darker theme. And then it moves to a glorious theme. And it moves from the individual to being a part of the covenant community Israel. And you notice how the emphasis is on the whole earth being filled with the praises of God because of his blessings on the nation of Israel. So I think it's a fascinating thing for us to consider. It will help c help us understand that Psalm 42 is a discouraging psalm. It's a disquieted psalm. It's a lament kind of a psalm. Also, I mentioned this earlier, but Psalm 42 and Psalm 43 are traditionally read together. And let me show you why it is understood that way. If we were to follow through Psalm 42 and 43, we'll notice that there is a state that is made three times. That statement is, why art thou cast down on my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God. I shall yet praise him who is the help of my countenance and my God And what you'll see is that this statement gives us the structure of the Psalms, where we could say how it's broken down. So the first several verses and end this way, the second several verses end this way, and then the entire psalm, Psalm 43, ends this way, showing you kind of the emphasis and the flow of progression. And you can also see when you're reading these psalms that there are parallel ideas in the first section to the second and then w we see this both on the positive and the negative side. And so when he's communicating a concept, he often presents it in a way that would be poetic to the Hebrew language and culture, and that would be with parallel ideas. So another interesting detail for us to notice. And then I want us to actually think about what the focus of all of this is. The focus is that people get discouraged, but God is a great deliverer. And we as God's people, though we are discouraged, though we are disquieted, though we are weighed down, we can and we should turn to God and He'll lift us up. And so this this this week I hope that you'll join us. tomorrow as we dig into that detail a little bit more. We're going to look at some of the causes for why people get themselves in such a place or while how they end up in such a place, maybe getting themselves there isn't always the case. And then how are to process that and work through that and ultimately find strength and healing and enabling in the Lord. as we glory in him. So I hope that you'll join us tomorrow as we dig into this a little bit more. Have a blessed rest of your day. And Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow. Bye now.