Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection for the week. And as we often do on Fridays, we we deal with some final thoughts. And so I'd like to look at the last little portion of this text. And then from that go into some practical applications. So as we dig into this passage, we want to start out by reading it. So turn with me to Romans chapter 8, and we'll begin in verse 14, and then we'll look at this final little section Where he says, I reckon the suffering of this present time is not worthy to be compared with the glory it shall be revealed in us. Here's what God's word says. As many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God Ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry Abba Father. The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit. We are the children of God. And if children then heirs, heirs of God, joint heirs with Christ. If so be that we suffer with him, we may be also glorified together. For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God. As we look at this last little pass little section of the passage, I want to remind you that we can endure as people who are overcomers. And we see that in this statement in verse 18. He says, I reckon, this is a calculation, I consider it to be true. I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. These truths should fundamentally shape how we view life. The fact that we are objectively in Christ, that we are his children, and that we have the Spirit who presses us to recognize we can cry out to Him as our Father. The fact that all these things are true should absolutely shape how we view life on a daily basis. But in order for this to happen, the Spirit has to personally work in us. He has to cultivate that perspective. And he will do it. as we respond properly to him. As he works, we have to make a choice. And that choice is to actually embrace what he says. That's why in the text it says we have to choose to say, I reckon. I have to calculate it. I have to think about it. I have to reflect on it. I have to choose to rest in it. We have to view the present and the sufferings of this present world in the light of future glory. We can't just look at what we're dealing with and ignore the big picture. And so he says sufferings are not worthy to be what compared to future glory. We have to choose to rest in the purposes of God. He's a God who cannot lie. He's a God who has promised, and so when He says these shall be revealed in us. That's indicating a confidence, a conviction in what God has actually said. So that moves me to some final thoughts. How should someone who respond respond who's not a Christian? Well, I want to remind you of this fact. A world that is full of hardship and all of the struggles that we deal with is going to move us to desire to find hope. And if you look for hope outside of Christ, sadly, you will never, ever find it. True hope is found in Christ and in Christ alone. He has dealt with our sin. That was the purpose of the cross. He has triumphed over death. That is the the victory of the resurrection. He has reconciled us to the Father through himself. Everything has been done in order for you to be reconciled to God. There's one thing that must happen. You must believe it. Rest in it. Trust in it. You must personally respond to the gospel. And so I ask you, what is keeping you, if you've never trusted Christ, from turning to Him in repentance and placing your faith alone in the finished work of Christ? Well, you humbly turn to him today. You don't need to talk to a pastor. You don't need to get some magic formula prayer. You don't have to be in a church building. You can, understanding that you're a sinner who's separated from a holy God, who has presented everything necessary for you to be saved. Christ's death and resurrection. his imputed righteousness, if you'll turn to Christ and place your faith what he's done for you, he'll save you right here and now. The second group I want to I want to emphasize application to is the believer. And that's probably most of the people that follow these anchored in the word reflections. For the believer, yes, life is hard. We don't get an easy pass because we're Christians. We need hope. We struggle. Where do we turn? We must turn to our Father who is infinitely good. And it's not just a hope so. It's all based on promises from God who cannot lie. Our legal status has changed forever, and this is because we are now in Him. We have the Spirit of God. He is actively working in us. We are new creatures in Christ. He has convicted us of sin so that he drove us to Christ. Now he's reminding us of the position we have in Christ. And he is comforting us in that position. He's driving us to see the security that we have in Christ, all of God's grace, all through God's work, all as the gift. And so we have to actively choose to rest in what is true about us in Christ. And so I hope that's what you'll do. Rest in the care of your loving Heavenly Father. I want to close with one final encouragement, and that is from Psalm 103, because in this text it talks to us about the goodness of God. It says, the Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and plenteous in mercy. He will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger forever. He has not dealt with us after our sins, nor has rewarded us according to our iniquities As the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. Like a father pities his children, so the Lord pities them that fear him. He knoweth our frame, he remembereth we our dust. This is your father. He is good. He is kind. He is merciful. He is gracious. Never doubt these truths about him. Gives you some things to think about going into the weekend. Have a blessed weekend. If you have any questions, any concerns, any needs, please don't hesitate to reach out. Lord willing, we'll see many of you this coming Sunday. Have a blessed rest of your week. Bye now.