Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And what I'd like us to do this morning is build a little bit more into what we talked about about yesterday and yesterday we talked about the obstacles um of the last days and how they're going to be perilous times difficult times the sort of things that we will encounter in these days. And we saw that the primary responsibility for the believer is the same no matter what what the situation is. And so this morning what I'd like to do is lean into that principle and ask the question, why? Why is it that the Word of God And the gospel is the main thing that we need to focus in on as we get into the last days. So with that in mind, let's turn in our Bibles again to 2 Timothy chapter 3. We're going to read verses 1 through 7, and then we're going to dig into the why as to why it is so important that we should be focused on the preaching of God. God's word and the expanding of the gospel. Here's what it says, Second Timothy chapter three, verse one. This know also that in the last days perilous time shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents. Unthankful and holy without natural affection, true speaker breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good. Traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. Now when we dig into this passage, we're going to see some statements about the nature and the power of Scripture. The first thing we see is that the Scriptures have an unbreakable power And we see that in verses 15 and 16. He says, From a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to what? To make thee wise unto salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. us. And then he says, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. We're going to zero in into that statement. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. God and profitable. There are three important truths that are being affirmed and taught by this text of Scripture. The first is this: every word of Scripture is breathed out by God. That little statement in the English, all scripture is given by inspiration of God, literally means every written word of scripture. is God's breath. That means he is the ultimate source of the word. This gives the word a living power. to take the truths that are written there and to impress them on our hearts. And they bear the full authority of God because they come directly from him. Secondly, this is a sufficient word. It is sufficient to shape us into Christ's likeness. Verses 16 and 17 it says And it is profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect meaning fully matured, freely furnished unto all good works. Another way to put this is that because every word of scripture Is breathed out by God, that word is a sufficient standard to shape us into Christ-likeness. That is the second truth. The third truth is its nature and power compel us to preach it. He says in verses 1 and 2 of the next chapter, therefore I charge thee, preach the word. And that word preach is not just tell people about it. or talk about it or be interested in it or be entertained by it. He's saying preach. Take the word, expound it, and compel people to respond to it, to submit to its authority. Call them to action. That is the sense of the preaching of the word. So because it is scripture and because it is the sufficient word. we should feel the weight of the need to preach it over and over and over again. Next thing I want you to notice is a powerful Old Testament. example of this. And there are lots and lots of places that we could have gone to, some wonderful scriptures in the Old Testament that talk about the power of God's word and the fact that it will never turn void. But the one that I really think just so well captures the concept of the last days, the troubles of the last days, and the power of God's word is that we read in Jeremiah chapter 1, verse 5. I'm just gonna hit some excerpts. I'm not gonna read every single uh section, uh a part of this section, but I want to hit the main highlights. Here's what he says He says, Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. And before thou cameest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee, and ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. Then said I, this is Jeremiah speaking, Ah Lord God, behold, I cannot speak, for I am a child. For the Lord said unto him, say not I'm a child. For thou shalt go to all that I send thee, and whatsoever I command thee, thou shalt speak. Be not afraid of their faces, for I am with thee, and I deli uh to deliver thee, saith the Lord. And the Lord put forth his hand and touched my mouth And the Lord said unto me, Behold, I have put my word in thy mouth. See, I have this day set thee over the nations and over the kingdom to root out and to pull down, to destroy, to throw down, to build up and to plant. For lo, I call the families of the kingdoms of the north, saith, saith the Lord. They shall fight against thee, but they shall not prevail against thee. against thee, for I am with thee, saith the Lord, to deliver thee. If you know much about Jeremiah's ministry, it was a very difficult, painful, frustrating, hard ministry. But what does God do? He says, I am with you. And here's the key. I have put my word in you. your mouth. And so the reason that Jeremiah was going to prevail was really twofold. One is God's with him, but two, the message he's going to proclaim. is the message that bears the full authority of God. And so we go back to the scriptures and we're reminded that all scripture is given by inspiration of God. Every word is God breathed. It is sufficient for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, and righteousness. This is reminding us that it doesn't matter the circumstances around us so long as we get back to the main things. Preach the word, be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exactly. I hope that this morning as you think about this, you will be encouraged by the power of God's word. It is a living word that is swift and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword and God uses his word in such a way that it will never return void in our lives. Let's get back to a high view of scripture and a high practice. practice of scripture when we think about the struggles that we face. May these things actually compel us and press us and motivate us to be active in the Lord's Well, I hope that you have a great rest of your day. Lord willing. We will meet again tomorrow for our final anchored in the word for the week. And I hope that you have a great weekend as we'll start that sometime tomorrow. Alright. Have a blessed day and I hope to see many of you tomorrow by now