Good morning and welcome to a new week and another series of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And today we're going to look at a second passage of scripture that's going to be an encouragement for uh year 2026 and that is focusing on some basic wisdom from Psalm 37 and I really love this text. And I think it will be a great encouragement to you. So if you have a Bible, let's take it. Let's turn to Psalm 37. We're going to read through the first portion of the Psalm and then dig into the resolve that we need in this new year. Psalm 37, verse number one. Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass and wither as the green herb. Trust in the Lord. Do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy way into the Lord, trust also in him, he shall bring it to pass. He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. Now as we look at this text, we're going to see several resolves that we need to have as God's people. And that first resolve is to not let evil people drag us down. Now when I use the term evil, we need to recognize that some people do evil things. That's not necessarily their intent all the time. There are some people that they are hardened and calloused, and the truth is they could care less what God thinks and what he says is right. We're going to encounter people like that. And so the question is, how are we supposed to resolve to deal with those kinds of issues in the coming year? Well, the first thing I want to say is found in verses 1 and 2. Fret not. because of evildoers. Don't be desirous against workers of iniquity. Reason, they will soon be cut down as the grass and wither as the green herb. Well let's break this down a little bit. The first fact we see here is that evil people are going to be encountered in life. And there are reasons for that. These are people that sometimes target those who are gentle and vulnerable. As Christians, we try to live peaceable lives in all godliness, and sometimes evil people will attempt to exploit that. Sometimes these are people who become successful, powerful. The reason is because they are willing to play by a different set of rules. They don't consider consequence the same way that people who fear God do. And so that means we're going to encounter people like that. Second fact is that we have to determine how to relate to them before we actually encounter them. And we see several things here. Don't allow them to be, uh don't allow wicked people to consume your thoughts. We see this word fret not. And that word fret has the idea of letting something burn inside of us. Sometimes we think of anxiety, worry, terror, fear. These are are are are things that happen within us where we're like burning inside. That's the idea of fret not. We see it in verse 1. Don't fret because of evildoers, verse 7. Don't fret because of those who prosper in the way, verse 8 Don't fret in any wise to do evil. So we've got to determine how to relate properly to people before we encounter them. Thirdly, don't allow their prosperity to frustrate you. Don't be envious against the workers of iniquity And sometimes we look at the people around us who are doing wrong and we see that they are successful. And we go, why can't I be successful like them? It's not fair. Don't respond in that way. Third fact, take comfort in the providence of God. What I mean is that God is active in his creation. He is working all things together for good to his children. And so there are several scriptures that we see here. First of all, the text itself, verse 2, where it says, they're going to be cut down as the grass and wither as the green herb. God 's going to deal with them. But we see this in other passages of Scripture, Psalm 73, when I thought to know the prosperity of the wicked, it was too painful for me until I entered the sanctuary of God and understood their end. What's he saying? Their prosperity is short-lived. First John 2. The world is passing away and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. Or Daniel 4, 35 Among the inhabitants of the earth, none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? What do these passages remind us of? The providence of God, the fact that he rules and reigns. And so I want to leave you with that simple thought. We're going to encounter evil people. We need to be prepared beforehand for how to deal with them. We shouldn't fret or be consumed with anxiety or frustration or jealousy. We've got to learn to trust in the providence of God. So may God help us to do that. Well, that's what I have for you this morning. I hope you'll join us tomorrow as we keep working our way through this passage, breaking it down bit by bit. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.