Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And we have been working our way sequentially through this text looking at reasons that we should glory in the resurrection. The first reason that we talked about was the transformation in the life of the disciples. The second is the fact that we are united with Christ and we can actually participate in God's great triumph over sin and death. This morning what I'd like us to do is focus in on how we should glory in the resurrection because it demonstrates the faithfulness of God. And so let's dig into the Word of God together. Again, that's Luke chapter 24, and we'll begin reading in verse number one. It says, Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came into the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them. And they found this stone rolled away from the sepulchre, and they entered in and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. It came to pass as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, Two men stood by them in shining garments, and as they were afraid and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen Now, the first thing I want to mention as we dig into this topic is the ultimate statement that it is God's faithfulness to his word demonstrating the resurrection that should cause us to glory in him. Notice what it says in verses 6 and 7. Remember how he spake unto you. when you were yet in Galilee, saying, the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again. Now there are two parts to that statement that are important. The first is the part where it says, remember how he spake unto you. The second part is, the Son of Man must be delivered. Now, what do those two things tell us? Well, the first thing they tell us is that this is reminding us of God's faithfulness to his word. Remember how he spake when he was yet in Galilee. God's word was on the line when we talk about both the cross and the resurrection. The Old Testament prophets told us over and over and over again that the Messiah would die and that he would rise from the dead And one of the most fascinating examples of this would be in Psalm 16. In fact, Peter references this when he is preaching a Pentecost. This is what the psalmist says. My flesh also shall rest in hope. And we say, when I die, I will die with a confident assurance. of something that God will do. And here is what that confidence confident assurance is. Thou wilt not leave my soul in hell. When David died, that wasn't the end. He said, Neither, and here is the key to the resurrection, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to seek corruption. So what basically David is saying is my confidence in death is the fact that the Holy One, the Messiah, will be resurrected. That's what he's saying. And then he goes on to say, In thy presence is fullness of joy, and at thy right hand are pleasures forevermore. In other words, he anticipated eternal fullness of joy in the presence of God. What was this all connected to? The resurrection. So when Jesus says remember or when the when the angels say, remember how he spake unto you when he was in Galilee, He's pointing them back to what he said, which is ultimately rooted in what the Old Testament prophets said. Second passage I want to draw your attention to is Christ's own personal testimony in Luke 18. He says, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written in the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. He shall be delivered into the unto the Gentiles, and he shall be mocked, and he shall be inspitefully treated, and spit on, and they will scourge him and put him to death, and the third day he shall rise again Again, this is also emphasized not just in that text and in the text that we've been examining this week, why do you seek the living among the dead, but also in the Emmaus Road story, which we looked at this past Sunday. We see this consistent pattern that God has stated in his word and now he is fulfilling what he stated he would do But there's a second sense of faithfulness. And this is one that people may not think about, and that is his faithfulness to his nature. It says the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified in the third day rise again. Someone might say, well what is the must therefore? Well it's not just referring to the promises. But it's also in emphasizing the fact this is the only way that people who are sinners can be reconciled to a holy and righteous God. And that's because of God's nature. God can't compromise his nature. God can't contradict his nature. His word and his nature will never be in conflict His purposes, his will, the things that he has purposed to do and will do, they are never in conflict with his nature. And that includes the nature of redemption. We talk about God, we're talking about a God who is holy, and his holiness cannot be compromised, and that's why we need the cross. Because in Hebrews chapter 9 it says, now, once He appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. By one offering, he hath perfected forever them that are sanctified. And so it is through the cross and the sacrifice of Christ that God's holiness is not compromised, yet he declares us as saints. A second statement, his justice cannot be compromised. Think of 1 John 1. 9, it says that he, God, is faithful and he is just to forgive our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. A judge cannot compromise justice and therefore forgive sin. He has to maintain perfect justice. So the question is how can God be faithful and just forgive if he's a perfect, holy, and righteous judge? And the answer is it's because of the cross. There is a basis for him to extend forgiveness, and it is because Christ has paid for our sin debt in full. Thirdly, his love can now be magnified. Romans 5, 8. But God commendeth His love toward us. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. The love of God is commended to us through the death of Christ on the cross. And then his grace is now extended. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace ye are saved. He can now be both just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Christ. Romans 3. 25. This is the heart of the gospel. God hath sent forth Christ to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past. Through the forbearance of God to declare, I say at this time, his righteousness that he might be both just and the justifier of him that believeth in Jesus. And so when we think about these passages of Scripture, we can glory in the resurrection because the resurrection demonstrates God's faithfulness. His faithfulness to fulfill his word, his faithfulness to not in any way compromise his character, yet still forgive sinners. declare them righteous and give them the position of not just not guilty, but holy in Christ. May God help us to have a more thorough understanding of the glory of the resurrection and may we indeed glory in it. Have a blessed rest of your morning and Lord willing tomorrow we'll look at some final thoughts of application as we go into the weekend. Bye now.