Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Mor Word Morning Reflection. And I hope that you've enjoyed this series as we're talking about the resurrection of Christ and we're looking at reasons that we should glory in the resurrection. Yesterday we looked at the radical change that took place in the lives of the disciples, and this morning what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to consider the triumph of the resurrection and what was actually accomplished both by Christ and for us. So if you have your Bible, let's turn there, look at Luke chapter twenty four, verses one through twelve together, and then we will dig into this con this concept. It says this, now, upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, They came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared. Certain others with them. They found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre, and they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments. And as they were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen. Now, yesterday we looked at the the reason to glory in the resurrection. That is It radically changed the disciples. This morning, what I'd like us to do is glory in the resurrection because it has secured triumph for us over death. And like us to break this down by looking at what it says in verse 6. Why do you seek the living among the dead? He is not here. He is risen. Now, Christ's resurrection was a triumph And it was a triumph in several different senses. The first sense is that it secured triumph for Christ. He is not here. He is risen. Christ is the only person in all of human history who rose by his own power. When we talk about someone like Lazarus, Lazarus was raised from the dead. We think about some of the people who experienced resurrection at other times in the Bible. They were raised by the power of God through an instrument like a prophet. In this particular situation, we have Christ rising from the dead by his own power. And so it is his personal triumph over death and his personal triumph over corruption. I think of John 11, 25. Jesus said, I am the resurrection and the life. 1 Corinthians 15 Now is Christ risen from the dead, become the first fruits of them that slept. Since by man came death By man came also the resurrection from the dead. And so he's referring to the first Adam who brought us into sin. And the second Adam, who causes us to triumph over sin and death through his own resurrection. Powerful thought to consider. Christ personally triumphed over death and corruption. Second thing is, he also personally triumphed over the misery of this fallen world and the kingdom of darkness. A couple of interesting passages to think about here. Again, in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 42, it says that this body is sown in corruption. But it is raised in incorruption, it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory, it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power, it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. This passage of scripture is one that I've many times quoted from when I'm doing someone's funeral And the reason for that is because at a person's funeral, especially someone who's older, maybe they experience a lot of physical infirmities later in their lives, it reminds us that this is a corrupt body. This is a body that is weak. This is a body that is decaying. And it also reminds us this is the body that will be replaced by a glorified body that is incorruptible, that is glorious. And it is not a natural body but a spiritual body. And so we see that it is Christ's triumph over the fallness of the world and the corruption that is in the world, but also the kingdom of darkness Colossians chapter 3 it says that Christ blotted out the handwriting of ordinances that were against us, which were contrary to us, and he took them and he nailed them to his cross. And I love this statement, having spoiled principalities and powers and made a show of them openly triumphing over them in it. Out of all the things that Satan has done in this world where he has appeared to be the victor. It's the cross. And the cross, here is the Son of God, God in flesh. being nailed to it and dying in agony and in misery, and he is being punished in our place. And if there was ever a time that it would appear that the kingdom of darkness has triumphed, it's in the cross But it is actually the cross that nails his death sentence. And so it is through the cross and the resurrection that Christ has triumphed over the kingdom of darkness, spoiling principalities and powers, making a show of them openly, triumphing over them in it. Now that is all connected to Christ's triumph. But there is a second sense that should cause us to glory in the resurrection here. And that is that it secured triumph for all who are united to Christ. Romans 6. 5 says, we are united in the likeness of his resurrection. What that means is that through faith in Christ, we have the privilege to participate in this triumph. We did not triumph personally, but we experienced the benefits of this triumph. in our union with Christ. John 11, 25, he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this Union with Christ allows us to participate in his triumph over death. Or another passage, 1 Corinthians 15, 19. now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that slept. In Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. And so this is a reminder that it is our union with Christ That gives us all of the benefits of the resurrection. Death's power is now broken entirely for all who are in Christ. 1 Corinthians 15 he says, O death, where is thy sin? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, the strength of sin is the law, but thanks be to God who giveth us the victory Through our Lord Jesus Christ. And so the power of sin and death and hell and Satan and the kingdom of darkness and corruption in this world, it is all broken. Because of the cross that purchases redemption and the resurrection that gives us triumph over death. I tell you that is probably the greatest reason I could think of that we should glory in the resurrection. Yesterday we saw the transformation that takes place in the lives of the witnesses of the resurrection. Today we talk about the transformation that takes place in the lives of the witness of all those who repent, believe, and are united with Christ. And that's why I asked this question, are you glorying in the cross? Are you enjoying the benefits and the blessings that come alone? through the risen Savior. Have a blessed rest of your day. If you have any questions, if you need to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that. If you think this would be an encouragement to someone, take a moment to share that. And Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now