Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word of Morning Reflection and hope that you've had a great week and that the discussions that we've had throughout each of these days have been an encouragement to you and that the Lord's used them to be a help to you in some way. The text that we've been working our way through is 1 Corinthians chapter 1, and we're looking at verses 10 through 17. So if you have a Bible, let's take it. Let's turn together. We'll read this passage and then just jump back in where we we left off yesterday. First Corinthians 1. 10. Now, I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you speak the same thing And that ye therefore be that that there be that there be no division among you, but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. For it hath been declared unto me of you by brethren, by them which are of the house of Chloe, that there are contentions among you. Now this I say, that every one of you saith, I'm of Paul, I'm of Paulus, I'm of Cephas, I'm of Christ. Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you, or were you baptized in the name of Paul? Now yesterday as we were digging through this passage, we we dealt with a couple of introductory thoughts, talking about just the the general problem that was going on in the at Corinth and what was at the heart of the problem that Paul is addressing. This morning what I'd like to do is go back and ask how did he begin to address the issue. What were the corrective measures that Paul took in order to correct this issue? The first thing I want to do is read the verse so that we can see it and then we'll pick it apart. piece by piece to see how Paul addresses the issue. He says, now, I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing And there be no divisions among you, but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. Now he's very careful how he frames this issue to the church. The first thing that we notice is the phrase, I beseech you. He wanted to come alongside them and strengthen them in their resolve to do right. Whenever we see this phrase, I beseech you in the New Testament, it's generally a translation of the word that is used to describe the Holy Spirit being our paraclete or the comforter. The idea is coming alongside a person and strengthening them in their resolve to do what is right. That is the sense of how Paul is coming. Second thing that we see is the word brethren. He's reminding them that their family So you need to put off this contention because you're all a part of the same family, the same body. Thirdly, we see the phrase by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. He's emphasizing the authority of his instruction. This is coming from Christ their Lord. And then he states it both negatively and positively. Negatively, he says, find common ground and end your division Speak the same thing, that there would be no more divisions among you. But he goes beyond just saying, stop being divisive, and he takes it another step further to say saying be positively united in one common set of priorities as a body. Be perfectly joined together in the same mind and the same judgment And so as Paul would frame this to the church, he would say the exact same thing to us if we found ourselves in similar circumstances. Second thing I want to notice. is the wisdom in his approach to addressing the issue. He begins by asking questions. And these are not questions to back someone into a corner like a lawyer because you're trying to to prove a case. But he's asking questions to prick the conscience. He's asking questions to get them to think about the nature of what's going on and ask themselves, am I really looking at this correctly, what is at the root of the problem? He's trying to get to the heart, not just deal with symptoms. And so notice some of the questions he asks. First, is Christ divided? Well the answer is of course not. There's only one body, the body of Christ. Question two Was Christ crucified for you? The answer, of course not. There's only one Savior. That Savior isn't Paul, it isn't Apollos, and it isn't Peter. It's Jesus. He's the one that was crucified for you. for me. And so that's what I need to be most concerned about. My identity with him, not my identity with one of these individuals. Third question: Were you baptized in the name of Paul? Answer. Of course not. So he's saying your foremost identity has to be in the one who you are baptized in identification with. with and that is Jesus. His death, his resurrection, not my death for you or my sacrifice for you or me being a teacher of the law or a teacher He's saying your identity is in Christ. He then goes on to remind them of their history together, and I think this is interesting. He's saying, I'm not only going to ask you some questions about this and approach you as one who loves you and cares about you, but I want to remind you what I've done. Verses 14, 15, and 16. I thank God that I baptize none of you But Crispus and Gaius, lest any of you should say, I had been baptized in mine own name. And I baptize also the house of Stephanus. Besides, I know not whether I baptized any other. A couple of interesting points to make about that. Paul was careful to not promote himself by the way that he went about doing the work of ministry. He was encouraging the people not to develop a patronizing mindset. That was a common mindset amongst the people in Corinth. Paul was resistant to it. This is one of the reasons he didn't take money from the church, even though he had the right to expect them. If he has been ministering to them in the Word. And they have benefited spiritually from his ministry and his instruction, then they should make sure that he's physically taken care of. But he he rejected that care because he did not want to develop a patronizing mindset amongst the people. Also I'll mention this. He did not keep detailed records of his success. And what it tells you is that Paul's ministry mindset and his approach was in no way about self-promotion. It was all about Christ. It was all about pointing people to him and him, Paul, being less of the focus of the ministry and more of just a tool in the hands of God. Third thing I want to mention is Paul's reminder of his duty as a minister of the gospel. In verse 14, it says, Christ sent me not to baptize. but to preach the gospel, not with the wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. Now what is Paul saying here? He's saying your salvation is rooted in a real person. That person is not Paul. That person is Christ. And this salvation was accomplished through some salmon. He did for you, not something I did for you. Thirdly, human wisdom is not what created the plan. Human wisdom is not what promotes the plan and ultimately causes you to believe. The reason a person believes is because the Spirit works in them through the preaching of the word. Faith comes by hearing the word of God, not by human logic and and and And and reasoning, but through the Spirit's work, through the Word, bringing someone to repentance toward God and faith in Christ. And so Paul's saying, my primary concern was to preach the gospel. Christian ministry is not about me. It's not about you. It's not about us. It's about the gospel. And so it's not about the skills of the people that are used by God or the personalities of the people that are used by God. It's about him accomplishing his work in his own way, in his own time, for his own glory. Third thing I want to mention is that there's a summary of what's going on that I hope will be helpful to you. How do we apply the passage? Well, first of all, a summary statement. What does Paul want more than anything else? Well, his burden is that the church rejects political infighting and embraces biblical priorities. with a humble spirit. That's what he wants. And so the question is, how do we apply it? Well before I get to that one last question, I do want to address one matter that I think is a practical question that many times people ask about Is it okay to use labels? Is using labels like a Baptist or a fundamentalist or an evangelical is it wrong for us to use such terms because isn't that basically what Paul's telling us? them not to do? And the answer is, well, it depends on why you're using the label. So when we think about a label like evangelical, some people use that term because it has a political side to it. their minds and they want to be associated with being viewed as a political evangelical. But if we're talking about it in terms of the church, we're simply saying there's the basic belief that a person needs to be to be born again. Now, that doesn't go into a lot of heather areas of doctrine. It just means you need to be born again through the preaching of the gospel. It's actually a pretty soft term if you want to be honest about it. But in the time we're living in, it's more of a political term. A second term, which also seems to have political overtones. Now when maybe fifty to seventy-five years ago it would have been viewed slightly differently, and that's the term fundamentalist. It's the idea that there are certain basic convictions that we have regarding the core doctrines of the Christian faith that we hold to. Whereas other people who take the name Christian, that label, they don't necessarily hold those fundamental core values that are what determine whether or not a person believes in true orthodox Christianity or not. And so the term fundamentalist, a lot of times now it's very confusing. It's more of a political term or a cultural term. When originally when it was used, it was more more of a theological doctrinal term that was talking about people who had a common view of the authority of Scripture, the nature of Christ, those kinds of things. But then there's the third term, and that's Baptists. I mean, we we are at Anchor Baptist Church. And that word Baptist is not being used for any reason other than to say this identifies the kind of core doctrinal beliefs that shape the nature of how we do Christian ministry in our church. So when we talk about Baptist distinctives, we're talking about things like biblical authority. The scripture is the final authority or the church should be self-governing authority and congregational in his government as opposed to Presbyterian. Or that every believer has equal access to God through Christ, not through another human mediator like the pastor or Or maybe like my father, or like a person's husband. The priest is Christ. We come to the Father through the Son. There are two offices, not multiple offices. The offices of pastor and deacon. And sometimes that term pastor said someone might use this term. term overseer, they might use the term elder, obviously those two terms very commonly use in the New Testament, but it's referring to the pastoral office and then the serving office So we have pastors and deacons. Or then we talk about liberty of conscience, the fact that we believe in soul liberty, and there are areas that we are deferential towards other believers. And then lastly, that the church is made up of believers who have followed the Lord in believers' baptism. They have been formally covenanted together as a body. When we talk about Baptist distinctives, we're talking about churches that follow these guidelines. The Bible is the final authority, congregational government. They they they recognize the individual priesthood of the believer soul liberty of conscience two offices two ordinances and so when we use that term we could be using it simply to describe how we do church based upon biblical conviction Or we could be looking at those terms in another way. So I'd have two follow-up questions. Why do I use the label? Do I use it because I want to make sure that I'm honest and people know what we believe? And we we know that we need agreement in the church as we talk about the administration of ordinances or how we appoint officers to the church or how we conduct our business as a church. Church? What is our final authority? If it's about honesty so that people understand what we believe, well, that's a good term. But if it's about something different, then we have another problem. We need agreement on doctrinal areas And how we actually do the work of the ministry. And so it's a good term. So we are Anchor Baptist Church, not because we have some uh you could say pride issue that I'm a Baptist, but it's it's to identify what we believe doctrinally. And so we need to be honest about what we believe. But then we could ask a second question. What's the attitude that I hold about these? labels. Maybe my my initial reason is good, but then the way that I hold it, the attitude in which I hold it. That could become a problem. We should not allow our position to become a source of pride or comfort. And the truth is a lot of Christians They like the term Baptist or they despise the term Baptist because it it's a source of pride. It's my association within the body of Christ. It's where I feel comfortable. And that is now getting into a realm that I think is a violation of this passage of scripture. Our identity and our joy and what really motivates us ought to be Christ and Christ alone, not the culture of our church. church. So we need to be honest about what we believe, but it shouldn't be a source of pride. So that leads me to, well, how do we most directly apply this Text. Here are a few things to think about. First of all, division is a symptom. Not the primary issue. Now it can be very destructive, but it's a symptom of a far deeper issue. That is in the hearts of people. It's a manifestation of a set of values that drives how we relate to one another. And so we need to think thoroughly biblically in our priorities. That's where we need to start. We need the gospel to be the source and the center of our focus. We need a love for God, not comfort or status to be the thing that motivates us most carefully. And we need to think and act as if Christ alone is our true source of identity. I hope that you have a wonderful rest of your week and a wonderful weekend. We hope to see you many of you on Sunday. If this has been encouragement to you, take a moment to share that. And if you would like to ask me some questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing, we will meet again over the weekend or on Monday when we do our anchor to the The words spine out.