Good morning and welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. We just gave a very simple introduction yesterday and today what I'd like to do is I'd like us to look at some of the key details that are a part of this section of Christ's ministry. So what I want to do is kind of lay out what took place during that final week, the Passover week before the crucifixion And so if you have your Bible, let's take it, excuse me, turn to Luke chapter 19, and we're going to read verses 41 through 44 together, and then we will kind of break it down one day at a time. And hopefully this will help kind of give you a good understanding of what was going on during that week. It says, and when he was come near, he beheld the city. and wept over it, saying, If thou hadst known, even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belong to thy peace, but now are they hid from thine eyes. The day shall come upon thee that thine enemy shall cast trenches about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on every side, and shall lay thee even down to the ground. Thy children within thee, they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another because thou knew not the time of thy visitation. Now to really appreciate Christ's words, it's important for us to consider two key details The first is that Christ has had a series of conflicts that are building between him and the religious leaders Secondly, it's important to recognize that this is the week that is the culmination of that incredible buildup. And so this is not just something that's been building throughout Christ's ministry, but it's even going to build within the week of the Passover. And as I read through the passages, it appears that while the the religious leaders hated Christ enough to kill him, which is ultimately what ends up happening. It was not their intent to kill him during the Passover week. They didn't want to do that and disrupt the crowd and have them turn against them. But the fact is that these people hated him so much that they could not help themselves. And ultimately this is going to come to a head as the fulfillment of prophecy. But let's work our way through the week just so that we can get a sense of it. And I know that there would be some discretion or dis disagreement about how this lays out. I'm trying to do my my best to try to give you an overall flow of that Passover week. On Sunday, we know that he comes down from the Mount of Olives. We call it the triumphal entry. As he's coming into the city, the people are crying, Hosanna, which means save us now. Blessed is he who comes the name of the Lord. And they're quoting from Psalm one hundred eighteen. And the irony of that passage is that it talks about Christ being rejected, the stone which the chief builders rejected has become the head of the cornerstone. And then it says, save us now. And so we see that this passage of Scripture was properly being referenced, but not understood as it was being referenced. Then we see that Christ goes up into the city. And there he is confronted by the religious leaders, telling him, tell your disciples to be quiet. He goes up into the temple, but according to Mark 11, he goes back up to Bethany, and nothing happens. Now it's a little bit unclear when you look at the various cross-references, the timing of this, but it does appear that he goes up into the city and then goes back up to Bethany, and then that leads us to day two on Monday. On Monday, he comes down into the city again. And as he's coming into the city, there is a fig tree on the side. And the fig tree should have had figs on it, but it was barren. And when Christ sees this fig tree, he curses it And this is a symbolic reference to the state of the nation of Israel. Here is a nation that should be bearing fruit. Here is the Messiah, their king. Yet they are rejecting him. And so he is reminding them that like the fig tree, they are a barren tree as a nation. He goes back into the temple and there he throws out the money changers. This is actually the second time in Christ's ministry that he does this. The first time was mentioned in the book of John at the beginning of his ministry. This is at the end of his ministry. So you could say these are the bookends to the ministry of Christ. And what is his contention? His contention is that they have made his father's house a den of thieves, when it should be a house of prayer. Then on Tuesday, Christ comes back down into the city again. And as he's coming, the religious leaders have had a night to reflect on two things that have happened. One, the triumphal entry. And two, the overturning of the money changers, and they're living. Now, this has been building for a long time, but now it's really coming to a head. And so they confront Christ there in the temple And they say, what right do you have to do what you say that you're doing? And Jesus basically goes on to say that if they will look at the temple they're standing in, it's going to be destroyed. It's not what they wanted to hear. It's not something that they believed. It's still under construction. It is one of these wonderful um tributes from Rome to the people. It was originally Zerobul's temple, but it's been it's been added to by Herod. And so what is Jesus doing? He's predicting that because of the rejection of the Messiah, these people are going to face judgment. Then we come to Wednesday. On Wednesday, Judas agrees with the religious authorities to deliver Christ into their hands. Then we come to Thursday. On Thursday, Jesus celebrates the Passover with his disciples. And as we read through the text it appears that this is the preparation for the Passover. And so as Jesus celebrates the Passover with his disciples, he institutes a new ordinance, not Passover, but what we commonly call the Lord's table. And so the Lord's table and the Passover is really two different sides looking at the same event. The Passover looked forward to Christ's coming and dying. The Lord's table looks back at how Christ came. and died and fulfilled those promises of redemption. And so Jesus indicates that He will fulfill it all. He is the fulfillment of the Passover. After that He goes up to the Garden of Gethsemane. There he prays with his disciples as they sleep, and ultimately Judas betrays him with a kiss. We move this into Friday. And we talk about Friday. We have to realize that that really as Christ is in the garden, we're looking at kind of the blend between Thursday and Friday based upon the Jewish how the how the Jewish people looked at the beginning and ending of a day. But here it is early in the morning or late at night, depending on how you want to look at it. and all the way through the early afternoon. So Jesus goes through a series of questions, a series of uh court observances where he is being um attacked and maligned and and he's being presented as someone who is a false teacher, who's committed treason. And so Jesus, first of all, is questioned by Annas Annas is the father-in-law of Tecaiaphas. He is sort of the political power in Jerusalem, who has both religious and political power, though he's not technically the high priest. Then he goes and stands before Caiaphas, the current high priest, and Caiaphas and the Sanhedrin condemn him to be delivered to the Romans. Now they don't have the power to deliver him to death. They want him to die. So they have to deliver him to the Romans. Which means that he is presented to Pilate, the governor there in Jerusalem, who questions him. As he questions him, he realizes that in fact Christ is not guilty. He's been delivered by people who are purely jealous of him and they hate him and they despise him. And so he tries to get out of it by sending him to Herod Antipas, who is the governor of Galilee, which is the region that Jesus is from. So the incidents happening in Jerusalem, that's the jurisdiction of Pilate. He sends him to Herod Antipas. Herod Antipas is excited about Christ. He knew who he was. He was interested to ask him questions. But Jesus ends up back before Pilate again. And this time it comes to a head. Pilate has to make a decision. And what does he do? He pulls out a basin, he washes his hands, and he says, I am innocent of the blood of this man. And what did the people say? We have no God but Caesar, his blood be on us and on our children. And that fateful series of events is what led to the cross. And I say fateful. The reality is these are prophetic. These are fulfillments of what God has said would happen for thousands of years. Then we have the crucifixion of Christ, and then he is buried. by a man named Joseph of Arimathea who was a member of the Sanhedrin who did not consent to them delivering him up to the Romans. Day day f uh day seven, or excuse me, Friday, the ending of the week going into the Sabbath. So there you have it. Now why do I take the time to do this? I take the time to present all this to say these events would have weighed very heavily on Christ. He says, Behold, I go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. Now, as you were, if if you were in the shoes of Christ , How would you have responded to the people that you knew were going to kill you? You ever thought about that? The people who would spit in your face, the people who would beat you and mock you and accuse you falsely Well, the answer to that question is something we'll look at tomorrow. And so I hope that this will help you to get a good sense of some of the things that went on that week. kind of help drive drive the weight of this and really help us to appreciate the words of Christ so much better. Have a blessed rest of your morning and Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.