Good morning. Welcome back to our final Anchored in the Word of Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a great Friday. Uh if you're watching this Friday morning Or if you're watching it over the weekend, hope you're having a great weekend. And we look forward to seeing many of you on Sunday. Hope that this passage of scripture that we've been dealing with this week has been an encouragement to you. And the fact is, God wants us to live lives that are vibrant. He wants us to live lives that impact eternity, that are investing in his kingdom. And he wants us to live richly. And if we're going to do that, it's important that we are not burdened down with these anxious doubts and that we don't process them in a biblical way. And the fact is that There are going to be times that we get discouraged and we're weary and we're not thinking correctly and we're being driven by our emotions. And when those things happen, passages like this are foundational to helping us work through that so that we're thinking in a way that is godly, that is healthy, and ultimately leads to living a productive life, one that uh brings glory to the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, today what what that what I'm going to do is going to read the second half of this section kind of where we left off yesterday before I give you our final thoughts. So Luke chapter 12, we're going to begin in verse 29. He says And seek not what ye shall eat or what you shall drink. Neither be ye of doubtful mind. For all these things do the nations of the world seek after, and your father knoweth that ye have need of these things. But rather seek ye the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you. Fear not, little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Sell that ye have, and give alms. Provide yourself bags which wax not old, a treasure in heaven that faileth not, where no thief approacheth, neither moth corrupteth, for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. So yesterday we talked about the fact that when we're dealing with these kinds of anxious doubts, we need to channel our attention toward thinking biblically. This morning what we're going to do is emphasize the fact that we need to channel that energy not into just thinking biblically, but in living consistent with what we know to be true. And that's why he says, seek not what you shall eat or drink, rather, seek the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you. Another way to put this is Jesus is saying, do not live like someone who believes that there's no God. and believes that you don't have a heavenly father, and believes that there's not a father who manages his creation and loves his creation. Don't live like the Gentile nations around you. Or in our contemporary context, another way to put it is don't live like a secularist. Seek not what you shall eat or drink. Don't live like the only thing that you have is the physical realm and this temporary time that we live here and food and clothing. Don't be consumed with those things. Rather, seek the kingdom of God. In other words, he's saying, don't act like you're just random chance. Don't act like you're an animal who's developing uh without intel you know into into the intelligence that we have. Don't live based on the definition of the passions that you pursue. Live like a Christian. That's what he's saying. Live like you believe that there's eternity. Live like you really are saved. Live like you really have a Father who manages his creation. And so I give you these simple thoughts under that. He is your father. He is going to meet your needs. Instead of fretting, be willing to trust him. Recognize he has the ability. He has the willingness to take care of you. And so reflect on that. Reflect on what is true. And invest your life in what has eternal value. So, with that in mind, I want to give you these final thoughts. to reflect on as we go into the weekend or as you continue in the weekend depending on when you hear this. The first thing is this. Realize that a biblical perspective is not just true. It is also liberating. It provides the foundation for a life that is truly rich and meaningful. God wants us to invest our lives in eternity. He wants us to live vibrantly. And the ability to do that comes with living consistent with his design and living according to what is true. The second thing. We do not need to live lives that are consumed with the what-ifs of life and the what-abouts of life and the if -onies of life. And that's where a lot of us live A lot of us go, well, what if this had been different? And what about this situation? And if only this had been different. The fact is you can't control the past. You can't go back and relive it. You can learn from it. You have grown hopefully through it. You can move forward having learned from the things of the past, but you can't change them. So don't live consumed with fretting over those kinds of things. Don't be distracted by what is around you. Instead, let those distractions drive you to God. Let those things that have have been pulling your mind away from Him direct you back to Him. And as you do that, recognize that that it is thinking biblically that's going to help you live the way that you need to live You need to remind yourself when those distractions pull you and you're reminded, I gotta look back to the Lord. Remind yourself that He loves you, He cares about you. He cares about the rest of creation. He has demonstrated that in fact he is good. And because he is good and he does good, you can trust him. You can trust him to meet your needs. You can trust him to work through the choices that you make that are consistent with what he tells you to do. You can trust him to control the things that are outside of your control. And so I want to challenge you this week, think biblically, and then pour your life into knowing God and delighting in Him Pull your life into investing the resources he has entrusted to your care into eternal pursuits that have real value. And let's all grow together in a willingness to trust Him to meet our needs, and let's invest our lives in what is our God-given duty. I think that's the primary takeaway from this week. Rather than being consumed with anxious doubts and worries, let's channel our attention into thinking biblically about God And let's channel that energy into allowing a right thinking to shape a right living. Let's invest our lives in the kingdom of God. Have a blessed weekend, and Lord willing, we'll meet on Sunday. Bye now.