Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today what we're going to focus on is the duplicity of the religious practice of these people. And when you judge a system of thought, there are two things you should look at. First of all, you look at the actual content of the religious system. Is the content consistent with God's revelation? The second thing we can do is we can look at what is produced by what is being taught. Because what is being produced is ultimately a reflection of the kind of thing that is being taught. And so a system that promotes self is showing you that there's something wrong at the core. And also a system that produces disciples who are either being abused by it or abusing others is something that is an indication of something wrong at the root. And this morning we're going to look at how Christless Christianity or Christless religion is duplicitous in its practice. And so let's take our Bibles and turn together to Luke chapter 20. We'll begin reading in verse 41, and then we'll look at this passage. uh for this particular part. Here's what it says. And he said unto them, How say they that Christ is David's son David himself saith in the book of the Psalms, the Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand till I make thine enemies thy footstool. David therefore calleth him Lord. How is he then his son? Then in the audience of all the people he said unto his disciples, Beware of the scribes. which desire to walk in long robes, and love greetings in the markets, and the highest seats in the synagogue, and the chief rooms of the feasts, which devour widows' houses, and for a show make long prayers the same shall receive greater damnation. Now what was just duplicitous about the devotion of these people? How was it hypocritical in any way? Well in verses 21, or chapter 21, notice what he says. He looked up and saw the rich men casting their gifts into the treasury. He saw also a poor widow casting in thither two mites. And he said, Of a truth, I say unto you, this poor widow has cast in more than they all, for they all have out of their abundance cast in unto the offerings of God. But she out of her penury has cast in all her liv all the living that she had. And as some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly gifts and stones, he said As for these things which you behold, the day will come in the which they shall be left one stone upon another, they shall not be there shall not be left one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down So what do we see in these verses? Well we see two things. One we see is the disciple of those who are teaching and how their teaching is reflected in their practice. It says in the verse before that he observed how they were casting their money into the treasury. You say, well, how are these people doing it? Well the text doesn't exactly tell us this, but we know by other things that Jesus has said. the kinds of things that they did when they were putting money in the treasury. For instance, in Matthew 6. 1 he says, Take heed that you do not your alms before men to be seen of them. Obviously Christ was able to observe what they were doing So it was being done in a public way. And this would have been very consistent with the way that they typically gave. Secondly, in verse 2 of Matthew 6, it says, do not give your alms. When you give your alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have the glory of men. So it's not just that they're doing it before others, but they're doing it in a way that draws attention. Again, this is very likely what's happening when Christ is watching these people. Thirdly, when people were to give, they were not to give in a way that made them think much of their gift. Verse 3, when thou doest on alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth. Now, more than likely, as Jesus is watching these people, they are violating all three of these principles. They're giving publicly, they're giving in a way that draws attention, and they're doing it with much thought about how much they're giving. And so the question is why? They were doing this because this is what they were taught to do. This is what everyone did that was a part of that system. But then we move our attention to a second individual, and that is a person who is a noble disciple, but is being abused by the system that is misguiding her, and that is this poor widow. Notice what we see in verses 2 to 4. He saw a certain poor widow casting in thither two mites, and said, Of a truth I tell you, this poor widow hath cast in more than they all. For all these out of their abundance have cast in unto the offerings of God. But she of her penury hath cast in, here's the statement, all the living that she had. So this woman is giving in proportion to her actual income, what she has, she's giving way more than these other men. Because she's giving everything. And so that leads us to the question of how did Jesus perceive what she was doing? Well, first of all, he draws attention to her in a noble way, yet a misguided way She out of her penury hath cast in all the living that she had. Now, if you think back to what she what he just stated in verse 47 , then what it's showing you is that she is a part of a system that devours widows' houses. She is literally giving to the detriment of her own physical needs. The Bible obviously expects of us to be giving people But that giving is not supposed to keep us from actually taking care of ourselves and our family. Think about what Paul says about those who refuse to take care of their own family. He says the person who does not provide for their own family is worse than an infidel, an unbeliever. And so the idea is that I need to make sure that while I am giving sacrificially, I'm also taking care of the needs of the people under my care. And yes, this widow needs to make sure that she eats. She needs to take care of herself as well. And so this system is built on the backs of people like her. She is giving not only to a system that's built on her own back, but she is giving to us giving to a system that is broken and is ultimately dead. He says in verse 47 that the same will receive greater damnation, speaking of those who are running this system. He says the day will come in which there will not be left one stone on another that shall not be thrown down. She is giving to the temple and to those who are running the temple, and this system is going to be destroyed in 8070 And so what she's doing is yes sacrificial, but also there's a twinge of tragedy to it as well. But there is something that's even more significant than that. These people are literally not as noble as the disciples that they're abusing and misguiding. These religious leaders are benefiting from her immense sacrifice Her soul is being led astray by their teaching, yet they are benefiting from her. And if she is to follow this system to the T, she will die without Christ. He says in Matthew 23, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, you shut up the kingdom of God against men. You neither go in yourselves, neither suffer ye or allow them that are entering to go in. And so he's drawing attention both to the nobility of her gift, but also the tragedy of her gift. She's given to a broken system. What does this tell us? Christ 's religion is not just corrupt, it's evil. It's evil because it creates self-righteousness on one side and abuses of people on the other side. It literally preys on the most vulnerable and the most sincere of all the people. And it is powerless to save. Because it doesn't provide a savior, a redeemer, rather a system that crushes people under this load that they can never bear. It deadens the conscience. It points people to building up their own credentials rather than seeing their spiritual poverty and turning to Christ. It replaces redemption and regeneration with moralism and legalism. And so I want to warn you this morning, let us be very careful that we do not get duped by Christless religion. May we recognize that it is the gospel alone that gives hope, not religion, not moralism, not legalism. Not a system that is beautiful and powerful. No, the gospel and the gospel alone. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow for some final thoughts as we go into the weekend. Bye now