Good morning and welcome to our fourth Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a good Thursday morning, and I hope that this study has been a challenge and encouragement to you. Let's go ahead and take our Bibles again today and turn to Ephesians chapter 1. We're looking at verses 18 through 23. And we are celebrating the greatness of Christ today. We're going to focus in on the fact that this text demonstrates that he is sovereign. And that word sovereign means he is the ruler, the ultimate ruler over all things. So let's go ahead and uh dig into the text together. Here's what it says. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, you may know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints, what is the exceeding greatness of his power to usward who believe. according to the working of his mighty power which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead, and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places far above all principalities and powers and might. and dominion in every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come. And hath put all things under his feet, and gave him to be the head over all things. to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that fill that filleth all in all. Now when we talk about him being the sovereign, it's important for us to notice first of all what it means to be sovereign. And secondly, how that sovereignty is talked about in the text in front of us. The word sovereign does not mean that God is is treating us like we're a bunch of robots and we don't have the ability to make choices. What it means is he is the ruler and he is the governor and he is the guider and the sustainer and he's actively at work in his creation. And he talks about this in some really, really interesting language. So let's look at the way that he states it in 21 and 22. It says he is far above all principalities and powers and might and dominion in every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come, and hath put all things under his feet. Now notice the different parts of this. The first thing he emphasizes is that there is no system of rule that is outside of the scope of God's sovereignty. And here's how he puts it. It is far above all principalities and dominions. That word principality has the idea of a chief ruler or a magistrate And so this is a person that rules over a region. He's higher than him. There is none that is higher than he is. Or that word dominion has the idea of the realm that is ruled by a very powerful ruler. Again, he's emphasizing the fact that there is no ruler, there is no region outside of his jurisdiction. He also talks about there's no might. Or there's no one that's stronger than him. And we see this where he uses phrases like power and might. Power as the sense of the authority to exercise rule over your realm. Or when we use the word might, it has the idea of the inherent strength. So you see how full the statement is? You're not going to find a higher ruler. You're not going to find a region that's not under his jurisdiction. You're not going to find someone who has the right to rule a realm and has authority that's higher than he is, and there's no one who's stronger than he is. You almost can't state it any other any other way to really magnify the greatness of this rule. But then there's a third. This is very interesting. The extent of his rule is from eternity past, in time and forever. That means there has never been, and there never will be a time. that there's not a jurisdiction that he doesn't rule over. Every jurisdiction throughout all of time is under his rule. And so we see that it states it like this, every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come. So you could name tyrants and and dictators and rulers and very powerful people. People that that were that others were terrified of. They were very harsh rulers. And guess what? Those people will all answer to God. Every single one of them. Every creature that has ever existed. Every creature that ever will exist, they are all under his rule. And I'll put it like this Even Satan and his demons and the king of darkness are under the rule of God. They answer to him. God is not their peer. God is their sovereign. And we can thank him for that. Well, I hope that you'll Spend some time meditating on those things this morning. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. By now