Good morning. Welcome back to our third anchored in the word morning reflection. Hope you're having a great Wednesday morning or afternoon whenever you're coming in contact with this study. And we've been looking at Christ's agony in the garden, his prayer to the Father. Yesterday we focused in on the details of the prayer, and today we're going to focus in on Christ's obedience, his willingness to submit. to the Father's will. So if you have your text, your Bible, let's turn together to Luke chapter 22. We're reading verses 39 through 46 together. Here's what the text says. And when he was at the place, he said unto them, Pray that ye enter not into temptation. And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast and kneeled down. And prayed, saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done. And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him. And being in an agony, he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat was, as it were, great drops of blood falling down to the ground. And when he arose up from the prayer and was come to the disciples, he found them sleeping for sorrow. He said unto them, Why sleep ye? Rise, pray, lest ye enter into temptation. Now, the next thing I want us to notice is the obedience of Christ. And we're going to go outside of this text and we're going to look at some New Testament passages that clearly articulate the way that Christ responded to the will of the Father. The first text talks about the humiliation of Christ. In Philippians chapter 2, verse 8, it says that he, being found in fashion as a man, humbled himself. and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Philippians 2 emphasizes that Christ is indeed God in flesh. He wasn't grasping something that didn't belong to him when we talk about deity. Christ is the eternal Son of God. But he took on himself at a point in time humanity. And so God in flesh, God takes on human flesh. Christ willingly embraces human limitations so that he can experience fully the physical, emotional, mental, and yes, spiritual consequences of the cross And he did this in humbling himself. Second thing we see is that he tasted death. And that word for is important. It talks about Christ tasting death as a substitute. It was for us, on our behalf. And so the text that comes to mind is Hebrews 2, verse 9. It says, We see Jesus who is made a little lower than the angels. That means he took on human flesh. And he did this for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, that he may be by the grace of God taste death for every man. For it became him for whom are all things, by whom are all things, and in bringing many sons to glory to make the captain of their salvation perfect through suffering. I love that statement where it says he tasted death for every man. It doesn't just say he died like every man. It says he tasted death for every man. That indicates that he is a substitute. That's what he's doing. And so we see the obedience of Christ communicated in that text. Then we see a third. He learned obedience by the things he suffered. And this is something I can't fully wrap my mind around, that Christ learned obedience But in Hebrews 5 it says, Christ glorified not himself to be made and high priest, but he that said unto him, Thou art my son, today I've begotten thee. By the way, That is not a reference to the day that he was born. That's a reference to the day he was born from the dead. That's the resurrection. And so, when he talks about this they have begotten thee, he's talking about in the resurrection here. He says in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplication with strong crying and tears unto him , was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared, though he were a son, yet learned he obedience by the things that he suffered and being made perfect, became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him. What I think this passage is indicating is that what Christ is concerned about in the garden is not an unwillingness to go to the cross, an unwillingness to take our sin, an unwillingness to be punished in our place. It was the desire to not just die, but to rise again. Not just to experience death, but also resurrection and triumph. And that is really what he's getting at. The fact that he tasted death And he triumphed over it. How did this happen? He had to submit to the will of the Father. And lastly, we see that this is something that he was, in fact, passionately willing to do. It was for the joy set before him he endured the cross. Again, in Hebrews 12 it says, Jesus is the author and finisher of our faith. who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Was he rejoicing in the nature of the cross? The answer is no He was rejoicing in the future that was purchased through the cross, what it actually accomplished for us. And so we thank God that the Lord Jesus Christ was absolutely willing to go to the cross for us so that we could be redeemed to the Father. May God help us to reflect on that the rest of the day. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. If you think this would be an encouragement to someone, take a moment to share that And uh if you just want to share some feedback, totally fine. Love to hear from you. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we keep working our way through this passage. Bye now.