Good morning. Welcome back to our Wednesday Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a really good day and hope it's been a good week. I'm very excited about the text that I'm going to deal with. and the portion of the text that we're going to focus in on. And we're going to get into some some fascinating theological concepts that I hope that as we work through them will be a great help to you. And you'll see the practicality of these things. If you have a Bible, let's take them. Let's turn together to Ephesians chapter 1, looking at verses 1 through 6. And today we're going to talk about our standing and how this text emphasizes our current and future standing. Ephesians 1, 1 to 6. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, to the saints which are in Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus Grace be to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him, and love having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself. according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved Now today we're going to look at the issue of standing, and what I mean by that is our position and how this text emphasizes our position in Christ. And how that has been determined, that God will give us all that He has promised and all that Christ has purchased. So look down in your Bibles at verses 4 to 5 as he talks about this. It says that he has predestined us to be holy without blame before him, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself. Now, it is God's will that we be holy, without blame, and that we receive the adoption. And that's what this text is emphasizing: standing, position. And he's talking about it really in two senses. One would be our present standing before God, and then the other would be aspects of our standing That are true now but not yet fully realized. I want to really push into that topic a bit because I think it will be helpful. So first of all, a present standing. He calls them saints. He prays He says that we should be holy. That would be one who is set apart to God. Blameless, without blame before him. accepted. He has made us accepted in the beloved. All of those things are true about us. We should bless and praise God. because he has determined that we would be holy, that we would be without blame before him, and that we would be accepted in the Blood. All of these are present situations. And when we talk about these being present situations, what we mean is they are fully realized as realities today. We are not going to become more saints someday. We're not going to become more blameless someday. We're not going to become more accepted in the Beloved someday. We are and always will be full present realities. The determination that our standing today would be holy and without blame and accepted was made in the past. So God has determined that all who are in Christ Jesus are going to have these things being true about them. Thirdly, the basis of that determination has always been Christ's work. We are not holy, without blame, and accepted because of something we've done. It's something he did for us. Very, very important. And the realization of that reality is our daily standing before God. So while we might not feel these things, maybe even our conscience says, are you truly accepted? Are you truly in the beloved? Are you truly a saint? And maybe we will accept some thoughts that start undermining that confidence. These are true of us even when we don't feel them, even when we feel shaken in these issues, because they're true about us in Christ. Now this is stated in other passages of Scripture, and it's important for us to note these. Let me give you some examples. 1 Corinthians 1. 2. He says, unto the church of God, which is at Corinth. to those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus, not those who will be, those who might be, those who hope to be, those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus Or 1 Corinthians 6. 11. He says, such were some of you, but now you are washed, sanctified, justified in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. He says this is who you used to be, this is who you are. Not who you hope to be, want to be, will be, it's who you are today Another example, Colossians 3. 12. He says, put on as what? Those who are elect of God, those who are holy, those who are beloved. We are to put on these qualities. And then Philippians 3. 9, when Paul talks about his justification, he says that he is found in him not having his own righteousness, which is by the law, but the righteousness which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. All of these passages emphasize that we are sanctified, that we are justified, that we are washed, that we are holy, that we are beloved. In him, present reality, all based on his work on our behalf. But there is a subtle difference between adoption and sonship And when we talk about the word adoption that's used in this passage, we need to recognize that this is something that has both a present aspect to it and a future realization that we do not yet experience it. This is an important part. of understanding proper interpretation of Ephesians 1. Ephesians 1 is looking at how we are predestined to a future that is guaranteed on the basis of the work of Christ. And so the emphasis of Ephesians 1, in my opinion, is the security of the believer. The fact that everything that God has purchased for us it is going to be fully realized even though at the moment we may not be fully realizing some aspects of that. So let me show you what I mean by that. When we talk about someone being a child of God, his son, that is an immediate reality. 1 John 3, Beloved, now are we the sons of God. It does not yet appear what we shall be. Not you're gonna be a son of God. You are a son of God. Or John chapter 3. 36, he that believeth on the Son hath right now everlasting life. He that believeth not the Son shall not see life. The wrath of God Abides on him. 1 John 5. 11. This is the record that God hath given us eternal life. This life is in his son. John 5. 12, he that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son hath not life. Now what do these passages have in common? They're emphasizing that we are God's children now, not we're going to be, we are at the moment. But I want you to see how this is contrasted with the concept of adoption. When we talk about adoption, this has future ramifications. For instance, Romans 8. 23, we, which have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we groan within ourselves, waiting. Now that's future, the adoption, the redemption of our bodies. So while we are God's children today, we've not received the full benefits of that as those who are adopted in Christ. We wait for the adoption. Or Romans 8, 29-32, whom he foreknew he predestined to be conformed to the image of Son. Whom he predestinated, he called, whom he called, he justified, whom he justified, he glorified. What shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, here's the statement that's very important. How shall he not with him also freely give us all things? What's that talking about? Adoption. All of the benefits of our position in Christ. And so this makes sense when we understand adoption in the first century. When we talk about adoption in the first century, in Roman culture there was an immediate status, but that status was not accompanied with all the benefits of the status. Because there was a delayed experience of the full benefits of that adopted position until one had reached maturity. So you could adopt a child, but that child, though they would be considered your son they would not be fully realizing that position until they came of age. And even the inheritance isn't something that is received till after the father's death. Now, why is that significant? Because adoption is emphasizing a position, but also a waiting for the full realization of that position. And that's why that term adoption here is so very important. That just to put that in perspective, let's just think about how there's been such a radical change between who we were and who we are. Our new and future status is a stunning reversal of our former relationship to God. Ephesians 2. We were dead in trespasses and sins We walked according to the course of this world. We had our conversation, our way of life, in the past, fulfilling the lust of the flesh and the desires of the flesh in mind, and we were by nature children of wrath. Another passage that emphasizes this is Romans 5. When we were without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. God commended his love toward us. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. He said, Much more being now justified by his blood, we shall be safe from wrath through him. When we were his enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Colossians 1. 22. You who sometimes were alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works he has now reconciled in the body of his flesh through death. to present you holy and unblameable and unreprovable in his sight. Why does this matter? Ephesians chapter 1 is talking about our future hope. And as we live the Christian life, we experience a tension between what we already have and who we already are, but what we have not yet fully realized. We are justified. We are sanctified. We are not yet glorified. We are saints. We are forgiven, but we're not yet in heaven. And these verses guarantee that God has predetermined even before the foundation of the world that all who are in Christ, who are sanctified, who are blameless, They will receive the adoption and they will experience the blessings of eternal life forever with the Lord And I want to encourage you today, if you've trusted Christ, that's true about you. May God help us to live like the people that we are. Well that's all I have for you today. Hope you have a great rest of your day. Wonderful Wednesday. Hope we see it. And Bible study tonight. A very interesting text we're going to be dealing with. Hope you'll join us for that. And uh Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.