Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another Anchored in the Word of Morning Reflection. And the text that we're going to deal with this week is one that I believe will be very helpful. to everyone who joins us. And so I want to encourage you, if you find these to be a blessing and a challenge to you, take some time to share them with other people. uh so that they can be encouraged by them. And my goal is that we take the Sunday morning messages that we're working our way through and then occasionally I take Sunday evening as well. and um that we really process and we dig into the text in front of us and that it's something that we think about throughout the week. So that is the sense of what we're trying to accomplish this week. Again, we're in Psalm 38 And we're looking at the entire psalm together, but each time we look at the text, we're just going to read a portion of that, but we will deal with the content. of the entire Psalm. So let's turn in our Bibles there, please. Psalm 38, verses 1 through 22, and I'll read it to you. It says, O Lord. Rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure, for thine ear is stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger, neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin. For mine iniquities are gone over my head As an heavy burden, they are too heavy for me. My wounds stink and are corrupt because of my foolishness. I am troubled. I am bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day long. And then the way that the psalm ends is in the following statement. Forsake me not, O Lord my God. Be not far from me. Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. Now, this week as we dig into this passage of Scripture, we're going to look at two simple statements. The first is a summary of the text, and the second is how the Lord ultimately wants us to respond to what we're going to read and dig into this week. So the first statement, the following psalm illustrates how sin and painful circumstances disrupt our souls and leave us broken without any hope outside of God's compassionate, saving hand. One of the things that is very comforting about the psalm in front of us is its transparency. It's frankness about what happens when people sin and what happens when painful and difficult circumstances. are are pressing in on our souls, how we deal with that and how we are troubled by those things. This psalm brings comfort because it shows us the real life struggle of a man who walked with God and loved God with all of his being. And so as we think about this, what we'll see is that God wants us to turn to him and to find rest for our souls when they're weary. Maybe this week you find yourself in this kind of a place. Or maybe you have a friend who is really struggling. This text of scripture can encourage you and help you. And so I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into this passage. So as we think about this passage, let me just give you a couple thoughts about the flow of it and then we'll close out for our introduction. The flow of the psalm goes this way. David's prayer is one of emotional brokenness. In verse number one, he says, Lord, rebuke me not in your wrath. Don't chasten me in your hot displeasure. The way that David words this in Psalm 38 is the exact same way he opens up Psalm 6. And after he states this, he lays out his heart with a lament. In verses 2 to 8 he says, Thine arrows take fast in me, thy hand presseth me sore. David is crying out to God, saying, This is how I feel. Then he turns to God again and he prays, and this time it is a feeble glance to God that's slightly stronger and slightly more focused than before. And he says it this way in verse 9, Lord, all my desire is before thee. My groaning is not hid from thee And then as soon as David prays this to God, he laments a second time. Verses 10 to 14, My heart panteth, my strength faileth me. As for the light of my eyes, it is also gone from me. You see, David is still very weird and he's discouraged. Then he cries out to God again. He tells us, hey, these truths that I am praying, they are going to show us what happens when a person's struggling. Alright, so what can we take away from this as we work our way through the psalm this week? Well first of all, there can be times that we find ourselves in places like this. Maybe you're there right now, maybe you've been there, and thankfully you're in a more stable season of life, things are going well at the moment. Most certainly we will find ourselves in places like this at times The second thing is when we do, we've got to turn to Scripture for the answers. We've got to look at the flow of this song. We've got to look at the content of this psalm. We've got to look at how God deals with people who are suffering and struggling and broken. and how he how he brings healing and strength to them. We will see that God used David's suffering and the transparency of that in the Psalm to teach us to turn to him And so this week I hope you'll join us as we dig our into this text and as we work our way through it. I hope that the structure of the psalm will help you, the content of the psalm will help you. and the end to which the psalm directs us will help you. If this has been an encouragement, do you take a moment to share that, share that feedback perhaps, share it with others who can be blessed by it. Lord willing we'll meet again tomorrow. Have a blessed day. Bye now.