Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we are back in Luke 14 again. So if you have a Bible, please let's take it and turn together as we look at this passage. And we are looking at the importance of living with an anticipation of the resurrection. And this morning we're going to focus in on the concept of God's grace and how God reaches out to people. That the world scorns and scoffs at, and you would never think would be the kinds of people that God would invite into his company. And that's a great comfort to us when we recognize that We are all sinful people and there is no reason why God should accept us or love us. The fact is it's all of his grace. And so I'd like us to really focus in on that this morning. So Luke 14, verse 7 is where we are, and let's pick it up. It says this. And he put forth a parable to those which were bidden. When he marked How they chose out the chief rooms, saying unto them, When thou art bidden of any man to a wedding, sit not down in the highest room, lest a more honorable man than thou And thou begin to and thou begin with shame to take the lowest room. When thou makest a Feast, call the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind, and thou shalt be blessed, for they cannot recompense thee, for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection Now, when we look at this passage of Scripture, we're coming to this fourth conclusion that this passage is teaching us about God's grace. And how God's grace calls the most unlikely people into God's company. Notice what he said in verse 13, when you make a feast, call the poor, maimed, lame, and blind. Blind. This gives us insight into God's values. This gives us insight into the kinds of people that God ascribes value to. And the answer is he ascribes value to everybody, not just the rich not just the intelligent and not just those who are respected by other people, but even he even puts value on the poor and the blind and the lame and those who are in very difficult Situations and those who would be living in poverty. He values people because we're created in his image. And he's ascribed value to us and demonstrated that value by his redemptive work, sending his son to die for our sins. So Christ's instruction is helping us to understand what God values. In Matthew 22 verses 8 through 10 we see a very similar Statement. He says, Go into the highways, and as many as you shall find, bid to the marriage. So those servants went out into the highways and gathered together all, as many as they found, both good and Or think about first Corinthians chapter one. Many mighty men, not many noble are called. But God hath chosen the foolish things of this world to confound the wise. And God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things That are mighty, and base things of this world, and things which are despised hath God chosen, that no flesh should glory in his presence. What does it tell you? Well, that tells you that when we think of our salvation, we shouldn't think in terms of, well, God get got a great deal when he got me. We should think in terms of, I had absolute No reason to think that God would love me in such a way, but he did because he's good. In fact, when we talk about God's love, God's love isn't rooted in our goodness, it's rooted in his goodness. And so he calls people to himself without discrimination. Revelation 22, 17, it says, the spirit and the bride say, come. That's an invitation. Let him that heareth come, let him that is athirst come, and whosoever will, let him come and take of the water of life freely. What an amazing text Or here's a text that I believe it was Spurgeon when he heard this being preached. This is when he actually came to faith in Christ. He says, Oh, everyone that. That thirsteth, come to the water, and he that hath no money, come and buy and eat, and come by wine and milk without money and without price. Wherefore do you spend money for that which is Come unto me here, and your soul shall live, and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David , Now, what are these passages emphasizing? Well, they're emphasizing the fact that God calls to people without discrimination. So the question is, what do we take away from this study today? I think the thing that we take away from this is comfort. The fact is, God loves us and in his mercy and grace called to us and established a basis for us to be ridiculous. And what it also does is it should humble us and it should cause us to care about others. Not just the other Others who can give us something, and not just the others who who are, we could say, enjoyable company, but the others universally around us who need Christ. And that's everyone. And so may we have the heart and the mind of Christ on this issue. Have a blessed rest of your day. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.