Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week and hope that you enjoyed the study yesterday as we were looking at a little bit about the flow of the book and how the flow of the book shows us we need to turn to God. when we are in these situations where we are broken and we feel helpless and we're discouraged. And so we're in Psalm 38 this week. We're working away through this passage of scripture. And so I'd like to invite you to join us. As we dig into this passage and we look at the complex nature of suffering when we are finding ourselves in places like this. So let's all turn together, Psalm 38, we'll begin in verse number one. Here's what it says O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. For thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore. There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger. Neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin. For mine iniquities are gone over my head. As an heavy burden, they're too heavy for me. I'm my wound stinks and It's corrupt because of my foolishness. I am troubled. I am bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day long. And then as David works his way to the end of the Psalm, he says the following Forsake me not, O Lord, O my God, be not far from me. Make haste to help me, O Lord of my salvation. Now, as we worked our way through the passage yesterday, just briefly, we looked at a little bit of the flow. In fact, we didn't look at the entire psalm. We just looked at about half of the psalm. What we saw is this pattern. And the pattern is that David cries out to God and then he lays out his lament. And he cries out to God and he lays out his lament. And he cries out to God and he lays out his lament And each time he does that, it shows us that this flow of the text that people are struggling and they're reminding themselves of things about God and they're crying out to him. That tells us we need to turn to God when we are in these situations. But this morning what I'd like to do is develop a little bit further and show how the complexities The complex nature of our suffering is something it calls us to turn to God when we are broken. And so let's kind of examine this for a little bit. But before we do, think about how this points out us to God. Well the scriptures are giving us this transparent view of life. The Christian life is one that involves struggle. We need to prepare ourselves with a mindset that recognizes sometimes Life is hard. I wish that it wasn't. I wish that everything went smoothly and it was easy, but we need to recognize that this is a fallen world and we're fallen people and everybody we interact with is fallen fallen as well. David's lament also shows us that there is a connection between this misery and his sin. We are moral creatures. We're creating God's image. We have a conscience. And so when we sin, it affects our disposition. It affects us internally. And so in three to four he says that there's no soundness in my flesh because thine anger, and there's no rest in my bones because of my sin. My iniquities are gone over my head, and they are a burden that is too heavy for me. What does it tell you? Well, one of the reasons David is suffering is because of the weight of his sin. But that's not the only reason David is experiencing trouble. A lot of the misery that he is describing is not just his sin and not just his troubled conscience, but it's other things as well. And circumstances can have an effect on our disposition. And our temperament can have an effect on our disposition. And how people around us are living can have an effect on our disposition. And so let's kind of examine that a little bit this morning. His misery fell into a couple of different categories. The first is it was internal anguish, or we might say the troubling of the conscience and how that affects our heart. So in verse 6 he says, I'm troubled and I bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day long. What's David saying? I am discouraged. I am weary. I feel guilty. I feel as if I can't And verse number 80 says, I'm feeble and I'm sore broken, and I've roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart. In verse number 10, he says, My heart panteth, and my strength faileth, for as the light of my eyes, it is also gone from me. He says, My heart is like someone who is thirsty. And my my heart is like someone who is physically unable to stand and to do things that normally they would be able to do it. There is no joy in me. I feel so parched. internally. So a part of his struggle is that internal ag anguish of soul. But there's a second aspect and there's this interconnection between the physical And the emotional. The fact is that if we are weary in our spirit, it will affect our bodies And when we are physically wearied, it can affect our spirit as well. And we see this connection a lot in the Bible. We're not just We're not just uh internal people, we are also people with a physical body, and we're not just bodies. We also have an internal disposition. We are body, soul, and spirit. And so he talks about the physical weakness in verse 3. He says, there's no soundness in my flesh. because thine anger. There's no rest in my bones. In verse 7 he says, My loins are filled with a loathsome disease. He is sick. He's experiencing physical weakness. He also experienced a sense of isolation from other people. In verse 11, he says, My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my sword, and my kinsmen stand off from me. In other words, it wasn't just that he felt internal misery and physical misery, but he also felt emotional is uh isolation from his friends. And he feels a sense of vulnerability. He talks about this in verse 12. He says, They also that seek after my life, they lay a snare for me. They that seek hurt and seek mischievous things, they imagine to see it all the day long. David's saying, I feel vulnerable because my enemies want to exploit my weakness. In verses 19 and 20 says, My enemies are lively, they're strong. They that hate me wrongfully are multiplied. They render evil for good for good. They are my adversaries. because I follow the things that are good. So David is, maybe he's imagining this, maybe this is true, but the fact is that he is he's physically weak. He's emotionally broken. He's isolated from his friends. He feels vulnerable in front of his enemies. But here is the one that is the most In verses one and two he says, Don't rebuke me in your wrath, don't chasten me in your hot displeasure, your arrows stick fasten me, your hand presses me. So what's he saying? God is displeased for me and I am separated from him. Verse 21, forsake me not, be not far from me. David feels as if God has abandoned him. Well, what is the takeaway from these verses? The first thing I'd mention is that the transparency of the song gives us comfort. You say, well, it doesn't comfort me because uh it's all negative. And I would say, well, hold on a second. What does it do? It prepares us for a balanced view of life. It helps us to realize we're not the first person that's felt the way that we feel right now We're not the first person that's experienced these kinds of heartaches. And not only that, there are godly people who have suffered in such a way. It gives us a balance in how we view life. It also shows us there's an explanation for why believers fall into these seasons. The fact is, we are moral creatures, and so when we sin, it affects our spirit. We feel distant from God. We drive other people away from us. When our heart is not healthy, our body is affected by it. There is an explanation. We are body, soul, and spirit. We are moral creatures. And so there's an explanation for why people feel the way that they They do. feel It also reminds us this is a condition that is even experienced by the strongest of Christians. When God talks about David, he describes him as as a man after his own heart. I think about where David says the Lord Spoke by me. The Holy Spirit was speaking through him. He was a prophet of God as he wrote the word. And this man finds himself in the this place. Or we look at someone like an Ezekiel and he says, I can't do this anymore. We look at a Jeremiah and he's weeping and he's in misery and he can't do this anymore. We look at Elijah on the the back of the mountain and he says There's nobody left in Israel that serves you, and he's weary and he wants to die. Even Moses, what does this show you? Even the godliest of people, people that God used amazingly. They found themselves in places like this. It also shows us that there's a way out. There is hope. And when we are in a low place, we need to know there's hope. I pray that as you work your way through this study with us and as you think about what's in front of you, you'll not just process today, but you'll come back tomorrow And as we continue working our way through this text of Scripture, work through this psalm, my prayer is that our direction would be attention would be directed to God and that we would turn to Him when we are struggling. Have a blessed rest of your day, Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. By now