Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today what we're going to do is take where we started yesterday in Psalm 45, and we're going to further lean into that concept. And we're going to put some meat on the bones and give some understanding of the structure of what is really encouraging and challenging the writer of this psalm to praise. the son of David who is speaking of the Messiah. So what what I'd like you to do is I'd like you to turn your Bibles to Psalm 45. We're going to read that first portion of the Psalm to kind of set the tone for where we're going. And then we're going to look at how we should be grateful, and we will be grateful when our heart is full of these truths. So let's go ahead and dig in our into our Bibles together and then dig into those truths. Here's what it says. My heart is indicting a good matter. I speak of the things which I have made touching the king. My tongue is the pen of a ready writer Thou art fairer than the children of men. Grace is poured into thy lips. Therefore God hath blessed thee forever. Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O most mighty. and with the glory of thy majesty, and in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness and righteousness, and thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things. Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemy, whereby the people fall under thee. Thy throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of thy righteousness is a sep is a right scepter. Thou lovest righteousness and hatest wickedness, therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above all thy fellows. So as we work our way into this passage of Scripture, what we're going to do is show how easy it is to express admiration when our heart is full You know, it's really difficult to say thank you to someone when you aren't really thankful in your heart. It's very easy to express gratitude when in fact you are. I use this illustration in the sermon and uh I think it's a great one when we think about this. If let's just envision that we're sitting there on a Thanksgiving day, we have family, maybe we have friends, and as we're sitting there around the table, we're get about to Give thanks to God for the meal that we're about to eat. And before we do that, whoever's hosting pauses and says, what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to go around the table and just take a moment to Speak about something that you're very thankful for over this past year or the last couple of months, something that you want to praise God for And as you work your way through that group of people, there'll be some that it's really easy for them to say things. In fact, they could sit there and just list off thing after thing after thing because they're very grateful. There'd be others who they can't think of anything and they don't want to admit that because of the pressure of the environment. But the truth is they have a hard time saying anything. Why is that? Well because if your heart is full of gratitude, it's easy to express it. And if your heart is not, if you feel very entitled or you're a little bit disgruntled that you're not getting something you feel you deserve, it's kind of hard to do that. The psalmist here is not the ungrateful person. He is the one whose heart is full of gratitude. And so notice some of the things that he says. In verses 2 to 5, he says, Thou art fairer than the children of men. Grace is poured into thy lips, therefore God hath blessed thee forever. Gird thy sword on thy thigh, O most mighty, with thy glory and thy majesty, and in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness and righteousness And thy right hand shall teach thee terrible or great things. Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies, whereby the people fall under thee. Now let's break down what the Psalmist is saying here The the king is being described in at least five ways that are very significant. The first is actually a physical description. In verse two he says, Thou art fairer than the children of men. He's literally saying, This is a handsome king. an attractive king. And he's speaking in terms of physical uh abil uh physical physical beauty. And let's remember this is a wedding song, and so At a wedding, it's a beautiful time. We we we think of that being a time where the the beauty of the bride and the groom is is is celebrated and the beauty of uh the marriage covenant and all that is involved there, it's a time of celebration. So he starts with the physical attractiveness of this king. The second way that he describes it is he says, Grace is poured into thy lips, therefore God hath blessed thee forever Now, it's not just that this is an attractive individual, but this is a person who's not just physically attractive, but is in fact wise and kind and good in the way that they use their words. You know, sometimes people who are visit very physically attractive are people who can be very entitled. Not always, but sometimes You think about when you were growing up in school, the kids that were very attractive, sometimes they got opportunities other kids didn't get, and sometimes They got preferential treatment that other people didn't get. And what can that do? That can develop an attitude of superiority to those who you're around. This king is not like that. His words are filled with grace. He's a gracious, kind, benevolent individual. The third thing that's mentioned It's how he skillfully defends those who are under his care. Now let's remember that this is a psalm describing a king And so the way that he describes the king here is reflecting the fact that the king's job is to protect, to defend those who are under his care. And so this is a major purpose for human government. God established human government to punish evil and to reward good and to protect the vulnerable. And so notice how he describes it in verse 3. He says, Gird thy sword on thy thigh, O Most Mighty, with the glory and thy majesty. Why would he carry a sword? A sword is what you go into battle with to defend those who are under your care. Or again, in verse 5. Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies, whereby the people fall under thee. Why are these people the king's enemies? Well, they're his enemies because they are trying to attack and pillage and wound and kill those who are under his care, and he is rising up in their defense. And so he goes to battle to protect those whom he is responsible for. And so this is an indication of his valor and his might and his power and his sense. of care and defense, all of those things are bound up in those verses. A fourth way. He rules with a perfect balance of truth and righteousness and meekness. And I love this statement in verse 4 In thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness and righteousness. The way that this man is going to judge and the way that this man is going to rule and exert his authority is according to a standard, and that standard is truth. That standard isn't just some whimsical feeling, whatever is beneficial to him to the detriment of others. No. The standard whereby this king judges is truth. And because the standard is truth, this king is going to rule in righteousness. He is going to do what is right, not what is easy. Not what makes people happy, what is right. He is a righteous king. But I also love the third word that's used to describe this king's reign. And that is the word meekness. The idea is that though his standard is truth, and though he is righteous in all he does, He does not just pour out his wrath immediately, but rather he is a forbearing king. He is a patient king. He is a restrained king. And I think that when we read the Bible, one of the things that should really resonate with us is how though God is holy and righteous and just And he judges evil and he pushes against it. He is very patient with people, and he is slow to anger, and he is plenteous in mercy. And he is a God who is very meek and very gentle, though he's very strong and he's very principled and he's very righteous. And so we see this perfect balance. of how a king deals with those who are under his care. The fifth mention is that he is strong and effective and resilient in all the duties he performs. He says, thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things. And that word terrible really has the sense of it is awesome. When we look at the way that he does his work, his strength, the effectiveness, his wisdom, his resilience It demonstrates something that we should be amazed at. We should tremble as we consider the greatness and the magnitude of it. This is the way that the psalmist describes the king. Why does he do that? Because he loves the king. He admires the king. He respects the king. He reverences the king. He sees the king as a good king, and he can't help but praise the king. These five descriptions refer to not just any king, but a specific king. And that king is Christ. And I can't wait till tomorrow, because tomorrow we're going to dig into that concept. Well I hope that as we think about what we just looked at from the Word of God that we would stop and really reflect deeply with great gratitude on the goodness and the mercy and the righteousness and the wisdom and the strength and the ways of God. Take some time today. to praise him for who he is and what he does. Have a blessed morning. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. And Lord willing tomorrow we will meet again. Take care. Bye now.