Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word of Morning Reflection and looking forward to digging into this fourth episode on Luke chapter 18 verses 35 through 41. If you have your Bible, we'd like to ask you to take it. Let's all turn together. We're going to read the passage. And we're looking at something later on at the end of the sermon. And that was more on the application side, and that was focusing in on how the basic essential components of biblical conversion are demonstrated in this passage in front of us. So I'd like us to dig into that concept a little bit this morning together. So let's go ahead and turn on our Bibles again to Luke chapter 18, verses 35 through 41. Let's read it together, and then we'll listen to a little section of the sermon. It says, and it came to pass that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the wayside begging. And hearing the multitude pass by, he asked what it meant. And they told him that Jesus of Nazareth passed by. And he cried, saying, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. They which went before rebuked him, that he should hold his peace. He cried so much the more, Thou son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus stood, and commanded him to be brought unto him. And when he was come near, he asked him, saying, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? He said, Lord, that I might receive my sight. And Jesus said unto him, Receive thy sight. Thy faith hath saved thee. And immediately he received his sight. And followed him, glorifying God, and all the people, when they saw it, gave praise unto God. Let's listen to this little section. The basic components of how a person is converted are all illustrated in this story. I want you to notice them one by one. The first is this: You cannot be saved unless you have a right view of Jesus You have to go from seeing him as Jesus of Nazareth to Jesus, the son of David. You have to see who he is. So obviously that's probably the most significantly highlighted portion of the concepts that are connected to marks of biblical conversion. But what I love about this passage is that here's an example of a man who was blind who could see, not who was going to see. But he was blind, yet he could already see. What I mean by that is he was blind in the physical sense, but not blind in the spiritual sense And when we talk about the essential components of biblical conversion, the very first of those components is that a person has to come to a clear sense of who they are. And you cannot come to a clear sense of who you are unless you understand who God is. And in other words, you have to understand the standard by which you will be held accountable to God. We have to understand the righteous standard of God's righteousness. What does the scripture say in Romans 3. 23? All have sinned, come short of the glory of God, Romans 3. 10. There is none who is righteous, no not one. And so we have to come to this point where we see who we are before God in order to be converted. A second component, and this is really all tied in together, is who is Christ. And this is really emphasized in this passage of Scripture. When Jesus asked, or when the when the blind man asked what's going on, the people said, well , Jesus of Nazareth is coming by, and when the man cries out to Jesus, he says, Jesus, thou son of David. That would be a messianic reference as opposed to just, oh, he hails from Nazareth. In fact, when people talked about him being Jesus of Nazareth, that was a portion of Israel that people would have laughed at, say, what good thing can come out of Nazareth? And so when we think about how this blind man saw himself, he sees himself as a sinner separated from God. And two, he sees himself as a man who needs the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, the Messiah, the Son of David. He believes that's who Christ is. There's a third component here. And the third component is that a person has to come to the end of themselves where they are willing to admit who they are and cry out to God for mercy. And we see this. He says, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. He is saying, I need help. And by the way, the reason the man was motivated to cry out to Christ for mercy is because he understood who Christ was. He understood that Christ is the only one who could in mercy heal him. Anybody in that crowd could have shown mercy to the man, but not anyone in the crowd could have shown him mercy and healed him of his blindness. And then the final component that we see, when this man cries out to Christ for mercy, that Christ heals him. And he mentions that the man's faith has saved him. And what is the next thing that he does? He immediately follows Christ. And so that's what people who have trusted Christ do. They follow him as disciples. And so we see these basic components. A person seeing themselves as they are, sinners that are separated from God, they understand who Christ is. He's the one and only Savior, God in flesh, Emmanuel, the son of David. They come to terms with who they are and their great need. They come to an end of themselves. They say, Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner. And when they are converted, what do they do? They follow Christ. And so I have this question for you today Are you one of those people who could say that that is true of you? That you have seen who you are, a sinner who needs to be saved, you understood who Christ is, you place your faith in Christ. You turn to him when you cried out to him without any hope, except through what he has done for you, and then when he has saved you, you follow him. That's the kind of people we should be And when we think about evangelism and the people that we work with , this is what we should anticipate when it comes to people becoming Christians. We should anticipate biblical conversion where people are safe from their sins to walk in newness of life. Well, it gives us some things to think about this morning. Lord willing, tomorrow we'll look at one more section of this passage of scripture, one more concept in that, and then I hope that you have a great weekend. So, Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow, one final time. Bye now.