Good morning. Welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And we are working our way through Ephesians chapter 1, verses 1 through 6 and focusing in on the work of the Father. in our redemption and how that should cause us to praise him with all of our heart. So if you have a Bible, please take it. Let's turn together to Ephesians chapter one. I'm going to read this passage and then look at the second part of this text. Here's what it says. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the saints which are in Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ. Grace be to you, peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings and heavenly places in Christ. according as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself. according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved Now this morning I want to focus on the grace of God that's being demonstrated in this text. And when we talk about grace, notice the way that he states it in verse 4. It says, according as he hath chosen us in him. before the foundation of the world, and then he explains what we are going to be as a result of that grace. In fact, That really is the focus of Ephesians 1. 1 to 6. It's about looking at the ultimate end of our salvation. As we are in Christ, the question is, will we receive all of the blessings? that comes as a result of that? And the answer is, of course we will. Because God has determined that that in fact will happen. He has chosen us in him before the foundation of the world to be And we'll talk about it in just a second. So when we talk about this issue of God's grace, we need to recognize that grace is something that is magnified by our unworthiness, and this grace magnifies the greatness of God. We see both of those things emphasized. So we have to ask what is grace? Well, grace is unmerited favor. And in the context of justification, this is a grace that is given to us. Despite all of our sin, all of our unworthiness, it is given to us so that we can stand righteous before God. This is a very important concept for us to understand. Romans 3. 24 says that we are justified freely by his grace through the redemption in Christ Jesus So our justification doesn't come through our works, our merits, our cooperation with God. Justification comes freely by grace alone through the redemptive work of Christ alone Romans 11 says that if it is by grace, then it is no more of works. Otherwise, grace is no more grace. But if it be of works, it's no more grace. What he's saying is either it's by grace alone or it's by works. You can't have both. Another text, Ephesians 2. 8. 9, where we'll be going later on in our study in Ephesians, it says that we are saved by grace, through faith, not of ourselves, the gift of God. It is not of works, lest any man should boast. So what you see is that this grace is unmerited. It's something that we don't earn. It's something that we don't work for. It's something we don't contribute to. It is all the work of God. And to really state it emphatically, we see what Paul says in Galatians chapter 2. He says, I do not frustrate the grace of God if righteousness comes by law. That Christ is dead in vain. So grace is a huge part of this discussion. And this grace is not a reaction to some good in us or something done by us. It's important for us to recognize this. It's only rooted in God's goodness. It's all accomplished by His work. It's all about His action toward us, not our action toward Him Very, very important details. And that's why we see statements like freely by his grace. If it be by works, it is no more by grace. It is not of ourselves. It is a gift. It is not of works. That's what the text says. And then also notice how he describes this grace. He describes it in verse 4 as something that is outside of time. that he has chosen us in him before the foundation of the world. It's not like God creates the world, Adam sins, and then he goes, what do I do? Well I've got to figure out some way to resolve this problem. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about God who is outside of time, outside of space, before there was a world, before he created anything. He determined that when the fall takes place, the first Adam sins. And death by sin enters into the wor and death passes into the world on all men because of Adam's sin. He is going to send the second Adam, Christ. And Christ is going to go to the cross, and he's going to die for our sins, and he's going to rise from the dead. And all of those blessings that we have and will enjoy forever, they are in Christ. And he is determined that we're going to get them all. He did that outside of time and space. Verse 3, it says that it goes beyond what is the physical realm or the temporal realm. He says he's blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places. And so it's not just the physical Which is going to end. We are going to die. This world is going to burn up, and we're going to receive a glorified body, and there's going to be a new heaven and a new earth. But the one that we're on right now And the body that we're in right now, those are going to pass away. But this grace goes beyond that temporal physical and it goes into the spiritual, and it's something that we're going to have forever. And then we see, thirdly, it's found in a person. It is in Christ. That is really the key to the whole text. That if it wasn't for us being in Christ, our union with Christ, we wouldn't have any of these spiritual blessings. They're all found in him. And so this is how he describes that grace. And this grace and these statements, they apply to everyone who is in Christ. There aren't subcategories. There's the strong Christians, there's the moderate Christians, there's the weak Christians. It doesn't work that way. There's those who are in Christ and those who are in Adam. In Adam all die, and Christ are all made alive. We have all these spiritual blessings in Christ. If we're not in Christ, we have none of them. And so these statements teach us that we as believers have all been blessed with every spiritual blessing in Christ. Some of the blessings we actually experience now, fully. Some of them we will experience them fully in the future. And I'm going to break this down a little bit. There's an aspect to our salvation or aspects to our salvation that we are already experiencing fully. We have eternal life, but we don't experience the fullness of that eternal life like we will in glory. We are justified, but one day we will stand before God and we will understand and appreciate the realization of that. We are sanctified in Christ Jesus. But we are still struggling and walking according to God's commandments. And one day we are going to experience the fullness of that sanctification that we have. And so some of these blessings are immediate and some will be experienced more fully and completely in eternity. And then this determination wasn't reaction, but rather a decision made outside aside of time and space, before the foundation of the world. The personal magnitude of this grace is something that should make us praise God. You and I are the recipients of grace. And because we are the recipients of this grace, we should praise Him. And so I want to encourage you to do that this morning. Don't go through your day and just ignore these wonderful truths. Think about them. Dwell on them, glory in them, revel in them, worship God because of them. Have a blessed rest of your morning, Lord willing. Tomorrow we'll keep working our way through the text. Bye now.