Good morning and welcome back to our second Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that the introduction yesterday really helped you to kind of set the tone for the things that we're going to talk about. And we talked a little bit about the importance of the order of worship. at the end of the introduction yesterday. And so today we're going to kind of pick back up with that as we look at the two duties that are described in this psalm. So if you have your Bibles, let's turn together and look at Psalm 47. We'll read through this section together. And then we're going to pick out those two pieces that are being emphasized. and kind of break them down in the light of what we talked about in the text and what we talked about yesterday in the introduction. So here's what it says. O clap your hands, all ye people! Shout unto God with the voice of triumph. For the Lord Most High is terrible. He is a great king over all the earth He shall subdue the people under us, and the nations under our feet. He shall choose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob, whom he loved, Selah. God has gone up with a shout, the Lord with the sound of a trumpet, sing praises to God, sing praises, sing praises unto our King, sing praises. For our God is the King of all the earth. Sing ye praises with understanding. God reigneth over the heathen. God sitteth upon the throne of his holiness. The princes of the people are gathered together, even the people of the God of Abraham. For the shields of the earth belong unto God. He is greatly exalted. Now as we look at this psalm, we see three words that tell us what we are to do. They are the words clap and shout and sing. And I didn't really talk about this yesterday in the introduction. I did talk about this when I preached through this text a few Sundays ago. There are two times that are the likely, uh, we could say occasions for the writing of of Psalm 47. And the two suggestions that are often given are either when that the Ark of the Covenant was brought up into Jerusalem during the time of David. Or, secondly, which I actually think this is the more likely of those two situations would be when Hezekiah receives this letter from Sennacherib, and Sennacherib basically says, I'm going to destroy the city, and God with a mighty hand delivers the people. But either one of those possibilities, a case can be made in this text. And the reason is because this is a section of Scripture that indicates a time of tremendous celebration. It's like a person who has just witnessed a mighty triumph. I think about the liberation of Paris in World War II. Or I think about the ending of a war and people are celebrating in the streets because all of the soldiers can come home and the conflict is now over and behind. And it's time to rebuild and it's time to establish peace. Or I think about when someone has triumphed uh in a in a sports context and there's lots of celebration. That is kind of the picture when we see words like clap and shout and sing. This is a time to celebrate robustly in the greatness of God. And so that would have been the case when they were bringing the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem. We know the story of how the Ark of the Covenant left the land of Israel. It was brought into battle the Philistines, and it was a terrible time because the Philistines captured the Ark of the Covenant and then they had all kinds of issues in in the Philistine lands and so they sent it back to Israel, but they sent it back on a cart. And then it stayed in a man's house for many, many years. And then David wanted to bring it up into Jerusalem on a cart, and when he did that, he disregarded the commands of Scripture about how to transport it, and a man dies And it's a terrible, tragic time, and David is grieving as he thinks about this. And then after a period of waiting, he decides to bring it back, and he does it the right way, and it's a triumphant time. Or you can think about the time of Hezekiah where they see the armies are entrenched all around the city and they know what that means, and then God delivers them by his mighty hand. What does this psalm tell us to do? Well, first of all, it tells us to worship. But it tells us to worship in a very particular way, from the disposition of someone who has overcome. who 's a part of a triumph or a victory. So in verse 1 he says, clap your hands, all ye people, shout unto God. with a voice of triumph. And he talks about God subduing the nations under their feet. And he talks about God giving an inheritance. All of this is the language of someone who is participating in a mighty triumph. And that is exactly what this psalm is about. We are ones who are to celebrate and worship God as those who are overcomers. And I'll break this down even further later on in the week, but that's the first command. The second is to worship with a mindset of thoughtful, passionate worship. And the word that we want to focus in on is that word understanding. He says in verses six and seven, sing praises to God Sing praises. Sing praises unto our King. Sing praises. And here's the key. Sing praises with understanding. Yesterday we talked about the order of worship. Worship does not start, primarily, with the emotions. Worship starts with the mind. I remember listening to a message not long ago that talked about the danger of short-circuited preaching, preaching that appeals to the emotions but not to the mind first. Or preaching that appeals to the will but not to the mind first. In other words You are you are you're with a very aggressive uh presentation without engaging a person's mind and conscience and getting them to think, you're telling them to do this. Or you're stirring them up emotionally through stories and anecdotes and those kinds of things. Well real worship starts with teaching people what God has said and teaching people what God has done and teaching teaching people what the scriptures say God is. And as they reflect on that, then drive home the point of worship. And so the understanding is hugely important So those are the two commands. Worship as an overcomer and worship with an engaged mind that understands the truth. That's what we're going to focus in on the rest of the week. So I hope that you'll join us as we do that. I hope that this morning you'll get in the Word of God. You'll read it. You'll comprehend it. You'll dig into it, you'll allow it to soak into your mind, and that as you spend time in prayer and in worship to God, it would be very uh emotional, it would be very passionate, it would be very heartfelt, and it would be very consistent with the truths that you've just read. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now