Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And uh I don't know about you, but uh the passage of scripture that we dealt with on Easter Sunday. is a very rich, very practical, uh, very encouraging text of scripture. And so that's what we're going to deal with this week. Um we're going to be going back to the time that we were looking at The resurrection on Easter Sunday, and that's the passage that we will dig into. We're in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. We're going to read verses 12 through 22 together, and I'd like you to uh just follow along in your Bibles, or you can even follow along on the screen in front of us trying something new this week and we'll see how it goes. All right, the text in front of us says the following. Now, if Christ be preached, that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen. And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also vain. Yea. And we are found false witnesses of God, because we have testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom He raised not up, if so be that the dead rise not. For, if the dead rise not, then is Christ not raised. And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain. You are yet in your sins. And they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. And if in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, By man came also the resurrection of the dead. And I love this last statement because it really captures the text very well. It says, For as an Adam all die. So in Christ shall all be made alive. Now, what I want to do this morning is I want to kind of lay out a summary statement A simple thing that we'll be arguing throughout this week, and then a couple of introductory statements that I think will capture the focus of this week. So 1 Corinthians 15 addresses the importance of a literal bodily resurrection from the dead, so that the Corinthians would be convinced of its reality and would walk in newness of life as redeemed people. The text in front of us is emphasizing the historic nature, the reality of the resurrection And then the theological and practical implications of the resurrection. And as we dig into this passage, what we're to see is that we need to be convinced from Scripture That the resurrection is real, and that we can and must walk in newness of life as redeemed people because of this resurrection message And so let me give you a couple of statements that were made about the resurrection that I think capture this well. The first is from Paula Frederickson. She is a religious historian. She is not a Christian. She is a skeptic. But I want you to listen to the admission that she makes about the resurrection. She says, I know in their own terms what they saw was the raised Jesus. That's what they said they say, and then all of the historic evidence we have afterwards attest to their conviction that that's what they saw. I'm not saying that that is really what they saw of the raised Jesus. I wasn't there. I don't know what they saw. But I do know that a historian, as a historian, that they must have seen something. What she's telling you is that their story is compelling. I think about what Charles Spurgeon said, 19th-century pastor, very, very well-known Baptist minister in London. He says our religion is not based upon opinions, but upon facts. We hear persons sometimes say, those are your views, these are ours, whatever your views may be, it's a small matter. What are the facts of the case? We must, after all, if we want a firm foundation, come down to a matter of facts. I love that statement. Phil Schau, a church historian, says this the resurrection of Christ is emphatically a test question upon which depends the truth or falsehood of the Christian religion. It is either the greatest miracle or the greatest delusion which history records. And then one more I'd like to give you. It's from Chief Justice Lord Darling in England. He says, the crux of the problem of whether Jesus was or was not, what he proclaimed himself to be must surely depend upon the truth or otherwise of the resurrection of Christ. On that greatest point, we are not merely asked to have faith. There exists such overwhelming evidence, positive and negative, factual, circumstantial, that no intellectual jury in the world could fail to bring in a verdict at the resurrection story. is true. Now these are great statements that tell us about the importance of the resurrection. But I want to conclude with three simple thoughts. The first is this. The resurrection matters. And I am here to tell you that it is my firm conviction because of the Bible, because of the historic record. That the Lord Jesus Christ not only died, but is risen today, and we can and must live in the light of it. The second thing that I'll mention is that this is The watershed moment in human history. If this did not happen, then we would, as Paul claims, be still in our sins. We would have no hope in this world. And what you decide about your conviction regarding the resurrection determines which side of eternity you will spend. And then lastly, it is actually something that occurred in history or It is something that is false. It is either the most significant moment in human history or it is the greatest lie and delusion. And you you have to make up your mind about where you stand on this issue of the res issue of the resurrection. So I hope that this week you will join us as we work our way through this passage of Scripture, as we look at the different aspects of it, as we consider the importance of the resurrection, both from a historic standpoint and also from a theological and practical standpoint. And so I want to encourage you, invite some friends along to join us, and my prayer is that this will be a challenge to you. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow by now.