Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection for the Week. And yesterday we talked about God's grace, excuse me, uh the spirit's role. in our conversion. And today what we're going to look at is God's grace in our conversion. And if you really want to talk about it, when we talk about the Spirit's role in God's grace. that they're really um they're almost able to be used interchangeably because what we're what we're really saying is that God's grace is demonstrated in the cross in the person of Christ going to the cross, dying for our sins, rising from the dead. God's grace is being demonstrated through the Father's work and him having established a plan of redemption and sending the Son into the world. that he would go to the cross and die for our sins and rise from the dead. And then when we talk about the Spirit's role, it is the Spirit who convicts us of sin and righteousness and judgment. It's the Spirit who uses the sword of the Spirit, the Word of God, to convince us of the truth of the gospel and our need to repent and believe in the Gospel. And it is the Spirit of God who regenerates us. and seals us and makes us uh God's possession. And so when we talk about God's grace and our conversion, it covers lots and lots of different issues. And so we're going to get into that topic for just a couple of minutes this morning. So if you could take your Bibles and turn with me to Luke chapter 18, we're going to read verses 31 through 34, listen to a little excerpt, and then jump into the text. Here's what it says. Then he took unbu then he took unto him the twelve, and said unto them, Behold, we go unto Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. For he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked and spitefully entreated and spit on, and they shall scourge him and put him to death. And the third day he shall rise again. And they understood none of these things, and this saying was hid from them. Neither knew they the things which were spoken. Let's listen to this little section. Here somebody is stumbling in the darkness. A lot of hurt, a lot of pain, a lot of frustration, a lot of misery, and they don't even understand why it's like that. And they don't understand that there's a God in heaven who made them, and a God in God in heaven who loves them and cares about them, and though they are separated from him because of sin, he has done everything possible that they can be brought into his presence. I think of the song Amazing Grace. And that song, one of the verses goes like this, 'Twas grace that taught my heart to fear. And grace my fears relieved. How precious did that grace appear the hour I first believed? Another thought that comes to my mind is how many times in the Gospels Christ emphasizes that in fact he came to seek and to save those who are lost. Or statements like, those who are sick are the ones who need a physician, not those who are well. The Lord has come to seek and to save those who are lost. The Lord Jesus Christ cares about people who are broken and stumbling in the darkness. And that's why when Jesus was traveling up to Galilee one one day, he decided to go through Samaria. to go through a town named Sikar. He said, we must needs go through Samaria. Why did he do that? Well because he was seeking a person who needed to be saved. Here was a person who was stumbling in the darkness, living a life of sinfulness and brokenness, had been uh mistreated, obviously, had taking advantage of situations. This is a person who was living a very difficult life. What did Jesus do? He sought this person. He opens her eyes. He ultimately saves her. Or we think about other examples. A man who is crying on the roadside, God be merciful to me, a sinner. And what does he do? He heals him, a blind man. Or think about Zacchaeus, who's up in a tree. And when Christ comes through Jericho, he looks up and there he is. He says, Zacchaeus, come down here. I'm going to go to your house. Why did Jesus do that? Because he seeks and he saves those who are lost. Many of Christ's parables fell in line here. We think about the one where a person has a hundred sheep and ninety-nine of them are with him and one is lost. What does he do? He leaves the 90 and 9 to go get the one. Why? Because he seeks and he saves those who are lost. And so when we talk about this issue of seeking and saving those who are lost, the word that needs to come to mind is the word grace. God is a gracious God. He sees sinners and rather than having this arrogance and this disdain and this animosity and this hatred towards them, he loves sinners. He desires for them to be saved The fact is, our lives are the testimonies to God's grace. God sought us, and maybe some of you He sought you through planting you in a family that took you to church from the time you were a little child. You heard Sunday school teaching, and you trusted Christ as your savior when you were young. Others, you may have lived many, many years, never heard the gospel before, never understood the gospel, and you came in contact with the gospel much later in life through circumstances that were entirely out of your hands and entirely according to God's plans. What are these things? They're evidences of God's grace and drawing people to himself and providing salvation. I want to remind you that we are a per a people who should be very, very grateful for the grace of God. of God. And if we are people who should be very, very grateful for the grace of God, we should mirror his attitude towards sinners. We should desire to see people drawn to the Lord. We should be fishers of men, for lack of a better way to put it, because he's a God who seeks and saves those who are lost. And he does it through the means of his people going out and giving the gospel. Well, this morning I hope that that will give you something to think about. It will encourage you, challenge you, that ultimately you will desire to draw people to the Lord Jesus Christ. Have a blessed rest of your morning and Lord willing tomorrow. We will look at one final thought as we go into the weekend. By now