Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a good week and middle of the week, and hope that the study that we've been doing has been helpful. And yesterday was a bit of a longer anchored in the word study. Today will be a bit shorter as we're going to take the foundational truths that we looked at from the text of Scripture And then we're going to look at some very specific marks that should be distinguishing marks in the kind of teaching and preaching that we should should both be looking for and the kind that we should be doing ourselves. And so we're going to be looking at the marks of proclaiming the gospel like And so the text in front of us is Luke chapter 13. Please let's turn there again and we'll begin reading in verse 22. It says, And he went to the cities and villages Teaching and journeying toward Jerusalem. Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? He said unto them, Strive to enter in at the straight gate. For many I say unto you will seek to enter in and shall not be able. When once the master of the house has risen up and has shut the door, And ye begin to stand without and to knock and the door saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us, and he shall answer, and say unto you, I know you not, from whence you are. Then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets, but he shall say, I tell you, I I know you not whence ye are. Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity. There shall be weeping and gnashing when ye enter and when ye shall See Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, and you yourselves thrust out. And they shall come from east and from west and from north and from south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of God. And behold, there are last which shall be first, and there are first which shall be last. As I said already, we're looking at marks that distinguish preaching and Teaching like Christ versus, we could say the way that the religious leaders of the day were teaching and false teachers today. Well the first mark is this: it will stress the preeminence of the gospel. When we talk about the gospel It's important for us to understand the gospel is not about me and not about you. It's about what God did for me. And what God did for you. And so the gospel is about the person of Christ, who He is, God in flesh. It's about what He did. He went to the cross and he died on the cross. It's about what it was for. It was for our sins. He took our sin debt On himself was crucified, and we can be forgiven on the basis of his sacrifice. It's about the fact that he rose triumphant from the dead. And so the gospel is the death, the burial, the resurrection of Christ, and the reason why he did it. And so what is it stressing? It's stressing the cross. And so in Galatians chapter 6, verse 1. 14 Paul says, God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I am crucified unto me. It. Or in Romans 1. 15 he says, As much as in me is, I am ready to preach the gospel to you who are at Rome also. For I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth. The gospel is the most important thing in the world, and it was the most important thing important thing to Christ. This are to to well to Christ, to John the Baptist, to Paul, to Peter, to all of them. The second mark is that it will stress the exclusiveness nature of the gospel. Now what I mean by exclusive is not that it's impossible for other people to be saved, it's that it's impossible for anyone to be saved To be saved outside of Christ's work. When we think about this, we're saying there is one and only one means through which people come to God, and it is the Lord. Lord Jesus. Notice what Jesus says in John 14. He says, I am the way, not a way. He says, I'm the way. I am the truth and the life. And no man Cometh unto the Father but by me. That is an exclusive statement. In fact, part of the sting of the gospel, even though it's good news. is that it's the only news that saves. Peter preached at Pentecost in Acts chapter 4. Be it known unto you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth Whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him, did this man stand before your whole? This is the stone Which is set at naught of ye builders, which is become the head of the corner, neither is there salvation in any other. For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby ye ye must be saved. We also see Paul preaching this at Mars Hill. Acts 17. The time of this ignorance God winked at, but now commands every man, every men, all men everywhere to repent, because he is pointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. What is the point? Well the point is very simple. There's only one way of salvation. And so because there's only one way of salvation, salvation and we must personally respond to this way of salvation by accepting it and trusting in it. That means that there's nothing more important in all the world than the preaching of the gospel. So mark number one is when I preach like Christ, I emphasize the gospel, the death, the burial, the resurrection of Christ, and his death and triumph over death for our sins. And number two, it's exclusive. If you hear people talking about giving their life to Christ and not talking about who he is and what he did, then there's a problem. Or when people are talking about, well, the you know, Jesus Jesus is good, but there are lots of other ways and there are all road all roads lead to Rome, and so take the one that you want. That's not gospel preaching. Gospel preaching Is Jesus is the only way? There's nothing more important in life. Embrace it now because God commands you to do so. And so my encouragement to you this morning is have that attitude about the gospel. It's the most important thing. important thing. It's exclusive. And I pray that we're people who are constantly giving the gospel as God opens opportunities. Well, that's a very short study this morning. I hope that it gives you some things to think about. If these studies are of help to you, take a moment to share them, share them with a friend, a family member, on your Facebook feed, whatever, and share feedback if. If that would be helpful as well. Have a blessed morning, Lord willing will meet again tomorrow by now