Good morning and welcome to our final Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And I hope you're having a great Friday and I hope that this passage of scripture that we've looked at gives both a soberness but also a comfort. And as we think about the return of Christ, this is something that rather than being fearful and discouraged and disheartened, we actually look at this as something That is in fact very, very comforting. Christ is going to set everything right, and we can live with an anticipation of that day. And I mean really when you look around the world and you see all the trouble that's around you, sometimes people say, How in the world do you fix these problems? And I go, I have no idea how you fix these problems. There are so many crazy things that are going on around in the world And what it really comes down to is there's really only one comfort, and that is that Christ is going to come and he's going to make all things new and he's going to set everything right and he's going to judge evil and all those who place their faith in Christ will be a part of his eternal kingdom forever. And so that's the comfort, and this passage of scripture is driving toward that comfort. Well, what I'd like to do this morning is give you some final thoughts of encouragement from the text. And so Let's read it again, and then we're going to look at those thoughts of encouragement. It says in Luke twenty-one, verse twenty. And when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that the desolation thereof is nigh. Then let them which are in Judea flee unto the mountains, and let them which are in the midst of it depart out. And let them that are in the countries enter that are in that let not them that are in the countries enter thereunto. For these be the days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled. But woe unto them that are with child, and to them that give suck in those days, there shall be great distress in the land and wrath upon this people And they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and shall be led away captive into all nations, and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles until the time of the Gentiles be fulfilled. Now, as we process everything that we've talked about this week, the question is how do you conclude with application? And so I want to give you some final thoughts today. The first is this. Sin has turned this world upside down. It has wreaked havoc on humanity and the creation since the garden. When we think about this, we recognize that rather than God abandoning us, as he most certainly could have, in his infinite love and goodness, he said no. I will not abandon creation. I love people and I want them to be redeemed to me. And he knows exactly what needs to take place. so that the terrible curse of sin on this world can be absolutely reversed. And he knows what it takes to do it without compromising his character in any way. Not only does God know, but he is determined to do it. And he's given us promises that he will do it. And God has put his word on the line. Everything that God has said he will do, he either has done it or he will do it. And everything that God has purposed to do, in fact, it's consistent with his nature. When we talk about the cross and we talk about the resurrection, we're talking about something that has already established the basis of this redemption. It's simply a matter of all of these things playing out according to God's timetable where he makes all things new. And so the basis is established. the ultimate redemption, the ultimate moment of glorification. That is in the future, but it's guaranteed. And so his second coming is something that is promised, that is the end of the story. It's him finishing what he has set out to do. He is our Redeemer, and as our Redeemer, He is coming to make all things new. So all of those things are part of this discussion we've had this week. The terrible effects of sin, the purpose of God, the promise of God, the accomplishment of God, and the future that is yet to come. But there's a second side to this that I don't want to miss. And that is that this same Savior who will come is personally and graciously and actively working in your life and in my life right now. It's not just that he's coming. But he is personally and actively working in our lives right now. I'll put it like this. He has promised that he's never going to leave us or forsake us. And so in the same way that his promise is on the line that he's going to return and make all things new, his promise that he'll never leave us or forsake us, that's on the line too. And in fact, he fulfills his word He's promised that he's always going to give us strength when we're weak. We think about what the Apostle Paul says, where he says that I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. I know how to be a base and how to abound. everything and all things. He's saying, I know how to manage the most difficult of circumstances because of God's grace. It's of his mercies we're not consumed, his compassion fill not. They're never morning greatest his faithfulness. He made this promise, he's going to follow through with it. He's promised to give us wisdom when we're confused And so we know that if we lack wisdom, we can ask of God who gives to all men liberally, and he doesn't abrade, and he's going to give it to us. We could take this great comfort. He's promised to rise to our defense when we are unjustly attacked. And the truth is that there are times in life that we can't defend ourselves There are times in life that we attempt to, but we have limits. And we know that God is our defender. He is our rock. He is our fortress. And we can run to him and flee to him in time of need. He's promised that he's going to rescue us when there is another place to turn. And we know that salvation is of the Lord. And when we talk about salvation, we could talk about it being our deliverance from sin. and its penalty. We could talk about it being deliverance deliverance from the power and the donom the domination of sin. We could talk about it being salvation from the presence of sin. We could talk about it being salvation from the temporal struggles that we have no ability to deliver ourselves from. All that we have is God and His grace. And what does He do? He promises to rescue us in our time of need. His work is something that's not just coming in the future. It's a work that is now in the present. And so when we think about the truths of this text of scripture, we must process everything in life through that grid of the imminent return of Christ. He has promised and he will keep his promises. And so I want to close out the week with one final statement from the Word of God that is so very comforting. John writes in Revelation 21, And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away. There was no more sea. I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven. prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. He will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. God himself will be with them, and he shall be their God God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. There shall be no more death, neither sorrow, no crying, neither shall there be any more pain. For the former things are passed away. He that sat on the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write, these words are faithful, and they are true. And so I want to remind you to have a great weekend because our Lord is coming soon. May we be ready when he returns Have a blessed rest of your day, a blessed weekend, and Lord willing, we'll see many of you this coming Lord's Day. Take care. Bye now.