Good morning and welcome back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a great Wednesday morning. And I know it's a bit cold outside. It's going to get little bit colder. But I'm looking forward to dealing with this passage of scripture again today in a way that I hope will be a tremendous help to you. And so If you have your Bibles, let's turn together and we're going to read Psalm 43 verses 1 through 5. Then after that we'll listen to a short excerpt from the sermon. uh two Sundays ago and then we'll dig into a a topic dealing with the root causes of issues and uh very very important topic for us to address this morning. So Psalm 43 verse 1 says the following Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation. O deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man. For thou art the God of my strength Why dost thou cast me off? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? O send out thy light and thy truth. Let them lead me, let them bring me unto thy holy hill, and to thy tabernacle. Then will I go into the altar of God, unto God my exceeding joy, yea, upon a harp will I praise thee, O God my God. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him who is the health of my countenance. and my God. Let's take a moment to listen to this little section and then we'll talk about it. If all we deal with is symptoms, then we're like a person who has a horrible disease disease, a horrible illness, and they just keep taking Tylenol. The cut just keep taking Advil, uh ibuprofen, whatever. And like the pain goes away for six six for six hours and then it comes back. months. The pain goes away for four hours and then it comes back. The fever is reduced for a little while. Listen, you better figure out why you've got a fever, why you've got a headache, why your body's aching Why you're sick, because that's a lot more important than the fever. So the concept that we that I was addressing in that audio clip is a very very important concept and that is the fact that when we have an issue we need to get down to the heart of why it is there. And if you'll notice in Psalm 42 and in Psalm 43, as the psalmist is wrestling through the struggles that they're dealing with, They come to these little sections where he says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God I shall yet praise him with the help of my countenance Now, we're going to break this down by the end of the week, the the the significance of that verse, but the first part of the verse is what I'm really trying to get into in that video clip. And that's the question, why? Why art thou cast down? Why art thou disquieted within me? What is the root cause of this dilemma, of this difficulty, this struggle? Am I cast down because in my thinking there is a theological problem? Am I cast down because I'm being driven by emotions? Am I cast down because I'm physically wearied and I need rest? so that I can refocus and get back on track. Am I cast down because my conscience is troubling me? And there is something that I am fighting about God with and I'm unwilling to address. what is the root cause of the issue. And so it's very easy for us to get so caught up with the downstream effect of an issue that rather than dealing with what's causing it, we are constantly dealing with symptoms. It's a very dangerous thing for us to do. And so when we get into the Word of God, it's important for us to get down to the question of why. And so let me leave you with this very simple challenge this morning. When you're encountering a challenge in the Christian life, rather than just trying to cover it, just trying to. . Ease your conscience just trying to get a quick fix. Be willing to ask the hard questions. Be willing to get down to the root of the problem. Is the root of the problem something theological? Well then go to someone who can help you work through the Word of God. Get into the Word of God yourself. Jot down your thoughts. Analyze what you are writing down and consider what is going on in the pattern of your thinking. Get around godly people that can encourage you and strengthen you and help you And so that is the challenge this morning. Don't just deal with symptoms. Deal with the root. Get to the heart of the problem. And it might be that as you're listening to some of these uh short little clips, um these these anchored in the word reflections, that you feel like, hey, I I I probably should reach out. Well, please don't hesitate to do that. I want to be an encouragement any way that I can. can't want to help uh would be willing to ask you questions work through the issue talk through the issue get into the word of god with you pray for you shoulder that burden maybe i'm not the person you need to reach out to maybe you need to reach out to someone else Do that. Don't hesitate to do that. Let the word of God and the people of God be an encouragement and a help to you. to get down to the root of what's going on in your life. Have a blessed morning. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we take a few minutes to dig into the Word of God again and look at another portion of the sermon two Sundays ago. Take care. Bye now.