Good morning. Welcome back to a new week and another edition of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And this week our family is going to be traveling because of the death in the family. And so my plan is to get all of the videos out this week uh but it is possible that some things will come up and I may not be able to do that. So um my plan is to pre-record all these and then um put them up when I can and hopefully that will be daily. So if you're following along with us this week Um I I hope to get them all out at some point. So this week we're dealing with Luke chapter 19, verses 28 through 40, and so if you have a Bible. I'd like to ask you to take it, turn there, and the passage we're dealing with is the triumphal entry. And it's a fascinating passage of scripture as I was digging into some of the details in the preparation for the sermon that I preached last Sunday, um there were a lot of things that uh really caught my attention and I am looking forward to sharing them with you this week. So let's go ahead and read the passage. We're not gonna read the whole thing, uh, but we'll read um the the majority of the text and then dig into some introductory details as Christ is going up to Jerusalem. It says, when he had thus spoke, He went before, ascending up to Jerusalem. Came to pass that when he was come nigh to Bethfij in Bethany, at the mount called the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples, saying, Go ye up into the village, over against it. in the which you are entering you shall find a colt tied. Whereupon never a man sat, loose him, bring him. And if a man asks you why do you lose him, thus you say to him, Because the Lord hath need of him As he went, they spread their clothes in the way. When he was come nigh, even now to the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had done. Let me give you a summary statement here, and then we're going to dig into the first portion of details here. A summary is this. Luke's narration of Christ's triumphal entry into Jerusalem highlighted God's masterful, meticulous care. that weave together numerous ordinary events going back thousands of years to secure our redemption. God wants us to glory in the ways That He is working and rest in these ways, because these ways are built on promises that cannot fail Now, the first part talks about his ascent up to Jerusalem. And it's important to remember that when we talk about his ascent up to Jerusalem, we're not talking about north and south, but we're talking about elevation. He's starting in Jericho, he's coming out of the Transjordan Valley, he's going up to Jerusalem, and he comes up to the area where the Mount of Olives overlooks the city. And so here's what it says. When he had thus spoken, he went before ascending up to Jerusalem, and it came to pass as he was nigh to Bethany, at the mount called the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples, saying, Go into the village over against you Find a colt tied whereon never a man sat, loose him, bring him, and if any man asks you, why do you lose him, you shall say, Because the Lord hath need of him And they that sent went their way, and found it, even as he had said, and as they were loosing the colt, the owner thereof said to them, Why do you loose the colt? They answered and said, The Lord hath need of him. Now, Christ sent them on a very simple mission. Several pieces to it. First of all, when you enter the village, go and find a cult. one that has never been written. Secondly, if someone asks you, why are you losing him, say, because the Lord has need of him. Very simple. The question isn't what were they to do, it's why was it significant. And I want to leave with show you some reasons that this is very significant. First of all, Christ is going up to Jerusalem to fulfill the Passover. He is literally going to die as our sin-bearing substitute. This was predicted in Daniel 9, where it says that Messiah shall be cut off to finish transgression, to make an end of sin, to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness. Isaiah 53 says, Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. He became an offering for sin. By his death he will justify many because he will bear their iniquities. So Christ is fulfilling what has been predicted for hundreds and hundreds of years. In fact, we could even say thousands of years before this event. We also see that he had to die this way because he was the Lamb of God to take away the sins of the world. In fact, John says this in John chapter 1. Verse 29, as Jesus comes to the Jordan to be baptized with the rest of John's disciples, Jesus is called the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. Pictured in sacrificial lambs and the Passover lamb. He also came to fulfill the Passover. Luke chapter 22. What Jesus says is fascinating. He says, With desire have I desired, or what with an earnest desire, a passion, I eat this Passover with you before I suffer. I will not eat it again thereof until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. Jesus is coming to fulfill this. Second thing I want to mention is that the triumphal entry, uh, writing in on a previously unwritten donkey is also very significant. This points back to a prophecy made by Zechariah in Zechariah chapter 9. He says, Rejoice greatly, O daughters of Zion, shout, O daughters of Jerusalem, behold, thy king cometh unto thee. He is just in having salvation, lowly and riding on an ass upon the colt of the foal of an ass. This is Jesus doing exactly what he the Scripture said he would do. And there are a couple of details that are mentioned in the text. For one, It says, your king comes. He is the true king of Israel. Two. He is just. He has salvation. He's coming as the one who is just, the righteous one, and he's coming to give salvation through offering himself as a sacrifice. Three. He's coming lowly He's coming in humility. He is the lowly one riding on a donkey. And he is riding a previously unwritten donkey. Find a colt where I'll never a man sap. Now, why is this significant? Well, look at what it says in Philippians chapter 2, verses 6 through 8. It says, being in the form of God, speaking of his essence, he's God. He made himself of no reputation. He took upon himself the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. Being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. You say, what does that mean? What that means is that Christ emptied himself of everything that was necessary for him to suffer and physically die to redeem us to the Father. And Christ did not stop being God. He didn't empty himself of his deity. He simply humbled himself so that he took on the sufferings and the weaknesses and the limitations of a perfect man who could die in our place. And that is what's being described in these verses. So this passage where it talks about Jesus going up to Jerusalem is significant because he's going up to fulfill the Passover. and to die for our sins. Well, I want to leave you with that this morning. If you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out. Share it with someone who maybe can be encouraged and helped by it. Lord willing tomorrow. We'll upload the next one that will give us a little bit more information as we work our way through this text. Have a blessed day. Talk to you later. Bye now.