Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope you're having a great Thursday morning. And the text that we've been dealing with this week is Luke 18, verses 18 through 27 And it is Christ's interaction with a ruler who came to him and said, Good master, what good thing can I do to inherit the kingdom of God? And this morning what we're going to do is focus in on how how important it is that we respond to the truth correctly when we come in contact with it. And so let's go ahead and turn our Bibles together to this text. We will read it and then after that listen to a little short excerpt and then lean into that concept. Luke 18, 18. And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good master. What shall I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? None is good save one that is God. Thou knowest the commandments, do not commit adultery, do not kill, do not steal, do not bear false witness, honor thy father and thy mother. He said, All these I have kept from my youth up. Now when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet lackest thou one thing. Sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven. And come follow me And when he heard this, he was very sorrowful, for he was very rich. And Jesus said, and when Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, he said, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God? It is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. They that heard it said, who then can be saved? He said the things which are impossible with men are possible with God. Let's listen to this section. We learn about the pressing need to respond immediately to the gospel. When God begins his work, we must immediately respond to it. The truth is, every time you come in contact with truth, it's affecting your heart. Either it's softening it, or it's hardening it. It's like when the sun beats down. This is an illustration that starts with me. I think it was G. Campbell Morgan used this illustration. But he said, the same sun that softens the wax hardens the clay. When we think about this concept of how the Word of God affects us, I think of the text in Isaiah where it says that God's word shall not return void. It'll accomplish the thing wherein to It was sent. And when someone comes in contact with truth, they are responding. You might say, well, they're neutral towards the word of God. No, no, neutrality is rejection. It might not look as harsh as someone who is condescending and mocking and laughing at the scripture, but it is a form of unbelief. It's a form of rejection. Unbelief can come in lots and lots of different shapes and sizes, but at the root it's the exact same thing. The word of God is either going to soften our hearts and awaken our conscience. Or as we are awakened to the truth and resistant to it, we become more callous and hardened. What do we see in this text? It says that when this man understands what Jesus says, instead of him saying, okay, you're right. I don't meet the commandments. I have a problem. Instead, it says, he went away sorrowful because he was very wealthy. In other words, when this man came in contact with truth, instead of him softening his heart and crying out and saying, Lord, have mercy, he said, I don't need this. I don't want this. I'm not willing to submit to this. It's like in John chapter 3 when Jesus is talking to Nicodemus. He says, and this is the condemnation, that men love darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil. And they will not come to the light lest their deeds be exposed. And so the idea is that a person who comes in contact with the truth can either bow the knee and say, Lord, have mercy. Or they can say, I'm not interested, and they walk away. The tragedy is not that the man was grieved. It's that his grief did not lead to repentance that led to faith in Christ. I think about the passage in 2 Corinthians, where he says that there's a kind of repentance that leads to life, and there's a kind of repentance that leads to death. There is the repentance of this world that leads to death and the repentance of the believer that leads to life. And this man had an opportunity when his heart was under conviction to turn to Christ, rather he turned away. What does this teach us? It teaches us that there is a tremendously pressing need to humble ourselves under the Word of God when it comes, when we come in contact with it. As the scriptures say, God resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. Humble yourself, therefore, under the mighty hand of God. And he will exalt you in due time. May God help us to not just hear the word, but to do the word. Have a blessed rest of your day and Lord willing we'll meet again one more time tomorrow to uh to break this down as we go into the weekend by now