Good morning and welcome back to our fourth Anger to the Word Morning Reflection. And we are dealing with the Passage of Scripture that teaches the rich man and Lazarus. And we've been talking about the differences. that they experience in life. We talked about the similarity, the fact that they both experience physical death. We talked about the great difference between their eternity. Well this morning what I'd like to do is I'd like to focus on the gospel, which is ultimately what separated those two people. It wasn't how they lived their life. It wasn't the fact of the way that they died, but it's about what they did with the gospel. And we're going to see that in this text of scripture. So let's go ahead and read it again. Luke chapter 16, we'll begin in verse number 19, and then we will see how Christ uh draws this passage of scripture to communicating the need for the gospel. So here's what it says. There's a certain man which was clothed in purple And fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day. And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate full of sores, and desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table Moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores, and it came to pass that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died, and was buried. And hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and seeeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on you Me. As we think about this, I want us to draw our, I want us to really focus in on the most significant difference between these two men. And the answer is it's what they did with the gospel. And we can see this being revealed in verse twenty-seven through thirty-one. As this man cries out to Abraham and says, Have mercy on me and send Lazarus, this is how how Moses responds. He says, if they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead. You say, Well, why is that significant? As the rich man pleas with Abraham to send Lazarus to his family, notice what he says in verse 27. I pray Therefore, Father, that thou would ascend him to my father's house. I have five brethren, that he may testify unto them, lest they also come to this place of torment. What is the man saying? He is concerned about his family. He doesn't want them to suffer like he is. He doesn't want them to live their lives having having rejected what they need. Needed to be uh to be right with God and to experience eternity with Him. He wanted them to experience salvation, redemption. And so He says, send Lazarus. What does Moses say? He says, Lazarus isn't going to help them. He says they have Moses. They have the prophets. They have the scriptures. They have the law. They have All of those messianic passages that point to Jesus, that's what he's saying. Let them hear them. He says, if they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded the woman. One rose from the dead. Now, that's a fascinating statement because it's not just emphasizing the fact that if Lazarus could come back from the dead and go and speak to them them, it wouldn't make any difference. , It's to really emphasize the fact that here is Jesus who is going to die, he's going to rise from the dead, and there will still be massive numbers of people. Who will reject him as the Savior. And you say, how could they do that? They knew he was crucified. They knew he rose from the dead. They even tried to cover Cover it up and hide it. How could they how could they be so hardened in their hearts toward the gospel message? And the answer is the human heart is deceitful above all things and desperate Wicked, who can know it? Well, why does he say this? It's because the gospel is more powerful than even someone coming back from the dead and saying, here's what I experienced. The most significant difference between these two people is what they do with the gospel. I want to remind you of this. We think of preaching the gospel to people, we think of the Romans Road. Romans 3. 23, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Romans 6. 23, the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Lord. Romans 5. 8. But God commendeth his love toward us, that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Romans 10, 9 through 13, that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead. Thou shalt be saved. With the heart one believeth unto righteousness. With the mouth confession is made unto salvation. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Ephesians two eight nine. By grace are ye saved through faith. Not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works lest any man should boast. When we think of the gospel, we think of Romans, we think of John 3. 16, we think of Ephesians 2. 8 and 9, we think about passages in Philippians and Galatians, but you know what Paul thought about? Paul thought about the Old Testament. Paul thought about Isaiah 53. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. By his stripes we are healed. The Lord looked upon the He thought about all those messianic passages. He thought about all those prophecies in Isaiah. And the whole point is this. If someone wants to be saved from God's wrath, they have to turn to him and place their faith in the finished work of Christ. The finished work of Christ that the law in the Old Testament says you're not God. Good enough, you need to be saved by trusting in the Messiah. And the same law in the in the New Testament that says that by the deeds of the law there be no flesh justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. You can be saved from this terrible eternity if you will turn to Christ. Those who you love and those who you desire to be safe from God's wrath, they need to hear the gospel. And you need to give them the gospel. And you need to pray that they'll respond to the gospel. Saved from wrath through him. Trusting in the gospel is the great difference between these two people. One man had everything, but he rejected Christ. The other man had nothing but he embraced Christ. I want to encourage you. The gospel is available for you right here, right now. Why don't you turn to him? What's keeping you? from trusting in Christ if you've never done that. Well, I hope that gives you something to think about. My desire is that you have a great rest of your day. And if you've trusted Christ, then rest in the the joyful position that you have in Christ. And if you've not, you need to do that while there's time. Have a blessed day, Lord willing. Tomorrow we will look at some final thoughts from this passage of scripture. Bye now.