Good morning and welcome back to another week of Anchored in the Word Morning Reflections. And I hope that this week as we dig into Psalm 54, you'll find this passage to be very, very helpful to you And today we're going to talk about some context as we think about the Psalm. We're going to talk about the fact that when we're in desperate situations, we need to flee to the Lord and find comfort in him. And this passage is going to help us do that. So I hope that you'll join us this week as we dig into the text. I want to look at some background information to really set the tone for the context. So if you have a Bible, let's take it, turn to Psalm 54, and we're going to read through the entire Psalm and then dig into a couple of things about the context. Here's what it says. Save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me by thy strength. Hear my prayer, O God. Give ear unto the words of my mouth. For strangers are risen up against me, and oppressors seek after my soul. They've not set God before them. Selah. Behold, God is my helper. The Lord is with them that uphold my soul. He shall reward evil unto my enemies, cut them off in thy truth. I will freely sacrifice unto thee. I will praise thy name, O Lord, for it is good. For he hath delivered me out of all trouble, and my eyes have seen his desire upon mine enemies. Very interesting Psalm. And it's important for us to understand the context if we're going to interpret it properly. So let's begin by looking at the setting of this psalm. And we find the setting in the prescript to the psalm. In fact You may not realize this, but when we're looking at Psalms, many times there's a little prescript at the beginning. Um it's not generally looked at as part of the psalm, but the truth is that it actually is a part of the psalm. And in the original Hebrew text, it actually is kind of like verse number one. So this information is very, very helpful. It's not just a scribe putting it in. It's actually part of the sacred text. So, notice some of the details in this prescript. It says that this was written when the Ziphim came and said to Saul, Does not David hide himself with us? Now what event is this talking about? Well, there are two different times that David was betrayed by the people in the land of Zif. The first example is in 1 Samuel 23, and I think that that's actually the one we're looking at here. And basically what's happening is David is hiding in the wilderness and the people of this city go to Saul and they say, Saul is or David's hiding in the wilderness. We know you want to kill him, so we're going to help you locate him. And David is delivered by God's really providential work. We'll talk about that in a little bit, but that's probably the situation he's talking about. A second time, it actually happens in 1 Samuel 26. And in that situation, David and one of his men go down into the camp. And when they go down into the camp, everyone is sleeping, and he has an opportunity to kill Saul and he refrains. And he basically says, Saul, why are you hunting my life? I I have no intention to harm you. I have been loyal and faithful to you. I'm your son-in-law. Why? And Saul knows that David is a loyal man. But it's probably the first example. But twice this group of people betrays David. And in both situations, God intervened. One through the Philistines, and the other through, we could say, all the people sleeping. And so we see that this was a very personal thing for David It was a part of the region where David came from. In fact, um the people of Zif and David were both from Judah, and so they were brothers, if you want to put it that way. They were a close um of the same tribe there in Israel. And so that would have been a personal thing. In fact, when David becomes the king, he reigns in Hebron, and he's really over Judah before he ends up reigning over the entire nation. It also shows something about the alignment of these people in relationship to God's plan for the nation. And I would put it like this. They were aligned on the wrong side of what God was doing. God had a very clear plan for the people. and for David and Saul and ultimately who was supposed to be king. And we see this in a couple of passages of scripture. For instance, When Jonathan talks to David during this same time period, we can see that Jonathan understands God's plan. And Jonathan, though he is faithful to his father, And he's not betraying his father, he's also not going to take David's life, and he's not defending his father's actions. And we can see this in 1 Samuel 23, it says, Jonathan Saul's son arose and went to David He strengthened his hand in God, and he said to him, Fear not, the hand of Saul, my father, shall not find thee, and thou shalt be the king over Israel, and I shall be next unto thee. that also saw my father knoweth. Really interesting statement. We see that that that Jonathan's not betraying Dad, but he's also now being unjust to David. He's trying to be as gracious to his dad as possible. But he's communicating to David, look, I know what God's plan is. It's a really interesting thing for us to see. Very nuanced. The second thing is that we go back to first same. 16 and we can see that that God hand selected David and that was communicated through Samuel. It says in 1 Samuel 16, 1, the Lord said unto Samuel, How long will you mourn for Saul? Seeing, I have rejected him from reigning over Israel. Fill thine horn with oil and go, and I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite. I have provided me a king among his sons. And what's this showing you? It's pretty clear that David is supposed to be the next king. Saul has been rejected, and God is eventually going to remove Saul. So whoever is helping Saul And trying to kill David is on the wrong side of God's plan for the nation. And so let me give you this summary to kind of think about as we work our way into this text throughout the week. I'd summarize it like this Our God is a mighty deliverer. And he personally works in our lives for good. So flee to him in your moments of desperation. That's what this psalm is going to teach us. So I hope you'll join us this week as we dig into the details. and hopefully find some rich encouragement. Have a blessed rest of your morning, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow as we dig into this text a little bit. Bye now.