Good morning and welcome to our fourth Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today I would like us to talk about the multidimensional aspect of forgiveness and reconciliation, or what we could say is the different layers of forgiveness and reconciliation that are being talked about in this passage. And so this passage is looking at it from two angles. One would be ultimately our relationship to God. We could say that that's the vertical. And then we could say the horizontal, our relationship to other people. And he takes two groups who are at tremendous odds, the Jew and the Gentile, and he says, you are united together in one body within the church. And it's all through the work of Christ. So I'd like us to talk about that this morning. Well, let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter 2. We're going to pick up in verse 11 and then kind of look at those different layers of forgiveness and reconciliation. Here's what the text says. Wherefore remember that ye being in times past Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision, by that which is called a circumcision in the flesh, made with hands. That at that time you were without Christ, being aliens of the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus he seems I, by the blood of Christ, he is our peace, who hath made both one and broken down the middle wall of partition between us, having abolished in his flesh the enity. As we think about this concept of reconciliation, there are two dynamics that are being demonstrated here. The first one is the emphasis of our relationship to God. It says in verses 17 and 18, he came and he preached peace to you which were afar off, the Gentiles, and to them which were nigh, the Jews. Through him we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father. Notice the different pieces of that. The first piece is he preached the Gentiles, those who are far off Everybody who is Jewish would have understood that, yes, the Gentiles are estranged from God. But he doesn't stop there. He says, and also to those that were not Here are the people who have the covenants, they have the promises, they have the prophets, they have a sacrificial system, they have all this information, but guess what? They're outside. They don't know the Lord. They're not reconciled to him. They have to personally embrace the gospel. And this would have been a shocking thing for them to consider. So what he's showing you is no matter who you are, rich, poor, Bond or free, Jew, Gentile, male, female, doesn't it matter? We all need to be reconciled to God. We all have the same problem. We're sinners, we're separated from God, and we need to be reconciled to Him. Then there's this third piece. He has united both peoples into one body to God. Verse 18, through him we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father. And so we can see the two different aspects of this reconciliation. So what are the implications of this? Well, the first thing I would say That is an implication is that the gospel is the good news of reconciliation in not just one sense, but actually two. For instance, it addresses the vertical problem. How are we reconciled to God? It's through the gospel. But then it addresses the need for reconciliation on the horizontal level. How are we reconciled to other people? It comes through the same gospel And I'll put it like this. As God forgave us, then we're also supposed to forgive others. As God has been gracious to us, we are to be gracious to others. As God has loved us, we are to love others. That's the idea that he's getting into. And so the basis for that reconciliation and the motivation for that reconciliation is the same thing. It's the cross of Christ. And we see that God is the ultimate example of a reconciler or a peacemaker. And so we see it like this in Matthew 5. He says, we are to love our enemies. We are to bless those who curse us. We are to do good to those who hate us, and to pray for those who despitefully use us and persecute us. And then he says that those who do this are the children of our Father which is in heaven. Because he, God, makes his sunrise on the just and on the unjust, and so he sends his rain on the just and on the unjust, the evil and the good. And so we are to be perfect, complete, just like our Father in heaven. And so when we live like him, we reflect his character for more clearly. And this is very, very interesting statement that's made there. Or we can look at Romans 5. 10. He says, when we were God's enemies We were reconciled to him by the death of his son. God is the ultimate reconciler. We are called to be like him. He is our Father. He's been gracious to us, he's forgiven us, he has reconciled us to himself, we are to do the same when it comes to our relationship to other people And so that's why in Matthew 5, 9, he says, we are to be peacemakers, and we will be blessed if we are peacemakers, and we'll be called the children of God who are peacemakers. People will see that we reflect the character of our Father But to me, one of the greatest passages is this one, Colossians 3. I come to it so many times when I think about tension and the need for forgiveness and forbearance and grace. Here's what he says. Put on, therefore, as the elect of God, as his children, chosen, called, established as his people, you are too put on vows of mercy. That's deep compassion. You're to be kind and merciful and humble and meek and long-suffering. We are to forbear one another. We're to forgive one another. If anyone has a quarrel, even as Christ forgave us, so we are to forgive them. And we are to let the peace of God rule in our hearts. That is a very high calling. And that's what we're all called to. So as we think about this going into the weekend, tomorrow we're going to kind of pull it all together. I hope that you remember that last verse. This passage of Scripture is about our relationship to God, but also our relationship to others. It reminds us of the basis of that forgiveness and reconciliation, being the same in either direction. May God help us to faithfully do what he calls us to do. in these areas. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. I want to be an encouragement any way that I can. Have a blessed day. Bye now.