Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our third Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and hope that you're having a good week and I hope that this study is extremely helpful to you. This morning what we're going to do is dig into some of the contents of this past and really get to the heart of how to help someone and perhaps that someone is even ourselves when we find ourselves in a distressed position and This is a part of life. This is something that we want to avoid. We'd like to never find ourselves in such a place, but in fact we do. And so this is a very, very practical, helpful passage of scripture. Let's read it again, and then we'll jump into the content of this section. It says, as the heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God. God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? When I remember these things I pour out my soul in me, for I have gone with them with the multitude. to the house of God, with the voice of joy and praise, with the multitude that kept holy day. Why art thou cast down, O my soul, and why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I should yet praise him for the help of his countenance. Now as we dig into the content, we're going to first of all look at several causes for what we would call spiritual depression or this downcast, discouraged, anxious position. a disquieted heart. What are the causes that David specifically mentions in this passage? And I do want to mention that I wouldn't limit the causes to just what is talked about in the passage here, but these are specific to to the psalmist as he's writing these things. The first thing that he that he talks about is found in verse 2. He says, that my soul thirsteth for God, for the living God, when shall I come and appear before him? He's expressing the fact that he is feeling that he's distant from God's presence. Even though he is praying, and even though he may be reading the scriptures and he may be meditating, he feels as if God is far away from him. And that distance is causing him to be very downcast. A second example we find in verses 3 and 10, and that is intrusive thoughts that cause us to think that God is aloof. It's important to recognize that though we may feel that he is aloof, And we may think that he's aloof. That doesn't mean that he actually is. But notice how he expresses it in verses 3 and 10. He says, My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, where is thy God? The question is, who is saying, where is your God? It might be that the psalmist is speaking about his own thoughts. It may be that he's talking about people who are enemies, antagonistic to him, and they're basically taunting him, and those taunts are beginning to take root in his heart. Those words are starting to really resonate with the soul. Psalmist, and he's feeling the weight of that, and it's distressing him. The other passage, he says, as with swords in my bones, my enemies reproach me, and they say daily unto me, Where is thy God? And so his heart is overwhelmed because of words that are spoken either by an enemy or words that are being six that are being spoken that are connected with his own internal thoughts. A third example. is he's lonely. And he's lonely because there are seasonal changes that he's living through, and he's having a hard time with that. Verse 4, when I remember, there's that important Word, these things, I pour out my soul in me. I had gone with the multitude. I went with them to the house of God with the voice of joy and praise, with the multitude that kept holy days. Notice the words, I remember, I had gone, I went. And so the psalmist is expressing how there's been a change in his life. And that's the cause, in part, for him feeling disquieted and lonely and downcast. A fourth example, terrible circle. Circumstances that were constantly bombarding him and overwhelming him. And verse 70 says, Deep calls them to deep at the noise of thy waterspouts. All thy waves and thy billows are gone over me. Now the setting where the psalmist is writing this is a portion of Israel that's way up in the north, dirt in the headwaters of Jordan. And this is a place where there are mountain streams and it would have been lush and green around those streams. And so in my mind I picture the psalmist. He's sitting there and he's watching this flowing waterfall. the gushing water and in his mind rather than being relaxed in that location and thinking what a beautiful sight, what a refreshing sight, instead where his mind goes. is how that water flowing so quickly is how I feel. I feel like I'm overcome by, bombarded by these constant circumstances that come wave after wave after wave That's why the psalmist writes what he does. So as we think about these causes, these causes are connected to a lot of different Another one, seems like God's not acting quickly. He's reluctant. Verse 9. Why have you forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of my enemy? Or I'm being harassed. 43. 1. Plead my cause. Deliver me from deceitful and unjust. These are all different kinds of things that can cause a person to become disquieted. And so it's not just that a person feels this way, but there may be circumstances that that are actually impacting this. Or there may be things people are saying to them or doing to them that are impacting them to feel the sway. So that's the reality. And this is a reality that we're not going to be able to entirely eliminate in our lives. We're going to find ourselves and seasonal changes, times where God seems far off, times where we are bombarded with internal thoughts that are very intrusive, times that our circumstances are hard. How do we deal with that? How do we process that? How do we work through those things? Well, the text is going to tell us. And so the next part is caring for those who are spiritually depressed. Maybe caring for our own soul in such a situation. Notice what he says in verse 11. He says, I shall yet praise him, who is the help of his countenance. Now the first thing I want to mention is that the psalmist is going to draw strength from other believers. Interestingly, when you look at this statement made in verse 5, made in verse 11, and then in chapter 3, 43. We're going to see that the statement's very similar, but there is one exception. 42. 5 says, I will praise him with the help of his countenance. Verse 11 says, I'll praise him who is the help of my countenance. And then 43. 5 says, I will praise him with the help of my countenance. You say, well, why does this matter? Well it matters because when we are in a depressed state, a discouraged, disheartened state. Our natural tendency is to withdraw from people or to go to people who are not going to be helpful to us. And what does the psalmist say here? He's drawing strength not from his own internal thoughts, but from the community of those who are in a stable and strong position. And so one of the things we've got to learn how to do when we find ourselves in such a place is not withdraw from strong mature believers. but rather go to them and find strength and help from them. When we come to church on a Sunday morning, sometimes we may be down or it may be very dark But as people sing praise to the Lord, as the Word of God is expounded, hopefully the worship of the Lord uplifts us because it draws us to truth. And we get strength from those around us. A second way is to ask questions that get to the root of the problem. Notice how he puts, he says, why are you cast down? Why are you disquieted? That word why means that he wants to know not just what is happening, but why he's happening, why this is happening. What is the root of this issue? This is important. It's interesting that he draws attention to the root as opposed to the symptom. We talk about having a disquieted heart. When we talk about being discouraged and wearied, we've got to get to the reason that we've gotten to such a place and there will be an answer it may be complicated there may be several different aspects to it some of those may be physical oriented some may be spiritually oriented oriented. There are lots of different aspects that that come into play here, but we've got to get to the heart. Not just symptom, but heart. Thirdly, we've got to learn to talk to ourselves. We've got to learn to speak stabilizing God-centered truths to ourselves. He says, hope in God. Who is the psalmist talking to? He's talking to himself. And that word hope is important because in the scripture, that word hope is indicating that we are looking at God's promises. And we're looking at God's character and knowing who he is and how he has worked and what he has promised. That gives us strength. Fourthly, we need a purpose to praise him. He says, based on what I know to be true about God, what I know to be true about his promise. What I know to be true about his ways toward people, I choose to praise him. And what does God do? He lifts us up. I hope that that gives you some encouragement today. You may very well be in such a situation right now. If not, you may be dealing with someone else who's in such a situation. Or one day you'll find yourself there. And no matter what is the cause, we've got to get around godly people. We've got to get to the root of what is causing this issue. We've got to hope in the Lord, speak truth to ourselves. And praise him. May God help us to do that this morning. Have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow by now