Okay, the topic that we were addressing last week was the question, what do we believe about salvation? What do we believe about salvation? And when we began the discussion last time, we looked at the fact that eternal security And when I say it's based upon ten primary texts, what I would say is when we study these ten passages and we think about what they're saying about the believer's security We have the firm conviction that they teach that when God sees you, he keeps you. And so we looked at John 5, John 6, John 10, Romans 5, Romans 8. Romans 8 was a major passage. that we dealt with. Ephesians 1, another major passage that we dealt with. And then we had a few at the end. But what I wanted to do today is I wanted to get into the Hebrews 6 warning passage. Let me ask you, how many of you have ever in your personal Bible saying, I'm going to ask you by a raise of hands, you come to that Hebrews 6. 10 passage and you kind of go, uh What does this say? Anybody like that? Oh, put your hands up. Come on. If you read your Bible. Yeah, absolutely. And if you picked up a commentary and you read it. You might have continued to have that same kind of feeling. Like, wow, what what exactly is this passage teaching? Is this passage teaching that We can lose our salvation and if it's teaching that we can lose our salvation, is it teaching that it's possible to get it back Or is it teaching something entirely different? And what's interesting is I think that most people, when they come to that passage, rather than looking at the details, They kind of take whatever their theological background is and they kind of force that into the passage. So if you have an Arminian, believe you can lose your salvation background then you're going to basically say, okay, it's clearly stating you can lose your salvation. And you will explain the entire passage in light of kind of That perspective. If you come from a more and when I say reformed I don't mean that everybody who's re I There are various groups that believe that you can't lose your salvation. You'll have to be reformed to believe that. But let's say that you come from a reformed background, or you come from a background that says, no, salvation is eternally secure, you come to that passage And you struggle with the details. And you kind of force it to say what you think your backgrounds Wants it to say. Well that's not the way we should come to the Bible. We should come to the Bible honestly and humbly and say what Does God mean here? And if I have to change how I look at things, then so be it. Because the word of God is the standard. So with that in mind, I want to kind of put out four basic ways that you can and people commonly interpret this passage. And with that in mind, let's go ahead and look at Hebrews 5. We'll look at verses 12 and following just to familiarize ourselves with the passage. Hebrews 5. 12 says this, for when for the time you ought to be teachers, you have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God. And are become such as have need of milk and not strong meat. Everyone that useth milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness. He is obeyed. But strong me belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason abuse have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. Therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrines of Christ, let us go on to perfection, not laying in the foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God. Of the doctrine of baptisms and of laying on of hands, of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment. And this we will do if God permits. I want to stop at that statement, and I want to begin with this important observation. Chapter 5 and chapter 6, there's not a natural division in the text. Between chapter 5. 14 and chapter 6. 1. This is a flowing thought. One of the reasons that I think a lot of times people struggle with this passage is because they think, hey, chapter 5, verse 14 ends that. And a lot of times when we read our Bibles, what do we do? We read one chapter at a time. So today I read chapter 5 of Hebrews and I stop there and then I pick up chapter 6 And I read that tomorrow, and I I in my mind think that there's a stop there. There's not a stop there. The reason that that chapter is there is because someone wants to help you Find verses in the Bible. Okay? It's not like that's an inspired part of our scriptures. So really from chapter 5, 12 until chapter 6, 10, it is one flowing section Another thing that really gets us hung up when we look at this passage is that there are some little parentheses within the passage. For instance , He says in verse 12, For the time you ought to be teachers, you need that one teach you again the first principles of the oracles of God and have become such as have need of milk and not strong meat. For everyone that useth milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness. He is a babe, but strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age. If you will, that little section, verse 12, it says, for Down to verse number one of chapter six. In some ways that is a little bit of a parenthesis. It's important to the argument but it's not important to the main part of the argument. It's kind of an explanation of what he means by you become immature. Okay? And that's another thing that sometimes gets us bought down. Then we come down to verse number one, and he says this, leaving the principles of the doctrines of Christ, let us go on to perfection. And we see a colon there. And then he says, not, and then he gives a list of the kinds of things that he's talking about. Again, another little parenthesis. It's important to his argument, but sometimes we get lost in those details And we missed the main point. The main point of what the writer is saying is this: You guys need to be mature. You guys need to be teachers. But because you have become slack or lazy, because you have not been disciplined in your Christian experience You have progressed. You have gone back, if you will, in maturity. And you need to go on to maturity. And so that's what he wants you to do. And then at the end of this little section, he says this, verse 3, this we will do if God permits. In other words, your ability to go on to maturity is dependent on God letting you do it Okay? It's a very, very important part of that passage. So let's keep that in our minds as we get into the basic interpretations and then we ask questions of the text. Okay, so there's four four basic views. The first is this: true believers cannot lose their salvation, but false professors Will eventually be exposed as false commerce. A lot of times folks will come to this passage and say this, okay, this passage is basically saying if you Do whatever he tells you not to do, and we'll explain what he means by that, then you really want a believer. And that's how that got exposed. And so it's not teaching that you can lose your salvation But it's basically saying that if you're a fake Christian, you're a part of the church, you're not really a believer, but you look like a believer, you're moving with other believers Then you basically expose yourself by not obeying what God is telling them to do there. That is one way that people will look at it. A second is this: that these are true believers Who've lost their salvation. Okay? It's a second way that people will look at the passage. A third, and this is fairly popular, is that it's just a hypothetical threat. Okay, if you're really saved, you can never do this, but we're just throwing this out at you because we don't want you to turn back away from The church. And then the last is this. And I believe this is what the passage is actually teaching. True believers who fail to listen to this warning will not go on to maturity. God is going to discipline them and they will not go on to maturity. And so we need to understand why I'm saying that it's true believers here, what they're in danger of potentially doing. And how God's going to keep them from going on to majority. Okay? And we need to understand it's a very specific situation. It's dealing with the church at a certain point in history, and we will talk a little bit about those uh dynamics in just a few moments. Let me go ahead with some observations. Okay? Observation one. Since scripture is complementary, not contradictory, We strive to get the big picture theologically and contextually passage. Can somebody tell me what I mean by that? Okay, that's true, but that's not what I'm saying. We believe that the Bible is consistent in everything that it says. There's not contradictory instruction in the Bible. That doesn't mean we always understand how things fit together. We may never understand how certain things fit together. Because we're limited people. But the point that I'm making is this. When we come to a difficult passage of Scripture, we need to try to get the big picture first. Don't get into all the little details of the passage. Get the big picture. Once you get the big picture, then you can break it down into the little details and you can start understanding, oh I see how this piece right here fits, and I see how this piece right here fits Get the big picture first. And the big picture is going to be consistent with the rest of Scripture's teaching on those issues. Okay? Second observation. The hypothetical position makes this text an idle threat. Look down in verse number nine. Beloved, we are persuaded better things of you, things that accompany salvation, though who thus speak. When Godford gives this very strong warning to these Christians living in the first century As this is being written to them, God is saying through the pen, and we don't know who it was, okay? We don't know if it was Paul, we don't know if it was one of the other apostles That's a debate. Okay? The writer will call it that. Because it's ultimately God's word. But he's not viewing this as an idle threat. He believes it's a legitimate threat, but he's convinced That these Christians are not going to do what he's telling them they need to be careful of. Very, very important observation. Third The reform position assumes that the audience is false professors. That's an assumption. Okay? And when we get into this passage and we look at how he's described, he doesn't say, I want you to go on to mature. He says, let us. Okay? If the writer of Hebrews is an unbeliever, then the reformed position can stand. But he's not. He's a believer. He includes himself in this particular warning. And so it's an assumption to say these are false professors who potentially may abandon the faith Fourth, the Arminian position, this is the position that you can lose your salvation, assumes that the audience is genuine believers who will face eternal damnation, not temporal chastisement. When we get to the end of the passage and he talks about, he uses a parable of a field, and he says, its end is to be burned and it's near cursing. The assumption that that particular position makes is that it's saying that the people, if they turn away from the church Are going to be cast into eternal destruction in the lake of fire. That is an assumption. And we will see as we look at the passage why I think it's a wrong assumption. Okay? Fifth observation. The Arminian position, that's the position that you can lose your salvation, is stuck with an unpleasant reality that if their interpretation is true, then it is impossible for someone. Who has been a part of the church, turned away from the church to ever be saved again. Okay? That's a very important observation. Okay So a lot of times when a person believes you can lose your salvation, they'll go to Hebrews 6 and they go through the past and say, this is obviously believers that are being talked about. They're warned don't turn away from the church. If they turn away from the church, they lose their salvation. Okay. Are you willing to concede that that means someone who's lost their salvation can never get it back? And they're like, Crickets chirping. They don't want to make that kind of a statement. But if that's what it's saying, then that is the teaching of the passage. Verse four to six of chapter six says, It is impossible for those who were once enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift. And were made partakers of the Holy Ghost, and have tasted the good word of God and the power of the world to come, if they shall fall away to renew them again and to reference it. So if the passage is teaching that a true believer can lose his salvation, then it's impossible for that true believer who's lost his salvation to be saved again. Assuming their view. Okay? You say, Well, Pastor Joel, why are you doing this? Just tell us what Well I'm gonna tell you why I'm doing it this way. Because you're dealing with a lot of people who have a lot of different ways of approaching the passage. And you shouldn't be blindsided by that, okay? You need to understand where people are coming from. You need to kind of understand their point of view and understand why their point of view has problems And you need to understand why there is a correct way to look at it, if you will, and perhaps you'll end up in disagreeing with you and say, I I hold the reform position. Talking about the people who are part of the church and they're not truly saved. They walk away. They expose that they're not really saved. And I'm going to say, well, if that's your position There's nothing theologically wrong with that position. I think it's consistent with what the Word of God would teach about somebody apostasizing who's not really a believer. But I don't think that's what the pastor is teaching. Okay? If you come to the conclusion, oh you can lose your salvation, then I'd say, well, then how does that stack up with the ten other passages we looked at last week? Got a serious problem there. And there are other great implications about even the nature of the gospel that come into place here. Moving along to observation 6. The confirmed and immaturity position best explains the passage in light of the historical context. It's consistent theologically with the rest of Scripture's teaching on security, perseverance, and Christian growth. What I want you to understand is that the view that I'm going to present, which I believe is what the passage is teaching, it is consistent with what the Bible expects about those who have trusted Christ And are kept by the power of God. It doesn't abandon the fact that true believers do continue to believe, if you will But it also does not neglect the fact that a true believer may not grow at the same rate as other people. And their ability to get to a point of maturity is dependent on some factors that they have to cooperate with God in. When we talk about salvation uh sanctification, we don't just flip a switch. But there is a part in which we have to make decisions. And we do it in dependence on God. But ultimately, if we don't Pick up our Bibles and read it. If we neglect the Church of God, if we don't spend time in prayer, if we neglect Christian community, well we will not grow like we ought to. And so he's going to talk about that as well Alright, any question about this section before we get into investigating the passage? This is introductory stuff. And I I hope I didn't lose everybody. Okay, but I I really want to encourage well you know generally speaking I try to try to put things out as simply as possible when I'm preaching and when I'm teaching. If there are some passages we've got to go a little deeper on, and you're going to have to force yourself to dig deep and to go into the passage And if you really want to be able to handle this passage, if you want to be able to communicate it to other people who are struggling with this passage, you have to force yourself to go to it. Okay, so it's not my intention to just like go over everybody's head today. I don't generally kind of go into this kind of detail. I don't. But on this passage, I think we absolutely have to Because of the weight of this passage. I think yes. Well on observation number one, another way of saying is that there are hard Has to be some scripture. Yeah, absolutely. Don't get hung up on those, but observe them in light of the rest of the scripture that was just crystal clear. Sure. Yeah, they will not contradict one another Yeah, you know, till the day we die, no matter how many hours we devote to studying the scriptures for the rest of our lives, we will still have passages we don't fully comprehend. We just won't. In fact, actually the more we study the Bible, the more we find those passages. And we recognize that we have tremendous limitations. It's not that God is trying to like cloud his word to us. That's not the case at all. But we're limited we're limited people. I mean you can sit in the mathematics class and you get everything. Go to the next level and you sit in there and you're just like ah Okay, it's perfectly understandable to some people, but there's always the level where eventually you peek out and you're just not you're not going to get it. And so when we study the word of God, there are a lot of truths. The most important truths, if you will, just understanding how to live as Christians, they're very simple things. But there are other things that are they're a little deeper, a little bit tougher to understand, and if you will, we have to chew on them, we have to dig into them, we have to apply ourselves. And uh very important. Okay So let's go ahead and get into investigating the passage. The way that I have this set up is I want to ask a series of questions. And I'm going to ask the question. And then we're going to go to our Bibles, we're going to read those passages, and we're going to make observations. And as we do that, we are building a case. For a correct understanding of the passage. Then what we're going to do is we're going to kind of go back and observe what we've come up with. Okay? And as we look at that, we're going to start saying, okay, so here's what he's saying So each question is just building a case for the position that maybe we don't quite understand yet Okay, but when we go and look at those passages, hopefully we go, okay, now I get what he's saying. He's talking to believers. Here's why Here's the warning. Here's why. Here's the danger. Here's why. Here's how it affects this passage and that passage. That's what we're doing. So question one, who is the audience? Who is the audience? By the way, if you pick up a commentary, what you will discover is there is not a uniform belief about who the audience is. Okay? There's not. Within the same congregation, you may have a group that says, these are clearly believers, and another group that says these are clearly unbelievers. It doesn't mean that we're both uh gonna have war with one another. It doesn't mean we're both right. Okay? It can't be both. Either they're saved or either they're not. It's that simple. But we need to answer this question because where we start, who the audience is, ultimately determines how we go down in our explanation of the past. Yes? Yeah. So it's one of a lot of it is that some specific Good. Yes. Very good. In fact, I I could go so far as to say it's almost exclusively Jewish audience. Not that this book has no value to Gentiles, it absolutely does. But he's writing specifically to a group of people within the church who are part of the Jewish community. And so I'm going to explain a little bit of that as we get into it. So first of all, their believers who have drifted back in their Christian experience. Look down in verses twelve and fourteen. And let's kind of observe a couple of A couple of these details. Okay? First of all, he says this when for the time ye ought to be teachers Now from the writer's perspective, do you think that he envisions lost people who are false professors, if you will, of the church, that they should be teachers? No, absolutely doesn't believe that. So my first observation is he believes that the people he's writing to should be teaching in the church. Now he is also of the current firm conviction that they are in a state right now where they have to learn the basics again. But in his mind, they should be teachers Notice this, he says, we have need that one teach you again the first principles of the oracles of God. If you will, he's saying this. You've gotten to a place where you need the ABCs, the basics. Yes Is is when he says there um for the time is easy like saying like by now or on account how long. Yeah. In other words you're saying by this time You should be able to be a leader in this church. You should be teaching. You should be in a position of leadership. That's that's the idea what he's saying. Yeah. Good. He says this next. He says, and are become as have need of milk and not of strong meat. Now, when he says you've become, that implies that there was a time when they weren't like that. They had the maturity. They had the ability to teach and to do those things. And so if we want to just be real faculty here for a moment, it's possible for somebody To be a believer, to be in the church of God, they have been a Christian long enough that they should have the ability to handle God's word appropriately. preach or to teach, to to to to disciple other people. They even got to a place where they were able to do that. And then because of some things that have gone on in their life You could say they they lost their ability. They're not sharp in these areas anymore. It's something that is possible. And in his mind, that is what has happened to these people. He then says this: everyone that useth milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness. Okay? And very interesting here. What's going on with these Jewish Individuals who I believe are genuine Christians is that they are having debates about the use of the Old Testament law That's what he's saying. And so when he's saying you have become unskillful in the word of righteousness, what he's basically saying is there was a point in time in your Christian experience Where you can take the Old Testament law and you used it correctly. And now you've gotten to a place where you don't use it correctly You have lost your ability. You have lost your discernment, if you will. And it says, he is obeyed. Strong meats belongeth to them. That are of full age. And then we go later on in the passage, he says this, therefore leaving the principles of the doctrines of Christ, and he's basically saying, I want you to move on From that, we could say basic knowledge of Christian doctrine let us go on to perfection. And that word perfection is the idea of spiritual maturity. So he's not saying I want you to possibly go on. He's saying I want you and me. I want us. to go on to maturity. When I read that, I sit down and I say, I really got to jump through a lot of hooves to assume that this person is not a believer. I've got to assume that the writer of Hebrews is looking at people who he is convinced in his mind may not be saved and he's saying you should be a teacher. Somehow we've now gotten to the place where we believe that they were at a point of maturity in a faith that they didn't even have. And now they've progressed from that. And now if he says let us, he's even including himself in the category that he's writing to. So in my mind, to say that they're unbelievers is jumping through a lot of hoops. Okay? So that's very, very important for us to observe. Secondly, I want to talk for a moment about the timing of the book of Hebrews. The book of Hebrews was written just prior to AD 70, so in the late 60s, if you will, 67, 67. That's around the time period. Can anybody tell me why 8070 is a significant date for the Jewish people? Bruce. Yeah, do we have any idea of what happened in AD 70? It wasn't just the temple. Essentially the Romans decided that they were going to put down those Tesky Jews in Jerusalem. And so they waited till their biggest festival of the entire year. And on that particular date, the Romans came around the city and basically said, it's time for us to clean up this mess we've been dealing with. And they came in and they destroyed the temple. They overturned the stones. They set it on fire. They destroyed Jerusalem. And history tells us they killed nearly a million people. In the ancient world, okay, when you think about the populations of cities, that's a staggering amount of people. There's a staggering amount of people. And Josephus records a lot about the destruction of Jerusalem and basically says that because it was a festive time , Jews from all over the Roman Empire were there concentrated in that city. And essentially when the Romans did what they did in AD 70, it pretty much wiped out Judaism as it was for the rest of human history. That's ostensibly what happened. Okay? And so if we read about the history and how terrible that destruction was What we need to understand is that the people he's writing to are Jewish believers who are tempted to go back into Judaism. If they go back into Judaism, guess where they're going to be on the date that the Jerusalem temple was destroyed. Where are they going to be? They're going to be in Jerusalem. What would have happened to them had they been in Jerusalem on that day? They would have been killed with that generation. Keep that in the back of your mind because we are going to come back to that little detail. a little bit later. I also want to make this observation as well. At this point in the church, the primary enemy of the church was not the Roman government, but it was actually the Jewish establishment. Now that does change with Emperor Nero, but at that time in the early church, the primary place that the Jews were getting or that the church was getting persecuted was through through uh basically Judaizers or Judaism. Okay, next this. These people have a Jewish, not Gentile background. Again, I'm not suggesting that This book has no value to us as Gentile Christians. Absolutely it does. But his audience is people who are considering going back to Judaism. If you are saved out of Gentile paganism, are you tempted to go back to Judaism? Of course not. It was never in your culture. Why in the world would you go into that when it was never a part of the system of worship that you have? Okay? Next, I want to make this observation. These individuals had made a public break with Judaism when they joined the local church. Can somebody explain to me how they did that? By the way, we're going to look at some interesting scriptures as we get into our study. Yes? Yes, through their baptism. Now, this is so interesting. At Pentecost, when Peter is preaching, we'll look at this passage another uh later on in our discussion. But one of the things Peter said that he's preaching is, you've crucified the Messiah. You killed the one that God sent to be your Savior. And those individuals there, and when when we say that they're Jews, they're not all ethnically Jews. They're not all local from Jerusalem. These are people from all over the Roman Empire who are practicing Judaism. Some of them are Jewish ethnically, some of them are simply practicing Judaism. They say, what do we do? And this is what he says, repent And be baptized for the remission of sins, and you shall receive the Holy Ghost. And then he says, and save yourself from this untoward generation. Keep that little phrase in the back of your mind. Save yourself from this untoward generation. Why does Peter make that statement There's something that God has prophesied is going to happen to the Jewish, if you will, generation that crucified the Messiah. It's not just that by rejecting the Messiah they are going to spend eternity separated from God in eternal destruction, lake of fire. There's more to it than that. I mean not that that's I'm not trying to diminish that at all. But God was going to make a statement about that generation, and that statement was going to be made in 8070. And we're going to see some prophecies dealing with that. Next, these people uh should have been at a point of spiritual maturity were facing persecution. So I think you can see where I'm coming from here. I believe that these are Jewish believers. They should be mature. They've made a break with Judaism through their baptism and joining the local church. They're being persecuted, if you will, from their Jewish communities. Because now they're associated with a different community, a mixed community. Jews and Gentiles are part of the same body. They're actually allowing themselves to eat food. They weren't supposed to eat as Jews. They were not going to Jerusalem for Passover. They weren't going and celebrating the Jewish festivals. Many of them. And they're getting a lot of pressure from their family members and from their community. And people are saying, leave the church, come back to us. Life was really hard for these people. And so the temptation is to go back into Judaism. So that comes to our second question. What are they considering? And I want to make a couple of comments. They're considering working returning back to Judaism for the sake of convenience This return from Judaism would isolate them from the Christian community and therefore remove the pressures that they were experiencing from their Jewish community. So it's kind of like this. Either you're a part of the church and you're not a part of the Jewish community, or you're part of the Jewish community and you're not a part of the church. You see, these things are not compatible. because of the situation they deal with. These are not people that are like, oh, we respect your belief to be a part of the church and you can still kind of participate with our culture too. They're not pluralistic in their thinking as you know we are today. To some extent, though not as much as maybe we'd like to speak, they're not going to respect them being a part of the church. Either there's isolation from the Jewish community Or there's isolation from the church. And they have to make a choice. And ultimately that choice is going to come down to one word: convenience. Convenience. Are they going to stand on principle and say this is wrong to go back for the sake of convenience? Or are they going to say for the sake of convenience I'll keep my faith private and personal and I'll just, you know, kind of go back into the old way of doing things. It would be like if you had formerly been a part of a church system that you knew was not biblical. And um, you know, a lot of our immigrant communities uh coming over from Europe, I mean their entire community was, you know not only ethnically Irish or ethnically Polish or ethnically Italian or ethnically German whatever but with that community that ethnic community a lot of times came their religious Community as well. And so what happens if you're part of an ethnically, say, Irish or ethnically Italian Roman Catholic community? And you become the one guy who decides to embrace the doctrine of salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, through Christ alone, and you leave your Catholic Church and you become a member of uh an independent Baptist church. Frankie Rizney Yeah, go ahead. And where it says where where you said about it and and having tasted of the power of the world to come And I I don't know if it was young or if it's actually human dangerous and it it it it translates that is the coming age for and I think and and And you commented this. I think I remember maybe it was in the commentary or something where it was talking about that that was like referring to the Messianic age, whereas in what they taste of being enlightened was basically the New Testament and you know the gospel of Jesus Christ and they that that's how they were being enlightened, just like you were saying, you know, like They were part of the church. The New Covenant, the New Testament. They're part of that age and if you will, uh All those messianic prophecies were coming to a point of saying, here's what you're going to have moving forward. And it's like they've experienced that because they're part of the church that you're saying. I I I I I think it's what I'm guessing or I'm thinking if that is that I haven't I'm not aware of of that. I'm gonna guess probably Young's literal, basically it based on how it's Worded Yeah. Um I think he translated the coming in I think when I was like studying it in one of the commentaries and it 's just and it said something about the the mathematics and just think, oh no, is that you know, you can't do that. Yeah, it's not I I couldn't I couldn't answer off the top of my head. I'd have to go and I'd have to do a little bit of looking into that. To give me a good answer. Was there a digress from Frank's point up here if we're talking about these folks were dealing with with being in church or going back to medianism But there's also another helping cat consider is that they're there with me amongst the skin gospel. And in the Roman culture fact there in those times. The surrounding, I mean if these guys are part of the dispersion , then very often these surrounding communities as well So they are really hot. Yeah, they are they don't stand on Christmas. Yeah, they have they have uh a very difficult position. It's like if somebody's living in a totally Muslim country culture. Okay, or maybe somebody that they immigrate to the United States and they're living in a you know a community that's I don't know, Iranian, Iraqi, Syrian, you know, a lot of the you know, they come from a part of the world where their culture is ethnic but also religious is a major proportion of that And the truth is that when we talk about Judaism, Judaism is it involves every aspect of your life. Every aspect of your life. I mean what you eat, what you don't eat, the kind of clothing, uh the makeup of the fabric, uh whether or not you circumcise your children I mean, we're talking about a lot of different decisions that come down to this issue of being a part of the Jewish community or being a part of the church. And so it's a huge divide. It's not like you can have a foot in both worlds. They're not going to allow you to do that. And so you can kind of see the weight of the decision, if you will, that these people are facing. Okay, so what is the command? Question three, what is the command? And that's in verse 12. In verse 5, chapter 5, verse 12, he says this. Therefore Leaving the principles, the doctrines of Christ, let us go on to perfection. And that word perfection means maturity or completeness. Not laying in the foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God. What he is basically saying is you need to go forward in the Christian life. You're caught up in the midst of potentially walking away from the church, going back to Judaism, and I'm telling you, don't do that. Press forward and continue to grow as a believer. That's essentially what he said in verse 12. And then later on he says, and you'll be able to do this if God allows you to do this. So God is the one who is ultimately going to help them to grow or help them not to grow. And one of the things that we 've really emphasized a lot in the last several weeks when we talk about sanctification Is that sanctification is not just the work that we do. It's not just the work that God does. It's cooperative. Okay? And the truth is, if I try to grow as a Christian without dependence on the Lord. I can't do that. A major part of me maturing as a Christian is God brings situations and things into my life and He puts me in places where I have to mature. And for these people, one of those things was this Decision between staying in and leaving, essentially, is what's going on. So he's saying, go on to maturity. Leave the basics Build on the basics and be a mature Christian who can teach. Yes. And and part of the context of that big going on perfection and maturity is not just age. But it is becoming fit for the use of your master. Because you go on to perfection, you are now becoming fit for the use. I mean Yes, you might be able to a you know watch the Sunday starting uh the nursery, but then you grow, grow, and now you can be a Sunday school teacher and you're getting you're getting You further your sanctification and grow to become fit for the purpose that God has for your love Well, and and in and in this passage, in his mind, spiritual maturity is essentially equivalent to your ability to handle God's word. And so a lot of the discussion, the debate was about compromising and how are we going to use the Old Testament law. That's really and and and by the way, a lot of the passages that we deal with in our New Testament , that's the immediate issue that's going on. How do we use the law And and so many things we can go into there, but we'll leave that. Okay, next, what is the warning? That's found in verse number three. Your ability to go on to spiritual maturity is dependent upon God bringing you on to maturity. Verse 3. This we will do if God permits. And one of the things that we'll talk about later on is that if these Jewish Christians leave the church, they forsake the assembly. Okay? And and by the way, that's an interesting passage. Forsake not be simply of yourselves together as the man of some is. We we tend to you know present that as don't skip Sunday school or make sure you're in church every Sunday. But when he talks about not forsaking the assembly, He's talking about walking away from the church. Okay. That is what he's basically saying. Not that I'm trying to downplay the fact I want you here, okay, in services, but that's really the immediate context. But anyway, here's the warning This we will do if God permits. If they choose to go on to maturity, that is going to be a defining moment in their walk as a Christian Where they chose to make the tough decision to stand on principle rather than compromise for the sake of convenience. That is something that will in many ways define them moving forward to the next level of maturity as Christians. But if they choose to turn away from that and they compromise , For a short time, those people are going to have a lack of pressure from their Jewish communities. But their ability to grow as a Christian has completely been compromised. And to add to that, by going back to the Jewish community, they're going to get involved in all of the Jewish festivals and systems, and they're going to end up being with the group in AD 70 in Jerusalem that essentially is crushed. And so it's history. They aren't gonna go forward because their ability to grow has been compromised and essentially their life will be cut short. That is what I believe the writer of Hebrews has in mind. And he really gets into that in chapter 10 when he talks about the fiery judgment of God. Okay, moving on next. So what is the what is the explanation of the warning? Verses 4 to 6. Let's read the verse and then I'll I've kind of already given this a little bit, but let's read it and then we'll look at it. It is impossible for those who were once enlightened. Okay? And when we use the term enlightened, it means that God has opened their ability to see. And, you know, being very honest, that particular statement could be used of somebody who has had the gospel preached to them And they reject it. Their eyes have been opened. They have the ability to see and they choose to reject the gospel. I guess technically we could say that an awakened sinner Who rejects the gospel, that could be a description of them. Or it can be a description, which I think it is in this context, of someone who has trusted Christ. They have had their eyes open, they understand the gospel, they understand the glories of being a part of the church, and they flowed, if you will, in that Christian community for a period of time. But then something happens. They've tasted the heavenly gift. And that word tasted is the exact same word that is used to describe when it says Christ. tasted depth. Okay? So it's not just like, oh it's a little bit of a, you know, it's kind of like a a sample at Sands or Costco or something like that. Oh yeah, here you can you know try a sample here. No. I mean He tasted it. He experienced it. Christ died for our sins. And so when he says you've tasted the heavenly gift, you have experienced the blessings of being a part of this community. You've experienced salvation. You are made partakers of the Holy Spirit, the Holy Ghost. You have tasted the good word of God and the power of the world to come. There's your your uh your your question, Frank, so we can see how it's translated here. But you outpaced the power. It'd be interesting to you know, digress into that phrase. But let's not get into the forest too much. Let's enjoy the panorama for a moment. If they shall fall away To remove renew them again unto repentance, seeing they crucified to themselves the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame. Now That last phrase I think is the one that maybe people have the greatest struggle with when it comes to The warning here. They have crucified the Son of God afresh, have put him to an open shame. That statement is really talking about the fact that those in the Jewish community, when That Christian embraced the gospel, placed his faith in Christ, and he got baptized. You know what he was basically saying? You killed the Messiah. Now when we when we have when we when a kid gets baptized here, do you think he thinks like that? Even when an adult gets baptized, do we think like that? No, because of our background. But for them, you've got to realize that they had family members who may have very well been in Jerusalem. They themselves may have been in Jerusalem at the time of Christ's crucifixion. They were identified with an entire generation that said he is no messiah. He is a criminal. He is a fake. Love execute him, crucify him. What did they say? The mob said, his blood be on us and in our children. I mean what a like what an unbelievable thing that they were saying Yet after Christ's resurrection and then at Pentecost, Peter is preaching, hey, you killed the Messiah, and people are saying, what do we do? Repent, be baptized, and save yourself from this unpoored generation. When one of those Jewish believers got baptized, that was a huge defining moment in their lives. They're saying I'm turning away from this generation that crucified my Messiah. I'm identifying with him. So what happens when they decide I'm going back? It's like a reversal, is it not? It's basically saying, okay, I was wrong, you guys are right, I'm back with you guys, and he's just a criminal. And no matter how they feel deep down in their hearts. You can see the significance and the weight of them leaving the church and going back to Judaism. So, if you will, in the eyes of the writer, they are putting Christ to an open shame. That is a huge statement that they are making. So what is the explanation? If these people who have received so much spiritual enlightenment reject what God is telling them to do By going back to by rejecting the Christian community, going back into Judaism. That decision will be a decisive rejection of God's warning and will receive swift temporal judgment. that cannot be reversed. Now kind of a great place to stop, right? What I want to do next time we meet is I want to talk about some parallels in the scriptures to what is going on here. You know, one of the things that I think that we really cherish is that when it comes to the Christian life, we like to say, you know, God never closes the door on a person. And I think that that's something that we we cherish. And I certainly don't assume that God has closed the door on anybody. There was a thief who was being crucified next to Christ. If there's anyone that you would think the door was closed for them to enter the kingdom, it was that guy right there. Yeah, what happens? He says, This day you'll be with me in paradise. The door wasn't shut on that neither. One of those Roman centurions who was there present at the crucifixion of Christ. He said, truly this man was the son of God. Okay, he was there. Look at the Apostle Paul. The Apostle Paul was consenting unto Stephen's death I even assume that Paul probably was involved in the whole San Peter and discussion about crucifying Jesus. Paul may have very well known Christ personally. They were essentially the same age. Okay? So when Jesus was 12 years old and he's in Jerusalem and he's answering the questions of the scribes and the Pharisees, Paul could have been sitting there I mean I'm not saying I know it was. It could have very well been saved. Yet the door wasn't closed on Paul. So I don't want to I w I don't want to Say that the door is closed on anyone, but at the same time, we find places in the Bible where God says, final straw, you cross this line, and there's no turning back Moses led the children of Israel through the wilderness for 40 years, but he didn't enter the promised land. It's a staggering thing to consider. So I think when we come to this text, we're dealing with that kind of a thing. And so it's a very sobering uh thing that we're that we're looking at, but I also think we need to consider it in light of its historical setting because that is a major reason why it is such a pronounced situation. So next time we meet we're going to talk about some biblical parallels to what I believe the writer of Hebrews is warning these individuals about. Any question in closing? Yes. So it's um what you mentioned in that is the Bible chapter that that was people to help us find puzzles in the Bible. Well in chapter three, following what 's books actually says to the belief holy but there's no indication up until the chapter's eyes if that's allowed to change Yeah. So it really basically says. And so like the Omni mean or they say the top of the function Yeah, that shows a lot of that really comes down to a desire to harmonize kind of a theological background with what a passage is saying. Okay? And I I do believe that We can dig down and we can understand what it's saying, but we all do this in passages. There are passages that rather than digging into them, we just kind of Take our background into that passage and we read into it what we I mean like nobody wants to admit that we do that, okay? It's just the truth. And you know, as we get older and study the scriptures longer, we start realizing those places where we've done that Oh right. Yeah. So it's a good operation. Okay, let's bow uh for a word of prayer and then we will dismiss for the service.