Okay, over the last two weeks we've been discussing the Hebrews warning passage that we find in chapter five, actually it's f chapter five and into chapter six. And for those of you that this is your first time with us in this discussion, we've been talking about eternal security. And our first week we've looked at ten passages that deal with eternal security. And we went through them one at a time. We we kind of looked at the main point that was being communicated in each of those passages And then I wanted us to get into what I think is a very important discussion, that is what do we do with the Hebrews warning passage? That if we read it carefully, it seems, at least on the surface, that it's teaching that you can get saved, and then turn away from the faith, lose your salvation, and then be unable to actually Come back and become a believer. That is what it appears to on the surface if you read it quickly. And so obviously, if that's what the passage is teaching, we have one of two problems. Either one, it's teaching something different than the rest of those ten passages we looked at the week before, or two, we don't actually understand what it's saying. And so what we did over the over the the next week was we talked about four basic interpretations of that passage. We saw one was the reform 's position, and I'm using this in a real general sense. Not everybody who is reformed holds this position, but it is common that this would be the case, and that you're talking about people who are not truly believers. They're part of the church, and when they abandon the faith, when they walk away from the faith, they're demonstrating that they weren't actually believers. And that is kind of like the verification. That they're not actually believers. Then on the other side you have the Arminian position, which believes you can lose your salvation. And so the pastors talk about real believers. They're a part of the church, they walk away from the faith, therefore they've lost their salvation, and it's impossible for them to come back. The third position, the common interpretation is the hypothetical. And that is the idea that it is presenting a threat, but that can never happen. It's kind of a theoretical situation. And then we saw the fourth position, which is what I'm presenting the passage is saying, and that is basically a confirmation of immaturity. We're talking about true believers who are compromising. Not in the sense that they don't believe that Christ is the Messiah anymore, but they have chosen to make a willful compromise, and when they make that compromise for the sake of convenience It's going to bring tremendous consequences. Those consequences are going to keep them from being able to mature in the faith, and I I will argue that in the context The the writer of Hebrews believes that they're going to be judged physically with the Jewish generation that crucified the Messiah. And so those individuals who go back into Judaism for the sake of convenience, when they go up to the temple in AD seventy, they're gonna be killed. With all those Jewish folks who are part of the festivities, and when the Romans come in and destroy the temple and lay siege on the city, they're going to be caught up in that destruction. Just like the Babylonians came in many, many years before and destroyed Jerusalem, just like the Assyrians came in and took captives back into Assyria, that will be the fate of those individuals who are part of of the church the who compromise, go back to Judaism, and ultimately get caught up in that destruction. So that is kind of like the basic explanation, if you will. So with that in mind, let's go into the investigation. that we were talking about last week. And I I'll love to open it up to questions. So if you have a question from the last couple weeks, raise your hand. I can pause, take that question, but if not, we'll just go through the review. So any questions? I know we're at kind of like the end of vacation time, so you know, maybe you got the first one, not the second, now you're here today. We we have a lot of those situations. So the first question was, who is the audience? These are Jewish believers, and we demonstrated why I believe they're Jewish believers. Secondly, what are they considering? They are considering going back into their Judaism culture, if you will, which is a willful rejection of the church community. And it's a huge compromise. It's something that is going to bring their baptism into question, if you will. It's something that is going to really bring a lot of doubt on the statement that they made when they said I trusted Christ, he's the Messiah, they got baptized, they joined the church. When they go back into Judaism, there's going to be tremendous implications to the identity issue there. Okay? Thirdly, what is the command? The command is go on to maturity. Go on to maturity. What is the warning? If you don't go on to maturity. And you depart and go back into Judaism, you will never go on to maturity. It's going to be an impossibility for you. And just so that you can see the passage, let me go back To verse number three says this. He says, this we will do if God permits or if God allows. And the question is, what is he talking about? Look down in verse number one. He says, therefore leaving the principles of the doctrines of Christ, let us go on to perfection, or if you will, maturity. Full strength, maturity, that's the idea. So if you want to follow what basically saying is, let's go on to maturity. If you disregard this warning, you won't. God will not permit you to go on to maturity. He doesn't necessarily give all the reasons why, okay, but he states that that will happen. Question five, what is the explanation of the warning? And I'll go ahead and just read what I had from last week. If these people who have received so much spiritual enlightenment reject what God is telling them to do by going back Into the Jewish community. That decision will be a decisive rejection of God's warning and will receive swift temporal judgment that cannot be reversed. Well someone says, Well I thought that God always gives us second chances. He does. God sometimes gives us third and fourth chances, but you don't know when he's going to say this is the last time we've crossed the line. Obviously we all know that you can preach the gospel to somebody for years. And God continues to give them 30, 40, 50 years of being exposed to the gospel. But there's going to be a day that they cross the line and God says, this is your last opportunity. Or they may have a a season where they're really going through tremendous conviction of sin, righteousness, and judgment And there's a tremendous weight on their souls, and they're recognizing their need to repent and believe in the gospel. And guess what? that that conviction begins to become less and less over time. And there comes a point where you can preach the same gospel and they don't even feel anything anymore. And the question is, what changed? Well, at some point God can say, I'm not going to continue to to convict that person. God is under no obligation to convict anyone indefinitely. He's under no obligation to bring the gospel to us over and over and over again. And so we need to recognize that while God's very patient with people He's very merciful. He's very long-suffering. He is a God of tremendous grace. There's a day when he says, enough's enough. I'm not going to do this anymore. And you don't know the day or the hour. And so that really is the sense that we find in this passage. We don't know when, but someone can cross the line, and enough is enough, if you will. Well someone might say, Pastor Joel, that that really kind of that kind of bothers me because is there anywhere else in the Bible that we see this kind of a situation and said, oh, there's lots of them? And I would like us this morning to go ahead and look at just a few of those. And what I'd like you to see is that there are times that God shows tremendous grace and restraint, but there's a point where he draws the line. And so we need to be very cautious that we don't get ourselves in a place where we are imposing on God's grace. Yes? Is it is it God reaching with the length or is it us reaching some point? Yeah. It's a really good question. And there's a sense in which both can be true. Okay? So We are all by nature not seeking after the Lord. Okay? Nobody is. There's none that understandeth or doeth good. There's none that seeketh after God. Nobody. No exceptions to that at all. So when God begins to pursue us with the gospel and he brings the law to bear on our conscience and he begins that work in us, if he will, he opens our eyes. to where we're at. And that's something that we can't fully understand. It really isn't. But but when you're given the gospel of you can see it, huh? You can see that going on in their heart. Well, what is it that's given them the ability to see anything? It's the grace of God. Okay? So what happens if he stops? Okay? You know what happens if you're in a dark room room and somebody turns the light on? Well then now you can see. Okay? You didn't have the ability to see because you're in a dark room. But now the lights are on and you can see. Well, what happens if the lights turn back off? Well, you're in the same condition you were before. Okay? So God is under no obligation to continue to give us those opportunities, if you will. And there's a point where God can say, I'm not going to go any further here. Okay. I I do think there's also a sense in which our our hearts can become dull and hard. And obviously he's he states that in in this place. You have lost your sensitivity and you have lost your discernment. You've lost your ability to perceive things. And so definitely when we talk about the believer. A Christian can get to a place where his heart becomes dull and his conscience becomes seared, his conscience becomes hardened. But when we go to Romans chapter 1, it says God gave them over. In other words, God said, You want this, I've resisted you, I've given you opportunity, you've continued to press in this direction, I'm giving you over to what you want. And the end result of that is devastating. Okay, so I mean it's Pharaoh hardening his heart is a is a is a great example. Okay, I had a discussion with somebody about this this week. And if you follow that that that narrative, there are three different Hebrew words that are used. They all have a little bit different nuance. And it's interesting that what you what you ultimately see in different usages of the Hebrew terms in those in that entire narrative is that you have God stating, I'm going to harden Pharaoh's heart. But then when it comes to God dealing with with Pharaoh, he essentially gives Pharaoh what he wants He makes him bold and resolute in what he wants. And at some point in there, there is a switch where it basically says, God hardened, in the sense that God actually judged Pharaoh. Are you following what I'm saying? So there and it's like, at what point does that happen? You know, God can do that anyone he wants. He really can. And it's not like God is evil or harsh because he finally said you've crossed the line. He's not. He has the right to do that. And and I I think that those are some of the most delicate and difficult passages we can deal with, honestly. But but then they're yes. So we'll put it back as omniscients. It's not like changed his mind. So we're getting in we're getting into a discussion about God who knows everything. Who is he knows what's gonna happen before it happens, okay? He's determined how he's gonna deal with a person in time But if you will, when we go through the process, he relates to us in time. Okay? So I you know how you uh how you understand that is just it It's it's a tough I don't think we can fully understand that Sam. Okay? Because there's there's two sides that you can look at. You can look at the side of God's providence outside of time Or you can look at God's providence within time. Okay? We're dealing with the same person who has not changed in his nature at all. But because of we could say the aspect we're looking at, there's a little bit different nature to it. Okay? I mean God deals with us in time But he also is outside of time as well. I don't understand how it works. If anybody does, you can talk to me at third class about it. And I'll just listen to your wisdom. Okay. Really? Interesting discussion. No, it's true. Like we were going into the uh Trinitarian doctrine We we have the triunity of God and we've gone we went to all these passages that saw the distinction between father and son, yet one God. And you sit down and you go, how do you put those all together You know, God is not limited like we are. And we can only compare things to things that are around us. You know, God is different than than we are. He doesn't have a birthday and a death certificate. It's gonna be our situation, yeah. Yes. Christ draws that in the last gym, we only see a little bit of the picture. Yeah. Then someday we'll realize the whole truth. Right now we have to raise the thing. Well there's there is truth in that, but what I will say is I don't think we're gonna all of a sudden have the ability to understand everything in glory either I I think we're still gonna learn and grow. I mean in eternity we're gonna continue to grow, if you will, and learn, but it will be with a glorified mind and body. But you know, when Adam was in the garden, he was still limited. You know, he didn't have a sin nature, but he still had limitations. So We'll know a lot more, we'll continue to know, but we'll never fully grasp everything. Okay, moving along to a simpler topic, right? Okay, let's look at a couple of biblical passages that I think are parallel here to the concept that's being talked about in Hebrews. Go to 1 Samuel 15 1 Samuel chapter 15. And we're going to be mentioning Saul. Saul. And no, I'm not going to answer the question was Saul a believer or not, because I I don't know. There are days that I would say no he definitely was, and there are days I go, well, I don't know. But but what we do know is that God chose him To be the first king in Israel, he gave him all the opportunity to continue on. God knew what Saul would do, and we see Saul's demise a few more. 1 Samuel 15, 26 says this. Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee. Thou hast rejected the word of the Lord. And the Lord has rejected thee from being king over Israel. Staggering passage. Now, when God put Saul in that position, did God know that this was going to happen? He absolutely did. Did God make it happen? No, it was it 's on solve. It's 100% on solved. Could God have stopped it from happening? I guess theoretically could have. But when God put Saul in that position, he gave them complete opportunity knowing exactly what he would do, and this is where where where we end up. He says, you have rejected the word of the Lord. He has rejected you from being king over Israel. And Samuel turned away to go, and he that saw laid hold on the skirt of his mantle, and it rent. And Samuel said unto him, The Lord hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day. Hast given it to thy neighbor that is better than thou. And also the strength of Israel will not lie nor repent. He is not a man that he should repent. The idea is not to change his mind about what he's done So I mean imagine this picture. Saul had does anyone remember what Saul did in this passage, by the way? He saved the king and he said that the case. And then he also kept the sheet as he said I'm going to keep more off. Yes. Okay? Yeah. So so so God God gave clear commands to Saul. Saul decided to obey what he wanted and disregard what he did, and so he disobeyed. And basically he tries to cover it up and say, hey, I'm okay. I did what the Lord told me to. And what I didn't do was actually like morally superior to what God told me to do. Okay? This is essentially what he's you know what he's saying. But he he he pleads with Samuel, don't reject me. And he goes and he grabs a hold of Samuel's Cloth. Okay? And when he does, he's gripped it and it rips. And Samuel says, This is what God just did to you. He ripped the kingdom from your hands. Now is there any turning back here? Not at all. Now, on that day did Saul die and the kingdom went to David immediately? No, actually quite a bit of time goes from here to the complete end of Saul's time as king. But what you see is that he crossed the line. And he lost that privilege. Another example, let's go to Hebrews chapter 3, verses 8 to 11. And obviously this is on, as the writer of Hebrews comes to this morning passage, he obviously has this example in his mind because he states it in chapter 3. Hebrews 3 chapter chapter 3 verse 8. He says, harden not your hearts as in the provocation, in the day of temptation in the wilderness. When your fathers tempted me and proved me and saw my works for 40 years Wherefore I was grieved with that generation and said, they do always err in their heart. They've not known my ways. So I swear in my wrath, they shall not. enter into my rest. Can anybody give us the context of that statement or the the historical context of that of that example? Can anyone give us that? Yes. Yes, go ahead. Well, one, the uh the Hebrews and complaints about high in the wilderness. We needed water, so God made water on two separate occasions. Mm-hmm. Then they were going to starve in the wilderness. Um God gave it a quail , and then they all set up the other man. Okay. Well those are all examples of how they were hardened hearted, but what was the thing that crossed the line, if you will, uh you you were gonna say it. Go ahead. Yes. So the spies go into the land of Canaan, and when they go into the land, they come back and ten of them said, Hey, we can't do this. We can't do it. Two of them said, let's go take let's go take this. Let's do it. And basically what happens is God says to them You all will die in the wilderness now. As in all of you below this age, all of the adults are all going to die in the wilderness, and your kids are going to go in your place. By the way, who else was a part of that? Generations that didn't mention the promised land. Moses was. Does anybody doubt that Moses was a believer? Go ahead, throw that hand up if you doubt that Moses was a believer. He was a believer. He didn't lose his salvation. But obviously God says, you're not going into the land. And I I kind of wonder like if you were Moses and you heard that proclamation, you'd be like, what about me? You know? It hadn't happened yet. Yeah, good. Oh yeah, like you know , well absolutely that it's a warning, yeah. But you gotta ask the question, what's the warning? Is he talking about you're gonna go to hell? Or is he talking about a temporal judgment? You missed the you missed the discussion last week, so I'd be glad to talk walk through it with you. And and honestly on this one too, I know that they're good people, I disagree, but Let's get into that conversation privately so I can at least sh like put the whole case down and then you can say, I reject your case. Or that's really interesting. I never thought about that. Yeah, go ahead. Yes, yes, that's true. That's true. Absolutely. Moses ' inability or un God not allowing him to go into the promised land was connected to that incident. But my point is that an entire generation was not able to enter the promised land. And the point that I'm really trying to make here is that I think we would very wrongly assume that every single person that was not allowed to enter the promised land was an unbeliever and will not see them in eternity in heaven. I think that that would be a wrong assessment. Okay, because obviously we know we're going to see Moses, and he was not allowed to enter the promise. But the point is that because of unbelief and because of their willful decision to reject what God said, there was a judgment. They were all going to die in the wilderness. And the what's interesting in that passage is when they had that, when God tells them, now you can't enter, you're all going to die in the wilderness, you know what they all did? We change our minds, let's go. Didn't end so well. So a whole bunch of people sort of like sealed their fate, if you will, with that action. My point is that they crossed the line. It doesn't mean that they were unsaved people, but there was a very special blessing that could have been theirs that was not. They crossed the line. And the writer of Hebrews is basically saying, you're in danger of that kind of an incident. However you understand that to be, that's clearly the warning there. Okay? Go down to Hebrews 12 verses 15 to 17. Now again, this example, I uh I w I it's you know, this is like Saul. Was was Esau a believer? Nothing would indicate to me that he was. Nothing at all. But then again, do you know of any example in the Bible other than say Paul where we have his conversion? Given in the Bible. Like when was Peter? When was Peter's conversion? When was John's conversion? When was Moses ' conversion? Okay. Those things aren't stated really. But I there's nothing that would lead me to believe that Esau was a believer, but but notice the example, okay? Hebrews 12, 15, he says, Looking diligently, lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled Lest there be any fornicator or profane person as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright, for you know how that afterward, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected. He found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears. Okay? And by the way, this is a passage that probably there are a lot of different people who have different views of what it's saying. But kind of the cliffnotes version of this interpretation is that East Dahl sold the opportunity to be a part of God's covenant, if you will, he's the older brother, he sells it for a pot of soup. And when he realizes what he has just sold, he says, I want it back. And it's like, too bad. You cross the line Okay? Doesn't mean that Esau couldn't be a saved man down the road. Doesn't mean that at all. But it means that he cannot. received that blessing that Jacob was going to receive. He crossed the line. My point is that there is a time, you don't know when it is But there are times when we get at certain junctures in our life, if you will, two roads in the yellow wood kind of a situation. And you choose, and what you choose, it's going to have huge consequences. And that's ultimately what is being communicated here. So question five. Any any question here at this point? I I would have to go into a lot of explanation to to show you why I come to the conclusion of doing that. Okay, question five. What encouragement does the writer give? Look down in verses nine and ten. Beloved, we are persuaded better things if you. Things that accompany salvation. Let me say something about this. When you hear the term destruction , Realize that the term destruction can be used in a lot of different contexts. Okay? It can be talking about eternal destruction in hell, the lake of fire. It can be talking about destruction in the sense of your life goes off the deep end, if you will. It could be that there's huge temporal consequences. When you hear the word destruction or when you hear the word judgment, you need to understand the kind of judgment that's being talked about. When you hear the word salvation Okay? The word salvation in the Bible is not always talking about being justified before God. It could be talking about your progressive sanctification. It can be talking about future glorification. It can be talking about being saved from a physical judgment. It can be talking about all kinds of different things. So when you see a term like accompany salvation, don't immediately assume he's talking about eternal salvation. He could be But you have to investigate the context to determine if that's what he's talking about. Okay? So he says, we're persuaded the better things of you, things that accompany salvation. Though we thus speak, for God is not unrighteousness to con to forget your work and labor of love, which you have showed towards his name, in that you have ministered to the saints and do minister. The encouragement that he gives is we believe you will heed our warning and you will go on to maturity. And so this is just one of the reasons that I think he is talking to believers. But if I'm correct and he's talking to believers, this is a very significant warning. It's a huge warning So we come down to question six. What is the eight what is the significance of the parable? That he gives. Let's read the parable and then let's talk about it. Alright? Look down in verse number six The earth which drinketh in rain and cometh off upon it, and bringeth forth herbs, meet for them by whom in his dress receiveth blessing from God. But that which beareth thorns and briars is rejected, and nyon the cursing, whose end is to be burned. Okay, so let's let's kind of examine the interpretation I put in front of you. That these are believers who are being warned not to go back to Judaism. And if they go back to Judaism, that compromise is going to make it so that it's impossible for them to go on to maturity. Does that interpretation seem to square with this parable? Anybody want to explain the parable? Like how how do you how do you how do you understand this parable? I'm gonna do to you what sometimes happens to me. Somebody be like, hey I got a question about such and such, and you're like Whoa! Can I sit down and uh pull out my Bible and review that passage? I'm kind of doing that to you this morning, right? How do you understand that? Okay, first of all, we're talking about a field. What is a field supposed to produce? A crop, good. Okay? So he basically says there's a field that gets water and the water produces some kind of fruit. But one of the fields produces good crop and one produces what? Thorns and briars, okay? Is that good or bad? It's really bad. So what does he say is going to be the outcome of the field that produced briars and thorns? Okay, rejected and is what? No, it doesn't say that. No, it doesn't say that. Oh, okay, just say that. There's the difference. I heard Bruce, I didn't hear you back there, okay? Whose end is to be burned? What is the end of the field? No. The end of the field is going to be destroyed, but what is the end of the field The harvest. Is that is that correct? Okay. So the good field produced fruit and they did what with it? They put it in their barns and said, We're really glad. Let's keep doing this thing. The other one, they clear the field out and they burn what was produced in the fields. Okay? It also says it's nearer to being cursed. It doesn't say that it is. It says it's very close to that. Okay? You might say, well, those are just little nitpicky details. Well, they're actually really important. Okay. If it said it's cursed, that's a big difference in saying it's close to being cursed. And there's a big difference between saying the field is burned and what's produced in the field is being burned. Do you not understand what I'm saying there? We've got to notice those details. You say, well, is there any parallel in the Bible somewhere to what we're talking about? Yeah, absolutely. Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 3. 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verses 10 and following. Here's what Paul writes. According to the grace of God which is given to me as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon. Let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon. Okay, so what's Paul's kind of illustration here? Amazing. Putting together a building. Very good. So there's a foundation that's been put down, and he basically says, I lead it, you gotta build on it But be careful how you build on it. Okay? So Tori, the way you build on it, the way that Bruce builds on it, the way that Pastor Joel builds on it, the way that Chad Peterson builds on it. Well not Chad, he'll do the right job. He knows what he's doing. He says be careful how you build on that foundation. Okay? And he says this: other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Christ Jesus. Christ is the foundation that we are building on. Then he goes on to say this: if any man build on his foundation, gold, silver, precious stone, Wood, hand, stubble, every man's work shall be manifest, or it'll be revealed. Like the nature of it will be demonstrated. The fire shall try every man's work, of what sort it is If the man's work abide, which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. If a man's work shall uh if any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire I want to ask you a question. Does that not sound very similar to what was stated in Hebrews? I think he's talking about the exact same thing. He's talking about the judgment seat of Christ. If you will, we are building on a foundation every day of our lives. Now, here's what's scary. We may actually think the foundation that we're, the work that we're doing is really good. Okay? We may think that what we're putting together is really nice, but the kind of work we're doing is actually not the kind of work that pleases the Lord. We may think somebody else's work that they're doing is really bad. And what we don't realize is actually there's a lot of value there and God knows it and we don't. But we think that what they're doing is really good and it's not. But that day, I don't think we'll be caring about each other's work. We'll be caring about ours We care too much about each other's work now, I think. On that day, we won't care. We'll be focused on what we did, because we'll answer to God for it. But the point is that when we stand before God on that final day, we are standing at his judgment seat. We're going to enter into eternity, and he is going to determine What is the degree of reward that you are receiving when you enter into the eternal state? Okay, that's what he's doing. And so in the illustration, he's saying, here's what you built. Let's see what happens when it goes to the fire. If it's wood, well we know what happens. If it's straw, we know what happens. If it's gold and silver, what happens? The dross is removed. And what is left is the good stuff, if you will. And basically what he's saying is your work is going to pass through the fire someday. Don't think in the physical sense there's a big, you know, but he's an illustration here. Your work's gonna pass through the fire. And what was done right , what really pleased me That's going to determine your reward eternally. And what wasn't is gone. It's like it didn't happen. It's destroyed. That's exactly what I believe he's talking about, the writer of Hebrews. He's saying the end is to be burned. The product of that field is gone. That's exactly what Paul is saying can happen to us, Christian, in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. We stand at the judgment seat of Christ. We lived our entire lives building something immaculate out of wood, hay, and stubble When we stand before Christ, we're going to find out it didn't stand the test. We spend our entire lives building with gold, silver, and precious stones, if you will. There will be something there, and God will say, That pleased me. And here is your reward for your faithfulness, if you will. And he uses the same the same kind of analogy. He says He's near cursing in Hebrews. And in this passage, he says he'll be saved. Yeah, so has my fire. The idea is like, back close, man. So, what I think we need to understand is that when when the writer of Hebrews is talking about this, there's two things Actually, three things that I think that they're in danger of. Number one, they go back to Judaism. They cannot, they will not grow again. Number two, when that generation that crucified Christ and said, His blood be on us and our children. When they got baptized after professing faith in Christ and they left that Jewish culture that was under the judgment of God and they went into the Christian community And they said, I have aligned myself with the Messiah. They go back. Okay, and you ever heard somebody says, I believe in Christ, but I'm kind of like under the surface. I'm under the radar a little bit. Okay, I believe these things, but I don't want people to know that because I don't want to deal with the garbage that I'm going to deal with in my family or I'm going to deal with that work in those places. So what's going to happen? They're going to go back into that system. And in 8070, which is within a year or two of the book here we're being written, they're going to experience temporal judgment. They're going to die. When they stand before Christ at the judgment seat of Christ, what is going to be the product of their life? Wood, hand, stubble. Destruction. Now you might say, okay, well Pastor Joel, we are not living in the first century. We're not Jews. We're not thinking about going back to Judaism, so I guess this doesn't apply to me at all. Well, in a sense, the direct application is not still here. Okay? You are not being tempted to go back to Judaism. You are not being tempted to depart in that kind of a way. But in a sense it absolutely is valid. Because what he's saying is there are certain compromises that we can make as Christians. When we make them, the result of that will be absolutely devastating for the rest of our lives. It will be absolutely devastating. You know, there are people that you can see make decisions sometimes. You can look at their life and say that person is at a crossroads. And you come to them in a spirit of humility, hopefully, hopefully not in an arrogant spirit. You come to them, hopefully in the right way. You appeal to them in love and you say, I believe what you're wanting to do here is wrong. It's really going to hurt you down the road. And they say, hey man, I can do what I want. It's true. You can do what you want. But the end result of that can be devastating. I'll take my chances. That's very dangerous. And they take that diversion, if you will, and you just watch a series of If you say problems that result from that decision, and it's like their lives begin to unravel. You see those kinds of things happen. And it's so it's so grieving to our souls. It should be grieving. We shouldn't be like, oh I told you so. It should it should grieve us. It should sober us. It should sadden us. And what I my point is is that that is the kind of thing I think that is in view here It's not that God hates that person, that He decided I'm going to throw you to the side and ignore you, but that decision is something that is crossing the line, if you will like Saul. If you will, like those Jewish uh the Hebrews there in the wilderness. Um, the very serious thing, Moses when he struck the rock, that one incident caused tremendous difficulty. You might say, well, Pastor Joel. What about the person who, you know, in their past did that? And now they're kind of coming back to their senses and they're like, what about, you know, what do I do? If they're coming back to their senses, then it's a very clear indication that God hasn't done this to them Okay. It's a clear indication of that. I don't want to look at anybody and say, you crossed the line, you can't come back. I'm not going to do that because you don't know how God is working now. Yeah. Because of our salvation in Christ, if we properly understand it, we need to tell that individual, stop building wood and start building precious stones, silver, and gold. Sure. Put that wood behind you. And good news, good news, the good deep news is, that's going to burn away what's going to be left. You have potentially you haven't had a lot left. Yeah Now start building with Christ stuff. Well let me let me kind of give this illustration. Okay, so very common, you know, kid grows up in church, makes a profession of faith when he's ten or twelve 16, 18 years old, he's like, I kind of want to go down the world's road and just see what's out there. And you know, they grieve mom and dad or they you know grieve people who really love them and they go down that road and they experience tremendous difficulty. And then 30, 35, 40, whatever, they come to their senses and they say, you know what, I want to get back to doing what God wants me to do. When they come back. That's not exactly what's going on here with these Hebrews. They are coming to a juncture where God is about to judge a group of people. That crucified the Messiah. AD 70. They don't know that AD 70 is the date. This is this is this is like a year or two before this happens. These people are really struggling and thinking about going back. And what this guy is basically saying is this, hey, if you don't know this, but in two years You go back to that system and here's what's going to happen to you. Okay? That's what's in his mind if you will. But that's what's in God's mind when he's giving this cute this this word to these people And so these people are not going to get the chance when they hit 35 to come back. If they're at the temple at 80-70, they're going to be killed. They're gonna be crushed by a Roman army and it's gonna be ruthless and it's gonna be horrible. And he's basically saying you don't want to go back Do you get how there is a similarity, but there is a difference, if you will? Okay? And so understanding that historical context I think is extremely important. When we come to uh the Hebrews 10 warning passage, it's the same kind of thing. These are believers. That are going to be judged with those who crucified Christ, if you will, in this world, if they choose to go back to Judaism. Okay, I'm looking at our time, and I think that we uh I I included this. I don't know if I included this in our in our notes. There's a there's a commentary that I was working through. There's one in the library and I also have one in my office But um this particular uh man kind of talks about the the Hebrews warning passages, and one of the things that he does in his commentary is he gives Josephus is giving a historical account of what happened in Jerusalem in 87. And he's sort of putting that in the light of this particular passage. And if you read the description that Josephus gives All of a sudden you realize, okay, it was a bad move. Decided to compromise because they're having a lot of pressure from family, and then they saw one of the most horrible atrocities In the eighties if you will. Not the eighties. After Christ. It was terrible. You know, this is this is one of those You know, if you're talking about Jewish history, what happened in 8070 is one of the most infamous days in their in their in their nation's history. On par with what happened when Nebuchadnezzar came in, destroyed Jerusalem, on par with the Holocaust. It's the kind of stuff. Nearly a million people were killed. This is in the ancient world, okay? Cities weren't like they are today. Million, million people like that. Killed in some of the most gruesome of ways. So that is part of the context, if you will, of what's being talked about. Okay, any questions with our remaining few minutes? So the summary is that this passage is not teaching that you can get saved and lose it. And when you dig into the passage You begin to realize that understanding the historical setting has a lot to do with understanding how to interpret the passage correctly