Okay, here's our question. What do we believe about salvation? Is that not a broad topic? What do we believe about salvation? We could spend a long time dealing with this topic right here. And in fact, on Sunday nights, I do plan to probably preach about thirty-five or forty messages dealing with the gospel and different aspects of the gospel over the next several months. So we're going to answer that question in a lot greater detail. And so please stay tuned for that. But what I want to do this morning is I want us to discuss three elements Well really we'll focus on one of three elements that we have mentioned in our church constitution. In our church constitution it emphasizes three things. One That salvation is secure in Christ eternally. So we believe as a church in eternal security Number two, that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. And if you will, that's actually several different topics. Because we'd be talking about grace, we'd be talking about faith and what those things entail. And then the last part of the statement in our Constitution is that it is through the shed blood of Christ alone. And then we would be talking about the nature of the atonement or the nature of Christ's death on the cross. Those are really three topics. And what we're going to do is condense those three topics into the first one, dealing with eternal security. And so what I'd like us to do this morning is I would like us to see this very simple truth. We believe in eternally secure. Salvation. The rest of the statement is by grace, through faith, and the shed blood of Christ. But let's focus on eternally secure salvation. Let me ask you a question. Why is that concept important? Theologically, practically, pastorally, why is that an important topic? Yes. A lot of the ways that you can use the salvation if you want to fit and then if you have an ask for giving that after that, do you die in the response Yeah. Okay. True. Okay. Scott? Uh why Skywalks. Yeah. Okay. Anything else? Yes. actually ultimately dependent on us. Not just in some sense. If salvation is in any part outside of the realm of grace, Then it ultimately we're the weakest leak, and so it's really dependent on us. Okay? Christ did not contribute to our salvation He purchased it, it's all on his shoulders, not in any part on our shoulders. So when we talk about this on the theological side, we have to understand that there are tremendous implications. If we say that salvation can be let's say gotten or attained or we possess it and then it can be lost and the question is what is it that caused us? To lose that salvation. Who is the weak link there? It's us. And if we're the weak link, then ultimately who does salvation really rely and depend upon? Us. So if Christ is 99. 9 % of the equation, and we are the point one percent Guess what? That's where it all breaks down. That's where it all breaks down. It has to be fully on him His work for us. And there are a lot of we could say logical implications of not embracing the security of the saints. And by the way, when we talk about eternal security, that's different than talking about whether or not someone who places their trust in Christ continues to believe that's actually a different topic altogether. There is a connection between those discussions, if you will. But it is a different realm altogether. So what I want us to do is I want us to open up our Bibles and I want us to look at ten different passages of Scripture. one at a time that deal with this issue of security. I have a statement here, internal security is based on ten primary texts You know, it tends a nice round number, so why not just put it out there? But there are a whole lot more scriptures that I can go to to develop this this concept. I can go to passages that develop it directly. I can go to passages that develop it by implication or by application. There are many, many passages beyond what we will look at today. I think just today, that talk about this topic. But first of all, let's go to 1 John chapter 5. John chapter 5. We'll look at verse 24 John 5, 24. This is a positional truth. Okay? This is not based on how I feel. It's not based on my emotions. It's not based upon My practice on a particular day, this is a statement of fact based on what God says is truth, positionally about the Christian. John 5. 24 says this, verily, verily, or truly, truly I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life. Now, let's notice a couple of details. Number one, he hears the word and believes on him that sent me. What is that stating? Believing on him that sent me. Faith. Faith, yes, okay. And I like to use the term trust because when we use the term faith, actually we tend to think of that in a kind of abstract way. We tend to think that in a somewhat mystical way. Faith's a good word, but trust, reliance, dependence don't seem to have those overtones to them. But you have to believe we could say a record that's given by God about who Christ is And it says, he has everlasting life. At what point does that everlasting life become the possession of the saints? According to the text. What? At the point of trust, at the point of conversion, at the point of regeneration, at the point of justification. We can describe what happens at that moment. But when you are saved, if you will, justified before God, at that moment you possess eternal life. So even as I sit here today, I possess eternal life. That's what the text is saying. Then he says this, and that person shall not come into condemnation but is passed from death unto life. Notice it says he won't come into condemnation. Condemnation is dealing with that great white throne judgment. That's talking about eternal destruction and damnation. And so this passage is a very strong statement that we don't get eternal life and then lose it. We don't get like an aspect of salvation, but there's still more to come, and if we work out that side, then God ultimately gives us. That salvation, when we trust Christ, at that moment we pass from death unto life. Positional truth. You can't see it, but it happens. We will not come into condemnation And we have eternal life. Very, very important text. I want you to turn to the next one. And at any point, if you have a question about one of the verses, pop your hand up and we'll address them. Okay? John 6, verse 40. And we'll also read verse forty seven in this passage. It's positional truth. May have everlasting life, and I will raise him up. Okay? Does anybody know what's going on in John chapter 6 when Jesus makes the statement? Who died? Any guesses? Lazarus? Okay. Alright. John 640 And this is the will of him that sent me that everyone that hath seen the Son and believeth on him may have everlasting life And I will raise him up at the last day. Verily, verily I say unto you, he that believeth on me hath everlasting life. Okay, very simple statement, but it is a promise. If you are saved, God promises after your physical death, he will raise you up And you are going to spend eternity with him. So that's why he can say we have eternal life, though we'll still face physical death. Because that resurrection, if you will, is a guaranteed reality. Okay, next passage, let's go to John chapter 10. This is probably the most common passage that you are familiar with or that you kind of interact with when you think about the concept of eternal security. John 10, 25 says this. Jesus answered them, I told you, and ye believe not, the works that I do in my Father's name, they bear witness of me. But ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheath, as I said unto you Okay? Now something kind of significant about that statement, you have people who are the religious leaders, the religious elite of their day. They are believing that they're a part of God's kingdom. And Christ is basically saying, You're not my sheep. That's why you don't believe on me. Very simple. If you were one of my children, everything that is being demonstrated here, you would wholeheartedly and quickly embrace it. But you don't do that. You're not one of my sheep. And then he gives some characteristics, if you will, of his sheep. His sheep hear his voice. I know them, they follow me. Just three very simple statements. They hear what he says, he knows who they are, and they follow him. Now that's not talking about how they became his sheep. Those are some distinct qualities that you could say follow those who are his sheep. But then he gets into the statement about security. He says, I give unto them eternal life. They shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my father 's hand. My father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. I and my father are one Very, very important statement. And by the way, there are some very rich theological truths that we can draw out of this text right here. Okay? Notice some some things, first of all, by the way, when we got into the discussion about who Christ is, we got into the discussion about Trinitarian doctrine, this text, believe it or not, actually has some Trinitarian implications. I and my father what? We're one. So in the passage, I'm going to get you to think here for a minute, who ultimately holds or keeps a person's position? God Jesus. Okay. God, that's a very general statement. Only the Father? In reality, if you can make you can make an argument out of this text on the Father and the Son having a role together in securing and holding our salvation We can go to other texts and find the Holy Spirit's full as well. We'll see that in Ephesians chapter one. You are filled by the Holy Spirit of promise until the day of redemption But oops, I didn't get there. But who ultimately holds you and secures you? Not another text. Listen. Keep it focused here. I know I mentioned that. Don't get off track. The father does. Okay? I like this illustration. So you have a little kid. I've had a few of them over the years. Still have. Some that are pretty small. Okay? So my son Caleb, he's he's walking around and Um he he can get around okay. Uh enough to get himself in plenty of trouble. Okay. So we go to the store and we get out of the car. Do I want to just like let my kid walk? No way So I grab his hand, I hold his hand, and I walk him around the car. Now, if my son tries to pull away, what do I do? I pull a little tighter. If he stumbles, what do I do? I pick him up, right? Yeah. If he cries, what do I do? I say, nope. I'm holding your hand, buddy. You're not going anywhere. Now, the reason that he's safe. It's not because he's real smart and he's holding on to my hand. It's not because he's really strong and he's holding on to my hand. It's because I don't let him go. Bottom line. I don't let him go. Now, if my son's in a cooperative mood on occasion He's also holding my hand too, okay? It's not like he's not holding my hand. But ultimately, it's my power, it's my strength, it's my will, it's my love for him. That keeps him safe in that situation. Okay? And that's really important. That is what Christ is communicating, apart from the Trinitarian implications of that passage. That the believer is kept in the hand of the Father. Now, you know what is interesting? He does talk about some distinct qualities of those who are believers. So it's not like he's saying, oh, you know, my sheep don't look any different than those who are not. He doesn't say that at all. But he does point out, and the main emphasis or thrust of that passage is that it's not the fact that they hear his voice, it's not the fact that they follow him that keeps them secure. It's the fact that he holds them. And there's a really big difference. Because as a child of God, there are days you do listen to God. And there are days that you do follow God. And then there's sometimes that you don't. What does he do? He chastens you, he disciplines you, he comes alongside of you, he allows you know situations to kind of break down a little bit, and all of a sudden you realize how dependent you are on the Lord The Holy Spirit motivates you to will and to do of God's good pleasure. So we see both the practical implications of our position and the positional implications of our position, but today we focus on The positional side. God keeps us. That's very important. Question: Why would that be a comfort to you, Christians? Yes. Yeah. It's constant. Yes. And because we know that we as we are we wander It doesn't matter to him. Yeah. He will hold on to us wherever we It doesn't change it doesn't change how he relates to us. Whatever we do, whatever we have. If anything he he he pursues us to a greater degree when we begin to wander. Yes. You can learn it as a psychology like we can come up with that. So it's gonna be other after sounds, it's gonna be everything else believers. Yeah. Right. But ultimately it's Yeah. When we're talking about the practical side of being in Christ and the positional side of being in Christ, they're do two different topics. Now they're not totally unrelated. There's obviously a connection between those, but while we see the connection, we cannot totally blend them into one category. We have to keep those categories distinct in our minds. Okay, let's go to another passage. Romans chapter 5. Romans chapter 5. Positional truth. We have peace with God. We are saved from wrath through him. Peace with God saves from wrath through him. Romans 5, 1. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. What is the implication if we have peace with God now? Okay? Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. What's the implication? Logical implication. Yes, that's true. That is a yeah, that's what it's saying. But an implication, meaning it's not stated explicitly, but it's there. What what would what what c what could we say? Okay now but it's gonna be long it's continual peace that we were to look at whether or not that's a perfect tense verb in the Greek, but yeah. It's something that happened in the past that continues. But I'm thinking of something different. Yes. Good, that's true. And still we are just a five by faith, no we don't have Perfect. Okay. Not perfect, but it's true. Yes, that is what we are saying. So before that moment of justification, we were not at peace with God. Okay? Because of our sin. So the implication is if now we are at peace with God, at one time we weren't. Let's continue on. He says, we uh by whom also We have access by faith into this grace. Question. Did we have access before the moment of salvation? No, obviously not. And wherein we stand and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. Now that statement is referring to the fact that one day we're going to be glorified. It means when I stand before God, I'm not going to be like I am right now. I'm going to be sinless. Well, I wish it was true now, but it's obviously not. You know, if you rub shoulders with me long enough, they say, hey this guy, he's a sinner. I can see it. You know? And if I rub shoulders with you long enough, I can see it. We're all sinful creatures. But there will be a day in the future that we will be free from our sinful experience, if you will. Not only so, but we glory in tribulation, knowing that tribulation Then we come down to verses six and following. But or verse eight. But God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. What is he talking about? We will be saved from wrath through him. What does he mean by that? He doesn't say that we are safe from wrath. We will be. Huh? Yeah. So right now, are we experiencing God's judicial wrath? No, we're actually experiencing his common grace. You know, those who are believers and those who are not are experiencing his common grace. If you're a farmer and you're an atheist, your fields get the same water that your Christian neighbors get Okay? If you're a Christian and you're kind of a little bit backslidden or whatever, and you have another Christian who's walking in the fear of the Lord, there are some benefits that you both participate in simply because You're living in this world. God hasn't poured out his wrath on you. Now that doesn't mean that you're in a position that is not going to receive his judgment. Unless you're saved, but you haven't experienced that. That ultimately will come down on the final day. Even when we physically die, we're still not facing his judicial wrath. Okay? And so what he's basically saying is when God saves you, he guarantees that on that day you will be saved from wrath of Christ Because you are in Christ, you will not be judged eternally for your sin. And that's basically what he's saying. Then he goes on to say this when we were enemies We were reconciled to God , by the death of his son. Now notice how the wording is: we were enemies. That implies that now we're not. Is that correct? It's a past situation, but that's not the situation now. And why are we not his enemies? It's because we have been saved or reconciled to God by the death of His Son. So the whole reason why I bring out this passage is because I want us to realize that there's a promise there If you have been justified, then you will not face wrath on the final day. That's very, very important for us to recognize. Any question as we move to our next passage? Question. Okay, Romans chapter 8. I think out of all the passages, Romans 8 and Ephesians 1 are my two favorite ones dealing with this concept of eternal security. I can't think of any greater passage, more rich and more glorious passage in the Bible than Romans chapter 8, and then following up with Ephesians chapter 1. In Romans 8:28, he says this: We know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Now, this is an extremely comforting text right here. Okay? And we focus a lot on this text. But what we need to understand is that that text is not the primary discussion. in the Romans 8 passage. The primary discussion is actually the believers' position. How they got in that position How they're kept in that position, the implications of that position, the primary conversation is dealing with the eternal security of the believer. Roman VIII simply saying, I know as a Christian In Christ, you deal with a lot of tough things. And that's really hard. And you go, what do I do in these situations How do I make sense of these situations? And the text says, well we know that all things work together for good to them that love God. So God's taken all those things that are going on in your life, Christian. And he's using them to accomplish a purpose in you that you can't see the whole picture. Maybe you won't see the whole picture for a long, long time, but when you look back over your life, you'll say, God did this and this and this through that situation that I was dealing with. And then we see his hand in it. But that's not the main the main thrust of the passage. The main thrust in the passage is that nothing can separate us from the love of God. And if God is for us, he can be against us. Let's look at the passage and get the sense of these things. It says this, whom he God foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. Now The very important statement there. God has determined, determined, Christian, that you will be conformed to the image of His Son. Now he's going to break that down a little bit. He's going to go on to say this. Moreover, whom he predestined, he calls. And whom he called, he justified. And I love the statement. Whom he justified, them he also glorified. What Paul is doing is he's kind of showing the the entire extent of our salvation. Not that from God's knowledge of us before time began, to Him calling out to us to the preaching and teaching of the gospel. to our conversion and our justification by faith alone, to our sanctification that all things work together for good to those who love God, that we might be conformed to the image of his Son. Not just the promise that no matter where you are on that that that trail, if you will, or that walk of conformity to the image of Christ, that he's going to do it. But he says if he justifies you, he's going to glorify you. Boom, end of story. Yes. What do you say is where do you want to use that particular text to reinforce how the But what do what like what's the nature of your question? Okay, so when you say for whom he did for next. Yeah. He also didn't predestinate to be conformed to the image of the sun. So it seems like to me, I know Calvinists and we've had some very interesting discussions. Um but that just seems like something they would use to say, okay, well, you know, Calvinists believe that that God has already discovered who's going to be taken, we can't change that. Well let me God already know who's going to be safe. Let me let me put it this way. The purpose of that passage is not to answer the question, why did you believe? Ultimately, it's how are you kept? Alright? And also I'll add this, that passage says absolutely nothing about those who are not in Christ. It's simply focusing on the fact that those who have been called and justified and are being sanctified will be glorified. And that's ultimately the point. It's really to help us to understand. Look, salvation is all of God's grace on every single point. So in some ways, when I look at a passage like that, I say, I think that that's not really what Paul wanted us to get into. You know, ultimately why did I believe? It's ultimately what keeps me. I think that's really what his emphasis is. Oh no no well predestinate Calvinists will stop at that four-no and predestinate and assume that that leads to reinforcing Calvinism, but if you read further on you understand the actual the purpose of the method. Well, what that gets into is what do we mean by for no? Okay. And that's really there's really going to be a debate between two positions. Either one, foreknowledge means that God knows you to the extent that he has determined what you will do. Okay? And If we go to Acts where it talks about Christ going to the cross, it was by the determined foreknowledge of God. That would be the one side, if you will, the Calvinist side. Okay And then the not necessarily Arminian side, but the non-Calvinist position is that foreknowledge means that God knows what's going to happen. Not necessarily that he forced it to happen, but that he knows what will happen. And the truth is that in a passage like this, I don't think that you can actually say dogmatically that foreknowledge is either one of those two things. I think ultimately what it's saying is, look, as a Christian Here's where you are today. Why are you saved? Because God brought the gospel to you by calling you to salvation through the preacher of the gospel. Why am I being matured? It's because all the things in my life are working together for good. And how do I know that one day I'm going to be with God? Because those whom he justified, he glorified. So I think that that really should be the focus of that passage, not so much conversation. No no no really deep into conversation. Well, because ultimately when we get into that discussion, we're getting into something that we can't fully understand. Like I'm dealing with a God who knows everything. So like at what point did God dis like at what point did God start knowing me? Well he always did. Well and that's where you know like and not at how much pinpoint whether or not he really believed in Calvinism Or you just we can imagine God is all-knowing and all-powerful and already knows where we will be in the end. Yeah, and I 'll also say this. When we talk about the topic of Calvinism, there's like a whole spectrum of different views out there on that on that scale. So as much as possible, I'd like to keep that discussion out of the Calvinism Arminian debate, because that's really focusing on something that I don't think we can fully understand, and that is The implications between foreknowledge and those who reject and those who don't, that kind of a thing. But the whole Calvinism discussion also gets into how you how you view man's ability or inability. To believe or not believe. So I mean there's that's a much more complicated conversation, but this text ultimately is saying if you're justified You're going to be glorified. That's really what the whole point is. And the fact that you're going to be glorified ultimately comes down to the fact that God is going to work that in you. And that's really what the main point of that passage is. So that is a that is a discussion that we can go all round circles and we aren't gonna fully none of us fully understand it. I mean I don't care where you come down on that issue You you got a limitation what you can understand, you know. So no no, that's not a problem. Um Okay, and then I want I wanted to make this statement. At the end of the passage it says, What shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? I'm going off of my notes here. I'd actually like to turn to the passage because there are a few verses that I left out in my notes here that I think really emphasize the point that I want to to to for us to see when we're talking about security. Okay? Let's look down At verse thirty-three, who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth. So the implication is: okay, somebody brings an accusation against somebody who's been justified. Who's their accusation ultimately against? Against who? Okay? Does anybody have the right to lay that accusation against God? That's what he's saying. Okay? He says Who can lay any charge against God's elect? It's God that justifies. There's no higher judge. Okay? You can't kick it up to the Supreme Court. He's the Supreme Court. Okay? Bottom line. He says this: who is he that condemneth? It's Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen again, who's even at the right hand of God, who maketh intercession for us. He's saying you can't be condemned by anybody but God Himself, and God chose to send, the Father sent the Son to be our Savior. He died for us He rose from the dead conquering death, and he's even standing at the right hand of the Father in his seating on our behalf. So how can you bring a charge against the child of God? How can you condemn the child of God? You can't, because there's no higher court. That's his point. And he says this: who shall separate us from the love of Christ? He then goes on to talking about the motivation, if you will, and this is one of the motivations. Okay, there are multiple motivations as to why God saves you, Christian. Okay. But love is a major element of that. He says, who shall separate us from the love of Christ? So tribulation, distress, persecution, famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword. As it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day long, we're counted as sheep for the slaughter. In all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. He's basically saying, no matter what you go through, Christian, the good, the bad, the ugly, the high days, the low days, your best performance, your worst performance, whatever it is, the fact is that we are more than conquerors, not because of us, but through him. that loved us. It's about our position in Christ. And then he goes on to make this wonderful emphatic statement. I am persuaded But neither death nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature Shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. I cannot think of a greater text in all of the Bible that lays out for us The fact that when God justifies you, Christian, he keeps you by his power forever. I just can't think of It being stated more emphatically and more gloriously. When I read this text, I don't think of the Calvinism Arminian debate at all. I think of the glory of the security of the saint in Christ. That is what I think about. I sit down and I say, wow, God not only has justified me, but there is no charge that can be brought against me. Christ died for me. He rose from the dead. And God is going to accomplish every single aspect of my salvation. There is no weak link that He goes, whoops, I forgot about that one. Because it all hangs on His shoulders. And it's because of his love that I'm kept in this context. So any question about that particular passage? Go back to it, read it, glory in it, enjoy it. Worship God in the light of it. It's a glorious passage. Okay. First Corinthians. Keep keeping on my time. I got two clocks in here that are now pretty much on the same time. And my phone is saying pretty much the same thing. This is this is great. It's a new development. Okay. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 4 to 8. Positional truth, he shall confirm you unto the end, that you may be blameless. First Corinthians one forty eight. By the way, let's just ask the question, who's he writing to? Okay? Do they have a good reputation or a bad reputation? So let's just like put it in perspective. I mean, you know Let's put it 21st century Christianity. It's like, you know, the the church down the road that you're like, oh we don't do it quite the way that they do it. And we kind of have this view of those folks and they have this view of us. You know what I'm saying? Church of Corinth, what if what if you guys, what if we were to like transplant ourselves into that community And you know, we would be the biblical church, right? And there 's the guys down the road that they've got a lot of bad stuff going on in that congregation. You know what I mean? Listen to what he says to these people. I think it's very significant. He says in verse 4, I thank my God always on your behalf of the grace of God which is given you by Jesus Christ. Are you thankful for the folks down the road? You know, I mean, Paul was. It was. And he says, in everything you are enriched by him in all utterance and in knowledge, even as the testimony of Christ has confirmed in you. So that you come behind in no gift, waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, who will confirm you unto the end, that ye may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. Is that not a wonderful passage? You, Church of Corinth, are going to be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. Is that not a bit of a does that make you feel a little uncomfortable? Like, whoa, there's some stuff that he addresses in that search. I couldn't view them as blindless. Well, in the practical sense, they're not But when God looks at them on that final day, he's going to say, You are in Christ. And Baal me, those who belong to Christ. God's going to do a work in their lives. There's going to be some growth into Christ's likeness in those lives. But when you look at their Christian experience, you're going to see a lot of dark days If we were to look at it objectively and all we looked at was the practical life of these Christians, we'd really struggle. And we do struggle. But God is emphasizing through Paul in this passage that they're going to be blameless on the day of Christ. He calls them saints. Okay? And he's not just saying, oh, there are a couple of saints in the midst of that congregation. The fact is that their church was really impacted by their culture. When you study the book of 1 Corinthians, you realize a lot of the problems that were going on in that church were directly connected to what they were saved out of. They hadn't grown in all those areas yet. They were growing. They were trophies of grace, if you will. And a trophy of grace means that God saves you from a lot. You know, they were the Mary Magdalene, if you will, of their community. And so I love that text. Wonderful, wonderful text. But let's go to the Ephesians 1. Another wonderful, wonderful passage. Ephesians chapter 1 I think that the reason that we have passages like Ephesians one and Romans eight It's not so that we debate about the matters that we can't fully comprehend, but it's so that we're humbled when we realize that the reason we've believed on Christ is because he pursued us. I think that's really what it's all about. It's really all about saying, Christian, I've saved you and I will keep you. And so I think that when we get to those texts We should really keep our perspective in the spirit of those things. You know, don't don't allow your head to get proud and puffed up where you go, man, I'm a Christian because I was smarter than the guy down the street. You know, it's really too bad. He got caught up in this or that when he was eighteen or nineteen or twenty. It's too bad he went down that road because, you know, I didn't. The fact is it's God's grace that you got saved It's God's grace that brought you to faith in Christ. I love what Newton writes in Amazing Grace. He says, twas grace that taught my heart to fear. And grace my fears relieved. How precious did that grace appear the hour I first believed? I mean, obviously, when Newton writes that, he's like, the reason I believed is because of God's grace. He turned the light on, if you will. I was wandering and stumbling in the darkness. And so that's really the sense that we should get when we come to these texts. Ephesians 1 eleven it says this, in whom also we obtained an inheritance, being predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will. That we should be to the praise of his glory. Stop. What is he emphasizing there? Something that we have right now or something we're gonna have? Let me read that again. Predestinated and We have obtained an inheritance predestinated according to the purpose of him that worketh all things after the counsel of his will, that we should be to the praise of his glory. Is that something we have right now? Something that's gonna happen. What do you think? Huh? Okay. In in a sense we do have it now, but do we have our inheritance right now? No, we don't. That's future. Okay? When he talks about that we should be to the praise of his glory? You think that he's talking about kind of our current situation or what's gonna happen down the road? That he's working all things after the counsel of his will in our lives. Is this something that's already happened or is it something that we're kind of in the process of? Yeah. Yeah. So there is a sense in which what we're talking about is a current situation, but there's a future aspect to it as well. Okay? And so he's saying, you are going to have an inheritance one day. God has determined, Christian. that he's going to work all these things after the counsel of his will, and that you will be to the praise of his glory. That's what he's basically saying. His focus is not so much their current situation. Though it is in view to some extent, but it's primarily focusing on their future situation. That's what he's saying. And then he says this. In whom also after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, after you believed you were sealed But the Holy Spirit of promise, who is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession to the praise of his glory. If I'd have read that part, then what would you say? Future. Future. Big time emphasis on the future. So, first of all, he talks about when you believe the gospel, the Holy Spirit did something to you. What did he do? He seals you. What is the purpose of a seal? Oh, it's one of those English words that we can go a lot of different ways with like seal. Not the animal one. Huh? He 's other things coming in. Seal. Seal. Okay, so let's say your question relating to ask it. What was the purpose of a seal? The purpose of a seal was to show someone's authority. Okay. That's one aspect of it. Sure. And that's a major aspect. Okay? In the ancient world, if you had power and authority, you had your document, you signed your document, you rolled it up. You stealed it with a stamp and that indicated your authority and that indicated your ownership if you will. Yes? Yes. At the end, you can tell if the steel had been broken or if it was still a hole. Yeah. So it was that nobody else is putting it in. Yes. That's a great that's a really that's a really good observation. You know when you go to when you go to the store and you get a a a jug of milk And all of a sudden you feel like you start, oh this shield's been broken. I think I have a problem here. I'm just gonna pour that out and stream. Okay, it has been tampered with. So this field provides ownership, authority. It says this hasn't been tampered with. It's to protect that until it's opened up by the right person. An inheritance, when you get the inheritance. Somebody dies, yeah. Okay. And and in the context, who's the one that's gonna die before inheritance comes? We are. We are. Okay? We are. So these things are important. He's saying that the Holy Spirit seals you as an earnest. Now, what's an earnest? Anybody looking to buy a house? Yeah. It's it's it's it's it's your guarantee if you will Okay? I put this down as a guarantee that I'm gonna follow through with my word. Can you not see the incredible implications of what's going on here? When you trust Christ , The Holy Spirit seals you. He stamps you as his possession. You're under his authority. You are not tampered with, if you will. You are kept secure, if you will, until what time? Until the the the the inheritance The redemption of your body, if you will. And so you can see that the concept of eternal security is all throughout this passage. These are incredibly important passages. I'm going to just mention two more quickly as we close with a section. Ephesians 4 says, Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God whereby ye are filled until the day of redemption. Exact same Statement. And then in 1 Peter 1, 3 to 5, he says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his abundant mercy, he has begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance incorruptible. undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you, who are cast by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed on the last day. Jude 1, 24, unto him who is able to keep you from falling and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. I hope that you see that this concept of the believer security is a thoroughly biblical concept. It's a rich doctrinal concept. It's an important doctrinal concept. And this is why we not only embrace it, but we expound it and we teach it. Next week, we are going to discuss two of the most difficult passages For those who embrace eternal security, and that is the Hebrew 6 warning passage and the Hebrews 10 warning passage I don't know if you've ever read those passages and you say, hmm, I know that the Bible says that I'm saved forever, but this one seems to indicate something different. Has anybody ever thought that? Sure. Okay? I want us to really deal with those passages because I believe as Christians, rather than running away from the passages we don't understand, we need to embrace them, study them, understand what they're saying, and then Divided divide the word of truth. And I do believe that there is a biblical explanation. I believe a lot of times rather than Looking carefully at the details of the passage, and instead of thinking about the context in which these things were stated, we sometimes just run to kind of our little theological campsite and we just kind of put it in the grid of what we already believed. And what I'd like us to see is that the passage can be explained It can be explained very satisfactorily in a way that's consistent with everything that we've just stated here. And I think that that'll be a help to you. So if you want to cheat cheat, just look at what I have there Already? But next week's the plan is that we get into those passes