Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And today we are going to be looking at James chapter 1, verses 16 down to verse 18. If you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and turn with me to James chapter 1, verses 16 through 18. I'm going to go ahead and begin reading verse number 16. Do not err, my beloved brethren. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. Of his own will, he begat us by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. Let's go ahead and take a look at this passage together this morning, and I want to begin with a summary statement, very simple, very important summary of this verse James wanted to confront the tendency that these suffering Christians had to embrace lies about God. So he's ultimately going to give them reminders of several facts about God's goodness and love. So while these Christians have been dealing with temptation and testing and they're feeling a lot of pressure, James wants to remind them that the reason that they're beginning to doubt God's goodness and the reason that they're beginning to kind of uh give they're they're basically saying God is the reason that I'm having these issues. They're kind of uh blame shifting onto him. He wants to remind them that that ultimately it's because they're believing things that are not true about God. They're believing lies about him. And so let's look at a couple of simple observations about this. The first is this, we must be careful not to embrace lies about ourselves or God when we're tested or tempted. We're going through pressure. Our minds begin to wander. There are certain things that we begin to think that they're not rational, they're not objectively true, it's basically uh emotionally driven. But there'll be certain ways that we begin to think that are very dangerous. And it'll be ways that we think about ourselves and ways that we think about God, ways that we think about our circumstances. And James is trying to address that in this passage. Look down at what he says in verse 16. He says, do not err, my beloved brethren. That word er has the idea of don't be deceived, don't be led astray, don't embrace lies about God, yourself, and your circumstances. A second observation that we see, or let me give you a couple of examples actually before we move to that, some examples of ways that These Christians were beginning to think that we're wrong, and perhaps you and I will be in the same situation sometimes. You know, when I sin, it's not my fault It's their fault. It's God's fault. He should have protected me from that situation. That person, uh, in my circumstances, ultimately the reason. Yeah, I'm a basically a good person, but The reason that I have problems is because of the circumstances around me. It's because of the people around me. Rather than just recognizing that ultimately temptation begins in my own heart, And it lies within my own soul, and I'm responsible, and I need to make wise choices and respond correctly in those situations we blame shift. And I deserve better than I've gotten. I mean, you know, I I should have these things and I don't have these things. And it's really God's fault. He's not being good to me. I deserve better. I feel entitled to certain things. Or, you know, if God was really good, He wouldn't have allowed me to go through these circumstances. These are some of the things that I think are very common that we might think. And these are the kinds of areas that James is saying, don't err, don't be deceived, don't be led astray. Let's move to our second observation. Our second observation is that God is good, and rather than blaming him or resenting him, we should be grateful to him. God uses bad things to accomplish good purposes. We've already seen this earlier in the book of James. In fact, he reminds us, he says that The reason that God allows us to go through these challenges, these difficulties, is that we may be perfect. The idea is fully matured, entire, wanting nothing. Think about Joseph when his brothers treated him so unjustly and his brothers were evil. And God could have stopped what took place, God could have overruled their free wills and he could have said, I'm not allowing you to do the things that you're doing. But instead of God stopping them and instead of God dealing justly immediately with them, he was patient and he waited. And at the end of this whole conversation, when those decid uh when those uh individuals were really scared and they thought that Joseph was probably going to take it out on them and he was going to get even with them after their father died. Joseph said, you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. In other words, God allowed you to make choices with your own free will. Those weren't good choices. And instead of overruling you, he allowed you to do it ultimately because he wanted to accomplish something good that was bigger than the immediate pain and suffering that we went through as a family. I think about what Paul says in Romans chapter 8. He says, all things work together for good, to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. And he says it's ultimately to conform us to the image of his son. So one of the things that we've already seen in our study is that God takes things that are not good, that are evil, that are bad, that are are are painful and he uses those things to accomplish good purposes. A second thing we've seen is that God God gen generously gives wisdom and when we're in these difficult circumstances If we will come to God and desire his wisdom, he's going to give it. We've also seen that when when we come to God in these circumstances, he doesn't belittle us. He actually cares about us and he comes alongside of us. pours that wisdom into our hearts when we need it. Well then we look at these verses and he reminds us in verse 17 that every , if you if you like to circle and highlight, you should do this. Every good gift and every perfect gift comes from above. Every good thing that we enjoy is ultimately from God's hand. In other words, all of those necessities that we have that are taken care of that we often forget about. We don't even appreciate them a lot of times. God is the one who ultimately gives us those things. Those daily material blessings that we often forget about, we overlook, they're there because God has given them to us. In verse 17, he says, he is the father of lights. And you might say, well, what in the world is he talking about? When he talks about him being the father of lights, He's emphasizing the fact that the sun, the moon, the stars, all of the celestial bodies that are constantly working and moving the way that God designed them He's ultimately the source of those things. He's the one who put the sun where the sun is and the path that the sun takes and the path that the earth takes and how the earth rotates and how that gives us the the the sunrise and the sunset and how the tides move in in in connection with the moon and how we go through seasons because of the tilt of the earth. All of those things were created by God. They were created by God with a purpose. And he's saying those good gifts that you and I enjoy They come from the one who created the sun and the moon and the stars and all those things. And the reason he brings it up is because he says there's a continual reminder. That God is wise, that God is powerful, that God is orderly, that He's got skill and He's sovereign and He's consistent. When we look at the sunrise every morning and the sunset, in the evening and we walk out and we look at the stars, we have this continual reminder of God's wisdom and his power and his goodness and his consistency. He then says in verse 17 that there is no variabless, neither is there any shadow of turning with God. In other words, God is consistent in his character, and he does not change. The way that God is today is the way he was yesterday. It's the way he was a thousand years ago. It's the way he'll be for all of eternity. God doesn't change. And you know, contrast that with us You know, there's some people that are genuinely happy people. There are people that are they're enjoyable to be around. Maybe you work with somebody like this. Maybe this is your spouse. This is You know, one of your kids just from the from the moment they get up and go about their business, they're in a good mood and they're happy people, but they're not like that all the time. You know, there are days that the happy, contented, thankful person It's contentious, is difficult, is frustrated, is discouraged. Why? Because we're prone to change. Our emotions vacillate constantly. How we feel about circumstances is constantly in flux. But God's not like that. He's consistent. And so when he says there's no shadow of turning, he's saying, you know, we have this constant reminder. That there's a consistency with God when the sun rises and the sun sets and all those things are going on, even though we don't see them, when we stop to reflect on them, we have this constant reminder. But you know, there are days that you don't see the sun There are days that you don't see the moon. Why is that? Because of because of the cloudiness of a day, rain, whatever the circumstance. Because we haven't taken the time to look. But God's more consistent than even what you can see or can't see. God is always at work. And he reminds them of that. A third observation we see is this the greatest example Of God's goodness and consistency is the way that He's worked in us to give us the gift of eternal life. Not only has James reminded us that God takes bad things and He uses them to accomplish good, And when we need wisdom, he lavishly gives us that wisdom. And when he gives us that wisdom, he gives it to us not only lavishly, but he gives it to us from a heart that doesn't belittle. But he reminds us that God is consistent in the little things. Now he's moving into the most important things. Not just those daily blessings that we get that we often forget about and our daily necessities that Obviously they sustain our physical life, but they're not eternally sustaining us. He's reminding us of the most important things, and that's the gift of eternal life The fact that you and I have God's gift of eternal life is a reminder of God's goodness, his consistency, and his faithfulness. And notice how he puts it in verse 18. Of his own will Begat he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. Now there are several little details in verse 18 that are very important that are going to help us to understand how good God really is. First of all, he starts with this statement. Our salvation didn't really begin with us. We weren't the ones who initially initiated our salvation. In other words, God's plan of redemption began even before we existed, even before there was a fall. God planned to redeem people. He planned to redeem people from the foundation of the world. He planned to redeem people by sending his son to the cross where he would pay the penalty for our sins and he would rise from the dead, even before there was a fall. God had a plan of redemption. And so he says it's of his own will. In other words, in God's heart, God's goodness, God's love for humanity, his desire to save, even before there's a fall, God is ready to be. And we see that his plan of of of redemption is something that unfolds like this grand epic from Genesis to Revelation. We have the fallen we have God giving the promise of redemption. And then we have all of those Old Testament passages talking about the nation of Israel and Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. and David and Daniel and Isaiah and what what is the Old Testament all about? It's giving us the storyline of how God makes a promise He reveals a little bit more about that promise throughout the history of a nation, and ultimately he brings that promise to fruition when he sends his son into the world. And when his son goes to the cross, and when his son hangs on that cross and pays the penalty for our sin, and he rises from the dead. And then he ascends into heaven and he says, I'm coming back. And when I come back, I'm going to restore this creation to its original beauty and glory. I'm going to establish a new heaven and a new earth. And there's going to be an eternal kingdom, and all of my people will inhabit that kingdom forever. That's a wonderful story. God's plan of redemption. This is a general statement of God's plan of redemption. And you know what that does? That reminds us that God is good, that God is faithful, that he's consistent, that he's trustworthy. But you know what? James doesn't just leave it at that. He doesn't just leave it at God is amazing because he has saved people. He says, God's amazing because he saved you. In other words, God's goodness is personal, not just general, it's personal. In other words, of his own will he begat you by the word of truth, that you might be a kind of first fruits. of his creation. He is specific. He's saying think about how God worked in you to bring you face to face with your sin, his righteousness, the cross, the empty tomb, how you can be saved by grace through faith alone in the finished work of Christ. God brought you in his goodness to the point where you saw your sin, you saw the Savior, you placed your faith in Christ. In other words, it's not just We see his goodness in creation. We see his goodness in a general way in his plan of redemption. We see in a personal way in how he worked in our own lives. And not just how he worked to bring us to faith in Christ, but how he's going to work in the future, where ultimately this plan of redemption will be completed. He says it so that you might be a kind of first fruits of his creation. In other words, we look forward with hopeful anticipation, looking forward to the day when we will be redeemed in the sense that we'll be in a glorified body, we'll be in our glorified state. will be in his eternal kingdom and we will be enjoying God as he is forever. That's demonstrating the goodness of God. That's demonstrating the consistency of God. So after reflecting on these things, what are some practical, simple applications that we should really think about today that will help us in light of these truths? Let me share with you a couple things that I jotted down. The first is this, I must always be leery of that stubborn tendency to doubt the goodness and consistency of God. We're all made of the same stuff. No exceptions. If you're listening to this video this morning, then you and I are in the same place. We have this stubborn tendency to doubt that God is good, to doubt that God is consistent. We get our eyes really focused on our circumstances. Our emotions begin to batter us into corners sometimes. And we look up and we say, God, are you there? Are you good? Are you consistent? Are you faithful? Do you care? We begin to think those things and we need to recognize that that is a stubborn tendency that we all face. A second thing we need to realize is that these doubts are always rooted in lies. I have embraced lies about God when I begin to doubt his goodness and his love, his compassion, his consistency, his grace. I'm believing lies about him. I'm believing lies about myself, that I'm entitled to a certain set of circumstances. I'm entitled to those good and perfect gifts that come from above. They are called gifts. In other words, we really don't deserve them. They come from his good hand. And when I doubt God's goodness, I'm beginning to believe lies that are taking root in my heart. A third thing is this, these lies must constantly be confronted with objective, verifiable facts that demonstrate the goodness and consistency of God. If I'm going to think right about God If those lies are going to be rooted out, then I have to constantly be dwelling on what is true. What I know to be factually true about God has to constantly be in my mind. And it's interesting in the scriptures it says, whatsoever things are true and honest and just and pure and lovely and of good report, if there's any virtue, if there's any praise, you need to think on these things. Why does he encourage us to focus on those things rather than focus on rooting out all the lies? It's because truth confronts lies, exposes them, removes them, and that needs to be our focus. Next , I should remember that I see these constant reminders and the daily goodness of God expressed in those little things that I don't appreciate fully. One of the ways that I can see that God is objectively good is that there are so many little things. I take them for granted on a daily basis. And you know, sometimes being locked down and having more time to think can give us the opportunity to appreciate the little things a little bit more. You know where we live, what we have, what we're not dealing with, that we could be dealing with. There are lots of little things that God gives us that are so good, and those are constant reminders of his goodness. I see these reminders in the general creation around me. In other words, every time the sun rises and the sun sets and I walk outside and I look at the order of the of the stars and I think about how the moon waxes and wanes on a monthly basis and we see the seasonal change. What am I reminded of? I'm reminded that there's a God in heaven who made all of that. That governs all of those things reminds me of his goodness in a very general sense, in a very general way. I'm reminded when I think about God's plan of redemption as it relates to the story of the Bible, Genesis to Revelation. And I see that God is constantly faithful. And when the patriarchs, when Abraham and Isaac and Jacob failed, God just continued his work of redemption. We have the failures of people like Moses and David. Those people who were godly but but were also human and they stumbled. What do we see? We see that God just continues his plan. He continues his work. In spite of the failures of mankind, he continues his work and he's going to complete the work that he has set out to accomplish. He went to the cross. There is an empty tomb. He is coming again. So we're reminded of God's goodness and his consistency when we think about the story of redemption. But lastly, what I think is the most important, is I see these facts most personally in the specific way God worked in me through his word to bring me to repentance and faith and ultimately new life in Christ. When I stop and think about the fact that today I'm a believer, I've trusted Christ as my Savior, and it's because God put me in places And God put people around me where I heard the truth. I wasn't looking for it. I would have never even thought about it had it not been for God's gracious work in me. And we need to think about that. That is probably the greatest reminder of the goodness and the faithfulness of God that He has brought us to see our need for salvation. And we've placed our faith in His Son. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and I hope these things are encouragement today. Father, we pray that you would bless each person that has listened to this broadcast this morning. I pray that it would be an encouragement to them. Help us to think deeply about these truths and may we constantly remind ourselves of the objective reminders of your goodness and your faithfulness and your consistency. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see you this morning. I hope that you have a great rest of your day. And we'll look forward to seeing you next time. Bye now.