Ephesians chapter one, let's look at verses three to seven. Blessed be the God and Father of the Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings. In heavenly places in Christ. According as He hath chosen us in Him before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and without blame before Him in love. having predestined us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise and glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace. This evening we're going to look at a very important doctrinal truth, and that is the importance of our position in Christ. What do we have because of our association, if you will, or that position that we have in Christ? We're going to answer that question tonight, and then we're going to look at some of the significance of that very important truth. So with that in mind, let's go ahead and bow our hearts together in prayer one more time, and then we'll look at this passage and a good number of others. Father, as we open up our Bibles and as we look at this very important concept of what it means to be united with Christ. What it means to have a position in Christ, I pray that you'll help us to understand the weight and the glory of these truths. Help us to understand that every spiritual blessing that we enjoy as Christians. is not rooted in us in any way, but it's rooted in the Lord Jesus Christ. If it wasn't for him, if it wasn't for our union with him, we would have nothing. And so I pray that you'd help us to see that. And I pray that these truths would really shape how we think and how we live in this world. We ask these things in Jesus' name Amen. You know, as I like to do, I like to take the passage we're looking at and just kind of summarize it, if you will. And so this is our summary statement for Ephesians 1:3 to 7. Paul opens his epistle with a desire to communicate one predominant truth or one predominant theme, and here is the theme: every spiritual blessing that we possess. Is rooted in Christ. Every spiritual blessing that we possess is rooted in Christ. God wants us to glory and to rest in Christ alone for our salvation and for our satisfaction in this world And so we ask the question, how can we do that? Tonight I'd like us to look at a couple of very important truths connected to that statement. God wants us to glory and rest in Christ alone. The first truth that we'll look at this evening is that every spiritual blessing that we enjoy is found in Christ alone. In order to illustrate this, I want to use a couple of our kids, okay? So I'm gonna, well we have Joel, and we have Nats. And Joseph, come on up here, okay? Joel, Nat, and Joseph. I want you guys to stand up here. Do you guys like sports a little bit? Now don't don't be wild about it. Just it's a yes or no question. Okay My son, Nat, really likes baseball. And Joel really likes, well, they both kind of like football, but Joel is really partial to football, and Nat is really partial to baseball. Now let's just pretend for a moment that Joseph and Joel and Nat are all going to go to an Orioles baseball game. They're all going to go to an Orioles baseball game, and I decide I'm going to take them into the stadium, and we're going to be there really early because we want to watch batting practice. Anybody ever done that before? Absolutely, alright? If you're gonna go to a baseball game with kids, you gotta go early so you can watch batting practice So these three boys, they come and they're all excited. They got their ball glove, they got their hat, they got a baseball. They are so excited about going to the baseball game. And it's not just about hot dogs, is it? You want to see a great game. Well, Joseph's sitting here and he's watching batting practice and Joel's over here. No, don't be throwing or anything, all right? And so they're watching this game, and Nat's like, hey daddy. You see down there, there's some kids on the field. Why do they get to go in there and we don't? Oh well, special privileges. Can't do that, okay? And then Joel's like, hey daddy, I want to go down on the field. And Joseph says, Hey, let's go down on the field. So we come down there, and when we get there, we're going to meet somebody. You know what they're going to say? Sorry guys, you can't go on the field And my kids go, well, why is it that we can't go on the field, but these little boys, they're running around. They're smaller than us. They get to go and we don't. And you know what the guy says? Well guys, see that guy there, number nine? That's his son And because that's his son, he can go down there and you can't. And Nat's like, well Well daddy, can you work something out with these guys and can you beg and please? Can you give them money? Can you do something? And I'm like, no, I can't And they try so hard. We got the hat. We got the ball. We got the glove. We got everything. You know what the guy says, sorry. You're not with him. That guy number nine, that's his son. He can go. You can't. You know, we learned something really important. If you're with me guys, can't go down on the field. Sorry. But the boys down on the field have a special privilege because of who their father is. You see who you are related to has everything to do about the privilege that you have in that particular sphere of life. Guys go ahead and sit down. I'm not taking you to nose game. I'm not gonna be able to take you Onto the field, I promise you. But I know these boys would look at that and they would wish they could go down on the field. Well, tonight we're talking about our relationship to God. Our relationship to the Father, the reason that you and I have any privilege or any right to anything in the spiritual realm. Has nothing to do with you. It has nothing to do with what you want. It has nothing to do with what you can give God. It's got everything to do with the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. If it wasn't for Christ's, if it wasn't for your relationship to the Lord Jesus Christ, there would be nothing that you would have between you and God the Father. Truth number one, every spiritual blessing that we enjoy is found in Christ alone. Please don't miss that statement. That is the heart and soul and foundation of this message. Look down in verse number three. Blessed be God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places. And then look at that last little phrase. In Christ. When we look at this passage, Ephesians 1, 3 to 7, we see that phrase in Christ. Or we could say an aspect of that phrase is referred to multiple times. Notice it says, we have all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. He hath chosen us in him. It says, in whom? Or the idea is in Christ we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. That little phrase is critically important. to our relationship to God. Apart from Christ, you and I have nothing. And I want you to see how this relates to many other passages of Scripture. Take your Bibles and look at Romans chapter 3 verse 24. In Romans chapter 3, verse 24, the scripture says this: being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in what? In Christ Jesus. Again, we see that little phrase. He talks about justification. That means when we stand in God's courtroom, he has declared us to be. just or righteous. We're not guilty. God has found us to be innocent because we're in Christ. Not because we're righteous Not because we are innocent, not because we're sinless, but because we're in Christ. He talks about us being redeemed. Our redemption is not through something we paid to God, but it's because we are in Christ Again, we go down to Romans chapter 8 and verse 1. He makes this statement: There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are what? In Christ Jesus. The idea is when you stand before God someday, Christian, when I stand before God someday, Though I have sinned miserably time after time throughout the course of my entire life, God says not guilty. And that not guilty verdict has nothing to do with how sinless and how good I am. It's got everything to do with my position in Christ. We go to another passage, Romans chapter 8, verse 2. It says this, the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus. hath made us free from the law of sin and death. We have been freed from the condemnation of the law, and we have been redeemed to walk in a new way Life in the Spirit. Again, we see that phrase in Christ Jesus repeated. We then go to Romans chapter 8. Verse 39. And I love Romans 8. It's one of the richest and sweetest chapters in all of the Bible. But in Romans chapter 8, verse 39, he kind of brings this discussion, if you will, about the believer's security to this final point and he says this. I am persuaded that neither heights nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is where? In Christ Jesus our Lord. Notice the repetition. In Romans 3, 24, he mentions being in Christ and he mentions spiritual blessing. In Romans 8. 1, he mentions being in Christ. And he mentions spiritual blessings. In Romans 8, verse 2, he mentions being in Christ. Again, spiritual blessings. Romans 8, 39, again, he mentions being in Christ and then spiritual blessings. Let me add another one. Romans chapter 12 and verse 5, he says this, we being many are one body in Christ. And everyone members one of another. This special, if we could say, this special organism that God has created, the church. The body of Christ on the universal, uh if you will, looking at it universally, the body of Christ, and then looking at it on the local level, the local church. God Himself has put us in that special position in Christ. And then lastly, I'll mention 1 Corinthians 1 verse 2. He says, unto the church of God which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus. Called to be saints. Even our practical and our positional sanctification is rooted in this position of being in Christ. As you can see, these are just a few. In fact, there are a lot of other passages I can go to. How many times we find that our relationship to those spiritual blessings is all rooted in Christ. But then let's look at the Ephesians passage. Turn back into your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 1, and I want to just draw your attention to a couple of the things that he mentions in this text. The first one is this. We are holy and blameless before God in love because of our position in Christ It says, He hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and without blame before him in love. Look at verses five and six. He talks about us being predestined to adoption as children. And by the way, I want to make a comment about that statement, adoption as children. The way that we do adoption in the United States and the way that they did it in the Roman world is a little bit different. So let's say that you had a young person that was adopted by a very wealthy man in Rome. That man would legally take that young boy to be his son. Maybe somebody like my boy's age. But that boy, though he had a relationship to this man, he did not receive the full benefits, if you will, of being a son until a point in time in the future. And so as he matured and as he got older, there came a point in time when they would have, if you will, some kind of special not bar misvah like they do in the Jewish culture, but there would be a point in time when he r receive that point of maturity where he would receive the adoption, if you will, as an adult son. Now the price had been paid for him to become legally the son of that individual. He was cared for. It was a guarantee for that child. But he did not receive that until a point in time in the future. Notice what he says in this passage. He says, we have been predestinated unto adoption of children by Jesus Christ unto himself. If you will, it's as if you are God's child, but you haven't received the full benefits of that position yet. There are aspects of our salvation that are still in the future. Yes, I'm saved, but there are things I've not tasted yet I'm not in heaven. I have not received my eternal inheritance. And so that is a future, if we say, guarantee. And so he's talking about that in this text. He says he's predestined us unto adoption of children by Jesus Christ, unto the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace. And then I want to mention one final thing from the Ephesians passage, and that is found in verse 6. It says, He hath made us accepted. And the beloved. Anybody here ever kind of wondered if God really accepted you? You know what I'm saying? You've had a really bad week. Things seem to really be going disastrous for you, if you will. You feel like inside there's tremendous internal struggle and turmoil, and you ask yourself the question in your heart. Does God really accept me as his child? Can I tell you something? If you're in Christ, the answer is absolutely yes. No matter how your performance was that week, if you will, no matter how you feel internally in your great struggles as a Christian, God accepts you in the beloved because you are in the world. What we see is that every spiritual blessing that we have as believers is rooted in the Lord Jesus Christ. And these are just a few of those spiritual blessings. Redemption and adoption and forgiveness and no condemnation and justification. We can go through a whole list of spiritual blessings that we have in Christ. But I want to move on to a second truth. And I want you to get a hold of this. Every spiritual blessing that we have is rooted in Christ. Two, seeking the benefits of the gospel outside of Christ. is dangerous. Perhaps I should have used the word disastrous. It's disastrous. I want you to picture, if you will, this poem that was written by Robert Frost. Maybe maybe kids don't learn poems anymore. I don't know. But when I was a kid we learned that that poem by Robert Frost. Two roads diverged in a yellow wood. Okay? Anybody learned that that poem? Okay, maybe you did. And so I have in my mind's eye this picture of up in New England, it's in the fall, the leaves are turning yellow, the leaves are turning orange, it's a beautiful scenic setting, and we see these two roads parting their ways there in that wooded area. And Robert Frost says, I took the one less traveled by, and that made all the difference. That's basically what he says. And I think the point that he's trying to communicate is this. We come to junctures in our life where we can go one of two ways. And most of the people go one way. And there is an end, if you will, to that road. Some take this road and their destination is totally different Jesus actually uses this illustration. He says, broad is the gate that leads to destruction, and many there be that go on thereat. Narrow is the way that leads to life, and few there be that find it. Christ even uses the analogy of two different ways. One way leads to destruction, and one way leads to life. It's like you walk through that door of salvation, and that's a difficult way, but at the end you'll be with God for eternity. And the other way seems simple and easy, and that's where people are moving one after another. In Proverbs 16, 25, the Proverbs says this. There is a way that seemeth right to a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. When we choose a way, sometimes we don't think about the consequence. of where that way goes. And seeking the benefits of the gospel outside of Christ and that position in Christ, it's disastrous. It will not lead to life. It will lead to eternal destruction. Let me mention a couple of ways that people commonly go to try to follow, if you will, the way of life. And they discover in the end it is a disastrous destination. Many people try to pursue those blessings of the gospel in their own righteousness. How many people, if you walk up to them on the street and say, hey, why do you believe you're going to heaven? And they say, well, I. Pay my tithes. I go to church. I got baptized. My daddy was a preacher. I grew up down the Bible belt, down south. Okay? And they list all these, I did this, I did this, I'm doing this, I'm doing this, I hope based on those things. One of the most common ways that people believe they will be accepted by God is through their righteousness. So they're working to build up, if you will, credentials to God It's like they are earning these little trophies that they believe that God will be impressed with at the end of it all. And they say, God, remember I was I was in the Sunday school and I got a pin for that. Remember I was in the Iwana. I learned those verses and I got this trophy. Hey, remember I was the leader of the youth group at this point in my life. Hey, remember I got the Christian Service Award when I was in high school. And they go through the list of I did this and I did this and I did this and I did this, building up, if you will, religious credentials. How does God view that? In Titus chapter 3 it says this, it's not by works of righteousness which we have done, but it's according to his mercy that he saved us. In Ephesians, or excuse me, in Isaiah 64, it says this, all of our righteousness is as filthy rags. In Romans chapter 3, verse 10, it says, There is none righteous, no not one. There's none that understandeth, there's none that seeketh after God. It says, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. Seeking the benefits of the gospel outside of Christ is disastrous, and many people are doing it through their own righteousness. Hey, I hope that today you're not seeking the benefits of the gospel through your own righteousness. Because I'm going to tell you this as graciously as I can, but as firmly as I can. The end thereof are the ways of God. There are a lot of people that believe that they can earn favor with God through their money. 1 Peter 1, verses 18 and 19 says this: As much as you know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold. If you will, money. I know this is a really common thing that we dealt with when we were in Ghana. We would talk to people and say, hey Do you know for sure when you die you're going to heaven? They said, oh yeah, absolutely. And I'd say, how do you know that? Well, that's why I pay my tithes every week, you know? I was like So by paying your tithes, God is going to grant you eternal life? So is God like on a bribery system or something like that? No. God is not going to accept our money as payment for our sins. What an offense to a holy God. What an offense to the perfection of Christ, who was nailed to a cross and died for our sins, and bore the wrath of his father in our place. And he says, You would put money between me and God? You think you can do that? A third area, and I think this one is very significant, that is reputation. A lot of people say, hey God will accept me , because I am known to be a very good and a very moral and a very upright person. I think one of the greatest examples of this is a man named Nicodemus. Think about Nicodemus for a minute. The Bible says that he came to Jesus by night, and when he comes to Jesus, he says this. We, he doesn't say I, he says, we know that you are a teacher come from God because no man can do these miracles unless God is with him. You say, well, why does he say we? Very simple. Nicodemus was very respected, and he and his religious peers were sitting down and they were having a discussion about who Christ was. And they said, Nicodemus, we choose you to be our spokesman. You go to Jesus in the night, sit down with him, question him, and come back to us. If you will, he was the representative. Later on in the conversation, Jesus says, Are you not the teacher in Israel? How is it that you don't know these things? He didn't say you're one of the religious rabbis. He said you're the teacher in Israel. In other words, he had clouts. He was known. He was very influential. He had a good, solid reputation. But what does Jesus tell him? Nicodemus, verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. Marvel not that I tell you you must be born again. Imagine the shock. This man's a religious Respected man. He has great reputation. And he goes to Jesus and Jesus just knocks him right down. He says, Look, Nicodemus, you have no standing with my father apart from the new birth. Imagine that. A way that seems right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. And then I come to another, and I want to mention it briefly, and that is tradition. Now, when I say tradition, if you will, I'm speaking of religious traditions. In Romans chapter 2, verse 28, listen to what Paul writes about the Jews He says he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh But he is a Jew which is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, and not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God Paul is hitting on something that was a big-time problem in his generation, if you will. A very large percentage of the Jewish population believed that the reason they had any kind of standing with God was because of their traditions. They said, hey, we're a part of God's people. We circumcise our boys. We follow the law. We pay our tithes. We go up to the temple during the festivals. We are very careful and cautious to not disregard the Sabbath day and actually the Sabbath days if you will. There are many Sabbath days on the Jewish calendar. And what does Paul say? He says, what God is concerned about is not the tradition, if you will, but the heart. Is there a new creature in Christ? Is there new birth? Is there repentance and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ? Or Are you trusting in tradition? I want to stop for a moment tonight and ask you, what are you trusting in to give you standing with God? What are you trusting in to give you those spiritual blessings? Redemption, forgiveness. Reconciliation, and a whole list of other spiritual blessings we've mentioned tonight. If it's in anything but Christ, and in that position in Christ, my friend, you're on the path of destruction. I come to a third, and I think very important final truth. And that's this, seeking our identity outside of Christ It's hopeless. Now, I'm not talking now about how you get saved. I'm kind of going out of the realm of how we become a Christian. And I'm coming into the realm of how we are happy in the Christian life, if you will. I understand that the majority of the people here, maybe everybody. Okay, maybe some of the younger kids don't understand the gospel yet. But probably the majority of us are saved people And you say, hey, I've trusted in Christ alone. My sufficiency is in the finished work of Christ. I'm not looking through law. I'm not looking through tradition. I'm not looking through any of those things. I'm trusting in what Jesus did for me on that cross, how he died and he rose from the dead. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. Well, let me let me ask you this question. Where is your identity, Christian? Your identity. I think the majority of people find their identity in something outside of Christ. It could be in their work, it could be in their hobbies, it could be in their ethnic background, it could be in their nation, it could be in their political party, it could be in so many different things. My question is. What is your identity in? Galatians chapter 3, very interesting text. This is what Paul writes. He's writing to a group of people who, if you will, are going through identity crisis. There's tremendous division amongst these individuals in the church Because their identity was wrapped up in the wrong kinds of things. Notice what he says in Galatians 3. 26. He says, You are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. As many as you have been baptized into Christ, have put on Christ. And then listen to the next statement. There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither bond nor free. There is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if ye be Christ, then your Abraham's seeds seed and heirs according to the promise. Now let's just pause for a moment and think about what he's saying. Is Paul suggesting that when those people became believers, they stopped being a man? No, not in the least. Is he saying that these women who became believers stopped being women biologically? Obviously not. He has no thought of that in his mind at all Those people that were Gentiles, if you will, Greeks, that was their identity, did they stop having a Greek ethnic origin the moment that they trusted Christ? Did they? No. Nothing changed biologically about these people. Nothing changed ethnically about these people. When he talks about them being Jews. They didn't stop being Jewish in their ethnicity. When he talked about them being bond, he's talking about them being bondservants or slaves. Were they all of a sudden just miraculously freed from their bondage as slaves in the Roman Empire when they became believers? Not the least. Okay? Their masters didn't release them from that responsibility when they became Christians. In fact, some of them may have even been punished and dealt with even more harshly because of that. And then he mentions those who are masters, or if you will, these are people who are free men. They have tremendous opportunities and they have rights in Rome. When they became believers, those things did not change about them at all. So the question is, what is Paul trying to say? And this is what he's trying to say. Your identity is now greater in Christ than in those things. One of the reasons they had problems in the church is because the Jews and the Gentiles really They liked their ethnicity a lot. And so if you will, there was like the Jewish population on this side of the well, they didn't have a building like this with pews, okay? But if you will, they kind of congregated and fellowship together in this portion of the church. And then you had the Gentiles. And then you had those who had rights, if you will, and they would kind of congregate in that area. And then you had The men they congregated in their area and the women they congregated in their. If you will, they divided themselves up amongst those various elements of society. Those things were their identity. Their identity was in being a man or being a free man or being Jewish or being Gentile. And basically what Paul is saying is this That's not your identity anymore. Your identity is in Christ and Christ alone. There doesn't need to be a division in the church like we've had in the past where you have the Jews and the Gentiles, they won't mix. Guess what? That identity is now gone. It's in Christ And so you need to mix. You need to relate with one another. You shouldn't divide yourselves up. This is a huge problem in the early church. It happened in Corinth. It happened in the churches in Galatia. It happened in Colossae. He mentions the exact same thing in Colossians 3. 11. There's neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision, uncircumcision. Barbarian, Synthean, bonds, nor free, but Christ is all and in all. Very interesting passages. Where is your identity? Let me give you a couple of common areas that we misplace our identity. I'm going to ask you to really ask the Lord to help you if maybe some of these things are true about you, Christian. Our ethnic identity. In those days it was Jew versus Gentile. Now this is not an ethnic community so much, but maybe some of you grew up. Did anybody grow up in you know what I mean by an ethnic community? My mom's family was from Eastern Europe. And so my my grandfather grew up in Scranton, Pennsylvania, working in a coal mine. And guess what? Everybody in their community was from the same area, okay? That's what I mean by an ethnic community. Okay, you got from Wisconsin, right? There's some ethnic communities up in Wisconsin. All over the United States you have communities like this. Well, the truth is that a major problem in the church was the ethnic division. Maybe today it's not as much as it has been at other times in our culture, but it's still present sometimes. If you will, it manifests itself out in a church that has kind of like they have the Spanish church over there and then the English church over there. Why do we do that? It's not sometimes just dealing with the, could we say, the language. Sometimes it's more than that. What about our national identity? In those days, either you were a Roman citizen or you were a non-citizen. And that was a huge deal. Let me tell you where I really felt this was when I was in Ghana. You know, as soon as people heard me say a couple of words like, you're an American. Now if they saw me walking down the road, they might have thought I was, you know, German, or maybe I was Russian. They'd ask me, you know, are you this or that? But as soon as I spoke, oh, you're an American. Your identity as an American is something that they can pick out in an instant. Even Americans who have African origin, okay, when they go back to Ghana, immediately they know they're an American. It's amazing. Is national identity something that has become more to you than being in Christ? Think about the academic identity. This is a really big deal in the early church. There were some that were, if we could Jewish backgrounded, and then there were some that came from Hellenistic backgrounds. Think about in Acts where there was an issue with the widows who were being neglected. You know what that was all about? That was about culture and that was about education. And so the Hellenist Jews and those who are not Hellenist Jews had a division in the church because of that identity coming to the surface We can think about career identity. I mean, I know it's kind of hard to to say if back in those days you had people who were bond servants, that was their They had no rights in in the community. They worked and they lived off of the good graces of a master. And there were others who were free men. If they got in trouble with the law, they had trial by jury. The other guy didn't. They could actually vote in some elections that they had. They had rights that other citizens didn't have. They could own land and various other things. What is your identity? Is your identity in your career? You know, as a man, I know that our identity as what we do is a really big deal. And you start you start sensing that as you get older. And you start seeing people rise up in their professional careers and others who don't. And if you happen to be one that doesn't seem to be rising up, you start feeling that pressure at a certain point. Because you see, I can't start over. I'm too old to do that. But that's not where our identity should be. Our political identity Republican versus Democrat. Need I say more? There are some people who would rather be affiliated with a political party than Christ. There's all kinds of division in the Church of God over these things. You know, in Corinth, it manifested itself in these patronizing relationships. There's a lot I could say about that. Think about our Christian camp identity, if you will. Oh, where did you go to school? Oh, I went to Pensacola. And immediately you have people like, oh, Pensacola, that's great. And then I was like, whoa, what in the world? Oh, I went to Marinasa, I went to Bob Jones, I went to and you name the different places. And people have this like perception immediately. Because of what? It's got nothing to do with my position in Christ. Might not have anything to do with how I believe about things. But because of where we went to school or What pastor we associated with at a certain point in our lives, we get into these little, if you will, these little Christian camps. Well, that manifested itself in the New Testament too. Paul and Apollos. Peter versus Paul, the Gnostics, the Judaizers, and those who rejected the law, who were antinomian Isn't it amazing how the things that we find in the New Testament, they're still appropriate today? And then we have our last, our performance as a Christian. Folks, if your identity is in your ethnicity, your nationality, your academics, your career, your politics, whatever brand of Christianity, if you will. Or how you perform as a Christian in your daily duties, your identity is misplaced. And seeking our identity outside Christ Is a hopeless thing. I want to conclude with these thoughts. Where are you seeking salvation? Maybe somebody in here doesn't know the Lord. I don't know. Maybe somebody is trusting in something outside of Christ. My friends, every spiritual blessing is rooted in Christ. You seek for it outside of Christ, you have nothing. Where are you seeking your sense of value and identity, Christian? Our challenge this evening is this: may we rest alone in the finished work of Christ. Whether it be for our salvation. Whether it be for identity, whether it be for our sense of value and satisfaction, may Christ and Christ alone be the center of all of that. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Our Father, we thank you for this text and the many scriptures that we looked at. I pray that you'd help us this evening. To be people who find our identity in the Lord Jesus Christ, who are resting alone in his finished work for our salvation, and not something that has replaced him. That we present to God. And Father, I pray that you'd help us to be people who find our satisfaction alone in Christ. We ask that if there's anyone in our midst who is struggling in one of these areas, that you might work in their hearts, and through the a message like this one, you might bring them to have a biblical understanding of their problem. And I pray that they would purpose to respond to what your spirit is showing them. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.