Now this evening we're going to pick up where we've been left off in our series of going through 1 and 2 Samuel. So we're going to open our Bibles to 2 Samuel chapter 13. I'll read the first five verses in 2 Samuel 13, starting with verse number 1. And it came to pass after this that Absalom, the son of David, had a fair sister, whose name was Tamar, and Amnon, the son of David, loved her. And Amnon was so vexed that he fell sick for his sister Tamar, for she was a virgin, and Amnon thought it hard for him to do anything to her But Amnon had a friend, whose name was Jonadab, the son of Shemiah, David's brother, and Jonadab was a very subtle man. And he said unto him, Why art thou, being the king's son, lean from day to day? Wilt thou not tell me? And Amnon said unto him, I love Tamar, my brother Absalom's sister. And Jonathan said unto him, Lay thee down on thy bed, and make thyself sick. And when thy father cometh to see thee, Say to him, I pray thee, let my sister Tamar come and give me meat, and dress the meat in my sight, that I may dress it, and eat it at her hand. Shall we pray? Father, we thank you so much for the Word of God, how it is profitable for us to learn from, even from the mistakes of others. So that we don't have to repeat them. And yet we can see your loving hand of grace, who has given us your word that can lead us and guide us. Would we choose to hear words from you of wisdom that we can apply and not words from friends? That sometimes just tell us what we want to hear that leads us further away from you. Father, would you be with us this evening And may this be a blessing, encouragement, and even warning to all of us here this evening. In Christ's name. Amen. Now this can be a very uh challenging text uh before us here, and I'm going to focus most of my time and attention on the first third of this chapter, well the first third of the first half. We're breaking it up But I want us to be reminded of this chapter. And really as I read through this and was pondering it, this really goes back to David. And so I kind of looked at this message and titled it, Evil Begins in David's House. Evil begins in David's House. And before I go any further, just as a father of four, it's reminding me of the great responsibility that I have as a husband. And as a father, that I have to walk uprightly the best I can to obey God's word, so that way I don't leave a bad pattern, so I don't leave them astray. so that I can continue to have God's blessing and clarity in my life that can be a great example for my children. So we started this chapter in verse 1, and it says, and it came to pass after this. So because it starts that way, I just want to remind us what just came to pass before this. So going back to chapter 12, verses 1 through 6, we're reminded of in 2 Samuel chapter 12 that the Lord sent Nathan, he was a prophet, going to him sharing a parable. And this parable is about a rich man and a poor man, and the long story made short, reminding us from last week, is the rich man took from the poor man this lamb and addresses it for his own company. And David, of course, gets so upset and he gets frustrated and he's all justice seems to be upon this man. And then you get to verse 7. And in verse 7, I can just picture in my mind, I have no idea what Nathan looked like, but in my mind I always picture this prophet with this finger pointing out, this bony finger pointing right at the king. And says these words, thou art the man. And at that moment, the parable clicks with David. And he recognizes, he almost put his own judgment upon himself. God used Nathan to share this parable to make this truth come alive to David and recognize the wickedness that he has just done. And with that we go to verse 9. And I want to read these couple verses 9 through 11. It says, wherefore thou despise the commandment of the Lord to do evil in his sight. Thou hast killed Uriah the Hittite with a sword. Now keep in mind, David didn't take his own sword and slay him, but by his command that is what happened. And has taken his wife to be, has taken his wife to be thy wife, and has slain him with the sword of the children of Ammon. Now therefore, the sword shall never depart from thine house, because thou hast despised me. You feel the weight of that, fathers? And hast taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be thy wife. Thus saith the Lord, behold. I will rise up evil against thee out of thine house. And so from the first phrase of chapter 13 and verse 1 is where I get the title from that previous where it says, and it came to pass after this, after the wickedness of David. after this parable was shared and after recognizing that judgment is going to come to his house. And as you read the rest of chapter 12 He repents and things start turning around and David does have some victories and him and Joab, you know, are working together again. But then we get to verse 13 and you see where this begins to unravel. And we see that sometimes we're reminded that it seems like you can get away with sin or there is no consequence, but in God's perfect timing and in God's ways, He can allow it to come to pass. Just as he said earlier in chapter 12, evil is going to come to your house. Maybe that was forgotten. Maybe David was thinking, hey, things are going to be okay. But here we see David's house begin to unravel in all kinds of wickedness And so when we look at this, even in the Bible I have before me right now, there's little subtitles and headings. It's about Amnon and Tamar and Amnon and Amnon and a little bit of Jonah and Ab and back to Amnon and Absalom and then Absalom again. Just go to this chapter. But really, as I look at this, that is just the fruit of the decisions that David has made. And as a father, he is bearing the brunt And the shame and probably the guilt of everything we're going to go through in this chapter. So I just want us to have that thought as we go through this. And I'm not explaining away that there was wrongdoing by Amnon and Jonadab. It's clearly wrong that they are doing. And then Absalom the follow, and you could and and and after all those things. But the responsibility, and I think the burden that David has to carry with him, watching his family begin to fall apart. And then in his memory, he sees that prophet pointing in his face and says, Thou art the man. So God is good, God is gracious. But in the right timing and the right way, God will bring to pass what he has said will come to pass. And so that's just kind of some intro after it came to pass. We see these things. So now we want to pick it up and just look at David's family briefly. I just want to take some time in verse one because we're introduced to some people and some things that are going on. And it came to pass after this, what we just mentioned. But Absalom, the son of David, had a fair sister, whose name was Tamar, and Amnon, the son of David, loved her. Now, I just want to say another reminder here too. It's a good reason, or good reminder, as I was studying this text, the thought came to my mind, you know, God created Eve for Adam. Not Eve and and and other ladies and other wives. Just one. And I say just one. Then that's all we can truly handle in a lot of ways. But truly, the the point of it is God has a great design for a great reason. And when Christ was questioned about this topic, he says, Have you not heard or have you not said? How did God intend it to be? In so many words, that's what he's saying. So also another introductory statement there as we look at the family. So here I want to first look at Absalom. Absalom And you notice it's the son of David. Now the challenge, the reason I just said all that about Adam and Eve and God's original intent is when we look at this This wasn't a normal functioning family. This is the family of a king who had multiple wives, had multiple children with these wives, and that already sounds more than I would ever want to even think about And so I know other cultures and other places, polygamy may be accepted. And you know, if they think, oh, financially, they can do it even in the Old Testament. It was a relatively normal thing. Not that it was good, not that God was for it. But it was a culturally more normal thing to do. But with that comes challenges. So we see Absalom, the son. of David, who is the king, and he had a sister, whose name was Tamar. Why is this important? Absalom and Tamar were, yes, related, but they had the same father And more importantly, they had the same mother. And we can look at this briefly. In 2 Samuel 3. 3, you'll see a list of David's children. And it says in 2 Samuel 3. 3, and the third, Absalom, the son of Micah, the daughter of Tamale, the king of Gesher. And then that mother is the same as Tamar. So Absalom and Tamar, when it says brother and sister, you would think of it in a more traditional setting, like you and I are, they have the same mother and the same father. Hugely important. And it'll definitely come to pass because we learn later in this chapter, 2 Samuel 13. I'll just share this verse here. So 2 Samuel 13, verse 32, and Jonathan The son of Shemia Shemiah, David's brother, answered and said, Let not my lord suppose that we have slain all the young men of the king's sons. This is the consequence to come later in the chapter For Amnon only is dead, and for by the appointment of Absalom, this has been determined from the day he forced his sister. Tamar. So this is consequence coming that we're not going to get to tonight. But Absalom and Amnon are going to have this challenge between them, and it's going to be with Tamar and their blood relation on top of the sinful actions that were made. So we have Absalom, the son of David. He had a fair sister, so a beautiful young lady whose name was Tamar, and Amnon also the son of David from a different mother. Now Amnon was the son of Ahinuam. And we see this in second Samuel three, verse two. And unto David were the sons born in Hebron, the firstborn was Amnon. And Ahinuam, the Jezreelitis of Ahinuim. So he had a different mother, and he was the firstborn here. According to 2 Samuel 3. 2. So we have three children, same dad, two different moms. So you have the one looking at his half-sister, and he thinks that she is beautiful and a fair sister. And he said he loved her. And just to save a lot of time. We can define love in a lot of different ways, but when we look at how he loved her throughout this text, we would probably more accurately use the word he lusted. He had a desire for something that he shouldn't have But he thought that he loved her. And love can do amazing things. We're even told that the love of money, not money itself, but the love of money is the root of all evil. It's a desire to have, it's a strong passion for something, right or wrong. You can say, I love this or I love that. And he's saying, I love her. But really, it was not a godly love. It was more of a lust to fulfill his own personal desires, which we will see coming up. So we have David's family. In verses 2 through 5, we're going to look at Amnon's feelings and his friend. We're gonna see Amnon's feelings and his friends. So let's read verses two through five. And Amnon was so vexed that he fell sick for his sister. Keep in mind it is the half-sister, Tamar. For she was a virgin, and Annon thought it hard for him to do anything unto her. Now here in verse 2 it says, He was so vexed he felt sick for Tamar. This word vexed has the idea of being distressed. It can also have the idea of being narrow. This was a consuming thought to him It's all he could contain himself with is this sister. And the inappropriateness that he had with his thinking and his feelings. He's convincing himself he loves her And he was so vexed, he was so d distressed, he fell sick. And this is just kind of a personal observation. Sometimes you could think something so much, just the stress upon your own body. It's like you can work yourself up to become physically sick. Have challenges breathing. You start breathing heavy. Do you ever have one of those nights, uh this could be more obvious, where you have something on your mind and you think about it, you know, you hear the bushes, you hear the rustling wind. What's that noise? I'm like, I don't know, I'm trying to sleep. And your wife's like, what is that? What is that? And I'm like, I don't know. And you keep thinking about it. And before you know it, you can't get it off your mind. And all of a sudden you're getting hot and the covers are and you just move and you can't sleep right. And then every noise and everything's exaggerated. What you're thinking is affecting your physical body. So what we think about can really make a big difference in our physical health. I don't know the science behind that, but what I do know just from that silly example. is that what you think about and what your life consumes you, it can affect you physically. And so my guess is Something along those lines. He is so consumed with these thoughts. He is such in distress. I'm going to use the word even the idea of the narrow. That's all he can think about. It's his thinking is even very narrow. That it's affect him physically. And if you look here, his reason is that she was a virgin. And then later or earlier, she was a fair sister. So his reasons are not very good. So the question is, you can ask, well, why do you love what you love? And is it appropriate? So he's physically Feeling ill. And then when it says later, it says oh, and the the uh the phrase here, he fell sick, literally has the idea of becoming weak. It can be grieved. And it even can carry the idea to make oneself sick, to make yourself sick. And I just want to jump down to verse 6, just to see this very briefly while we're on it. It says So Amnon lay down and made himself sick. Was he just pretending? Yeah, I'm sure that was involved too. But I think this Yes, he made himself sick he was faking it, but also I really think physically it was affecting him so much that we'll look at his friend here in a little bit. His friend noticed how this was physically changing him and who he was. So we're looking at his feelings. He's feeling sick. He's feeling vexed. He thinks he's in love. And it says he thought it hard. here for him to do anything to her. Basically, as I think through this text, when he says thought it hard, he didn't have a good plan of how to get what he wanted because he knew it was a bit challenging. It's kind of like you know that you shouldn't do that. Your parents have said, giving you list, do not do this, do not do this, and you're thinking, but I wanted that cookie. It's Christmas time. That's chocolate. I know they've already let us have one before, you know, whatever. And then you but when they say don't do it, it's kind of all the more tempting. We just had that the other day with the teens. something in the van. I said, oh when we were uh Christmas caroling. Oh don't do that and then they they want to do it. Okay. But by thought it hard, basically my understanding is by thought it hard, he didn't have a good plan to get what he wanted. Because of the challenges, the industry of the family and those things. And sometimes it doesn't matter what God would think about it. What the Bible says about it, we want what we want, and we're going to try and lie and deceive to get it This just shows and gives evidence for all of us that we have a bent, that we have a lean, that we will sin to get what we want because we are selfish and we love me, myself, and I and sometimes I just want what I want, and I don't care what others say, I don't care what God says, but I want what I want. So he thinks it hard to get what he wants because he knows of the challenges. And you could even think about this too, even recently in our current events. You know, it can be hard to do evil to someone else that you don't really know, but you could plan and you could scheme and you can track them and you can do what you want, right or wrong, legal or not. Father or husband, it doesn't matter. I am gonna do what I want and I don't care what others think, but it takes a plan. You might have to lie, you might have to deceive. You might have to cover your face and wear a hoodie for a length of time. You might have to do these things. Why? Because you know what's wrong. Others know it's wrong, but your desire, your passion to fulfill what you want consumes you so much. That you are willing to lie, you're willing to deceive, you're doing to do whatever it takes to get what you want right or wrong, or regardless of what God says about it. That is where he is. That is Amnon's feelings. And then it goes from bad to worse, from bad to worse. Because we look in verse 3, it says, and Amnon, but Amnon had a friend. whose name was Jonatab. This happens to be his cousin, so not only is he a friend, he's a cousin. Friends, and I know this could be, I've worked with teenagers for a while, sometimes friends are your friends because of things you have in common. Because you have similarities. You have common interests, so you become friends. Sometimes we have friends because They make us feel good. They tell us what we want to hear. Sometimes we have friends because if they're my friend, then they're not picking on me. And sometimes we just think of younger people, but sometimes we adults just do it in different ways. Well, if I befriend them Then we have a common bond and then we can get after that person because I'm on this person's team. And so we can like each other because we don't like this person. Whatever it is. So here, Amnon had a friend. The caution here is what kind of friend Is he? I'm just going to share some verses, some proverbs here about when those ask when friends or those give us advice. We heard a testimony tonight about counsel, seeking wise counsel from A multitude is a good thing. It could be a safe thing. Especially if they could be trusted, if they're given good, godly biblical wisdom. It's a very good thing. Very good thing. So I'm just going to give some proverbs here to ponder as we look before we look at Annon any further with his advice that he gets from his friend. In Proverbs 1. 10, it says, My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. If sinners are trying to convince you to do something wrong, which we are all sinners, we could all convince someone to do wrong. But we're not to listen to them. Well, wait a minute. That wouldn't be right. But sometimes we have that friend. Why? We have that friend because they're telling us what we want to hear. Not what is right, not what God's word says, but that's what I want to hear. They always tell me, well, I like this person. They always tell me I'm right. They're always telling me what I want to hear, and so that's why they're my friend. Proverbs 1320. He that walketh with wise men shall be wise. But a companion of fools shall be destroyed. I know an evangelist that's with the Lord now, and I heard him say this multiple times, preaching to teens, and he'd preach to teens for a long time, probably longer than I've been alive. And when he referred to this verse, and he told these teenagers at camp one time, he said, you show me your friends, and I will tell you your future. And I pondered that and I thought, wow. He said, you show me your friends, and I will tell you your future. And then I think he went on further one time to explain an example of even at camp, they don't know each other. You've got churches from different states, from different areas, and they come together, and within the first couple of hours You've got this group and you've got that group and you've got this group. Already they don't even know each other. Now some may remember each other from a year previous But they find each other. It's like they have this radar. It gives us a I'm the rebel. Where are all other rebels? And they send their beacon out to rebels. Others are I want to serve God. It's like this beacon that goes out, I want to serve God, all the serve God, and they start coming together. It's amazing. I've seen it myself and I just can't get rid of that thought when I think of this verse And I think of what he said, and I know he'd seen it lots, and as I sat and pointed, I was like, that is so true. I've seen it myself. He that walketh with wise men shall be wise, but a companion of fools will be destroyed. What kind of friends do you have? How are they encouraging you? Do they encourage you? Sometimes do your friends Tell you what you need to hear instead of what you want to hear. There's a difference Especially if they can tell it in a kind, loving way because they want you to be more Christ-like. They want you to obey God. Not those friends that I'm telling you this because it makes me look good. I mean, no, no, no. Because I want to help you, because I want to help you. Just be careful. Proverbs 24, 19 and 20 says, fret not thyself because of evil men, neither be envious at the wicked. Boy, sometimes don't we just They do wrong. And it seems like these things work out and they get good stuff. Oh, that just frustrates me. For there shall be no reward to evil men. Just a warning. Don't want what they want. They're evil, they're wicked. Their day is coming. Their time is coming. And even if it doesn't, from your opinion, serving God is always right. What kind of people are you surrounding yourself with? What kind of friends do you have? What kind of advice are they telling you what you like to hear, what you want to hear, or sometimes are they telling you what you need to hear? This one I'm gonna read, the last one with these, in Psalm 37. 1. I like this because it's a Psalm of David. And he says, fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. Don't fret thyself, don't work thyself up over evil doer doers So B, we have all these verses of Koshan, which is by one of the sons of David, Solomon, a psalm from David , And so then we go back with these thoughts, and we go back to this friend, Jonathan. And here Jonadab. sees, he seems compassionate, he seems kind. Let's look at it here. He says in verse 4, well in verse 3, he's a very subtle man. And this idea of subtle actually, it has the idea of being very skilled or wise. I was actually kind of, when I looked at this, there's a lot of verses here that we could share about this. But Jonadab in verse 3, very subtle. He's very wise. Almost idea of you are so skilled in a certain area that you just stand out above others That is who John Adab is. He's very subtle. And look what this subtle man does. What is his skill? What is his special technique, his ability that he has? And he notices Amnon. So that's good. He's kind. He seems caring. He's observant. He 's very wise. He's a well aware of his surroundings. And he sees his friend, which is also his cousin, Amnon, and he says here, he says, Why art thou, being the the king's son, lean from day to day, almost playing on his pride. You're the king's son. What is your deal? Why are you seem so disheartened? Why are you just not yourself recently? He's very subtle. He's very keen. He seems kind. He seems compassionate. He seems caring. Tell me. Don't hold it for me. Tell me what's going on. I want to know. This guy is skilled. He's a planner. Okay? And we're going to see this come alive here in a second. He's great at plans. He's good at getting information and then manipulating people to do things. And Amnon said unto him, I love Tamar. But, you know, it's my brother Absalom's sister, you know, my half-sister. I just love her. Now, verse 5 could have been different. If John Adab was a skilled man in the Word of God , and had a love for God and his word, he could have said something, okay, I know this is driving you crazy But you've got to stop this. This is not right. God wouldn't have this. That's what a good godly friend who may have been skilled in actually loving people to the Lord and obedient to his word. But instead, that's not his skill. He's very subtle. His skill level is manipulating and coming up with a plan to be a friend to tell him what he wants to hear. And he's going to help him with this Struggle. Oh, your struggle is you don't know how to do it. Ha! You came to the right place. Okay? I can help you. And this is what he says. Instead of saying that's wrong, don't do it. You shouldn't even think about that. What are you thinking? Here, let's go out. Let's go ride a horse and shoot some bows or something. You know, let's go do something else. No, that's not what he does He says, I tell you what you can do. If that's what you want, got the plan. Dangerous. Be careful what your friends tell you. to do, even when seeking their advice, even when they notice that you were not yourself. Oh, they're so kind. What are they advising? Be careful. Lay thee down in thy bed, and make thyself sick, and when thy father cometh to thee, saying unto him, I pray thee, let my sister Tamar come and give me meat, and dress the meat in thy sight, and I may see it, and eat it in her hand Now I'm assuming he said more than what we have here in the text, but what he does is he follows this advice from his friend. And what's interesting here too, to start saying this sometime, he starts executing this plan. And here's what's interesting though. Jonadab, he was very skilled. He was very wise. Because he knew David was observant. And here I think is the downside to David in all this. David very much, I think, loved and cared for his children. But I think his downside is he did not like to correct them. He did not like to correct him. He loved them. He was concerned. He was compassionate. He knew this. He knew that, hey, if you're not feeling well, your dad will know. He'll come to you and he'll ask you. What's wrong, son? Is there anything I can help you with? That's a good character. That's a good, kind, loving father. That's a great mother to observe differences of your children. So that I think was very good. This is a great plan. But here's what happens. By getting David involved. David, so okay, so we went to Amnon's feelings and friends. I'm going into verse 6 here. So Amnon's folly. We get into Amnon's folly. He makes himself sick. He starts going with his with this plan. King David is now getting involved. And we see that in verses 7 and 8. King David gets involved. And here's what's happening, I think, here. Because you're now getting the king involved, you now have someone in authority to help execute your plan. That's great. It kind of works like this. You have one sibling going to another sibling. You're supposed to do the dishes and take out the trash. Ha! Yeah, right. You do it. They go back. They disappear. They come back about 35 seconds later and they say Mommy said, go take out the trash and do the dishes. What did they do? They went and got authority Within their home and their structure, mom said, well dad said, so now you take that message and it's like, oh, okay, and they take that message and they go to the sibling, and they're using the authority. To get their plan done, that's what I want, because mom said, because dad said. The warning here, parents, is we need to pray for wisdom. They might be scheming a plan. They might have a purpose. That request sounds odd. Why would my son want to meet with my daughter alone? Hmm. Maybe a little odd in his house. He's not feeling well. Well maybe it'll make him feel. How much thate? I don't know. But parents, this is why I'm putting that in David. Are they scheming? Are they playing one parent versus the other? That's never happened to me with four children. Okay. They find a way to get authority to execute their plan. May God give us wisdom as parents. Maybe ask some questions. Oh why why would you want that? Absolutely. Amnon, you're feeling sick. I mean to me, when am I feeling sick? I think, how could you eat something? But wait a minute. You want her to make you food when you're feeling sick? When I'm not feeling well? It's because I usually don't want to eat, which is a very rare thing. I love food. I like it. I don't have to make weight anymore. So me and food get along really well. So when I'm sick, yeah, I I don't want to eat. So so I just find that we that's just a my own personal thing here. Uh if he's not feeling well, how is he asking to make this special meal. I don't know. But so all this is going on. So David here gives permission to execute Don Dab's plan that's being shared through Amnon. So that Amnon can get what he wants. Now he has authority from the top to do so by making himself sick. And here's what's interesting. In verses 7 through 10, this speaks well of Tamar. She knew how to serve. In verses 7 through 10, we're going to see she goes to the house and she needs the bread and she does all this. Uh gets the flour, she bakes the cakes. Why is that significant? I think that's the king's daughter. She's not one of those, I'll have some more tea and crimpets, please. Pass the grapes She knows how to prepare a meal. She's getting her hands dirty. She's a therber. I mean, I'm in my mind I was thinking, I could almost start sprinkling some Proverbs 31 in here. Here's the dangerous part about that is Is that what Amnon loved? I know there's a relation issue here, but what was his attraction to Tamar? Is it that she loved God? That she was a servant, that she was not afraid to roll up her sleeves and get dirty? To help prepare a meal? To help someone be compassionate? This is not What drew Amnon to Tamar? Sad. What we're going to recognize here is he's going to see it. Beauty is only skin deep. What attracts you to someone else? Especially if you're obviously if you're a Latine, you're not married, and those things, what are you looking for? Are you looking for character traits? Are you looking for godly standards, integrity, they serve God, they love Him, they're willing to serve. Because if you're just looking off their physical appearance, You'll get so distracted with physical appearance for as long as you live, and you're just falling into the world's ways, and it's a trap. It's a trap. Tamar even warns Amnon not to be foolish. In verse thirteen. And I, whither shall I cause my shame to go? As for thee, thou be as one of the fools in Israel. Now I pray, therefore, speak unto the king, and he will not withhold me from thee. She's trying to find a way out. And she's saying, Don't do this foolishness. And here's another interesting note with this. Amnon would not hearken to her voice. Look at this in verse 14. Howbeit he, Amnon, would not hearken unto her voice. Skip down to verse 16. And she said to him, There is no cause. This evil in sending me away is greater than the other thou didst unto me, but he would not hearken unto her. Here's what's interesting. Who did Amnon hearken to in this chapter? He hearkened to Jonadab, followed it to the letter, to the T because it's what he wanted. Jonadab was telling him what his desire. Here's the plan. You want it? Here's the plan. You can get it. His sister Tamar, whoa, this is wrong. This is foolish. He didn't want to hear it. He didn't want to heed the warning. She was being more of a true friend and true sister, but he didn't want to hear it. May we not be in the place where we desire something so wrong that we're willing to set aside warnings from others, knowing it's directly against God and choose to do it anyway. Not good. Tame Nar. She's she knows she's trying to encourage him to do right. She's been a great servant. She's been compassionate. She is doing a lot of good things here But Amnon did not hearken. He did not listen. This is evil entering and beginning into David's house. God is allowing this to happen because of what David did, because thou art the man. These same struggles that dad had, now as a son, well, I can do that too. Do you see how I think the responsibility goes back on the father and leading his home? I'm not saying we're gonna be perfect. And I'm not saying we don't make mistakes. But we need to be God-fearing men and fathers and mothers that are encouraging our sons and daughters to do right. And I think David's weakness here is I don't think he asks enough questions. And as we see as more this unfolds, he did not like to correct his children. And I know practically speaking that's harder for the moms than it is the dads. But Proverbs is very clear, and that's a whole nother issue. But we need to correct our children because we love them and to spare them from the scars and the pain and the hurt of sin. And if you don't, who will? And then as we look at this love that he had, it actually turned to hatred. And it seemed to exceed the love that he had for her. But if he truly loved her, he would have listened. He would have obeyed. But look what his love really, you know what he loved is himself. And we see this most evident in verse 19. In verse 19, and Tamar puts ashes on her head. and rent her garment of diverse colors that was on her, and laid her hand on her head, and went on crying Because Amnon loved himself. He didn't love her. When you love someone, you're willing to sacrifice for them. You're willing to better them at your own expense. For God so loved the world he gave. A key element of love is being able to give of yourself for the needs of others. Is that what we see here? Amnon so loved himself that he was willing to listen to a friend to Odgonly advice to give him a plan to continue to execute his wicked and ungodliness. He rejected the counsel and the words of a true friend trying to convince them that they're doing foolishly because he loved himself. So really the question that we could answer for ourselves, that we can evaluate for ourselves is who is it that we really love? Do you love your Savior more than you love your sin? And with this we see how evil begins in David's house And it did not have to be this way. Father, there's a lot that we could have covered in this chapter What do we love? What kind of friends do we surround ourselves with? Are we saying s are we staying sensitive to be obedient to your word and to follow your commands, even when warned by others? God help us not to be selfish. Help us not to have a love for self that is superior than our sin. Would we examine ourselves and would we love you more? We need your help, your guidance, and thank you for everyone that will heed your word and see the blessings of it. And we come to you asking for your guidance, for your grace, and that we would even be strengthened in inner man to desire to obey you. And have good friends as iron sharpeneth iron to help one another to be obedient to your word. And we thank you ahead of time for who you are and what you can and do in us and through us. And we do this to the glory and to the praise of your Son and our Savior Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen.