Well good morning. I'd like to give you uh I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Today we're in Ecclesiastes chapter seven and we're looking at verses fifteen through twenty together. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to encourage you to take it out and let's look at these verses together. Ecclesiastes chapter 7, we'll start in verse 15. All things have I seen in the days of my vanity. There is a just man that perisheth in his righteousness. There is a wicked man that prolongeth his life in his wickedness. Be not righteous overmuch, neither make thyself overwise. Why shouldest thou destroy thyself? Be not overmuch wicked, neither be thou foolish. Why shouldest thou die before any time? It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this. Ye also from this withdraw not thy hand, for he that feareth God shall come forth of them all Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty men which are in the city. There is not a just man upon earth that doeth good and sinneth not. Now we come to the passage in front of us. Really it's a complicated passage, just to be totally honest. And he's talking about one of two possibilities when we deal with this But I'd like us to just start out with a summary statement, and then from that summary statement, we'll dig into really the two possible ways you can take this, and what I think that Solomon's really trying to express in the text here. A summary is this, don't put your confidence in your own righteousness or wisdom, because your righteousness and wisdom always fall short In this passage, Solomon's talking about the way that God deals with people who are righteous versus people who are unrighteous, people who are wise versus people who are foolish. And one of the things that was very common in Solomon's day, and frankly it's still common today, is in our minds we have this idea that if a person is a good person, then their life's gonna pan out in a very positive and prosperous way. If a person is an evil person, then their life is going to be shortened, they're gonna go through difficulties and pain and turmoil. They won't live to be very old. And so we see that in our minds we feel that there's this direct correlation between a person being good and having a prosperous life and a person being evil and having a very difficult life But once you realize that that that line of thinking is really what what we see in the book of Job, when Job is dealing with tremendous trouble in his life, and as his friends gather around him, one of the things that you'll see in their line of reasoning is that they say, Job, if you're going through these hardships, then it has to be the result of some unknown sin to us but known to you and God. And because of that sin, God is punishing you, God is judging you. There's no way that God would put something like that in your life if you were really a righteous man, a blameless man, as you say that you are So what we see on display there is this idea that if a person's righteous, they're only going to get good, and if a person's evil, then obviously they're going to get bad. In other words, it's another way of putting this is how how is it that bad things can happen to good people? We've heard a question like that posed many times and we see a tragedy and we say, why is it that bad things happen to good people? Well I want to remind you that a question like that begins with a premise, an assumption. And the assumption is that a person is good And so from what we can see of them, they are in the eyes of God good, righteous. And because they're good and righteous, then God is obligated to treat them in a specific way. That really is the assumption that begins with the question, why do bad things happen to good people? Well what's interesting is this passage of scripture is going to demonstrate that that question is really not a question that should be posed. And the reason for that is because there's no person that is truly good in the eyes of God. There's no one that meets God's standard of perfection. So if God was going to deal with us purely based upon how we are, then he would not deal with us in goodness. When he deals with us in goodness It's a result of his grace, ultimately. Not really because we've earned it or we deserve it. And that's really what grace is. It's undeserved Favor, and it's favor from God. So that's really the heart of what we're talking about in the passage in front of us. What I'd like us to do is I'd like us to dig into the text of Scripture and see really where we find that in the text. The first observation that we have from the passage is this. Balanced living is good, but that's not really the point of the verses that are in front of us. There are four statements that Solomon makes that are very interesting. He says, be not righteous over much. Another way to put that is don't be overly righteous. He says, neither make thyself overwise. Another put way to put that is don't be overly wise. Be not too much wicked. Don't be overly wicked. Neither be thou foolish. Don't be overly foolish. Now when people see Solomon making these statements, The assumption is that what Solomon's ultimately doing is saying, you need to be balanced. You need to be temperate in your life. And it's possible that that's what he's saying, but I actually think that that's inconsistent with the discussion that he's really getting into here It's true that we need to be moderate in everything, but does God want us to be moderately righteous or moderately foolish or moderately evil or moderately wise? Well the answer is no. God wants us to do what's right God wants us to live a righteous life. He wants us to obey him. He expects us to make wise decisions. And so Solomon is making those statements really in the light of an observation that he's made. And here's the observation in verse 15. The observation is that you really cannot fully predict how things are going to play out in people's lives. In verse 15 he says, All things have I seen in the days of my vanity. There is a just man that perisheth in his righteousness. There's a wicked man that prolongeth his life in his wickedness. What's Solomon saying? He's saying when I look at life, I expect that if a person's righteous, they're going to live a long time and have a good and prosperous life. When a person is wicked, they're going to have a short life and it's going to be full of trouble. But as I observe people, I see that while that's true as a general rule, that's not an absolute principle. I can't fully predict that that's how it's going to work. I've seen people that are good people, righteous people, at least from my perspective, from my observation of their life, and terrible things happen to them. I see people who are troublesome people. They're evil. They do awful things. And they live a long time. And it seems like they are getting away with it. It doesn't make sense to me What is Solomon really expressing? He's expressing the fact that that viewpoint that a person is going to be dealt with in direct proportion to how righteous or good they are or wise they are is actually not a valid absolute principle. In other words, it's a general rule, but there are exceptions And the reality is that God deals with people of his own free will, of his own choices, how he determines to do it. And so Solomon is really shedding light on the fact that that viewpoint a viewpoint of retribution in the sense that good comes to the good and evil comes to the evil absolutely all the time in all circumstances, he said, is actually not true. That's not what we observe in life. And so he says, if that's really the case, well then I don't want to be too wise, I don't want to be too foolish, I don't want I don't want to be too good, I don't want to But really his point is that that that viewpoint is actually not a valid, correct way to look at life. The second observation is this. Don't rush to embrace an inflexible view of God's dealings with people. As a general rule, wise people live long, prosperous lives. Foolish people live short, troubled lives. Godly people extend their days. Ungodly people shorten their days. That is a general rule. And when we read the book of Proverbs, we'll see that generally speaking, that is the way that Solomon presents life to people. When you make good choices, there are good outcomes. But he says there are some times that things don't work out the way that you would anticipate them or the way that you would predict them. He says God ultimately is the primary guide in people's lives. He can allow a person to live a long time even though they don't deserve to. He can allow a person that's doing what is right, generally speaking, most of the time. He can allow them to go through great hardship and difficulty. And he has the right to do that, and he has reasons to do that. He's not obligated to answer us as to why he chooses to govern as he does. We simply need to recognize that he does govern how he chooses. We also see that God's grace is ultimately the basis of everything that is good in our lives. In other words, when we experience good in life, It's not because we earned it. It's not because we deserve it. It's not because God's obligated to give it to us. But it's because God is gracious. He is good in spite of where we fall short. In other words, every good and perfect gift comes from above. And we should be grateful for that. God causes his reign to fall on the unjust and on the just. God gives good things to people who love him, and God gives good things to people who hate him. And the reality is that God deals with people in grace on so many levels, we all are the recipients of God's gracious hand in many, many different ways. And Solomon really is kind of expressing that concept that we need to recognize that the good we enjoy is not because we deserve it. It's because God is good and God is gracious. So that moves us to a third and final observation that I want to make. Not final, but a third observation. Fearing God and having a balanced view of his ways is really how we should respond to this principle. He writes, It's good that thou shouldest take hold of this, yea also from this, withdraw not thine hand, for he that feareth God shall come forth of them all. He says, Let these truths sink into your heart. Live in the light of these truths. If you do this, it's because you have a proper reverence and view of God. You recognize that He's the sovereign and that you serve Him. You recognize that it's ultimately his wisdom that determines the movements of our lives. We are in his hands. And so we need to reverence him and fear him and have an awe and a respect of him, because the reality is that he is the one who ultimately guides in the affairs of our lives. Then that moves us to a final a final observation, truth that we find in the text here. We need to be thankful that God relates to us as He does. In verse 20 he says, There is not a just man upon earth that doeth good and sinneth not. You know what's interesting when we think about this this viewpoint that God gives good to those who are good and God gives evil to those who are evil falls short because our perspective is very limited on what we determine to be good or bad. When we look at a person, we tend to look at them as a generalization. We look at them in their finest moments, or we look at them in their lowest moments. We look at them at a point in time, but we don't have the perspective of the entirety of their lives. We can see their actions, but we can't see their motives. We can see what they did, but we don't know what their intention was in those and what their intention would have been in many of those circumstances. And so what that tells us is that when God looks at people, he sees that all people, 100%, fall short of his glory. In fact, in Romans chapter 3 it says, There is none righteous, no not one. There's none that understandeth. There's none that seeketh after God. And so Solomon reminds us of this. There's not a just man on the earth who does good and sins not. There's no one who God is obligated to treat well in this world. When we receive the good hand of God, it's not because he's obligated to do it, but it's because he's benevolent, he is kind, he's gracious, he's good. There's no person that has perfect righteousness. There's no person that has perfect wisdom. All of us relate to God on the basis of His grace. And folks, that really is why the gospel is the absolute essential for us to enter into God's presence. The reason that we could never enter into God's presence in our own righteousness. is because the very best that we can give God is a filthy rag. When we hold ourselves to God's before God's standards It's not that he goes, well, you're close and you're not. He says you all fall short, miserably short, terribly short. You don't even come close to approaching the righteous standard of God's perfection And so the only way that God can accept someone is on the basis of Christ's work on the cross and Christ's imputed righteousness. The only reason that a person can receive good in this life is because God in His grace has given it to us. In other words, what we should see is if God allowed us to constantly get what we deserved We would not experience good. We would experience evil. We would experience trouble. We'd experience difficulties. When God allows us to experience good, it's because of his active acts of grace. It's his active acts of common grace that allows us to experience good in this life. It's his good hand through the gospel that gives us a position in Christ. It's all of his grace And so when we read this passage of Scripture, it reminds us, God doesn't deal with us in this inflexible way where, oh, you're a good person, I'm going to give you good. You're a bad person, I'm going to give you evil. No, God deals with us in grace. And it's important for us to recognize that. So the question is how do we apply this? How do we take this simple lesson and live in the light of it? The first is this, when things are going well, don't be overconfident or proud. Don't get in your head that things are going great because you earned it. Because God is obligated to do in your life what he's doing. You're not obligated. You're not a righteous person. The only righteousness you have is in Christ. The second point I'll make is this: when things are going poorly, Don't become crippled by introspection. You know, sometimes we go through this very difficult season of life. We may have a terrible health crisis We may go through a financial hardship. We may be experiencing constant trouble in our lives. And we can in a moment like that begin to have in our minds that God must be judging me for some secret sin that I don't know about. And we become very introspective, we become very terrified of God, and we begin to think that God is punishing us in some way. Well, the reality is when God chastens his children, he chastens them over things that they're fully aware of That they're fully being rebellious against God in, that he has consistently and slowly addressed, and they continue to push him away We deal with when we talk about God's chastening. God's chastening is measured. It comes by degrees. It comes a little at a time. And when it happens, we're fully aware of the nature of the why there. But there are other times that we go through hardship, and the reality is it's simply because God is trying to mature us and develop us and strengthen us and build us. In the in the in the situation with Job, Job was not being punished for some evil in his life. Job was an outstanding individual. He was righteous by all all human by all human uh uh uh examples. There there was no one like him living in his time period. Now he wasn't righteous in the sense that God accepted him on the basis of his righteousness. He wasn't a sinlessly perfect man, but he was far more consistent than the average person around him. Yet God allowed him to go through tremendous hardship and difficulty. And there was not some specific sin that God said, because you did this, now I'm doing that. In other words, we need to recognize when things are going well and when things are going poorly That it's not necessarily directly proportioned to something good in us or something evil in us. And the last thing I'll mention is this. Fear God. Be humble before Him and be grateful for His grace in every form that it's expressed to you. When you experience the good hand of God, realize it's His grace. When you experience hardship, realize there are times that God has purposes that are beyond our understanding. And we have to just Bow the knee to him and say, You're God and I'm not. I don't understand. You do. I'm going to trust you. I'm going to submit to you. I'm going to obey you. I'm going to let you do your work in me It's so important when we come to a passage like this that we walk away recognizing how God deals with people. I hope this has been an encouragement to you, a challenge. It certainly was to me when I read this passage this morning and when I reflected on it If it has been an encouragement, see, I hope that you'll share that with somebody. Perhaps just share some feedback of encouragement as well. And Lord willing, on Monday we'll meet back over the weekend. I don't go through the studies. So I hope that you have a great weekend. I hope we'll be able to see you in church on Sunday if you live in the area, if you're one of our church members. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study this text in front of us today. Help us to internalize it, to understand much better the way that you relate to people And to be very humbled and grateful that you are a God who is full of grace, compassion, and mercy. And we are not blessed because we've earned it or deserve it, but we are blessed because you're good. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to talk to you this morning, and Lord willing, uh we'll see you on Monday. I hope you have a wonderful, wonderful weekend. Bye now.