Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. How are you doing today? I hope things are going well for you, and I hope that as we dig into this study Um it's not only practical, but it's also something that uh is instructive and uh it gives you a lot to think about. Uh we're looking at verses 24 through 31 together, so if you have a Bible Like to encourage you to take it, and let's look together. I'll go ahead and begin reading. It says this. And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak unto the people concerning John. What went you out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken with the wind? What went you out to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they which are gorgeously appareled live delicately. in King's courts. But what went ye forth to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and much more than a prophet. This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. For I say unto you, among those that are born of women, there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist. But he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. And all the people that heard him, and the publicans, justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John. But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of God against themselves, being not baptized of him And the Lord said, Whereunto shall I liken the men of this generation? Or to what shall they be like? They're likened to children. Sitting in the marketplace. I'm going to go ahead and stop there. And want to get into this discussion. Now, yesterday when we were talking about the passage, we we saw that Jesus understood that there were some serious questions that were going on in his audience. And Christ was uh concerned about lots of different types of people in the audience. There were some people They were convinced of the truth. They were strong believers. They were convinced that Jesus is the Messiah. And there was nothing that was going to shake them from that path. Perhaps some of Jesus' closest disciples, like Peter or Andrew, James or John, people like that. Um there were some people that, frankly, they were just there for the crowd. Um they didn't know who Jesus was. Uh they seem they thought that he was a an interesting person to follow and so they were intrigued by the message, they were intrigued by what they saw. They were not necessarily there uh for conviction's sake. There are also people that were, they were skeptics, they were doubters, they actually were antagonistic to the message. And so Jesus has to address the issue. And what we're going to see in these verses is that he goes right to the heart. He confronts the heart of the matter. And he's really going to get into this issue of unbelief. So what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like us to kind of look at what Jesus did, how he actually went about that. And I'm not going to get into this as much. today, but Lord willing tomorrow, we're to talk about the why, which is a very important question to ask. So the first thing I want you to see is that Jesus begins with a question and he often did this. Many times when Christ was teaching, he would he would go to say something or make a point by asking a question that got the people thinking. And those who uh were willing to think about it and willing to process it would ultimately be the people that embrace the truth and then there would be others that as they began to process the truth they say I don't want this and they would turn away. So he asked this question. He says What drew you into the wilderness? Verse 24, what went you out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken with the wind? What went you out to see? A man clothed in soft raiment. Now he asks, Did you go to see a reed shaken or a person who was clothed in basically the attire of royalty. You say, well, why did he ask that question? Well He's basically saying, did you go to see a person who just bends with the way the wind is blowing? And that's what he means by a re -shaking in the wind. The answer is obviously not. They weren't going out to see a person who would just tell them what everybody else was telling them. They were going to see a person who stood against the grain. He was someone who stood firm no matter what everybody else believed Very important. Second question. Did you go to see someone who was wealthy and had royalty and dressed like they lived in a palace? The answer is Of course not. He's really hitting on two reasons that people often go to follow teachers. One is because a teacher tells them what they want to hear. The other is that a a teacher will give them the impression That by following their message, they can become wealthy, powerful, and prosperous. Now, both of those are wrong reasons to follow someone. That's not why John was there. And Jesus was making a point of that He tells them very plainly why they were there. In verse 26 he says, But what you went you had to see? A prophet? The answer is absolutely Why is Jesus doing this? He's making the point that the people that are there understand who John is. He's not just giving them this easy message that's going to tell them what they want to hear. He's not giving them a prosperity message He is a prophet of God. They're convinced of it. So within that congregation, or that not congregation, but within that crowd, Jesus is addressing people that are fully aware of who John is. And he's really going uh to address a group of people who, as they are aware of who John is, they are they are rejecting the message, and it's ultimately an unbelief Which is a rebellion. Next thing I want to point out is that John has to address why John's or Jesus had to address why John's message was so significant. And this is important. For the person that's looking to criticize and to undermine Christ's ministry, they've got a great opportunity. Here is John the Baptist, this person who's known you since you were a child, uh, this person who supposedly is The prophet, and he said, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sins of the world. And now this same person is asking, Are you really the one? This is an opportunity that a skeptic would seize on. And so in verses 26 to 28, he says the following. He says, I say unto you, much more than a prophet. This is he of whom it was written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall be prepare the way before thee. I say unto you, among those that are born of women, there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist His his point is that John is a true prophet. John is the greatest of all the prophets, because he was the actual forerunner of the Messiah. There was no prophet that was going to have a closer, more intimate ministry to the Lord Jesus Christ. than John the Baptist. Interestingly, he said he said, as great as he is, the lease in the kingdom of God is greater than him. And I think what he's actually referring to is the fact that Once John passes off the scene, people who come after John, uh who embrace the Messiah after the fact, they're gonna have far more knowledge than John did. They'll be able to actually understand the significance and the implications of the gospel message. But what's the point? Jesus is making clear that John is that prophet. He connects him back to the Old Testament. He is basically saying, John 's ministry authenticates who I am. The next thing I want I want to I want to emphasize here is that Jesus confronted the the attempts that people were having to justify themselves and to kind of explain away his message. and not have to deal with the message. And by the way, this is a really common thing that people will do when they fall into skepticism and there's a rebellion against the truth. Rather than facing the truth, many times a person in such a situation will look for the inconsistency. Maybe they can't find it in the message, so they'll look for the messenger. And any messenger that God is speaking through, working through, using is a flawed person. Every pastor is flawed, every parent is flawed, every missionary, every evangelist, they're flawed people. You can find inconsistencies with them. They should be faithful people. There's a reason that there's pastoral uh qualifications, and we should uphold these ministerial offices uh in in the highest way possible. We need to follow what the scripture teaches But you're gonna find people who mess up. These people are trying to justify their rejection of John and their rejection of Christ. by being critical of the nature of John's ministry and the nature of Christ's ministry. So we see this in verses 34 and 35. John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say he hath a devil. John the Baptist uh didn't come and sit down with people in their homes and enjoy fellowship with them. He was out in the out in the wilderness. He was a solitary individual. He proclaimed a pretty a pretty sharp message. He didn't dress uh like someone who lived in the community. He lived out in the wilderness. And so he says, You say this man's demon-possessed. He's crazy. He's a wild man. He doesn't interact with people like most people do relationally. You rejected him. You were critical of this of the messenger when you could not bring down his message. Then he says, the Son of Man is come eating and drinking, and you say, Behold a gluttonous man, a wine bibber, a friend of publicans and sinners. Jesus' approach to uh John 's approach were actually quite different. While John was the solitary voice in the wilderness, he didn't sit in people's homes and he didn't have meals with them and have company with them and and and and challenge them in a relational context. Jesus was different. He ate with publicans and sinners. He went to their homes as they spread the banquet before him. He ate with them in their home and he asked them questions and he engaged them in conversation. By the way Christ was no slouch, he wasn't giving them an easy pass. We see in these interactions that Christ goes to the heart of where people's problems are. But the point is Jesus would go into the homes of very sinful people, he would sit down at meals with them, and he would engage them in conversation And so these people, in a desire to justify themselves and to ignore the message because they didn't like the content of the message, they would go after John the Baptist and go after Christ's approach to interacting with people. But then Jesus gets to the heart. He is very blunt about it. And in verse 35, he says this: Wisdom is justified of all her children. And by the way, we're going to get into this significantly more tomorrow, okay? But that statement basically means this. The way that a person thinks, what they choose to believe, and what they believe is true and right and good sense, whatever it is, that that body of truth It is going to play out as time goes on. For instance, if I believe a lie, after enough time goes on, guess what? People will be able to see the consequences of the lie. If I believe something that is true, as time goes on and as the matter plays out, what's going to happen? Well, the truth is going to come out. It's going to become demonstrated to be true. And that's what Jesus is basically saying. Your self-justification of rejecting my message and rejecting John's message and the wisdom you are building that objection on is flawed. And as time goes on, the flawed wisdom that you are putting your stock in and your confidence in, it's going to demonstrate itself in the children it produces, okay? It's going to demonstrate itself to be false. He's saying your thinking is fundamentally flawed. The wisdom that you have is going to be exposed by what it produces. And you say, well, what was it producing? Well, it was producing an unbelief that wasn't neutral, it wasn't ignorant, it was willful resistance to God's gracious wooing Here these people have an exposure to who Jesus is. They have an exposure through John the Baptist. They have an exposure through their own eyes witnessing his ministry. They've seen all of these miracles. They've heard all this preaching. They see the connection between The Old Testament and John's ministry and Jesus' uh demonstration of uh his person through the work that he did. They're seeing all these things, and what are they doing? As the Spirit of God is drawing them They're rejecting it. Their unbelief isn't a neutral thing. It's not an ignorant thing. It's not a simple thing. It is a rebellion thing. That's why they were looking for the inconsistencies. That's why their heart was becoming hardened and calloused and their conscience was decent sensitized. It's because they refused to take the truth that was right in front of them seriously. They were unjustified unjustifiably attacking John. unjustifiably attacking Christ, and it was all a demonstration of the fact that the wisdom they were building that that objection on was a lie. It was pride. It was self-righteousness. So the question I think we should ask ourselves is, well, what is the ultimate heart or the ultimate root or the ultimate foundation of this unbelief? Well, the answer is it's an unwillingness to face the personal implications of the message being preached. When John preached a message of repentance , And humbling yourself in the sight of God. And when Jesus talks about the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees not measuring up, and when he emphasizes all these things, you know what he's ultimately saying? He's ultimately saying. that you do not want to face those realities. You don't want to face the implication of your sin. You don't want to face the implication of your of your condemnation and your guilt, and the fact that you have a righteousness that doesn't measure up. And so what does it say in verse thirty? It says, The Pharisees and the lawyers have rejected the counsel of God against themselves being baptized of him. Folks, the whole point of this passage is that Jesus is saying, listen, the reason that you have rejected me is because you refuse to face the reality of what it says about your own heart. Folks, this morning I want to encourage you, let's be a people who are willing to humbly embrace the message given to us. Let's look at the Word of God, let's submit to its authority, and let's allow God to work in us and through us. Let's humble ourselves. In the sight of the Lord and he will lift you up. Hope that you have a great rest of your day. It's been good to talk to you this morning, and Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again. By now