Pastor Chris has a couple of announcements before we open our service. Lots of things going on. If you have your bulletin, we're going to be Looking at these things, we got our mothers of littles on the twenty-third at ten thirty AM. Please keep a lookout in the uh the group chat for the details of that. And then we got community canvassing on Saturday the 28th. And hopefully it should be warmer than the last time that we went But if not, it's still a great time. And the folks that we've interacted with so far are very receptive. So I would encourage you to come on out and let's share some tracks and talk to folks. about the gospel. And then the 29th , we have our January meeting and 2022 report after the PM service. So please be in attendance for that. As well as our ladies' Bible study on the 2nd. Hard to believe we're almost wrapped up with January 2023. And we're gonna Into the cold months. Um, so February 3rd, our teens, we got our board game night, and uh we're going to be doing that one a little differently, so do not plan on bringing any board games, but do be ready to win some prizes And then men 's breakfast and Bible study is on the 11th. The sign-up sheet for that should be in the back. So please stop by and let us know if you plan on joining us for that. Pastor. For the business meeting, the um the agenda for the meeting is posted in the hallway on the back bulletin board So drop by there and see that. Also wanted to mention that we have our new church directories for 2023. And so if you did not pick up one of those, I want to encourage you to do that. And uh we have a section that has pictures in it, uh which is which is really great. Sometimes uh we have a face in mind, but we don't necessarily know the name. And it's very helpful to have that. Also, if you have a picture that you wanted to get in there and you you were not able to get that in for our directory, this this this directory here. Um we do plan to reprint some in the summertime. Um so uh if you are interested in that and say, you know, I missed those picture days and I did want to get a family picture. in there uh just reach out to the office and we'll make sure that we work with you that uh on that for the next thing if for some reason that you um noticed that there was uh you know an an error in in the directory um with your name or your address or something like that. Just let us know. Obviously we are dealing with lots and lots of data and it's easy to uh to miss things. So please remind us of that. I also wanted to mention that this is the last Sunday before our deadline. Actually, next Sunday is also before the deadline, but for ladies signing up for SOS program. Please do pick up one of those and fill it out if you'd like to be in the program and you can put that in one of the drop boxes. And what what we do is we we pair you up with someone and we don't tell them who you are and You know who your SOS is and and what we're trying to do is we're trying to give you an opportunity uh to just be an encouragement. Send a note, um uh just an encouragement so that they know that you're thinking about them, and then at the end of the year year they'll find out who their SOS was. So it's a great program, ladies, and hope that you'll take advantage of that. Today is Sanctity of Life Sunday, and what I wanted to do is I wanted to take a moment to just make a couple of remarks about that. I think it's important for us as Christians to recognize uh that there is a difference between the way that the world looks at life and the way that we as Christians look at life. And I hate to say this, but even there's a difference amongst Christians themselves. It's important for us to understand why we value life. And ultimately it goes back to the fact that we bear the image of God. We are created in his image, and Christ died for our sins, and he wants us to have an eternal relationship with him. And so I wanted to make a few remarks about that. First thing is we we need to uphold a distinctly Christian view of the sacredness of human life. In Matthew chapter 10, verse 29, this is what Jesus said. He said, Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without your father. The very hairs of your head are all numbered. Some of you go, not too hard anymore. That wasn't the point of what Jesus was saying. He says, Fear not, therefore, ye are of more value than many sparrows. You what Jesus is ultimately saying? He's saying, I value all of my creation, even the little birds. If I value birds because I made them and I take care of them, do you not realize how much more value You who bear my image and for whom Christ is going to go to the cross and die, how much more valuable human life is. Human life is uniquely sacred because we're not only created by God, but we are created in his image and the objects of his redemptive love. And so the value of our life is not rooted in how long we live. How strong we are physically or mentally, the things that we accomplish in our life, the way that people celebrate us or choose not to celebrate us over the course of our lifetime. We have value because we bear his image and he loves us. And we need to celebrate human life in a distinctly Christian manner. We need to do whatever is in our power to preserve it and to defend it. We need to invest our energy sacrificially and joyfully into cultivating and preserving. Human life. It's not just about the child in the womb. It's also about our seniors. It's about our elderly. It's about those who have terrible accidents and can no longer care for themselves. The fact is, being pro-life is not just about being against abortion. It's about being pro-life in all of life. We need to think about how we relate to one another in Christian love. The fact is, valuing people has a lot to do with how we speak about them. How we relate to them, how we are willing to serve them. We need to be pro-life in all of life. So I want to encourage you today to pray that God will reestablish in this land A distinctly Christian view of life. That is my prayer this morning. So as we open our service, I want to encourage you to think in that way. Let's be out together for a word of prayer and we will commit our service to the Lord. Father, this morning we want to pause and we want to say first of all thank you. Thank you for giving us the breath of life. Thank you for sustaining the life that you've given us. Father, thank you for providing for us the gift of eternal life through the death and resurrection of your Son. Father, help us as Christians to have a distinctly Christian view of life. Help us to recognize that you alone are the giver And the one who controls life. It's not under our jurisdiction to make decisions that the world thinks they have the right to make. Father, I pray that you would help us as your people to not just be pro-life, but Father, help us to have a distinctly view of the lives that we interact with on a daily basis. Help us to love one another and serve one another and cherish and value one another the way that we should. Father, help us this morning to have a distinctly Christian view of life. Father, we think about this service. I pray that you would work in our midst, work in our hearts. As we open up the Word of God, please speak to our hearts through the Scripture. As we sing these wonderful hymns that express rich theological truth, I pray that our hearts should be overwhelmed by the richness of these truths in your word Father, help us as we seek to apply these truths, to do it appropriately and consistently with your word. I pray that as we worship together, our hearts would be united and we would be richly and thoroughly blessed as we leave this place. We ask that you be with those in our congregation who physically are dealing with great infirmities. They're unable to be with us in person. Maybe they've joined us on the live stream, or maybe they'll watch this later on. I pray that you would uphold and strengthen them and encourage them this day. Father, help those who are strong and able to support and minister and serve to those who are not. I pray that today you would work mightily in our midst. In Christ's name, amen. All right, good morning, Anchor Baptist Church, and very important guests. Good to see you here and in person. Those on livestream, welcome to the services. As we begin our services, we're going to start off with some songs. Let's turn to page one, all the way to one. I can count to one. I'm an engineer, so I can get there. Let's stand, and we're going to sing four verses of rejoice, the Lord is king. Sing out with me Did those pipes warm up? Amen. That's good thing. No, we're gonna turn it back to three hundred and thirty-six. Page three hundred and thirty-six. I rejoice that my hope is in the Lord. Not a wishful hope, but a confident expectation. My hope is in the Lord. All four verses. Привіт, навіть Боже ми Россия, приколай Бога, любляє , при небраже бояйся наша і поранених повітря. And go ahead and have a seat. Two words in that entire song. Make our hope secure. Which one is it? Which two? He lives. Amen. He lives. Now we're going to go to page 134. Now those of you in the books, sing along with parts, rest and just watch the bouncing ball up on the screen. And can it be singing well? Keep singing. Nadie viene el cuerpo , nadie ve que se puede dar ahora de noche. No lo va a decir una cosa. Amen. That's good singing. Now we'll have the scripture reading for the morning. We're going to go to Luke chapter 7. If you've been following along with us. We're in that book of Luke. And we're in that book, uh, chapter seven. So today we're going to read verses eighteen through twenty-three. So follow along with me as I read. Verse 18. And the disciples of John showed him of all these things. And John, calling unto him two of his disciples, sent them to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come, or look we for another? When the men were come unto him, they said, John Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come? Or look we for another. And in that same hour he cured many of their infirmities and plagues and of evil spirits, and unto many that were blind he gave sight. Then Jesus, answering, said unto them, Go your way, and tell John what things ye have seen and heard, how that the blind see, the lame walk. The lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, to the poor the gospel is preached, and blessed is he whosoever shall not be offended in me. May the Lord bless the reading of His word. All right, how great thou art. Thank you, Frank. All right. If you're going to follow along with us in a book, we're going to go to the blue book this time. Page 192 in the blue book. That's in the very back. We're going to sing all four verses of complete In the I'll let you remain seated as long as you can keep singing out. All four verses. Complete in thee. Complete and thee, no work of mine, they take your Lord the place of eye. Thy blood hath hard and bought for me, and I am now ready for I will be glory, God, and I do shall be my. Amen. Stay in the blue book and go back to page 151. Page 151, and we'll sing all three verses of I Run to Christ. When you can't run, stand sitting down, so please stand with me. Stand with me. I rather Christ when there is my fear and I I God is many as well as I forgot to take one of us all over. For a while to try to write me. My God , your letter , put it in me , I 'm not gonna shall go to the So I was allowed to be my Guide me on the great pilgrim through this foreign land I am weak, but thou art mighty, hold me with thy powerful hand. Breath of heaven, Brad of Heaven, save me till I want no more, no more. Give me till I want no more. Open out the crystal fountain Whence the healing waters flow, let the flower and cloudy pillar Lead me on my journey through strong deliver, strong deliver. Be thou still my strength and salt still my strength and shield When I treat the birds of Jordan did my anxious fierce outside There me through those well incurrence, where he safe on Canaan's son Psalms of praises, Psalms of praises, I will ever give to thee, give to thee. I will be to be good. Okay, well our children uh are dismissed to the back for junior church, and before I forget We do have choir starting back up, not this Sunday, but next Sunday. And so for those of you who would like to participate in that, that is going to be starting back up next week and also I I really don't remember if the team parrot meeting was mentioned uh during our our announcements. If it was, you'll get to hear it again. But parents of teens, please do make sure that you come to very important meeting that we'll be having after the morning service and uh we'll be meeting in the room where they do junior church so uh once the kids are out of that room um we'll move uh down there and we'll have that meeting And I think it'll be uh just a really good time. So Luke chapter seven is where we are this morning, and uh we are actually going to be reading verses twenty-four through verses thirty-five. And when I was doing the order of service, uh Frank pinged me and he said, Hey, I think you got the wrong reference in there, and he was right, and I forgot to get it fixed, and so nothing wrong with getting the entirety of the text that we're looking at. But we're going to pick back up where Doug was reading, and we're going to look at these next several verses, verses 24 down to verse 35. And by the way, It's good for us to see what was talked about before last week because it has a lot of bearing on what we will look at this morning. Luke chapter 7, verse 24 says the following. And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak unto the people concerning John. What went ye out to see into the wilderness? A reed shaken with the wind? What went ye out for to see a man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they which are gorgeously appareled, and live delicately are in king's courts. But what went ye forth to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and much more than a prophet. This is he of whom it was written, Behold, I send my messenger before the face, thy face, which shall prepare the way before thee. For I say unto you, Among those that are born of women. There is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist. And he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he And all the people that heard him and the publicans justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John. But the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the counsel of God against themselves. being not baptized as him. And the Lord said, Whereunto then shall I liken the men of this generation? To what are they like? They are like unto children sitting in the marketplace and calling one to another and saying, We have piped unto you and you did not dance. We have mourned to you and you have not wept. For John the Baptist came, neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and ye say, He hath the devil. The Son of Man has come eating and drinking, and ye say, Behold a gluttonous man and a wine a bibber A friend of publicans and sinners, but wisdom is justified of all her children. Now, as I read those verses, I'm sure that there were all kinds of things that were stated in those verses that you go, what in the world is Jesus talking about? What is the purpose of that? And this morning I'd like us to look at some of those details, but I'd like to look at those details in light of a bigger question, and that is the question. Why, not necessarily what, though that's very important, but why did Jesus say the things that he said? Why did Jesus respond very differently to the people that were gathered around him than he did to the people that John the Baptist had sent to him? Those are some questions that are very important and we need to understand what exactly was the purpose, the intent behind why Jesus said what he did. So before we do that, let's bow together, ask the Lord to really help us to understand the text in front of us. And then we'll look at this very important passage of Scripture. Father, we thank you for the Word. We thank you for its authority, its power. We pray that the Holy Spirit would take His word and press it upon our hearts, open the heart of our conscience that we might understand and feel the weight of these truths. Illuminate our minds so that we would understand its implications and how it is to be impact in our own personal walks with you. Father, help me as I communicate this text to do it in a way that's very simple. It's easy to follow. It's exactly what the intent of the text ultimately is. And then Father, I pray that you'd help us as your people, as an expression of worship, to submit ourselves to the authority of the scriptures. And to allow it to ultimately guide us into the way that we ought to walk and to be the people that you've called us to be. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter 7 is a fascinating chapter of Scripture, and what Jesus is ultimately doing in these verses is he's taking the moment where John has sent some people with a question. And he's using that interaction to provide an opportunity to address an issue that is very much on his heart. This is an issue that is weighing heavily on Christ. And the issue is that when within that group of people that had been following him, that had witnessed these miracles, that had heard him preach with authority and power, those people that had an understanding of the Old Testament scriptures. Within that group of people was a group that had rejected Jesus. They had all this knowledge, all this information. They had no excuses, but in the face of all this information, they had willingly Chosen to say no. You say, well, where does that come from in the text? As we work our way through these verses and as you see how Christ interacts with I think that you'll begin to see exactly what we're talking about, because that really is at the heart of what Jesus is doing here. What God wants us to see is that when we talk about this issue of unbelief, we're talking about something that isn't neutral. It's rebellion. It's a rebellion against God's authority. His right to say this is right and this is wrong. His right to say, I'm the Creator and I'm the Lord, not you. His right to command us to bend our wills and to submit to his ways. God wants us to see that unbelief is not a neutral matter. It's a very serious, serious matter. First of all, I want to begin by talking about understanding a little bit of how Jesus taught. And this is an important principle for us to understand when we're dealing with gospel passages. When I say gospel passages, I mean passages within the four gospels. The way that Jesus taught was not just about what he's saying, but about why he is saying what he is saying. That means if I'm going to properly apply what Jesus is teaching, I've got to understand the content and the intent for what he's doing. Let me give you a couple of examples. of what I'm talking about. The first passage I want to mention is Luke chapter 9, verse 29, or 10, verse 29. And by the way, we will eventually in our Luke series get to all of these passages and we'll we'll dig into them. We'll hopefully understand them very thoroughly. In Luke chapter 10, verse 29, we see the parable that Jesus taught of the Good Samaritan. Now, if you grew up in Sunday school, it's likely that you've probably heard this parable taught at least once, probably several times. And generally speaking, when we teach this parable, we teach it with a moral lesson in view. In our minds, we say, you need to be like the Samaritan, not like the religious leaders that watched this man on the side of the road that was completely helpless. He'd been robbed. He'd been left for dead. You need to be like the Samaritan, not like those people. And by the way, that's true. You should be like those people, or like the Samaritan. But the question is, why did Jesus actually tell the parable Was it to teach you to be like the Samaritan? And the answer is, no, it actually wasn't. You say, well, how do we know why he taught it? Well, because we look at the context and we see who he's talking to. It says in verse 29 of chapter 10, it says, He, willing to justify himself, said unto the Lord, Who is my neighbor? Now, if we look at the conversation that led up to this parable, what we would see is there was a person who believed they were righteous. That they could earn God's favor. And when asked point blank, have you kept the law of God? They said, I've kept the whole thing, including loving my neighbor as I love myself. And Jesus, instead of just looking him in the eye and saying, that's a lie, it's not true. He said, let me tell you a story. And by the end of the story, you know what Jesus did? He exposed the self-righteousness and the arrogance, and I would even use the word the hatred that this self-righteous man had for the Samaritan people. Because in the parable, you know who the hero is? It's not the Levite. It's not the priest. It's the person that the man despised. You know, we need to understand why Jesus taught the parable. Another example. Two men going into the temple to pray. We know the story. There was one who was a publican, and there was one who was a Pharisee. And in Luke chapter 18, verse 9, it says, He spake. This parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others. Now, as we look at this story, what we see is that one man who was known to be a very sinful individual, he was known to be very unjust in his dealings with people. This man goes into the temple and as he prays, he says, God be merciful to me, a sinner. And the other man stands up and he says, Hey, God, you should accept me. I'm not like This terrible person over here, and they talk about all the things that he's doing for God. And then Jesus says, you know who the real believer is in this story? Not the self-righteous man. It's the publican. The one who humbled himself and said, God be merciful to me, a sinner. Now that story is pretty self-explanatory. But the intent behind why he told it is very important. But I think the most significant example I'm going to give you is from Luke chapter 18. And that is the parable of the rich young ruler. And by the way, I've heard this parable taught I would say very, very sloppily and really inappropriately because people did not consider the intent for which which it is given. Luke chapter 18, verse 18, it says the following. A certain ruler asked him, saying, Good master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Was that a good question or a bad question? Frankly, it's a bad question because there's nothing that he can do to inherit eternal life. He should have said Master, I'm a sinner and I'm unrighteous, and I have no basis to come into the presence of a holy and righteous God. What is my hope? What can happen for me? But that's not where he started. He started with the assumption that he could earn God's favor through his good deeds. So how does Jesus respond to him? He says, Why callest thou me good? There is none good, just one, that is God. Thou knowest the commandments: do not commit adultery, do not kill, do not steal, do not bear false witness, honor thy father and thy mother. He said unto him, All these I have kept from my youth. Come on Come on, you know the Ten Commandments. You never broken the Ten Commandments? Like this guy with a straight face looks at Christ and says, I've kept all of these. Jesus said, Okay, well you lack one thing. Sell everything that you have, distribute it to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come follow me. I have a question. Does Jesus ever, ever, in any other gospel interaction, tell someone to sell everything they have, give it to the poor, and follow him? The answer is no, he doesn't. So does that mean that there's like there's like a woman of the way way to get saved, and there's a Nicodemus way to get saved, and then there's a rich young ruler way to get saved? The answer is no, there's one way. Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life, and no man comes to the Father except through him. But this man would not listen to the way because he believed he had his own way. And you know what Jesus did? He said, I'm going to prove to you that you do not love your neighbor more than you love yourself. I'm going to prove to you that you do not keep the commandments. I'm going to tell you to do something that I know you'll never do. And what the man should have said is, okay, Jesus, you got me. You got me. I don't keep the commandments. What's my hope? That's not what he did. He walked away sorrowful. He was too self-righteous. To admit I fall short. Here's the point that I want to make here. It's not just what Jesus said, it's why He said it You need to understand that in each of these situations, there is an intent behind why he speaks to them the way that he does. And that is exactly true in the text. Before us. There is a reason that Jesus talked to these people about John the Baptist and the fact that John was having some doubts and he was having some questions. Because he knew it was a great opportunity to address a deep-root problem that was prevalent in the people that were following him at the time, and it absolutely needed to be addressed. And so the question is, what exactly was Jesus getting at? The first thing I want you to see in these verses. Is that John's doubts were prompting a question? In verse number four, it says, When the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak unto the people concerning John. Maybe another way to put that is as Jesus watches these men walk away, in his heart he says, I need to address the elephant in the room at the moment. There are a lot of questions that people have. They're not saying the questions. Maybe they'll come to me off the record and ask me the questions. But inside people's minds is a lot going on There's some people going, if John the Baptist is doubting that you're the Messiah, what in the world am I supposed to be doing about this? Let me give you just a real simple fact. When people follow a crowd without conviction, it doesn't take much for them to walk away. When people follow a crowd because it's easy Doesn't take much to walk away. Charles Spurgeon gave a very interesting illustration. He said, dead fish never swim against the stream. They always go the way the river's flowing. You gotta be alive to be able to swim against the stream. You gotta have conviction if you're gonna stand there when everybody walks away and is saying something different and you're going What are these people doing? They're walking away from the truth. Luke chapter in John chapter 6, verse 65, Jesus said, No man can come into me except it were given unto him by my Father. From that time many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him. Then Jesus said unto the twelve, Will ye go away also? Simon Peter answered him, saying, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life, and we believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. You know what that passage illustrates? It shows us that when Jesus said something that was hard and something that was not truly understood, or maybe it was understood, but they didn't want to hear it, there were lots of people that said, you know what, I I don't have time for this. I'm going back to my day job. I don't think I want to follow Jesus anymore. Why did they do that? Because they weren't convinced of the truth. It was easy to walk away because they didn't actually believe it was true. They were following the crowd. Once it began to cost them something, they walked away. That's human nature. But when Jesus asked the disciples, he says, why aren't you leaving? Peter said, because we're sure this is true. That's conviction. That means Peter was saying if everybody walks away, I'm gonna stay here because I know this is true So when Jesus addresses these people, he knows within that group around him, there are lots of people that are getting ready to walk away. And he's going to address them. He knew that when John's question was given, people are going, Hey, this guy knew Jesus since he was a child. This guy said, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sins of the world. This is a guy that preached with boldness and clarity, and he called out sin. And now he's in prison and he's kind of getting a little bit shaken. Jesus had disciples, and I say disciples, people that were following him for a period of time, who did not believe what he was saying was true, and they had really one intention for being there. They were trolls. Okay? They were there to pick at him, to call out the mistake that they were hoping would be there. They were waiting for an opportunity to exploit a vulnerability and say, You said this, but this is actually what you meant. Here's an inconsistency. They wanted to find fault with him. And that's why they were there. By the way, that's the group Jesus was going to really go after. His questions were asked publicly through these individuals that were said, they needed to be addressed publicly. For the week, some were following a man, and if he stumbled, they would stumble as well. For the simple, some lack the discernment and the ability to carefully weigh the matter in front of them and with firm conviction come through careful consideration to say this is the truth, I stand on the truth, and I'm not walking away from it. I'm willing to To count the cost, if you will. For the skeptic, he's addressing them. They despised the message and they wanted to seize an opportunity. They wanted to discredit the messenger and his message For the misguided, some people said, I believe it's true if there's enough people following it. If it's a large group, it's true. If it's a small group, it's not. That's not how you make decisions about what's right and wrong. You do not determine truth by how passionately people proclaim a message, or how many people they're able to get behind their message. If not one person believes the truth in a room, it's still true. If the skeptics are loud in the room, it doesn't change the reality of the fact. And so Jesus has to address the issue. Truth number two. Christ goes directly to the heart of the issue. And by the way, when we look at the way that Jesus taught and the way that he had conversations with the woman at the well, he says, give me some water. She says, Why are you talking to me? And then he says, if you knew who I was, then you'd ask me to give you water, because I can give you water that you'll never thirst again. She says, Oh, I want this kind of water. He says, Well, call your husband. What's he doing? Ah, he's going to the heart of the problem. Nicodemus says, We know that you're a teacher come from God. No one can do these things except God is with him. He says, Nicodemus, unless you're born again, you'll never see the kingdom of God. What is he doing? Going to the point. Good master, what can I do to inherit eternal life? I've kept all these things for my youth. He says, Okay, sell everything that you have. Give it to the poor and come and follow me. What's he doing? He's going to the point. Jesus knew where someone's self-righteousness really was rooted. He knew where the blind spot was, the the blind spot that they wanted to keep blind. And so what does Jesus do? He goes to the heart. He first of all asks them this question. He says, Why did you come to the wilderness? That's a pretty interesting question, isn't it? These people had jobs, they had families, they lived in homes And they left their families and their livelihoods and their homes and all their connections within their community. And they're there in a wilderness place listening to a guy That eats honey and he's he looks like a pretty wild guy, and now he's in prison. And Jesus says, Why'd you do that? Why did you go into the wilderness? What was your purpose? And so he says, What went you out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken with the wind? What went you out to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Well, the answer is obviously not. When he says a reed shaken with the wind, he's basically saying, when the wind is blowing, how do you know which direction it's going? Well it's the way the grass lays. Was John like that? He just goes to the crowd? Not a chance. Not a chance. John wasn't that kind of a person. If you wanted him to give you a message that made everybody happy, you weren't there for that. Was John dressed like he was a king or a prince or some very important dignitary? The answer is not a chance. He looked like a wild man in the wilderness. Jesus is asking the question to say, that's not why you were here. You weren't here to follow someone who tell you what you wanted to hear. You weren't here because someone was going to give you some prosperous message. You would make lots of money like him and have lots of power like him. That's not why you were there. Why were you there? Here's the answer. He spoke plainly. What went you out to see in verse 26? A prophet The reason you're in the wilderness is because you know that man speaks the truth. That's why you're there. You know he speaks the truth. You know he's a prophet. You know he speaks on God's behalf. That's what's drawing you out there. You know what that tells me That means that Jesus is speaking to people who are fully aware of who they're dealing with. They're not ignorant. They might have been ignorant when they first were exposed to the message, when somebody first said, Hey, you gotta see this guy, you gotta hear this guy, you gotta hear what he's saying. They were simple at that time, but not now. They've seen miracles, they've heard preaching, they know who John is, and they know who Jesus claims to be. And it's really, really important. Jesus is pointing out that they know who these people are. He then goes on to address the significance of John's ministry. He wants him to realize that even though John has wavered a little bit here , John is still a great man. What John spoke is true. What John is saying is consistent with the Old Testament prophets. John is the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies. Even though John has struggled in a moment that does not in any way negate what he has said and who he is. He is flawed, but not the message that he's preaching. Verses twenty-six through twenty-eight it says, Yea, I say unto you, much more than a prophet, this is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before Thy face, which shall prepare the way before thee. I say unto you, among those that are born of women, there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist. He that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. By the way, everybody that's going to follow John is going to know more about Jesus than John did. Because they're going to know about the cross, they're going to know about the resurrection, they're going to know about the implications in a way that John would have not fully understood. The third thing that we're going to see is that he confronted the hardness of their hearts. It is because they understood who was preaching. And they understood who he was pointing people to, and they had seen the miracles before their face, and they had heard the message. It was because of all that access to the truth that Jesus is going to that he is going to address this very, very serious matter. Listen to what he says in verse 26. He says, Yea, I say unto you, I'm sorry, verse number thirty. The Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the counsel of God against themselves. Being not baptized of him. Verse 31, whereunto then shall I liken the men of this generation? To what are they like? They are likened to children sitting in the marketplace, calling one to another and saying, We have piped unto you, we have danced, we have mourned to you, and you have not wept. You say, what in the world is Jesus talking about? Kids in the marketplace and making music and calling out, hey, come and join us. Let's have a good time. And oh, let's pretend like everything's sad and discouraging. What's going on? What is he talking about? He's talking about something that every single one of us has seen. We've all seen this How many of you remember what it was like when you were kids, or maybe you've watched your kids, and somebody in the neighborhood had a basketball goal? Anybody? Somebody in the neighborhood had basketball? I s I'm seeing that. Okay. How many of you it was a trampoline? How many of you it was it was catcher 's equipment? Or it was it was some kind of toy, a football What did every kid in the neighborhood want that kid to do? Get out on the trampoline, pull out their basketball, and start shooting hoops. Go grab their catcher's equipment. You say, why is that? Because if you want to play the game, you gotta get the kid who's got the stuff to come out to play the game. Anybody remember this? Okay. I remember I was a kid. I'd be like You know, looking out, my neighbor, oh, they're not out there yet. And then go back inside and then come out a few minutes later and they'll be like, Hey mom, can I go and ask them if they can come outside so I can play in their yard. You know what I'm talking about. That's the idea. And then you knock on the door and they're like, oh, we're busy and you're like, oh please you can come out and play. And they're like, no, I don't want to play. Keep that in your mind and see what he's talking about. There are these kids that are in the marketplace. And they're all bored, and one kid says, Hey, let's play And they pull out this little musical instrument and they start playing the tune. They're like, hey, come on, let's let's pretend like we're having a celebration. Dance to my song. Sing with me. And they're just like, no, I don't want to do that. I don't want to do that. Okay, let's pretend it's a funeral. Let's pretend something really bad happens. And let's all put on our mourners outfits and let's cry. Kind of like the kids playing in the basement. Oh, let's pretend like we're gonna have a wedding, or let's pretend like we're gonna be in a school classroom, and all the other kids I don't want to play. You know what Jesus said? That's you. I want to play. What is that? Complacency. I don't I'm not interested. Jesus said, you know what you people are like? You've witnessed miracles. You've heard preaching. And you look at me and you look at John and you hear this message and you say, I don't care. He said, you know what that is? That's rebellion. You're not gripped by the reality of this message. Eternal life is available to you through the death of Christ. I don't care. You can escape eternal destruction and hell. I don't care. He is the creator. And you need to listen to his authority. I don't care. And Jesus says that's exactly what's going on on here. You know why Jesus addressed this point? Because he had a bunch of people in this crowd who while they weren't saying it, they didn't care. And then he makes a fascinating statement in verse 35. He says, wisdom is justified of all her children. Now when we talk about the word justified, we tend to use it in the terms of salvation. And by the way, it is a rich salvation term. I am justified. I'm declared righteous in the presence of a holy and righteous God through the righteousness of Christ thought new not through my own righteousness. But when he uses the term justified in this particular context, he's saying If you're evaluating a wisdom, you will know that it is true by what it produces. In all it produces. And when he makes this statement, he's saying the way that you're thinking is going to produce something that is devastating. And you know what it's producing? Complacence. Their thinking was fundamentally flawed. This flawed wisdom was exposed by what it produced. You say, well, what did it produce? Well, it produced an unbelief that was not neutral. And it was not ignorant. It was willful. It was a willful resistance to God's gracious wooing in their lives. You know, when we hear the gospel proclaimed, or when we go through circumstances that are meant to humble us, it's God's way of reaching to us and pulling us to himself. He is wooing us to himself. And there are some people as he is wooing them to themselves, that to himself, that they respond and they say, what a beautiful message. Hallelujah, what a savior. My hope is in the Lord. And they place their faith in Christ and they experience the glories of forgiveness and cleansing and a cleared conscience and an eternity that awaits them in heaven. And there is joy unspeakable. And there are others who, as God is working, they are resisting and they are resisting and they're turning away and they're burying their heads in the sand. And they say, I don't want this. In fact, it makes them angry. They're complacent, they are callous. It's rebellion. They're sitting there in the crowd saying, I want to find something inconsistent so I can point to it and I can latch on to it and say, look, you're lying. They want to do that. A great example of what we're talking about, you know, you see this on social media. Someone will post a statement that is true And then you'll see all these comments. And you know which comments are the most passionate in that stream? Not the one that say, Amen, that's great. It's the ones that want to discredit and they want to attack and they want to undermine. Sometimes you read some of the things that people say, that's illogical. That doesn't make any sense. That isn't true. And they they're passionate. Why? Because they want to discredit the truth. Jesus had people like that. Their hearts were hardened, their conscience was hardened. They refused to look at the truth and accept it. Their attacks on John and Christ were absolutely unjustifiable. What was the point? Their unwillingness to believe was rooted in the fact that they did not want to face the implications of the message that was preached. I hear the truth about the gospel. You know what I have to admit? I'm a sinner. I'm unrighteous. There's no way I can earn God's favor. There are certain fundamental truths that I have to affirm that my pride does not want to accept. And so when Jesus in verse 30 says, the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the counsel of God against themselves , He's saying they heard the message and they knew it condemned them and everybody else, by the way, not just them. And they said, I don't want to accept this message. I don't want to face this reality. Fallen nature doesn't want to face its sin and guilt. It doesn't want to do anything but be its own God and master and Lord. You know what the most predominant mindset in our culture today is, I am the master of my own fates. I can create my own reality. I can be anybody I want to be. I can do anything that I want to do, and nobody can tell me otherwise. And I'm not responsible to anybody but myself. And I am free to be me. You will answer to God. We want to be our own hero. We don't want to be saved. We want to earn his favor. Do you realize that to a self-righteous person, grace and salvation are not a beautiful thing? Because they're saying you can't do anything. You can't give anything. You have to depend upon the goodness and the sacrifice of somebody else It wants to impress God and others with its righteousness and deeds. It ultimately is why people reject the truth. I am convinced the more I read the scriptures and the more I engage in conversations with people, and the more I observe the world that we live in, there is no strong case against the truth. The reason people reject it is because they're proud. Romans 1. 18 says they hold the truth in unrighteousness. The reason people say I don't believe in the gospel and I don't believe in Christ and I don't believe in what God says is right and wrong is because ultimately they love sin. And they love themselves more than their creator. Why did Jesus take the time to address this? It's because he knew that this problem had to be exposed. That's what unbelief is. There is a season where we are we are ignorant and simple to the truth. But once we come face to face with that reality, we go from ignorance and simplicity to full knowledge and rebellion. And that's where these people found themselves. So truth number three, we've got to learn from what Christ did. What's the first thing he did? He asked questions. We've got to ask questions. We engage people in conversation about the gospel. Rather than telling them, ask them the questions that help them to think about the truth. Jesus could have looked at this rich young ruler and said, Sir, you are delusional. You don't keep the law. He didn't do that. He had every right to. He's God. He said, Well, why don't you sell everything that you have and follow me? Why do you do that? Because he knew what was in the heart With with the woman at the well , he could have said, Look, you're an adulterer. You're a serial adulterer. You've been involved with all these different men. And God calls that sin. He said, Call your husband. Husband, not husband. Oh I don't have a husband. Uh that's true, kind of. I mean we'll talk more about this. Why do you do that? It's going to the heart. He asks questions. When we ask penetrating questions, it pricks the conscience. It allows the Holy Spirit to take the truth and press the heart. He started with a basic assumption that they knew what he was saying was true, even when they were rejecting it. I think sometimes when we engage people in conversations like this, we kind of assume That in the back of their mind, their conscience doesn't realize these things are true. If they've gotten to the place where their conscience does not in some way Resonate with the message, that means they have become calests. They have become desensitized It is a process away from the truth. But a person who looks at a universe and recognizes that when things exist it's because they were created. And when there is order, that means there is an orderer And when there is design, there is a designer. And when there is a moral sense, that means there's a moral lawgiver who put the sense in the people. They sit down and they realize something. This world is not random chance. This moral sense that I have comes from somewhere And so when you open up the Bible and you talk about the creator and the Lord and the Judge and being created in God's image, there's something inside of a person who's looking at the facts that goes, that's true. That's true. Jesus said, I know why you're here. Because of John. You know he's a prophet. He expounded the truth. Our authority doesn't do anything. All we are is messengers. We point people to the authority of the scripture. Let the scriptures speak for themselves. Let a person face God, not you. He spoke plainly about their response, rebellion, and arrogance. He just called it what it was. He warned them that their complacency was deadening their conscience. He didn't get distracted by the background noise. Oh yeah, John, he's this hard guy. Oh yeah, Jesus, he's hanging out with sinners. He didn't get distracted by the noise. Fourth truth is this, we've got to humbly respond to what Christ is saying. We need to recognize That either we are someone who's coming in contact with people, that this is the situation in their heart, or people are coming in contact with us. And we are the one that this is true about. What do we believe about ourselves? Do we believe that we're righteous and good and God should accept us because you know everybody's you know got their faults, but we're all basically good as well? That's not what the scripture says. We're all as an unclean thing, our righteousness is as filthy rags. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There's none righteous, no, not one. Why do I think that God should accept me? Oh, because I I go to church, I read the word, I I give money, I'm kind to people. Therefore, we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. By the deeds of the law should no flesh should be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. God's word speaks totally different. Who is Jesus? Oh well he's he's a good guy. It's kind of amazing that someone who just grew up in a little village, you know, 2,000 years ago could become so popular and so well known. Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Unless you believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. There is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. What did he do? He went to the cross. Why did he do it? It was to pay the penalty for our sins. What did he purchase? Eternal life, redemption. Through the shedding of blood, there is remission of our sins. You were not redeemed with corruptible things of silver and gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all How do I receive the benefits of this gift purchased by Christ on the cross? It's by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. Ephesians 2:8:9, for by grace are you saved through faith. Not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. Why am I unwilling to turn to him right now? That's the question. Now, it may not be the question of almost anybody in this room. But it might be your question. Why are you unwilling to trust him Well, I kind of like my sin and I don't want to be saved from it. What is that? It's rebellion. Well, there's so many different ways that people believe, and this is one of those, and they're all equally true. It's not what God says. It's rebellion. I'm not going to answer to God. I'm just One of a long list of evolutionary processes, and something millions of years beyond me is going to be better than I am. That's not what God says. He breathed into Adam's nostrils the breath of life, and he became a living soul. Why would I allow my heart to become hardened and desensitized to the truth? Folks, this passage shows us something very, very simple. Unbelief Is not ignorance. It's not natural. It's rebellion. Jesus commands all men everywhere to repent. What it means is he commands them to turn to him, to turn from their self-righteousness and their rebellion and their pride, and to say it's Jesus alone. It's his death. It's his sacrifice. It's his righteousness. It's his resurrection. I'm not going to trust in anything but what Jesus did for me. He commands people to do that. Will you respond to him? We must turn to Christ while there's hope, while there's opportunity. And I want to encourage you to think on these things It's not just what he said, though what he said was all true and very pointed. It's why he said it. May this help us in our interaction with other crit uh other people that do not know the Lord. May this convict us if we have rejected the gospel. May encourage us in our gospel interactions. Let's bow for prayer. Before we close in prayer, I want to ask one simple question. Is there a person here today? Let's say Pastor Joel? I heard that message, and I've never trusted Christ. I never viewed it as a rebellion. I just thought everybody's got their own way. I got my way. They got their ways. It's rebellion. I need to trust Christ today. Is there anybody that raised your hand and said ask me, Pastor, I need to trust Christ today? You may not be comfortable raising your hand. But you can come and talk to me after the service. You can reach out to me by email or by Facebook Messenger. There's lots of different ways to reach out. You can come come by the office. I'd love to take a Bible and show you what Christ has done. For you. Invite you to come and trust in what he has done for you. There might be a person here that says, you know, Pastor, I engage with people in conversation, and frankly, everything that was said, I needed to hear that too. To sharpen the way that I approach people, to think more clearly about the lost and their needs, to approach people more like Christ did. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us to do that. Father, take the word and use it in our midst. Use it in our hearts. May it penetrate. May it move us Father, help us to recognize how truly dangerous it is to become desensitized and deadened and callous to truth. When the opportunity is before us, now is the time to respond to it. May we recognize this not just for the lost, but for the believer. We need to respond to the truth as well. We need to turn to you. We need to walk with you. We need to turn from our sin. Father, help us to apply the truths of Scripture. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, let's take out our hymn books and we'll go to our closing hymn. 289. Hallelujah with a savior. The truth is, if you've trusted Christ as your Savior, you have something to celebrate this morning. You have something to glory in. If you haven't trusted Christ as your Savior, do it and then glory in it. Let's turn to hymn 289 and stand together. We're to sing all five short verses of Hallelujah, what a savior. And I want us to sing at a cappella on the last one. And really lift up your voices as we sing. Let the people on the live stream appreciate the beauty of congregational singing this morning. 289, hallelujah, what a savior. And I don't know how to make for me , who went to be right. When he of our glory must be on his friends come home to bring Then I do this on the That's a good song. I know somebody wants to pray after that. Scott Moore. Can you close us in prayer, please? Hope that you'll be able to come back tonight. And uh don't forget uh for our teen parents We have a teen uh parent meeting in the uh the room where where the kids have their junior church after the service. And uh also don't forget that next week we will be starting back uh with choir. So Uh we look forward to having a great group out for that, Scott. Let's pray. Dear Lord, our Father in heaven, we thank you so much. Much for sending your son for this morning, for your word being preached. I thank you for speaking to us through your word. um speaking to us um in love and uh beckoning us to come closer to you and to draw to you and uh just find the source of strength that we need for our lives. Just pray that you go with us this day and bring us back at the appointed time in Jesus' name. Amen.