Let's turn to Philippians chapter 1, and we'll look at verses 28 to 30 tonight. Philippians 1, 28 to 30. And in nothing terrified by your adversaries, which is to them an evident token of perdition. But to you of salvation, and that of God. For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake Having the same conflict which ye saw in me and now here to be in me. Let's ask God to help us to understand some very important truths from this Simple passage. Father, as we open up the Bible this evening, just open our eyes to understand these truths. You know every person in this room and you know the struggles that they may be encountering. And you know the struggles that may be on the horizon for them as individuals or as families, I pray that you will help them to to really dig deeply into your word here and understand these truths. And when times get tough, I pray that we'd go back to passages like this. And we would fix our souls on truth, not on how we feel. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. If you remember last week I tried to summarize our passage and I want to kind of build on that. The summary of the per of the purpose statement of the passage is this. In addition to expressing his joy in the church and desire to hear that they are walking In a vibrant Christian community, Paul reminds the Christians how they should face the reality of persecution for righteousness' sake. So Paul has spent the entire chapter talking about his love for the people there, his joy in them, the way he's praying for them. They're afraid of Paul's situation, their concern for him, and he wants them to understand that he's okay. And he wants them to understand that everything that he's going through, it's serving a purpose in God's And so he's okay. He wants them to know that he's okay. And then he gets into this last little part. He's talking about the fact that they also are suffering to some level. And so Paul wants them to understand that the persecution that they're facing is reality and they need to think scripturally about it. And so that's really what this little section is all about. He wants them to understand that because God wants us to be bold and brave and think biblically about the oppositions we face. I was listening to a message this week as I was out walking, and there were actually two messages that I listened to that were dealing with the topic of Christians facing hardship and difficulty. Now it wasn't like I was looking for those messages. They were there, okay? There are certain guys that I like to listen to on a regular basis, and that just happens to be what they were. they were teaching on the past couple of Sundays. And that's just so happens to be what I'm dealing with here tonight. And so those passages really talk a lot about what I'm going to mention tonight. But one of those men made this comment. He said, He said, boldness is not the absence of fear, but it's the willingness to move forward in the midst of fear. You understand what I'm saying? Everybody in this room is going to face fear on different levels. The question is, will that fear pin us down and keep us from moving forward? Or is that fear something that we will push forward in spite of it being there? And so Paul wants them to realize that, yes, you are facing difficulty. Yes, there is fear. Yes, you have adversaries. He said, but don't be terrified. Don't get pinned down. Don't refuse to move forward, if you will. Think clearly and think biblically and be encouraged in the midst of what you're going through. That is the whole point of what Paul is trying to say So the question is, what truths that we can glean from this text will help us to do what Paul is trying to tell them to do? Well, let's look at just three simple truths tonight. The first truth is this: we will face opposition if we purpose to live a kingdom-focused life. Now there's a reason that I start there. Because sometimes we get in our minds that if I do everything right, then everything's going to go smoothly for me. And that's not the case. Everybody in this world goes through hardship. Whether you live a godly life or whether you live a very evil life, you will experience hardship Now, if you live a sinful life, a lot of the hardships that you experience are, we could say, the fruit of living in an ungodly way. There are consequences when we sin. On the other side, when we live a godly way, believe it or not, there are negative consequences we may face on this side as well. There will be people who will look at you and they will hate you because of who you represent. Your presence in a room may be something that actually makes people bristle. Not that you're an aggressive person, not that you're mean-spirited, not that you're being antagonistic towards them, but your presence, what you represent. The way that you think, what you love, what you hate, what you do, what you don't do, that may very well cause people to bristle. Why is that? It's because the world around us doesn't love God. The world around us doesn't love God's authority, doesn't love God's rule, and doesn't love God's word. Doesn't love God's principles. In fact, the world around us is in rebellion against God. And so as much as we align with the Lord We are going to face opposition from the world around us. Notice what Paul says in verse 21 or 28 He says, in nothing being terrified by your adversaries An adversary is somebody who is going after you. They're not neutral about you. Okay? It would be nice if people were neutral about us, but an adversary is not neutral about you. They're antagonistic. They're going after you. They're seeking you out. They would like to destroy you. Whether we like to think of it this way or not, there are people in this world That because you're a Christian, they want to hunt you down and they want to rip you out of your business situation. Okay? There are people that get targeted because of their faith. targeted because of what they represent, targeted because they stand in the way for others in that particular environment. And so he says, in nothing terrified by your adversaries, Paul himself was suffering. And we see that in verses 12 to 13. He says, I would you should understand, brethren, the things which happened to me have fallen out to the furtherance of the gospel, so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in the palace and in all other places. Paul is stating that he is in bondage or he's in bonds, he's imprisoned for the sake of the gospel. That is his reality. He is there because people didn't like what he was preaching and didn't like what he represented, didn't like the way he lived, and so they wanted him in the prison and out of the way. Paul assumes that these people are going through the same thing. He says in verse 28, just read it, in nothing terrified by your adversaries. He knows whether it's because of his time spent in Philippi, and that's probably a major factor, or he knows because he's heard word from people that there's tremendous opposition in that city. Towards the church members. But this is important, and I don't want you to miss this. Paul connects that antagonism with the fact that they were living for Christ. Look in verses 27 and 28. We read this last week. It says this, let your conversation be as becometh the gospel of Christ. That whether I come and see you or else or be absent, I may hear of your affairs that you stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the gospel of Christ So he's basically saying, you as a church, I want you to be striving together, to be standing together, and we talked about that. We developed that last week. But then he makes this statement, and And nothing being terrified. If you look at that in the original languages and you were to diagram it out, what you would see is that that statement in nothing being terrified by your adversaries and the section before it they are connected. In other words, this is part of what he's concerned about and what he wants to see with the church Because you are living for Christ, because you are kingdom focused, I know that you are going to face adversity. And so I don't want you to be terrified. That's the sense of what Paul is trying to say. To put it in simple terms, you and I are going to face opposition and hardship in this world if we choose to live for Christ. This is something that God warns us about in his word. Think about what Christ said in Luke chapter 14 when he talks about discipleship. He says this if any man will come after me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters, yes, his own life, he cannot be my disciple. And whoever does not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Now, Jesus is not advocating for husbands and wives to despise one another. That's not his intention, okay? Or that we're supposed to hate our moms and dads, or that we're supposed to hate our kids. That's not what he's saying. What he's basically saying is this, there may be a time, Christian, and you're following me as a disciple, that antagonism comes from your family. It can be from your child, it can be from your dad or your mom. It can come from your husband, it can come from your wife. And in those situations, your allegiance has to be to me alone. That's what he's basically saying. There can be times that your own life can be in danger. And you can choose the path of least resistance. And you can sort of like compromise and just, you know, get out of that system by compromise and dishonesty, or you can stand firm, do what's right, and ultimately it's going to cost you something. When he says you have to take up your cross and follow me, that was a very vivid illustration for those people. We don't have people getting crucified today. At least not in our country. So it's not something that is a visible remembrance to us. When we think of a cross, we think of somebody's earrings or a necklace. But in those days, when they think of thought of a cross, they thought of basically our version of the electric chair. But it was a cruel and unusual punishment, okay? In our context, we don't allow that, right? It would be like the hangman's noose. From a couple generations ago. Except this was the most brutal and vicious way that the Romans knew to make an example of someone that had gone against the government And so when Christ talks about this, he's basically saying, look, following me may cost you your life. It may cost you your comfort. It may cost you the relationship that you have with someone that is very dear and near to you because your allegiance to me has to be number one. When Paul is talking to the churches in Lystra in Iconium and Antioch, it says this in Acts 14. He preached the gospel in those cities and taught many in return to Lystra, Iconian, and Antioch, confirming the souls of the disciples. And exhorting them to continue in the faith and listen to what he says, we must through much tribulation enter the kingdom of God. Christ talks to his disciples in John chapter 15, and he says, This: if the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own. But because you are not of this world, I have chosen you out of this world. Remember that the word that I said to you, the servant's not greater than his master. If they have kept my sayings, they will keep yours also. But also they these do unto you for my name's sake. They know not him that sent me If I had not come and spoken unto them, they had not had sin. Do you see what he's saying? You represent me. And so that message and that identity, if it's antagonistic to them, they're going to be antagonistic towards you. In John chapter First John chapter three, John says this This is how you can know the children of the devil. Whoever doth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth his brother. This is the message that you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain, who was the of the wicked one and slew his brother. Why did he slow slew him? Because if his own works were evil and his brothers were righteous, marvel not, my brethren, if the world hates you. We could go on to many, many passages, but I want to draw your attention to this very important reality. That if we're going to live for the Lord. I can't tell you when it'll happen. I can't tell you how long it'll last. I can't tell you where its source will come from. But what I can tell you is this. If you live for Christ, you're going to face hardship because of your identity with Christ. And so, Christian, you have to be ready for that. You have to prepare your mind before you go into the battle, if you will. You don't know when it will come. And you don't know how many times it will come. But we need to be ready. We come to a second truth. And that is this. We must make a choice to think biblically in the face of opposition. We have to make a choice to think biblically in the face of opposition. I want you to think about I don't know how many of you played basketball or, you know, some sports when you're in high school, but one of the things that you do when you're on a basketball team is is you you you practice drills. And you practice these drills over and over and over again. And the reason that the coach drills you over and over and over again is so that when you get into the match, when you get into the game, and you're in that situation, you have practiced it so many times that you just respond. You know what I'm talking about? I remember my first ever wrestling match. Okay? I remember it because it lasted a minute and 15 seconds. And I think 45 to 50 of those seconds, I was looking at the gym lights with my head getting squeezed And I was just in tremendous pain and agony. Okay? It was my first ever match. And I remember I got into a position that I wasn't supposed to get into. And I got taught by my coach not to get into that position. And I remember going back and laying in my bed and just thinking through this thing over and over and over again. It's like I repeated that thing over and over again. And that that first year that I was wrestling, I this was my experience. Every time I was in a match I would know what to do like when I got home, not when I was in the match. And so what I began to realize was that by practice It gets to the place where you know what happens? You respond and you don't even think about it. When you get home, you say, why did I do that? Oh, because I've trained that so many times it just happened that way. Well, Christian, we have to, if you will, train ourselves so that we're in the midst of the battle, we respond correctly. We have to make a choice now. before we face opposition, so that we're in with that when we are in the battle and when the emotions are high and we are feeling the pressure, we respond correctly. How do we choose to think biblically? Look at the verses 28 and 29. He says this, to them An evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation, and that of God, for unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ. Not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake. We need tonight to think about the facts that Paul is stating in this text so that when the pressure is on, we stop and say, I have to think biblically about this issue. I'm feeling the pressure right now. I'm going to respond by thinking the right way. The first fact is this: God will not ignore evil actions towards his people. What is the first thing that you think when you're treated wrong? Where's God? Okay? First time we experience pain, we think, where is God? That's the natural response. And when when we are getting this pressure because we are serving God , How much more so we say, where is God? I am dealing with this because of my association with him. Why is God not stopping this? Why is he allowing this to happen to me? That's the way that we tend to think But what does the Bible say? God's not going to ignore evil that is directed towards you. I think of the parable that Jesus gives in Matthew 13. This is something we really need to keep in our minds. In Matthew 13, 24 it says, The kingdom of heaven is like a man who sowed good seed in his field. While the man slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat. and went his way. When the blade was sprung up and brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also, and the servant of the household came and said, Sirs, did we not sow good seed in the fields? Where did the tares come from And you know what the man says? An enemy has done this. The servant said, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up? And he said, No. Lest while ye gather up the tares ye root up the wheat with them. Let them both grow together until the harvest, and in the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers, gather ye together first the tares Bind them in bundles to burn them, gather the wheat into my barns. Now why does Jesus tell this story? He tells this story for the simple fact that we're living in a world, if you will, that is a mixed field. And in that mixed field, we are God's people. We are represented by the wheat. But all around us are far folks who don't know the Lord. And we say, why don't you just uproot those people right now? And he says, no. I'm not going to uproot them because that's going to affect you. And so I'm going to let you live in this world side by side with these people, but there will be a day at the end when I will go into the fields. I will pull out the tares. I will bind them. I will cast them into destruction, and then I will take you into my barns. That's what he's saying. And because that is the situation in the world that we live, that's why we experience these things. And so, fact one: God will not ignore evil actions towards his people. That doesn't mean he's going to deal with it right now. He may wait. He can. It's within his power. But that doesn't mean that he's going to do that. On the other side of that, fact too, when we suffer, it should remind us that God will one day set things straight and rescue his people. In the verse it says, this is an evident token of perdition. But to you of salvation and that of God. And Matthew, or excuse me, Peter mentions the same concept in 2 Peter 2, verse 5. It says, God speared not the old world, but saved Noah, the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness, bringing the flood upon the world of the ungodly. He turned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes and condemned them with an overthrow, making an example unto those that should live ungodly. He delivered Lot. It says just lot. Okay. We struggle with that, but that's what he says. He delivered up just lot And they vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked. That righteous man dwelling among them and seeing and hearing vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. So imagine as as this man Lot is living in Sodom and he you know he made the choice to live there and he suffered the terrible consequences of it. But that did not change the fact that he was a man that did have a conscience. He did have a knowledge of the Lord. He was trying in that environment to live in a distinct and different way. And so all of the people around him, they vexed his soul by the things they said and the things that they did and the way that they related to him. But here's what it says. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation, and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished. That's what Paul's trying to say. You have to trust me. God is going to set the record straight in his own time. And God is going to deliver you in his own time. You have to trust him. When you feel the pressure, those truths have to be the foundation that your soul rests upon Paul makes a similar statement in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. He says, We glory in you and the churches of God for your patience and faith. and all persecutions and tribulations that you endure, which is a manifested token of the righteous judgment of God, that they may be counted worthy of the kingdom. For which you also suffer, seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you. And I won't read the entire section, but he says the exact same thing. He says the fact that you are facing this stuff is a reminder that God's going to rescue you and that God's going to judge them. And those truths have to be the foundation that we rest on. A third biblical fact, and this one is extremely important, our position in Christ is a precious position. So is our identity with Christ, but that will make us a target of the world's hatred for Christ. Notice what it says. For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake. You know, we love the side that God in his grace brought us to faith in his son. And he saved us and he redeemed us and he declares us righteous. But he says, just like I saved you and you have a precious opportunity and a great blessing in that position, your identity with me is going to cost you something. And that's what he's saying. Matthew 5. 10, blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets which were before you. Paul says in 1 2 Corinthians 4, Our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more and exceeding eternal weight. of glory. Romans 8, 18, I says, I reckon that the suffering of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. Do you not see what he's trying to say here? If you are going to stand with Christ, you're going to suffer And so when those things happen, number one, we have to remember God is going to set the record straight. I have to trust him. Number two, he is going to save me, and I have to rest in that. And number three, God is going to use this and turn this for good. To accomplish something that is actually good and noble. The last truth that I want us to see tonight is this. We need to be prepared to persevere in the face of opposition. I wish that I could tell you, well, Christian. If you face this kind of an opposition, it only happens once in your lifetime. So once that happens, you can cross it off your list, it's done. You don't have to worry about it again. I wish I could tell you that. But I'd be lying to you if I told you that. Or if I said, well, you know, whenever you face this kind of a thing, it's only going to last three weeks. At the end of three weeks, you know, you go down, you check it off on your calendar, and you say, I finished the three weeks, I'm done, I don't have to worry about this again. I'd be a liar if I told you that. that. The fact is you have no idea how long it will last. You have no idea how intense these kinds of things will happen. So we have to be prepared to persevere in the face of opposition. He says this in verse 30, having the same conflict. Which you saw in me and now hear to be in me. There are three things that come to my mind when I see that statement. Number one, he says the same conflicts. It's a universal experience for believers. Paul experienced it. They experience it. You'll experience it. I'll experience it. The same conflict. In Ephesus, when Paul, or when Christ writes to them, to Smyrna, to Pergamos, to those churches in Revelation, all of them he mentions that they were suffering. The second phrase, which you saw in me, this happened a long time ago. And they actually witnessed Paul go through these things. But then the third phrase, now you hear to be in me, a lot of times pass on. Paul was still suffering. Do you see what this is saying? We all are going to go through this, and we have no idea how long. So I want to pull this together with a couple of simple thoughts at the end. My first thought is this, be ready to face opposition by those who hate Christ. I'm not telling you this because I. Want to? I'm telling you this because that's what the Bible teaches. And it's reality. Be ready. It'll happen. Two. Choose to focus your attention on what you know to be true, not how you feel. If our emotions become our focus, we're going to get crushed. We've got to focus on what we know to be true. And this text gives us several things that we know are true. Three, trust God to recog rescue you in his time. Trust God to deal justly with those who do you evil. Trust God to use your suffering to accomplish good. That's what this text is all about. And may God help us to think biblically and to have boldness and courage when our time comes Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Father, we are reminded of a sobering reality. I pray that you would equip your people through your word, help them to realize that just like Paul faced opposition and just like those Christians faced opposition, we all will too. Help us to live godly in Christ Jesus. Help us to set our affections on things above. Help us to trust you in the midst of difficult circumstances. Help us to recognize that what we face is a light affliction that works for us a far more and greater An exceeding great reward of glory. I pray that you help us as a church to be faithful through every season of our lives. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.