And the passage that we're going to look at this morning is a passage that obviously is emphasizing the return of Christ. And it's kind of interesting that we have a passage in front of us that emphasizes the return of Christ. Yet Christ is going up to Jerusalem, and the people believe as he's going up to Jerusalem that he's about to establish a kingdom. And they think that they're going to be ruling with him, and the Romans are going to get thrown off, and they're very excited, but Jesus knows. That in fact that is not what is about to happen. And so he is preparing his disciples for what was going to be the darkest period of their entire lives. Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to Luke 19 again. We're reading verses 11 through 28. And the passage that we're dealing with is one of the more complicated parables that Christ taught as he is heading up to Jerusalem. Here's what God's word says. As they heard these things, he added and spake a parable because he was nigh to Jerusalem, because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear. And he said, therefore, a certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom, and he returned. He called his ten servants and delivered for them ten pounds, and said unto them, Occupy till I come. But his citizens hated him, sent a message after him saying, We will not have this man to reign over us. Came to pass. That when he had returned, having received the kingdom, then he commanded these servants to be called unto him to whom he had given the money, that they might know that he might know how much every man had gained by trading. Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy pound hast gained ten pounds. He said unto him, Well, thou good servant, because thou hast been faithful in a very little, have thou authority over ten cities A second came saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained five pounds. He said likewise to him, Be thou over five cities. Another came saying, Lord. Behold, here is thy pound, which I have kept laid up in a napkin, for I feared thee, because thou art an austere man That takest up that thou layest not down and reapest that thou didst not sow. And he said unto him, Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee, thou wicked servant. Thou knewest that I was an austere man, taking up that I laid not down, and reaping that I did not sow. Wherefore then gavest thou not my money into the bank that I at my coming might have required mine own with usury. He said unto them that stood by, Take from him the pound and give it to him that hath ten pounds. They said unto him, Lord, he hath ten pounds. For I say unto you, that unto every one which shall be given from him that hath not, even that he hath, shall be taken away from him. But those mine enemies, which would not that I should reign over them, bring hither and slay them before me. When he had thus spoken, he went before ascending up to Jerusalem. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, as we open up your word this morning, I pray that you would speak to our hearts. Father, help us to recognize the very important truths that are being laid out in this passage in front of us. Help us to recognize that in fact the Lord Jesus has come. Established redemption through his death and resurrection, and he's coming again to establish a kingdom. And we as his children have the great privilege to be a part of that kingdom, that rule. But we will one day stand before our Savior and account for how we have stewarded what he entrusted to our care in this time. Lord, help us to be purposed out of a love for our Savior and a desire to be faithful with the things that are His. That in fact we would be good and faithful stewards of what we have been given. And Father, may we be warned as we look at this text. That in fact there are people who reject Christ today and they have time to repent and believe. But if they do not They will not face him as Savior and Lord and King, but as judge. And so I pray that the truths of this text would really dig into our souls this morning, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I want to begin by kind of helping you to appreciate what's going on in the text in front of us. In fact, um I did something that I thought was kind of interesting. I actually uh went and I was trying to find almost a video that would give you a sense of what it would have been like to kind of trace the steps of Christ from Jericho up to Jerusalem. And so what I learned is I was doing a little bit of research is that from Jericho up to Jerusalem is about 18 miles. Now Some of us probably wouldn't be able to walk it in six hours, which is what uh pip people typically would do in those days, who walked all the time everywhere they went. But as you were going that 18 miles from uh down down in the valley up to j up to Jerusalem, you would have climbed almost a half a mile. And so it would have been a pretty rigorous walk. And a very treacherous walk, and in fact a very rugged walk. Well, at the base of the Mount of Olives, which is overlooking Jerusalem , is where there's a little town called Bethany. And there in Bethany, Christ had friends who he spent a lot of time with. In fact, that's going to be a significant location, not this week, but Lord willing next week. as we talk about the fact that Jesus is preparing to go into Jerusalem. And then if he was to climb up into the Mount of Olives, he would look down and in front of him would be this very steep and rugged ravine, which is a place that was known as being a very dark place in Israel's history. And then as you looked across that deep valley, you would look up and you would see the city itself. In fact, it was at that place you could see that temple mount. And when Jesus looked over the city, seeing the rebellion of the people who were rejecting him as the Savior, he actually wept over the city. And said, if you had known the day of your visitation, you would not experience the horrible things that are going to happen in your lifetime. And he was referring to the fact that the Romans would come just about forty years later and they would completely destroy the city of Jerusalem. They would take that amazing temple that the people saw as the crowning jewel of the Temple Mount, and they would destroy it, and they wouldn't even leave one stone left. that hadn't been overturned as basically a say a way to say, look, we crush you, we conquer you. It was a symbol of judgment against a generation that rejected Christ. And so this is what's going on. Jesus is about to come into Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. And when he comes into Jerusalem, the people are going to celebrate him as their king because they believe he's coming to establish his rule. But in fact, they're wrong. They're going to be completely shocked and devastated, and in fact, many people in that city are going to turn against Christ. And ultimately he will be crucified. These verses in front of us are meant to prepare these disciples for the incredibly troubling period of life they were going to walk through. And so I want to answer four questions this morning as we look at the parable in front of us. The first question is, why did Jesus teach the parable? The second is who is his audience? The third is what does he want them to do, or what did he want them to do? And fourthly, how should we respond to his teaching? And so I'm going to summarize this passage the following way, and then we're going to work our way through the passage, and we're going to come back to those questions. And I want you to think, as you're listening to the sermon, if you can actually answer those questions before I give you the answers at the end. So let's summarize it this way. Christ gave a parable to his disciples who misread the purpose of his coming to Jerusalem to challenge them to be faithful to the events that awaited them. He wants us to view him correctly and to faithfully serve him as we await his return. That's where we're going this morning. So let's dig into the details together. First truth I want you to notice from the text in front of us is that Christ's kingdom cannot be established and inhabited without the cross. Very important concept for us to understand. If the Lord Jesus Christ is going to establish a kingdom, and people like you and me are going to be able to be a part of that kingdom. then there has to be a basis for us to be accepted into that kingdom. Notice what it says in verse 11 It says he spake a parable, and here's the statement, because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God should be immediately appearing. So he gives two reasons why he gives the teaching. The first statement, because he was nigh to Jerusalem, indicates that there was some kind of reason that Jesus was going to Jerusalem. It was not just to participate in the Passover as one who celebrates it most certainly is going to do that. But it's for him to not just celebrate the Passover, but for him to actually fulfill the Passover. Because he as the Passover lamb is going to die for the sins of mankind, and through his death, redemption will be established. The second important statement is because they thought the kingdom of God should immediately appear. What that's telling you is that the people misunderstood what he was doing. So as Christ is going up to Jerusalem and he's carrying the weight of this thought that I'm about to go to the cross and I'm going to die for the sins of mankind. And I'm going to be beaten and mistreated, and I'm going to be mocked, and people are going to misunderstand what I'm doing. His disciples were all around him, and you know what they're doing? They're arguing about who's going to be the greatest in the kingdom. And the reason they're doing that is because they think Jesus is going to come down from the Mount of Olives and he's going to walk up there into the Temple Mount And he's going to establish his rule and he's going to crush Rome and he's going to say, You guys get to serve with me. And they're like, I just want to know who's going to be first and best. And he's like, That's not what we're talking about. That's not what's about to happen. The people expected this to be the moment he would establish his physical rule. And by the way, let me pause and say this. The Bible does talk about a literal physical kingdom. But there is order. There is a progression, a movement of prophetic, of God-giving prophecies and history where God is working in history. to accomplish those purposes, but this was not the time. And they didn't understand that. Now to help you see that, I want you to look back at a couple of scriptures. The first one I want you to do is turn back in your Bibles to Luke chapter 9, and we're going to look at what is stated in verses 44 and 45. Jesus said to the disciples, let these sayings sink down into your ears. I just want you to picture you've just had a little issue with one of your kids. And uh they don't seem to be getting it. And so you sit them down and you look them in the eye and you say, son, daughter, look at my eyes. Do not forget what I'm about to tell you. You better never do that again, because there will most certainly be consequence. And you want them to be gripped by the reality that I will not do that again. That was a really bad idea. You're trying to get their attention. So You get down on their level, you look them in the eye, look at me, and listen to what I'm saying. Jesus is doing that. Let these sayings sink down into your ears The Son of Man shall be delivered into the hands of men. They understood not the same. By the way, delivered means He let them do it. They didn't take him by force. He willingly offered himself. Then go back a little bit. uh uh a little bit less to Luke chapter 18 verses 31 and 34. We actually just dealt with this passage not too long ago. Listen to what it says. Then he took unto him the twelve and said unto them, Behold, We go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written in the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. For he shall be delivered into the Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated and spit on. They shall scourge him and put him to death, and the third day he shall rise again. What does the next statement say? And they understood none of these things. They didn't get it. In fact, interestingly, if you go beyond where we are right now to chapter twenty-four, this is after his death and after the resurrection, the women are going to the tomb and their their desire is to anoint the body of Christ. that is laying there in the tomb because he has died. And they're anticipating that he will be there. And the discussion that they're having amongst themselves is how are we going to get into the tomb? Because They've locked the tomb and they have soldiers outside guarding it. How are we even going to be able to do what we want to do to honor his body? And as they arrive, they realize the stone's been rolled away. And they see that his body's gone, and they don't know how to make sense of this. And there's an angel there that says this, why seek ye the living among the dead? He's not here, but is risen. Remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, saying, You see what he did? He's taking him back to what he had just said. He said, the son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men. and be crucified and the third day rise again. And they remembered his words. Did you see that? The first two times that are recorded, they didn't get it. But now on the other side of it, he has died, he has risen from the dead. They remember what he said and they go, oh, this is what he said was going to happen. Go forward a couple more verses, same chapter, Luke 24, verse 25. Christ is walking on the road to Emmaus. with some disciples in the dark. They don't know who they're talking to. Then he said unto them, O fools. And hard of heart, slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken, ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to have entered into his glory? Then we look ahead a couple of verses from this passage. In fact, the very next text we're going to deal with in Luke 19 is what we call the triumphal entry. And I want you to notice what's going to happen as Jesus descends down from the Mount of Olives and then he comes up into Jerusalem. When he was nigh, even now, as descent from the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and pray and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that he had seen. They had seen, saying, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven and glory in the highest. And him he was come near, he beheld the city and wept over it, saying, If thou hadst known Even thou at least in this die -day, the things which belong unto thee, thy peace, but now they are hid from thine eyes. What does that tell you? And all these passages, they point to the simple fact that as Christ is going to Jerusalem, the people did not understand what he was doing. There were three problems that had to be addressed that make the cross an absolute necessity. The first is that redemption has to be accomplished. God cannot allow people into his kingdom without there being a just basis. This is so important for people to understand. God doesn't just forgive people because he's kind. Is he kind? Absolutely, he's kind. Is he merciful? Absolutely he's merciful. Is he long-suffering? You better believe he's long-suffering. But this God who is gracious and merciful and long-suffering and a God of tremendous love. is also a God of righteousness and justice and pure holiness. And this God does not permit evil into his kingdom. And so there has to be a basis by which God can justly allow people to inhabit his kingdom. And that's the purpose of the cross. Two statements ought to really stand out as you think about the cross. In John 3, Jesus said, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. You cannot enter the kingdom without the new birth. Matthew 26, 39, as Jesus in the garden, he said, My Father If it be possible, lest this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. What does he mean, this cup? It's really interesting if you go back to the Old Testament and you see passages, prophetic passages, where the prophets talk about someone drinking a cup given to them by God. You know what you'll discover in these passages? And you'll see it over and over and over and over again. The cup is a symbol of God's judgment on those who drink it. It's true. Go to the book of Isaiah, you'll see it. Go to the book of Jeremiah, you'll see it. Go to the book of Ezekiel, you'll see it. You know what Christ is saying as he is there in the garden? He's saying, I know that when I go to the cross, I'm going to drink a cup that reminds me that I will be the object of your judgment. He became sin for us, though he knew no sin that we might be made the righteousness of God in him, the just for the unjust to bring us to God. And the Lord Jesus Christ had to establish redemption for people to be able to enter his kingdom. Secondly, the people were in a state of rejection. Not only is there does there have to be a basis for salvation, but you have to accept it. Okay, it's a gift, but you know it. You could you could snub the gift, you could say, I don't want this And when we think of Ephesians chapter 2, it says, by grace we're saved through faith, not of ourselves, the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. He says, it is the gift of God. By grace. But here's the simple fact. While it's available, you've got to receive it. And the people were rejecting the Messiah. In Luke 19, 41, he beheld the city and he wept over it. He says, if thou hast known at least in this thy day the things which belong unto thy peace, Now they're hidden from thine eyes. I didn't read the rest, but I'm going to read it now. He says, the day will come upon thee that thine enemy shall cast a trench about thee. Encompass thee round, and keep thee on every side, and shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee, they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knewest not the time of thy visit And so as Jesus is coming down from the Mount of Olives, he looks at the city and he says, Had you known why I'm coming, had you received me, it would be totally different. But they were rejecting him. Thirdly, we have the concept of history. God is a timetable that he has bound himself to. I think of Daniel chapter 9, 70 weeks are determined. upon thy people and the holy city to finish transgression, to make an end of sin, to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness. to seal up the vision of prophecy and to anoint the most holy. God has a timetable and he's not going to budge an inch on what he's determined to do. And so the problem that the people did not understand what God was doing. Let me pause and say this. There might be somebody here this morning. That I know you're living 2,000 years removed from this time, but in the same way that they did not understand what he was doing, you don't understand what he did. You don't understand why there was a cross. You don't understand why the Lord Jesus Christ took our sin upon Himself, was nailed to that cross. He drank that cup. And died in our place, and our sin debt is removed through his sacrifice. And he rose from the dead and he offers to you the gift of eternal life. And you've got to receive it. You don't understand it. This parable will show you what happens when people reject. Don't reject it. Second truth I want you to notice is that those who have embraced Christ need to be faithful as stewards. In verse number 13, he says, he called his ten servants. And delivered them ten pounds and said unto them, occupy till I come. Now there's a lot of material here, and I'm just going to kind of work my way piece by piece to hopefully help you understand what exactly is being stated here. And I think that this is the primary focus of the parable. Not the only focus, but the primary focus. And it also reminds us that if Jesus is addressing this issue, most certainly we could be unfaithful potentially. So we need to think about what he has to say here. So let's work our way through the details. First of all, we see that there are ten stewards or ten servants who are given one pound each to man to manage. Now you say, what is a pound? Well it's a measure of money And in verse 13 it says, He called his ten servants and delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, Occupy till I come. Now that word occupy has the idea of be engaged in business. And when he says be engaged in business, what he's basically saying is take the money I've entrusted to you, and I want you to invest it so that it multiplies, it compounds. I want you to use what I have put in your hands so that I can come back And I can actually receive the benefits of that investment. In the same way, if you're looking to retire down the road, you may have a financial advisor and they tell you here's what to invest in and you listen to what they're saying and uh if they're not giving you good advice you're probably going to fire them at some point, okay? But you expect them to give you good advice with what you have entrusted to their care. In this situation, it's not just good advice. He literally leaves it in their hands and he walks away. He goes to a faraway place for a reason. We'll get to that in a second. So occupy means invest, what I've given you. He says, till I come. This reminds us That his return is imminent. Here's what it means. He says I'm coming back, but he doesn't say when It's like when I was a kid, and mom would say, I'm going to go shopping, I'm going to do some things, I'm leaving you at the house, I'm giving you these responsibilities to take care of, and uh, when I come back, I want it to be done. Mom leaves. It's like, all right, what am I gonna do? And you know, you start kind of playing games and not doing what you're supposed to do. Hopefully you don't do this now But uh you look at the clock and all of a sudden it hits you, she come at any time. I better get cleaning that kitchen floor I better go wash the dishes. I better empty those trash cans. I better go do the vacuuming. Because I don't know when she's coming back. I just know that she's coming soon. Well, that's kind of the idea here. Except there's a lot more weight to it than uh washing dishes and cleaning floors. It's investing in what he has left in your care. Next, we see that Christ focuses on three of those stewards. Now it says he gave the money to ten, but three are important for the parable that he gives. It says, And it came to pass that when he was returned, having received the kingdom, then he commanded these servants to be called unto him, whom he had given the money That he might know how much every man had gained by trading. So obviously we understand what he expected. Two of them manage their money very well, but not equally. Notice verse 16. Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained ten pounds. That's a pretty good investment, isn't it? Okay? Ten times what I gave you, you have exponentially increased what I left into your care. And he's like, good job, buddy. I appreciate that Verse 18, the second came, Lord, thy pound hath also gained five pounds. Now, what's interesting about these verses is he doesn't say, well, what's your problem? Because the other guy got me ten. He doesn't say that. He just says, good job. But the third failed to do his job. In verse 20 it says, Another came saying, Lord, here is thy pound which I kept laid up in a napkin. One guy, tenfold increase. One guy, fivefold increase. One guy, he lost it because of inflation. Okay, the text doesn't say that, but we understand what inflation is. The question is, how does he respond to these three different people? What's interesting about the passage is that he highlights the cause for why one out of those ten did not manage his resources well. Verse 21, look at what it says. He says, I feared thee, because thou art an austere man. Anybody know what that means? Thou takest up that thou laidest not down, and reapest that which thou didst not sow. The unfaithful steward had a twisted view of the nobleman who is now coming back as a king. He says, I feared. He says you are austere. He says, you take what you didn't sow. He's really saying you're evil. I gotta ask this question. If you had a boss who was hard, wouldn't you think you'd probably work a little harder because when he came back it wouldn't be good for you if in fact you didn't do what you were supposed to do? It's kind of interesting. That's not the way this man processed it. In the parable, he simply takes what he has, he hides it, and he gives it back. The word austere, interestingly, is a transliteration of a Greek term that means harsh or inflexible. He is describing the master as someone that he was afraid of. He is an inflexible, tyrannical person. And I just want to pause and say something here. Interesting note that there was something that had gone on historically during the time that Jesus saying, not the exact time, but leading up to this that would have been in the minds of the people who had lived through, say, the last thirty or forty years of history. During the life of Christ, there were two people that were related. One was Herod the Great, and the other was his son Archellus who were rulers there in Judea. Both were known to be very evil people. In fact, Herod the Great, when he wanted to establish himself as the ruler in Judea , He went to Rome and he pleaded with the people that were ruling at the time. Mark Anthony, you know this name from history, and Octavius, who was later called Caesar Augustus. He went there and basically they sent him back as a king who was ruling under Rome but over the people of that region in Judea. We know that Herod was a harsh, evil, nasty man. You know how we know that? We got history. We also have what the Bible says about it When the wise men came from the east and they said, We're looking for the king of the Jews, Herod said, I want to know about him. Where is he? They said, In Bethlehem. Or the people there around him said he's in Bethlehem. And so what does Herod do? He says, I don't want a challenge to my throne. He killed every child, every male in Bethlehem under a certain age. Why? Terrible man. He wanted no rivals. Interestingly, when Herod the Great was gone, his son Archellus was a lot like his daddy. In fact, one day during the Passover, he killed 3,000 men in the temple, celebrating the Passover. Because he was afraid that they were leading an insurrection against him. The Jewish people hated this man so much. That they sent a delegation to Rome and said, Do not let this man be our king. And so they actually established kind of a middle ground. He wasn't technically a king, but he was a ruler in the region. So as Jesus is giving this illustration, what's interesting about it is that in the people's mind, they knew about Herod. He went to Rome and he came back with power and he crushed all resistance. And they knew about his son, Archellus, who went to Rome and he tried to establish himself, and he was known for killing 3,000 men in the temple on the Passover. So as Jesus tells this illustration, in the back of their minds are like, ooh, there were some things that were rattling around. But I want to say something about our perspective of God that really matters here. This man says, you are an austere master. But is that how God really is? Is that the God we serve? Interestingly, Psalm 18, verse 25 says this With the merciful thou wilt show thyself merciful. With the upright thou wilt show thyself upright. With the pure, thou wilt show thyself pure. With the froward, thou wilt show thyself froward. For thou wilt save the afflicted people, wilt bring down high looks. Let me tell you something about God. God is exceedingly merciful. He is exceedingly patient with people. As I go back over the illustration, you know what's really interesting? As Jesus asked this man questions, first of all, he didn't compare the guy that had a tenfold versus the fivefold. He didn't make that comparison. He just said, well done. Even the third guy who said you're an austere man and he indicts him as being an evil master, he said, if all you did was put that money in the bank and get a little bit of interest, I wouldn't Isn't that amazing? But that's not what happened. And what we see emphasized here is that when God comes gently to people and they humble themselves, He speaks very gently to them. When somebody resists him, he's very patient. He's very long-suffering. He's a God of incredible grace. But when someone hardens their face, there comes a point where like Pharaoh, the Be judged. grace And the fact is, as this man speaks of how he views his master, it is clear in this text that in fact he doesn't see him the right way. And that was the cause. for his unwillingness to be a faithful steward. In each situation, the noble man's reaction was just and the quality of the steward's work was commended. Verse 17, well done, good servant. You have been faithful in a very little, you'll have command over ten cities. Verse 19, likewise to him, be thou over five cities. By the way, he's coming back as a king, not just as a nobleman. And so he's allowing these individuals to participate in his rule. He is giving them authority based on how they have done with the small thing he gave to them. The third one, rebuke and a justified justifiable demotion. Take from him the pound and give it to him that has ten. He said, you weren't faithful with the little thing, I'm not giving you more. I'm actually going to take what you had, I'm going to give it to someone else because they are faithful and you are not. Do you realize that that's how God deals to people? That's what's being communicated here. He is highlighting this principle of adding responsibility to those who demonstrate faithfulness and demoting those who have not been. Verse 25, they said, Lord, he has ten pounds. He said, I say unto you, unto everyone which hath shall be given, and from him that hath not, even that he hath shall be taken away. What is the point of Christ to these people? His point is simple. Faithfully manage what God has entrusted to you. Be focused as you perform your duties before him. Don't be bitter or ungrateful toward him as you do it. Remember, one day you will present your work to him. That's a very simple application, isn't it? That is what he expected of them. But that's not the end of the parable. Because there's a second group that he's going to address here as well. Interestingly, in the same parable, he is emphasizing how the believer is to respond and also how the unbelievers to respond. He's hitting both in that sermon. The third truth is those rejecting Christ must repent and believe. In verse fourteen he says, but His citizens hated him and sent a message after him saying, we will not have this man reign over us. Interestingly What Jesus is referring to here is exactly what the mob is going to do on that final day as Jesus stands before Pilate. They're going to say, take him and crucify him, give us Barabbas. So as Jesus is saying this, he's talking about the people that he's going to meet when he goes into Jerusalem. The people that don't understand why he's coming. But he's not just talking about them. He's talking about people in every generation who reject him. While the primary focus of the parable is faithful stewardship, a secondary focus is the ultimate end of those who reject the king. And look down in your Bible again at verse 27. He says, those my enemies which would not that I should reign over them bring hither and slay them before me. Two important details. They had time, but not indefinite time. And two, if they continued to harbor their rebellion, they would be severely judged for that rebellion. What is Christ's point? Do not think you can rebel against God without consequence. If you fail to turn to Him while there is time, you will suffer the irreversible judgment that is coming on that final day. That's the parable. Now the question is, how do we put it together and apply it to ourselves? I would say it this way, viewing him correctly and faithfully serving him is the focus of this parable. Let's go back to those questions we asked at the beginning. Why did he teach the parable? Well, some of the people were misunderstanding the difference between his first and second coming. Christ was going up to Jerusalem not to establish a kingdom, but to establish a basis by which there could be a kingdom. He was going to die as our sin-bearing substitute. Others needed to be exhorted to remain faithful. They understood we need the Savior. There were some things maybe before the cross and the resurrection they hadn't completely figured out in their minds. They would understand it after the fact, like the women who came. to that empty tomb. But the fact is they needed to be warned that one day he's going to go, and during that time, you need to be faithful. Others in that group needed to be called to repent and trust Christ. Many of the people that were there in that group hearing this parable, they were just like those people in the parable who hated the king. Did it want him to rule. And they would say, crucify him. You know, it reminds me of what happens in the book of Acts at Pentecost. At Pentecost, as Peter is preaching, he says, Men and brethren, you have crucified the Lord of glory. And this is what they said What do we do? What do we do? He said, repent. You have rejected him, embrace him In fact, interestingly, he even makes a statement. He says, save yourself from this untoward generation. That's what he said. He said, if you'll turn to Christ, you'll escape that horrible judgment that is coming to this generation that says no. In other words, even people who have shook their fist in the face of a holy God, and they have resisted him for years and years and years, have time to Don't be one of those people. Second question, who was his audience? Well, part of the audience was confused people who were complacent though they were believers. Others were rebellious unbelievers who didn't want to hear it. They didn't want to accept it. They wanted to push away the idea of Christ being their king and the way that he was going to do it. Third question: What does he want them to do? Well, faithfully manage what's been entrusted to you. Be focused as you perform your duties. Don't become bitter or ungrateful toward him. Realize one day you'll be Presenting your work to him. Don't think you can rebel against him without consequence. That's what they were to hear as they heard this parable. Here's the question: what are we supposed to do? We understand about them. We're living 2,000 years removed from this passage of scripture. How should we respond to Christ? Let me give you some final thoughts that I hope will challenge you. First is this understand salvation can only come through the cross of Christ. There might be somebody here this morning, either in person on the live stream. And the fact is, you've never understood that salvation is not keep the Ten Commandments, go to church, pray, tithe, be as good a person as you can. Do good, be good, look good. If you can do all those things, then God's going to accept you when your good works finally outweigh your bad works. That's not salvation, folks. That's a complete misunderstanding of the gospel. The gospel is good news. He did it. There's nothing for you to do. Simply to take him at his word. And trust in his work for you. Salvation does not come through your works or your righteousness or your commitments. or your struggles or your sacrifices or your good deeds, it comes through the cross of Christ, period. Secondly, if we neglect to humble ourselves and trust in this cross, we will face his eternal judgment. Every day that you live Is one day closer to a day that will most certainly come, but you don't know when. Do not gamble with eternity. Embrace the gospel while you can. Third, if you are saved, be faithful with whatever he has put into your care What I love about this passage is Christ doesn't say, well, you know, you did 10, you did five, so you did a good job. He doesn't do that. He simply entrusts to them Comparable to what they did. You were faithful, I give you more. You were unfaithful, I'm going to give what you had to someone else. Very, very simple. Be faithful. If you're saved, be faithful with what he has put into your care. Don't get distracted by the failures of those around you, the triumphs of those around you, the bitterness of those around you. You know, in this song we sang in these last days it's going to be terrible. I mean that's that's straight from the book. Uh straight from the scriptures. As Paul writes To Timothy, he says in these last days it's going to be terrible. Men will be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, plowed, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy. He lays out all of these things. Don't let the times we're living in, the mentalities of our culture, distract you from keeping your eyes on what God has for you to do. Don't look at the people around you and get discouraged because you don't do as much as them. It's not a competition. Just about being faithful. Stay focused, invest your life wisely in a service. I want to close with what Paul says in 1 Corinthians chapter 3, because this is taking the exact teaching of Christ and just laying it out in an epistle. Here's what it says. We are laborers together with God. According to the grace of God which is given unto me as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation and another buildeth thereon. Let every man take heed how he builds thereon. Now, if any man build on this foundation gold, silver, precious stone, wood, hay, and stubble, every man's work shall be manifest. The day shall declare it. It shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. But he himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire. That last little statement, you know who that was? That was the third guy. That was the third guy. I asked this simple question. What are you doing with what God has given you? Have you trusted Christ as your Savior? Do you know for certain if you were to die today you'd spend eternity with Him? Do you understand that salvation is through the cross of Christ alone? Not through what you do for Him? If you don't know the Lord as your Savior, don't leave this place without sitting down with me or someone else, letting us take the Bible and show you how you can know for certain your saved. Don't leave here without that assurance. And for all those who have that assurance, don't walk out of these doors flippantly. The time that we have between now and our last day matters. We need to be faithful to what he's given us. Those stewardships that he has placed into our hands, we need to invest them wisely. Because we love him. Don't be bitter against him. He's not an austere and evil man. He's a wonderful savior. Let's never forget it. Let's bow together for prayer. With every head bowed and every eye closed before we close. Is there someone here this morning that would say, Joel, I really don't know for certain that I'm saved? I need to talk to somebody about this issue. I'm not going to call you out. I'm not going to ask you to stand up or anything like that. I simply want to take note that you've raised your hand so that I can make Make it a priority to speak with you. Is there anyone here that would quietly raise up your hand and say, Pastor, that's me. I need to speak with someone because I do not know for them. Certain that I'm saved. Anyone at all? The quietness of this moment. Please do not hesitate to speak with me if you are uncertain. If there's anyone that's struggling with this issue of faithfulness, you just need encouragement, I'd be glad to speak with you at any time. May God help us to take the word and live in the light of it. Our Father, thank you for your word. It is powerful. It gets down into our souls. It reveals what is lurking in the shadows of our hearts. And Father, help us as your people never to be bitter towards you or to have this attitude that you are a harsh Tyrannical judge, but in fact you are a savior who is meek and lowly. And you are very kind to your people. But Father, I pray that those who have not embraced the cross would recognize that one day they will face a holy and just judgment. And so may we find a correct view of you and may we live in the light of it. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.