And we are in James chapter 2. And the passage that we're going to be looking at this morning is a very, very practical, very, very important. chapter and section in God's Word, it's also one that's often misunderstood. So I hope that as we dig into this passage of Scripture, we will understand exactly what the scripture teaches about the relationship between faith and works and how when a person becomes a new creature in Christ, it radically changes the very person that has embraced the gospel. So this morning we'll be looking at James chapter 2 verses 14 through 18 together. James 2 verses 14 through 18. What does it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be warmed and filled, notwithstanding you give them not the things which are needful to the body, what doth it profit? Even so, faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works Show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show you my faith by my works We come to this passage of Scripture. The purpose of the text in front of us is to remind us that though faith is an invisible internal reality, time will reveal its presence in the change it produces in us. And this morning I was listening to a message, and the message was entitled Walking by Faith. It was another pastor that I enjoy listening, and as I was out walking this morning, I was thinking about the message that was presented. And he told the story of a man who was steeped in religion. And this man who was steeped in religion believed that the way that he became uh uh right with God, the way that God would accept him was through his good deeds and through doing lots and lots of religious service to God. But there came a point in this man's life where he went through a tremendous crisis. And in that crises, he began to recognize that he was a very broken person. And in the midst of that crisis, he came in contact with a passage in the book of Habakkuk that says, the just And then again we see that this passage is quoted again in the book of Romans where it says, that the just shall live by faith. And as this man began to go through a crisis of life, he began to recognize that we are not justified before God by doing good and keeping his commandments. On the other side, though, we see something about faith, repentance, regeneration, conversion, what we call new birth in Christ. A person who has genuine faith in Christ is a person who is going to be so changed fundamentally by the nature of the gospel that there's going to be something that flows out of their life that is trusting in the finished work of Christ. In fact, that's what we're looking at this morning. We are not looking at how a person becomes a Christian. We're not looking at how God justifies a sinner in his courtroom. What we are looking at is what takes place in a person and how it changes what they do and how they relate to people and the world around them. What we will see is that when a person has faith in the gospel, there are works that flow out of that faith in the gospel. That faith is not dead. It's not lifeless. In fact, it's alive and it produces something in us. And that's what we're going to look at today. How the internal reality of faith is revealed in the circumstances of life. How what is produced in us is really the result of a new nature in Christ and the result of a new dependence on the finished work of Christ. What God wants us to do is guard against the temptation to cheapen the power of the gospel. When we talk about the gospel, we need to understand the gospel is not simply only a legal transaction. Now there is a sense in which the gospel is a legal transaction, if you want to put it that way. In other words, when a person repents and trusts in the finished work of Christ, God declares them legally not guilty because they're in Christ. That is a legal sense. But that's not the only aspect of the gospel that we see. We see that when a person is legally declared righteous, They are also born again. They are regenerated. They have new life in Christ that they did not have before. They become new creatures in Christ. And old things pass away and all things become new. We need to guard against the temptation to cheapen the power of the gospel. That's what the text in front of us is all about. It's saying not only is the gospel declaring me not guilty and forgiving me, but it's changing me as a person. It makes me somebody that I wasn't before that moment where I was born again. How can we guard against the temptation of Chipa and the power of the gospel? That's the question we're going to answer this morning from the passage that we just read. And so I want us to move through several very important truths about the nature of conversion, the nature of how the gospel changes us, the nature of what happens when a person trusts Christ. I want us to look at several truths about that this morning, that will help us to guard against the temptation to cheapen the power of the gospel. The first truth we'll find this morning from the scriptures is that not all professing Christians are born again. Now when I say this, I don't want you to give to get the impression that I'm sitting here going, just because somebody placed their faith in Christ and said that they've done that, I don't believe that they're saved. That's not what we're saying at all. We are simply saying that it's possible for somebody to say, I am a Christian. I believe in the gospel, and it's nothing more than empty words. That's what we're saying We're saying it's possible for a person to say, I've believed that message, even to the point where a person can say, I'm willing to get baptized, I'm willing to join the church. They can say the right things, but deep down in their soul, there's never been a genuine faith in the finished work of Christ. That is possible, and we know it's possible because of the passage in front of us and other passages we'll mention this morning. Notice what James says in verse 14. What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith and have not works? Can faith save him? There are three important questions or observations I want us to take from this first little section that we're looking at. And the first observation is this. He's talking about a person who claims to be a Christian. He says he has faith. Now he may actually have faith. He may not actually have faith. The question is, how do you know the observer, the one having a conversation with this person How do you know, or how is your confidence that this person is truly saved? How does that take place? Well, the second observation is he's talking about a very specific kind of situation. He says, can faith save him? What's interesting is when we look in it look at this statement in the original, we'll see it has the idea of can this kind of faith in other words A faith that is professed, I have it, but doesn't have any demonstration or action that flows out of it. Can that kind of a professed faith actually save the person? In other words, a profession that has no evidence of converting power of the gospel, can this really be a trustworthy profession of faith? A person says, I believe in the gospel, yet you watch their life and there is nothing in them. Nothing that they say, nothing that they hold dear to them, nothing about the way that they live that gives any evidence of the fact that they really believe in the gospel. Should we really have confidence in such a profession? It was kind of interesting when I I was a missionary for several years in West Africa, and we did a survey of people in our community. In fact, we went to several It was over a thousand people that we talked to when we did our survey. And in the survey, we asked a series of religious questions. We asked about church attendance. We asked about baptism. We asked about do you read the Bible? We asked about prayer. We asked so many different questions related to religious viewpoints and beliefs. One of the questions that we would ask is, have you ever made Christ your personal Lord and Savior? Very common terminology used in that culture. Maybe a similar kind of statement that we would ask here is, have you ever asked Jesus into your heart if we're talking to a child? And lots of people would say, oh yes, I did that when I was in Sunday school. And so let's say around 98, almost 99% of the people we surveyed said, I have made Christ my personal Lord and Savior. And by the way, what's really interesting about that is many of the people that we surveyed didn't go to church, did not even consider themselves to be Christians necessarily when it came down to their family background, but they said, I've made Christ my personal Lord and Savior. But then we got into some other questions about the nature and essence of the gospel. Who is Jesus? What part do our works play in us being declared righteous before God and forgiven? Is salvation a gift or a reward? And all of a sudden, as we got into some of these questions about the nature of the gospel, here's what we discovered. Out of the 98, almost 99% of the people that said, I have made Christ my personal Lord and Savior, less than 20%. had a biblical understanding of the gospel in its most basic form, meaning that I'm saved by the work of Christ alone. Or that salvation is a free gift purchased by the work of Christ, not earned by my good deeds. You know what that tells me? Professing that you're a Christian doesn't necessarily mean that you are. Because out of that huge group of people, the vast majority did not understand the most basic elements of the gospel. How can you have faith in a gospel that you don't actually understand? It's impossible. And that's the point of this statement. One of the ways that you can see that a person's professed faith is not real is that their life shows no evidence of the grace of God radiating through that individual. There's no evidence that the Holy Spirit Spirit has resided in that individual, or that there is the fruit of the spirit in any way. The statements that are made, the interactions that people have, there's no evidence at all. That's the scenario we have. And so he's asking the question, expecting an answer. Can this kind of face actually save somebody? Just saying, I'm a Christian. Well, in order to answer that question, we really need to dig into two fundamental questions about the nature of the gospel The first question is this, what is it that actually makes a person a Christian? You know, when we're in a scenario where we don't know if a person's a believer or not, we have to begin with the most basic question, what actually makes you a Christian? One of the most common things that we see is that people believe you're a Christian because of the family you're born into or the culture that you live in. Or because of some verbal declaration that you make. And I want you to realize that the Bible never, never, never teaches that we become a Christian by physical birth Who my father is, who my mother is, whether or not they're associated with a Christian church has nothing to do with whether or not I'm a Christian. In other words, if I have on my birth certificate I'm a Christian because mom and dad were Christians, doesn't mean I'm a Christian in the biblical sense. You know how we know that? We have a conversation that Jesus had with a man named Nicodemus. Nicodemus was one of the most respected men of his generation. He was called the rabbi. He was the teacher of the teachers. He was an older man. And he comes to Jesus one night. And he says, teacher, we know that you're come from God because there's no one that can perform these miracles that you're performing. And Jesus says this, Nicodemus. Except a man be born, again , very important word, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And Nicodemus thought, what on earth is this man saying? I am a rabbi. I am a teacher. I'm a part of the Sanhedrin. People respect me. I teach God's word. How in the world can you tell me I will not see the kingdom unless I'm born again? I don't get it. Jesus then says it again, marvel not that I say unto thee, you must be born again. And Nicodemus says, I don't understand how this is possible. And Jesus goes on to explain that as the servant was serpent was lifted up in the wilderness in the same way the Son of Man must be lifted up, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. but of everlasting life. But what does the Bible tell us here? It tells us that we're not a Christian, we're not born again, we're not actually going to enter God's kingdom because of who our father or mother was Or because of some association based in our culture. He goes on to say this. I'm talking about a spiritual birth. He says, the wind blows wherever it listeth, and you hear the sound thereof, but you cannot tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth, so is everyone that is born of the Spirit. He's talking about a new birth, a spiritual birth, where there's life that wasn't there before, that's now there forever. That's what he's talking about. It's not simply by a verbal declaration. No, by the way, a verbal declaration may be associated with genuine faith in Christ. But at the same time, it may not be associated with genuine faith in Christ. In Matthew 7, Jesus says, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven. He says, Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? In thy name cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works, and then will I profess to them, I never knew you He's not saying, well, I knew you and then you were lost later. He's not saying that. He's saying, I never knew you. You believed that you were a child of God, a Christian, but it was not associated with faith in the gospel. It was associated with something else. In other words, we don't become a Christian by family culture or by verbal declaration. We don't become a Christian by money or tradition. First Peter 118 he says, You were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold. Nobody pays their way into heaven by giving money to the church. There are lots of people that give money to the church or a church or some religious association because they believe somehow through the giving of that money they earn their way to God. Yet the scripture says you're not redeemed through silver and gold, or through some vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers. Those who are a part of the Jewish culture believe that they became God's children through circumcision. Many a person believes that you become God's child through your baptism. But the reality is that baptism and taking something like circumcision has nothing to do with becoming a Christian. So, how does one become a Christian? This is so important. This is actually fundamental to understanding what James is saying in James chapter 2. We come by means of two things. One is new birth. Except a man is born again. He cannot see the kingdom of God. Marvel not that I say unto you, you must be born again. And through personal response to the gospel, Acts 20, 21, Paul preached repentance toward God and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. The way that we're forgiven and cleansed And we're declared righteous by God, and we and we become his child, is that there's a moment in our life where we respond to the gospel in repentance and faith. And at the very moment that we respond to the gospel in repentance and faith, God makes us a new creature in Christ. We are born again. Old things pass away, and all things become new. In other words, it's not family culture, something I say, money or tradition, it's by birth of the Spirit. It's through faith in the finished work of Christ. Folks, many a person believes They're a Christian because of whose father they have, or because of who their mom is Or because of something they said as a child without any concept of the gospel at all, because they faithfully give and they follow some tradition or system of practices. Folks, salvation comes through trust in the finished work of Christ. The means through which God gives us forgiveness and cleansing is the work of Christ When we trust alone in him, he gives us eternal life. And I asked this question today. Have you been born again? If you say, I have no idea, that's a great indication that you probably don't understand what that means. The basis of our salvation, though, is not our faith or the new birth. It's what Jesus did for us. In 1 Peter 3. 18 it says, Christ also suffered for sins the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God's. Being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit. When I make a distinction between basis and means, I think it's important for you to understand what that distinction means. When I talk about basis, I'm saying this. When God looks at you and says, here's why I declare you righteous He's looking at what Jesus did for you on the cross. He's looking at Christ's death for you. He's looking at the resurrection of Christ. He's looking at the righteousness of Christ. He says, I'm declaring you righteous, not because you are, not because of something you've done, but because of what's been done for you. Done in your place. When we talk about the basis of our salvation, it's not in us, it's in what he did for us. When we talk about means, though that's a different matter. Means is how does the salvation that's available to us get applied to us? In other words, how do I receive what God calls a gift? And it's by faith alone in Christ. In other words, the means through which God gives me the benefits of the gospel is faith And so when I stand before God, he's not going to say, I saved you because of your faith. He's going to say, I saved you because of what Christ did for you. And you're now in this position by means of your faith. Folks, that's the gospel. That's how we become God's children. It's not because we're good, and it's not because we're righteous, it's not because of what we gave to God, it's not because of some physical birth. Not because of some tradition, it's because of what Jesus did for us. And so here's the second question. How can another person verify that our profession is genuine? That's really what the question is on the table in James chapter 2. James chapter 2 is in talking about how does God declare you righteous? How do the benefits of the gospel get pressed into you? How does God forgive you and cleanse you? That's not on the table. What's on the table is how can you verify that somebody who says I'm a Christian really is? And here's the answer in verse 18. The answer is: show me thy faith. Without your works. And you say, I can't. Because faith is invisible. He says, I'll show you my faith by my works. What do you say? About a person who says they're a Christian, there's only two things that I can look at to verify. Number one, do they understand the gospel? Does this person give me a genuine explanation of the gospel? Christ died for my sin. For instance, let's say I'm interviewing somebody to get baptized. Okay, when somebody wants to get baptized, we ask them some questions. One of the questions is, can you explain to me how a person gets saved? What takes place? Or how do you know for sure that you're a Christian? They say, well, I I go to church, I grew up in this home, they're telling me all these things that have nothing to do with the gospel. All of a sudden I go, does this person understand? But when that person says, well, I don't deserve to be a Christian at all, it's what God did for me. Christ died for my sins. Well, who is Jesus? He's God in flesh. At a point in time, he walked into his creation, he lived a perfect life, he died for my sins. I go, okay. That makes sense. Is he still dead? No, he rose from the dead. He conquered death. He proved that he is who he said he was. Okay, we're getting somewhere. And so how does somebody actually receive the benefits of the gospel? Christ's death paid the penalty for my sin. His righteousness has been given to me at the moment I trusted in his son. That's okay. Now we're getting somewhere. What's the point? The point is that if a person doesn't understand the gospel, they're not saved. It's very simple, but it's very true. If they don't understand the gospel, they're not saved. On the most basic level, if you don't understand the gospel, you're not saved. But just because someone understands the gospel intellectually does not necessarily mean they're saved. I've met people who are agnostics. And they can articulate the gospel better than some kids who grew up in Christian schools. I'm serious. They can tell you what Jesus did, but they don't believe it. There's a difference between being able to explain to you facts and embracing them and depending upon them as your only means to stand righteous before God. And so what do I have to look at beyond the explanation of the gospel? I go, is there evidence that what you say you believe really is believed? In other words, when I have some conversations about certain matters, all of a sudden I start saying, you know, there's evidence that what they say they believe, they really do believe. When they get into a conflicting situation, it's very difficult and very troubling, I can see that there's evidence of the Holy Spirit at work in their hearts. In other words, what I have to judge by is what they say they believe and how what they believe has actually affected what they do and what they say and how they relate to people. In other words, James is talking about how we can verify how we can really put much stock in what people say. The second truth we look at is this, a profession of faith without a change of life really has no value. Look at what James says in verses 15 and 16. He says, If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be wormed and filled, notwithstanding you give them not those things which are needful to the body, what doth it profit? This is what he's saying. What is the value of telling someone you'll help them if you don't do it? That's his point. And he's making a connection to say, what is the value of saying you're a Christian if there's no evidence to back what you're saying? That's really what James is saying. His illustration is a scenario for the sake of comparison. Somebody is destitute. They're hungry. They don't have proper clothing. And you give them this empty response, be warmed and filled, but you don't help them. That doesn't help them in any way. It does nothing to help them in their needs. He says, if you do not give them those things which are needful to the body, what does it profit? His point is very simple. A profession of faith that does not demonstrate the power of the gospel is not only suspect, but it's also worthless. It does not benefit anyone and is, on some level, even an insult. Because we have an obligation when we name the name of Christ and we say, I'm a Christian, we have an obligation to actually have something that demonstrates the reality of that. Truth number three, faith is not sterile and lifeless. In verse 17, he says this, even so faith If it hath not worked, is dead being alone. He's referring to the fact that faith is supposed to actually do something. If I say I believe something, the evidence that I believe it is in the action that follows when that faith is put to the test. And he gives us four, there are four significant factors I want to mention that are observable when it comes to this issue of regeneration, a person becoming a Christian. Why is it that when a person is truly saved, there is something observable in their life that shows that they've actually believed in the gospel? Well, because there are several things that take place when we get saved. The first is there's repentance. Repentance means that the way that I think about the gospel, about myself, about God, it changes. This is an essential aspect to actually believing in the gospel. If I believe I'm okay, if I believe I'm righteous, if I believe that sin doesn't matter, if I believe that God's not going to judge me, if my belief system is off Then there has to be a change inside my heart in order for me to actually trust in the gospel. What's interesting is that Jesus addresses this in Matthew chapter 5 and the Sermon on the Mount. He talks about people who are poor in spirit. The idea is they realize that they're spiritually bankrupt. He talks about people that mourn and are comforted. The idea is that their sin is serious and they feel the weight of their sin and they want to be forgiven and cleansed. He talks about people who hunger and thirst after righteousness. And the idea is that they recognize they need the righteousness of God through Christ. This is really a description of what takes place in a heart that is repentant. I have nothing to bring to God. My sin is heavy to me. I want God to make me a different person. That's what repentance does. Repentance puts my heart before God in that place so that I recognize that's why Christ died for me Because Christ died for me so that I could be cleansed and I could stand righteous in him, and he can change me, he can make me a different person, he can forgive and cleanse and justify all those things. Repentance is an integral part of that. And so when a person has come to that place of repentance and faith, the way they think is different. And when we think different, what we do changes. The second word that stands out is the word regeneration. And this is what Jesus describes to Nicodemus. He says, unless you're born again, you won't see the kingdom of God. Born of the Spirit. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things pass away All things become new. He talks about the fundamental change that takes place in a new person who's saved, and how that fundamental change affects what we do. Old things pass away, all things become new. We talk about the presence of the Holy Spirit indwelling us. Romans chapter 8, verse 5, he says. They that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh. They that are after the spirit, the things of the spirit. The idea is if there's a repentance toward God and faith in the finished work of Christ If I'm a new creature in Christ and the Holy Spirit comes and indwells me, how in the world could I not change? How could there not be some fundamental differences that people can see in me? It's impossible for it not to be there. But there is a fourth fact that's so very important. God becomes our Father. And as our Father, he works with us like a father works with his children. In Hebrews 12, 6-11, it says, Whom the Lord loves, he chastens. And that word chastening has the idea of he disciplines us, he trains us, he's actively at work in our hearts and our lives. In Ephesians chapter 2, verse 10, it says that we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained, that we should walk in them. In Romans twelve he talks about us being transformed through the renewing of our mind. In Second Corinthians chapter three, he talks about being changed into the image of the Spirit of God from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit. And the point is this, when we become a new creature in Christ, God doesn't just leave us to ourselves. He works in us in a fatherly way. He says he chastens us for our prophet, that we may be partakers of his holiness. He says, no chasing for the present time seemeth joyous. but grieveth it afterwards yieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness unto those who are exercised thereby. And here's the point. If I've really believed in the gospel, there's been repentance and faith. If I've really believed in the gospel, There's been regeneration. If I've really believed in the gospel, the Holy Spirit indwells me now forever. If I've really believed in the gospel, God is dealing with me as his child. And that is something you can see in people's lives. Now I'm not saying everybody's equally the same, okay? I'm not saying we don't see ups and downs. I'm not saying that Christians are perfect. The Bible is full of Christians who are very, very imperfect. And we see them at their lowest moments. But what do we see when David sins with Bathsheba? We see a broken heart. We see someone saying, Have mercy on me, O God, according to your loving kindness, according to your tender mercies. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. That's what we see. The idea is that this passage doesn't teach that Christians are perfect. And sinless, and they just live this different life than everybody where they don't have any kind of spiritual problem. Not true at all. But you can see there's life in them. You can imagine Observe it. The fourth truth we see is this: time makes reality more obvious. In verse 18, he says, Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. Show me thy faith without thy works. He says, I will show thee my faith by my works. Three very important statements in that verse. The first has something to do with taking people at their word, but verifying what they say. He says, a man may say, if somebody says that they're a Christian, I'm going to believe them. However, I may ask a follow-up question. Okay? And I may ask another follow-up question and another follow-up question. If somebody wants to join the church, if somebody wants to get baptized, and they say, I'm a Christian, well, let's ask a few questions and make sure you understand the gospel. It's very important. Time may bring that into question. You know, it's amazing how when you deal with somebody in counseling and they are a Christian, but they are living in a stubborn way. You see evidence of this battle inside. You do. Because you can see that this person recognizes Christ is supposed to rule in my heart. The Holy Spirit is convicting and you see that. You can see that in people's eyes. You can see that in their body language. But when you're dealing with someone who's not a believer and you say this is what God's Word says, they look at you like who cares? I could care less what it says. What authority does that have? What's the difference? The difference is a new creature Holy Spirit. The work of God. It doesn't mean that those two people might not have done the exact same thing. But the way that they respond to God working on them through his word is very different. You can see a callousness versus a brokenness. And by the way, it may not happen immediately. Christians can be stubborn, okay? We've all been there, okay? We've all been there. But God doesn't just leave us on the side. He pursues us. He's persistent in us. As we stiffen our arms against him, what does he do? He keeps coming. Don't forget the story of David. When David committed adultery and murdered Uriah, he lived for over a year. Over a year. Harboring that sin in his heart. And by the way, not just he harbored that sin in his heart, everybody in the palace knew what he did. His generals knew what he did. Can you imagine how much people looked at David and said, what kind of a man are you? They didn't say a word. And one day God sent Nathan. And Nathan told David a story. And David raged at the injustice of that person who would take a little lamb from his neighbor. And Nathan said that to you, David. And he just broke down. Folks, this is the difference between a believer and an unbeliever. It's not the sins people commit. It may not be the fact that both people can be rebellious for a season, but God doesn't leave a Christian alone. And the Holy Spirit doesn't leave the Christian alone. And God gets a hold of us. That's evidence of the power of the gospel. Time will reveal what's really going on in people's hearts. You can't see faith, but you can see what it does. And there are a couple of passages I want to read to you that really emphasize this concept as we come to the end of the message. The first one is in Romans chapter 1, chapter 8, verses 1, and then 5 to 9. Scriptures say, there is therefore now no condemnation of those who are in Christ Jesus. And there's a little phrase that says this: who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. I want to tell you something. That little phrase is actually actually stated a few times in Romans chapter 8. And that little phrase isn't saying there's no condemnation to the Christian who walks after the Spirit rather than the flesh. That's actually not what it's saying. It's saying there's no condemnation to those in Christ Jesus, periods. And this is how you can tell if a person's in Christ. He walks not after the flesh. But he walks after the Spirit. In verse 5, he says, For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh, They that are after the Spirit, the things that are of the Spirit. To be carnally minded is death, to be spiritually minded is life and peace, because the carnal mind is at enmity against God. But ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If so be, the spirit of God dwells in you. Do you understand what Paul writes in that text? If you're a Christian, the Holy Spirit indwells you The Holy Spirit works in you. God doesn't abandon you. He continues to work in you. And people can see that when it's happening. John 3, 7 -8. The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell where it cometh, neither where it goeth. So is every one that is born of the Spirit. He says, Nicodemus, the new birth, is invisible. Faith is invisible. It's an internal quality that you can't hold in your hands, you can't see with your eyes. It's there though. It's real. And he said, here's an illustration. It's like the wind. How do you know the wind's there? Is it because you see it? No. It's because you see what it does. You see that the trees are moving. In fact, a week ago we saw what the wind does. And in other parts of the country, people really saw what the wind does. And the wind can move a huge wall of water when there's a hurricane. The wind can rip a roof off of a building, yet you can't see it. And that's what faith is like. Invisible, internal, but it's real, and it impacts what people do. And then we see in Luke chapter 6, verses 43 to 46, Jesus makes the following statement. A good tree bringeth forth bringeth not forth corrupt fruit. Neither doth a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Every tree is known by its fruits. For the thor for of thorns men do for of thorns men do not gather figs. Nor of a bramble bush do they gather grapes. A good man out of the good treasures of his heart bringeth forth that which is good. An evil man out of the evil treasures of his heart bringeth forth that which is evil. For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. And the idea is this: what 's going on inside will be revealed by what you say. Will be revealed by what you do. Will be revealed by how you respond in circumstance. The point is this. We need to be careful we don't cheapen the power of the gospel. The gospel gives us forgiveness and deliverance from eternal destruction. The gospel declares us righteous, but you know what the gospel also does? It makes us a new creature in Christ. You know what the gospel also does? It makes us God's child. So now God works in us as a father to his child. You know what the gospel does? The gospel also puts the Holy Spirit of God inside of us, who works in our heart to bring us to where we need to be. Let's guard against the temptation to cheapen the power of the gospel. Let's remember that talk is cheap. Just because we say something is true doesn't mean that it is. Let's not be lulled into thinking it's possible to become a Christian without genuine faith in Christ and genuine growth into Christ's likeness. There will be evidence of new life. That's the concept of this passage. And I hope that that will really resonate in our souls this morning. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. With our heads bowed and our eyes closed, I want to ask just a very simple question. Is it possible that there's somebody here this morning that would say, Pastor I heard this message about faith and works, and something really stuck in my mind today that I've not thought about. I've always thought being a Christian was about mom and dad, or my culture , or the fact that I go to church. Or the fact that when I was a little kid, I I asked Jesus into my heart, but the reality is I've never come face to face with the content of the gospel. I've never understood that Christ died for my sins and rose from the dead, and I've personally trusted in what he did for me. I've never done that. And today I realize I need to. Is there anyone here that would say, Pastor, that's me? Just quietly raise it. Nobody's looking but myself. Is there anyone that say, I don't know for sure That I'm really a Christian. Because I've misunderstood how someone becomes a Christian. Is there anyone like that? If there is, I want to encourage you: don't leave this place without getting that issue dealt with. If you don't know for sure that you're saved, when you pass through, stop by and say, Pastor, I want to talk to you. You can easily send me a text message. You can send me an email. All that information is available through the website. You can send a message to the office. But if you don't know for sure that you're saved, if you're listening to the live stream, you don't know for sure that you're saved, then please reach out God wants to save every person in this room who doesn't know the gospel yet. Every person that's listening to this message on the live stream, Christ died for your sins. He rose from the dead so you can be redeemed. And he's calling to you through the preaching of his word. So please, if you don't know for sure that you're saved, don't leave that matter undealt with. Secondly, there might be someone here today that says, I know I'm a Christian, but man, my life hasn't been showing a lot of evidence. It's because I've been resistant to God's word. I've been resistant to his work in my heart. And I know I'm a Christian. I know I've trusted Christ. I know the Spirit of God has convicted me, but I've really been stubborn. Pastor, can you quietly pray for me in our closing? Is there anybody that raise their hand and say, that's me, Pastor? I know I'm saved. I mean, I'm really just not living like it right now I've been resistant to the Lord. I see several hands. Thank you. Thank you for your honesty. No Christian is perfect and God doesn't abandon us. He's going to come alongside you and strengthen you and help you where you are. Let's bow together for prayer before we do our closing hymn. Our Father in heaven, we are reminded today that the gospel Is powerful not just to forgive, but also to make us a new person. Help us not to cheapen the power of the gospel by how we think and how we live. Father, I pray if anybody here doesn't know the Lord Jesus as their Savior. That you would begin a work in them that just encourages them to come to people who can give them the answers. Explain to them how to be saved. I pray that this would be a seed planted that would ultimately lead to salvation through faith in the finished work of Christ. I pray for those who raised their hand and and I'm sure many that didn't, but they really do feel that this is where they're at. I pray that you'd help Christians this morning To not be resistant to the Spirit's work in them, to be humbled under the word, to have a sweet spirit toward your chastening hand. I pray that you would do a tremendous work in us, and then ultimately through us, because of the word as it's been preached today. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.