And um I wanted to highlight a couple of things on our bulletin just so that they're on our mind. Uh first of all, obviously tonight after the evening service we have a business meeting so I hope that you can stay for that. And secondly, this week we also have a baby shower. This is combining for four different ladies. So ladies if you If you have not signed up for that and you'd like to be a part of that, please do do that this week so that we can know who all is coming. And then I also wanted to highlight this April 27th. Elder Care and Estate Planning Seminar in the morning. And I want to explain this is not a seniors only event. Okay? This is an event that I think will be helpful for all of us. And one of the things that often happens in ministry is as people are getting older and they start having physical problems and challenges. Um there's a there's a need to make sure that their estate is set correctly so that Their inheritance doesn't go to the state, their children. If there's uh an issue, their their children are going to be a part of that. And you have to communicate all those things. And you need to know what's um important to be prepared for with power of attorney, um all those different kinds of things. And so There are times that I'll reach out to someone who is in the legal profession and ask them, hey, we have this situation. How should I advise this individual? And um Eurypses attends our church and she's one of the people that I reach out to. And so she often does these events at churches, community groups, different things like that. Doesn't cost anything. I know it's a Saturday morning, but I want to encourage you, please take advantage of this opportunity. 9 o'clock. It's probably going to be an hour to an hour and a half, depending on how many questions are there. And it would be very important for you to get this information, especially if you have Um a family member who is getting older and they need to start thinking about these things. You need to start thinking about these things. Maybe you're the oldest child in the family, something like that. So please take advantage of that. I wanted to highlight those two things so that you know this is not just a seniors only event. This is for anyone in the church. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will open up our service with some songs. Father, thank you for this day. and the privilege that we have as your people to gather, to fellowship, to sit under the ministry of Scripture, and then later on tonight to to do the business of the church. And so I pray that as we look at our quarterly reports, as we talk about activities that we need to prepare for down the road. Give us wisdom as a church and help us to address these issues in a way that truly honors you and is a good stewardship of the resources that you've blessed us with Bless the service and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Good evening. Thanks so much for joining us for worship. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number 459. Four fifty-nine leaning on the everlasting arms. What I was saying, why? I joined by a gone, or the earth one reading and the ever I 'm not. Oh my gosh, we 're going to bring me from when we want all the strength. And I was We dream on the other What have I to dread? What have I to be playing? Grace singing, please be seated as we turn over to hymn number four hundred and seventy-eight. four seventy-eight, it is well with my soul. Sing all four verses. When be It is well with my soul. I think I 'm looking at this one. It needs to work. Soy en Luna en los provenidos , amor. It's not a my story, but I 'll be on my It is well in my soul. All right, one hundred and eighty three 483, like a river glory. So we'll see all three verses. When I cry , it 's not. Great meeting. Grace singing, please be seated. Mm-hmm. If you would, please open with me to 1 Samuel 12. 1 Samuel 12. As we're wrapping up True Trackers, we're in our final doctrine. And what we've been learning through the final doctrine is the future. And trying to explain the future to first through sixth grade has many challenges to it. But one of the great things they began teaching through these lessons, the very first lesson they began talking through was just the simpleness through Matthew 25, you have the parable of the talents. We're just communicating, stay faithful until Christ comes. Be faithful until his return. And as I was reading through 1 Samuel 12, Now, it's not a prophetic chapter looking to the future as Pastor's talking about in the morning. But the heart of, I would say this message when you look at what Samuel is talking to the people is to Be faithful. They have many challenges. They've made a lot of mistakes, but he wants them to be faithful. But before we get to chapter 12, we kind of have to pick up where we left off last. Do you remember where Josh, Pastor Josh was as he talked through everything that was going on in chapter nine, how we had Saul and how Saul went to go find his donkey and he stumbles and he finds Samuel and how the Lord Tells Samuel, this is the man that's going to be the king. Chapter 10, Saul's with the prophets. And it causes a little discussion of the people there as they're watching this. And chapter 11 is a significant chapter as it will play a role in chapter 12. But it talks about a king of the Naamanites starts rising up and it's going to begin attacking the nation of Israel. And as they begin attacking them, that Saul rises up. And it it it talks about how there must have been some discourse that they didn't want Saul to rise up and be their leader. Who is this man? And Several of them were like afterwards that they do beat the Ammonites, that they go, who is this who said that we shouldn't have him rule us? Let's let's kill them. It's all part um patiently and graciously pardons them. And it shows his first act as king. And Samuel says, let us go to Gilgal and renew the kingdom there. Before we even get into this, we have to recognize where they're going. Gilgal would have been, if you want to think about the pre-Jerusalem. capital, that's very similar what it would have been. If you think that all the way back to Joshua, that's where Joshua's camp was. When they went to war, they go to war to fight for fight for the land, to clear them out, and they would return back to Gilgal. So they're going to the capital, and in verse, so chapter 11, verse 15, is that all the people went to Gilgal, and there they made Saul king. before the Lord Gilgal, and there they sacrificed sacrifices of peace offerings before the Lord, and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly. Samuel was mentioned in verse 14. But in verse 15, you kind of just see the only mention you really see of him is that Saul was made king. He was not mentioned specifically, even with the people of Israel rejoicing. And you read through 1 Samuel 12 , you read through the heart of Samuel, and I don't see a man that's joyous or happy. He looks at a people and he's he's realizing the nation of Israel made a grave mistake. This is his farewell address, this is one way of looking at it. And When we look at what's going on here, Samuel is going to recount. He's going to give a little bit of a history lesson to begin. And then he's going to start talking about maybe some consequences. that the people are going to have to deal with because of their choices. But you see him closing with this pleading of stay faithful. So let's begin in verse of chapter 12, verse 1, reading through as uh Samuel begins. It says and Samuel said unto Israel, Behold I have hearkened unto your voice and all that ye have said unto me, and have made a king over you. And now the king walketh before you, and I am old and grey-headed, and behold, my sons are with you And I have walked before you from my childhood unto this day. Behold, here I am, witness against me before the Lord and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? Or whose ass have I taken? Or whom have I defrauded? Or whom have I oppressed? Of whose hand have I received any bribe to blind mine eye therewith? And I will restore it. And they said, Thou hast not defrauded us, nor oppressed us, neither hast taken aught of any man's hand. And he said unto them The Lord is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found aught in my hand. And they answered, He is witness. Let us pray first. Father, as we begin looking at this passage and we look at your heart through Samuel, That it's here for us to be a testimony of our choices. I just pray though that as we think about our own choice in our own life, that we make mistakes, that you are still good, and you are still faithful even in our failures. Father, I just pray though that as we look at the farewell address here of Samuel, that we can just see you and you only. Praise Son's precious holy name. Amen. We look at this chapter. I want us to come with a simple thought of God is still gracious in man's failures. God is gracious in man's failures. To begin, Samuel begins with a little history lesson. He begins talking about in verse 2. He says, Behold, the king walketh before you, and I am old and gray-headed, and behold, my sons are with you. That phrase that begins saying, I am old, gray-headed, and my sons are with you is actually testimony looking back at 1 Samuel 8. First Samuel eight is when the men came before him and said, You are old, grey headed, and your sons not walk as you walk. And because they have not walked as you have walked, we want a king to make us like other nations. So he begins with this argument saying, I recognize what you say, but I also want you to recognize That the rest of verse 2 says, I have walked before you from my childhood unto this day. He goes, so you know all of my actions. I understand that I'm getting older. That's just part of life. My children didn't turn out as I was hoping. All right. But what about the rest? He goes, what about how have I served you? Have I done wrong by that? And he begins with saying in verse 3, Behold, here I am. He's literally standing off as if you were to be think of legal argument. He stands off to the side and he stands before the people and he just says, if you're going to throw mud, throw, throw it at me. I'm not going to move. You can hit me. And so he begins to ask his questions, who have I taken things from? Have I taken an ox, a donkey, have I defrauded, have I taken bribes? And the people just say, no. No, you haven't. He wants them to recognize that he has been faithful. He's followed the Lord and he has been faithful. But the next verses after that is a similar story. He calls on men and he looks at verse 6 and says, Samuel said unto the people, It is the Lord that advanced Moses and Aaron. Moses and Aaron may not have had as perfect of a of a rapport with the people as maybe Samuel is. But they were overall I would say they were faithful in what they did. But yet You think about the story of Israelites on their way out of Egypt. They didn't really like or Really a respect, maybe a better word, Moses and Aaron. They were constantly working against him. Verse 7. He talks about and says, Now therefore stand still that I reason with you before the Lord of all the righteous as of the Lord, which he did to you and to your fathers. And he says, hey, Moses Barnaby, so he wants them to kind of think about their history and think back and go, what happened with Moses and Aaron? God had faithful leaders for you. How did the people react? And verse 8 says, when Jacob came to Egypt, the fathers cried in the Lord, and the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, which brought you out of this place. In verse 9, and they forgot the Lord. The thing is they they liked him for a little bit, and he begins talking about this cycle of apostasy. He begins having to show saying, Israel was not faithful to God. It didn't take very long for them to forget who brought them out of Israel. He didn't take too long for them to move on to new new places and just said, oh They forgot the Lord. And the cycle of posse begins, and the Lord, he says, He sold them into the hand of Cicero. The captain of the host of Hazor. And if you jump down to verse 10, it says, And they cried unto the Lord. There's another part of the cycle. And for we have sinned and we have forsaken the Lord, and we have served Balaam and Ashtaroth. But now deliver us out of thine hands. And in verse 11, it says the Lord sent Jerubabel, that would have been Gideon, Bedan, Barak, and Jephthah, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand. And he just says Things, if we look at the cycloaposty of Judges, was God was faithful, but the people lost sight of him, and they were not. If anything, they were faithless. They failed constantly when they looked at here. The question we really look at here, the history lesson, is who were the people rejecting What purpose, what did they gain from here as they looked at this saying, all right, you had great leaders before. You had Gideon, Barak, Jepsah. You rejected them. You had Moses, chosen by God out of the wilderness. You had Aaron, the first high priest. And you rejected them. So is the problem going to be the leader, or is it going to be on you? Or are you rejecting God with that aspect? And he the answer is simply you have rejected God. And that's exactly how he kind of responds in verse 12. Is that they were by the way, this is exactly what God told Samuel in 1 Samuel 8, saying, they're not holding it against you. Don't don't don't be bothered by it, it's not you they're targeting. Even though they're saying it, they're holding against me. Verse twelve And when ye saw Nahash the King. That leads us actually right into our consequences. The very beginning, 12 is the beginning of these consequences. He starts setting up the platform and he starts setting up everything to start seeing how God's going to start working. And he says, when ye saw Nahash, the king of Israel of Ammon, and came against you. This actually, I don't even want to use the word contradicts, but it gives a different side of the story that You don't see in 1 Samuel 8. 1 Samuel 8 is, you are old, your sons are not faithful, we're rejecting you. Samuel says I know that's not, I know that's not wrong. That is part of the, that's part of it. But the real problem is You saw someone coming against you. And you didn't want to wait on the Lord to deliver. As he's done, he always sends deliverers. He says you didn't want to wait. Instead, you wanted someone immediately. This similar kind of story that happens is actually very similar to what you would see happen in during the Exodus. So when they go in Numbers 13, you have the men, they talk about the spies. If you're familiar with the passage, it actually begins with saying, the Lord said unto the people to send out spies. But then in Deuteronomy 1. 22, it gives a different perspective. And it says, And ye came near unto me, this is the people came near unto Moses, every one of you, and said, We will send men before us. And they shall search out the land and bring us word again that we may go up into the cities that they shall come. And the Lord blessed it and allowed it. Man's in both of those stories, man 's failures. We're rejecting God, but you read if we know the story, then looking back at the Exodus, is that God was still faithful and gracious during that time. And he begins here, and it's going to be the same story as that, because, it says in verse 12, Nay, but a king shall reign over us when the Lord your God was your king. And he's they simply were saying, someone came against us, the Lord was their king, but we didn't want that. We wanted someone else. And in verse 13, Samuel begins to really point where this came from. Did Saul come from God or from the people? And while it may have been blessed by God, it was not God's choice. In verse 13, it says, Now behold the king whom ye have chosen. and whom ye have desired. The first consequence they're going to get is the king that they wanted. Notice that repetition is whom ye have chosen, whom ye have desired. And he's going back saying, this is not God 's plan. But you're going to get stuck with it. You're going to have problems through here. And you're thinking, oh, it doesn't sound that bad. God still blessed it. God blessed the opportunity to go to over into Canaan with the twelve spies, and their consequence was ended up being 40 years in the wilderness. He's looking at me here and saying, God's God's going to allow it. And if you know as we know what goes on with Saul, a lot of pain and suffering comes from allowing and not waiting on the Lord's perfect timing. but to move early before we're ready for him. Now the silver lining here is that there's going to be an opportunity for Saul to work. Or sorry, for God to work. Because he doesn't just simply say, all right, here's the king that God's going to give you that you want and you have desired But Samuel says, if, and almost I always read this that I think there should be a but almost there. But if ye fear the Lord. There's not, but if ye fear the Lord and serve him. And obey his voice and not rebel against the commandment of the Lord. So far, when they've made their own choice, Israel's been destroyed. It says, in both ye and your king that reigneth over you, following the Lord your God. And he begins saying. It'll be a blessing if you serve the Lord and you stay faithful, the king will result in being faithful. And he begins giving this personal application saying to listen. Now one of the interesting things as we look through this passage a lot of times is we look at Saul being, you know, we look back at first or Deuteronomy 17 when they had the law given for Moses to allow them to have a king. Samuel's attitude here is not that the kingship is wrong, but the king that they are receiving is wrong. A king is the king that God is going to choose, as we look at it, is going to be Daniel. He's going to be, as one man puts it, a Torah-following king, someone who's going to follow the law that God has given. But they're not going to receive that. They're going to receive a man after his own heart, who's going to be led by his own passions, who's going to be led by fear. It's they're receiving a man rather than someone who was chosen by God. So the first consequence we begin seeing is that they're going to receive a king that they wanted, but we see an opportunity that if they turn towards him God will keep them and bless them. Consequence two is the situation Could get worse. And you think, all right, what do you mean it could get worse? Well we'll talk a little bit more about that. What was worse in a second is in verse 15. But now we do have it, if ye will not obey the voice of the Lord. But rebel against the commandment of the Lord, and shall and shall the hand of the Lord be against you as it was with your fathers. So if you're not going to follow, what you saw with your fathers is going to be very similar that happens to you. And they begin looking at what what does that even mean? They could choose to continue on the path and they'll destroy themselves in the nation. But as I said, with each of the consequence, there is a silver lining. So is the first so the first one is they got a king We're gonna now they also gotta see possibly God they there's an opportunity off there's a kind of like an off ramp almost like this won't be too bad. It could be a lot worse. Now it's going it could get a lot worse. The silver lining here is They're about to see God work. And in verse 16, it says, Now therefore stand to see the great thing which the Lord will do before your eyes. He simply says So because if you choose this option B of not being faithful, you're going to see something happen. And we're going to see something happen today, actually. And that actually is the third consequence. Verse 17. Is it not wheat harvest today? I will call unto the Lord, and he shall send thunder and rain. That ye may perceive and see your wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of the Lord in asking you a king. He says, You're gonna receive rain at harvest. Even today's day and age, if we get rain during the harvest season, especially a decent amount, it makes it hard for the crop for the for the Combines and the heart and all the different machinery to get in and be able to take out and remove the crop. There could be a lot of issues whenever it actually I read in one article that it can drop um an average bushel to when you get rain during it down to one dollar versus it could be upwards of three. So he goes, there's some props that this man had. He goes you could end up as a three million dollar profit just by dealing with if he gets a good harvest because but it that same harvest if they received rain would drop them down to a million dollar just by receiving a little bit of rain. And he began so just that article he kind of talks about the significance. That's today's day and age. What can happen at this point in time can allow the wheat to get wet. that absorbs the moisture, it can begin sprouting early, it can create mold, it can cause significant different problems. The thing about this as well is their harvest time is unheard of. It talks about even today's day and age, and they look back as they look at the historical data, is that when they read different people that Rain during harvest was, in essence, a miracle. So to see that God was going to be sending rain also told a couple things. We can look at it as it was the Lord was present. The Lord was witnessing, as they already saw earlier, that the Lord was I mean the thunder, typically when you read through the Old Testament, thunder is associated with God's divine act and that where he is And people were fearful of the thunder. They're like, God's here. And he gives this little statement of just saying, God's here. He's witnessing. But because God is witnessing, He is giving judgment. When we see the judgment, it says, which ye the great wickedness, sorry, your wickedness is great. Which ye have done in the sight of the Lord in asking you a king. Because you asked for a king. You should have waited. I had a better plan. We have a third consequence. And the silver lining here is they're seeing God work. If you remember, even back when we began talking about Samuel, Samuel, it talks about the word of the Lord was not, was rare in those days. Seeing God work was a rare situation to happen. And even though this was not a good situation , The results were beneficial. They saw the Lord work, and you end up seeing that in verse 18. And Samuel called on the Lord, and the Lord sent thunder and rain. And all the people greatly feared the Lord and Samuel. They finally got a right perspective. It took something like rain at harvest to grab their attention. They're like, now it's like, oh now it finally means. And he's also given them multiple consequences before. To me this is very much like dealing with children at times of you warn them saying, kind of you look at them going, don't do that. They don't listen. So then you maybe give them a couple more verbal warnings and after some time they still not listening. I'm learning I have two little ones. But then you have to go walk over and maybe you have to smack their hand or their bottom to get them to or the seat of encouragement or seat of understanding to really help gather them to help them understand as you're working with them. And that's really what I almost see is the Lord gave him a couple of verbal warnings saying, continue down this path, you're going to have problems. But because of your choice, you don't get off scotch-free. You do get a little bit of a reminder to fear the Lord. In verse 14, if if ye will fear the Lord, they're already starting there, and serve him, and obey his voice, and rebel not against the commandment, they shall So both ye and also the king reigneth over you, continue following your God. They begin with the first step in the right direction to start heading down that way. But we know that's not the case for Israel. They don't listen. And as much as Samuel wishes He has to remind them that during that fear, that God is still good to the people, and that he's still their God, and they are still his people. I'm going to read 19 through 25. We're going to finish off the chapter in one reading. And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants of the Lord thy God that we die not. For we had added unto all of our sins this evil to ask us a king. And Samuel said unto people, Fear not, ye have done all of this wickedness, yet turn not aside from following the Lord. But serve the Lord with all your heart. And turn yet turn ye not aside, for then should ye go in vain things which cannot profit nor deliver, for they are vain. For the Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it hath pleased the Lord to make you his people. Moreover, as for God, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. But I will teach you the good and the right way. Only fear the Lord and serve him in truth with all your heart and consider how great things he hath done for you. But ye shall still do wickedly. But if she sorry, but if ye shall do wickedly, if sort of an important word here. Ye shall be consumed, both ye and your king. Being reminded that God is still good is important because verse 19, the people finally get the picture. They kind of they they begin understanding of oh no but they don't get it all the way. I don't think the elevator goes quite to the top floor when it comes to dealing with the situation here. Because they fear the Lord, step number one. But instead of having to Stay faithful and to begin serving him and to obey him. They turn to Samuel saying, pray for us Pray that God will not destroy us. Not that we don't pray that we would serve him and that we would be able to withstand all of our judgments and be able to stay faithful to him. Hey Samuel, can you pray that God doesn't destroy us today? You can just listen then you're like, you almost got it. You realize you do need to turn to Samuel. You knew you do need to pray. But that's the prayer you're going to go with, not to be faithful, to serve, to to help out with the ability. They just don't quite find it here. So Samuel has to keep working with them again. Rather than saying it seems like the Lord's speaking this time, it's almost from the heart of Samuel. And Samuel pleads with them with a few situations. In verse 20, 21, and 24, he gives a simple command. Fear not, ye have done all this wickedness, yet turn not aside from following. Verse 20, and it jumps down to the very end of that verse. Serve the Lord with all your heart. Turn ye not aside, for then you should go after vain things. And then verse 24, only fear the Lord and serve him in truth with all your heart. And he gives us a little spot. He gives us a little thought at the very end of that verse. For consider how great things he hath done for you. He doesn't simply want them to fear and to reject God or anything. He just says, you should fear the Lord. Serve Him. Why should you serve Him? Remember the great things He's done. God's been good to you, even though you've been, for lack of a better word, really foolish. Serve him. Fear him. Remember who he is. Verse 22, he gives an unconditional covenant talking about how the Lord. will not forsake his people for his great name, because it has pleased the Lord to make you his people Samuel's just being a gentle reminder and just saying again, do you remember that God cares for you? Please listen, serve him, stay faithful. In verse 23, I have grace here for this. Moreover, as for me, God forbid that I should sin against you. Samuel's, I think he had a little animo. When I read this verse, he's not overly pleased with the people. I almost see as you read through this someone who's been very patient. As you think about your children, they do something dumb so many times in a row. You just go I love you. And that's kind of almost what I deal as I read through this. Is that he goes, moreover, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord and cease and pray for you. He goes You have a new king. I want to be done with you. I'm going to wipe my hands and just not deal with you anymore, but he knows I shouldn't. I'm going to keep praying for you. Not only that, I will teach you the good and the right way. Samuel knows their leadership, Saul, is not going to do that. And he says, I'm still going to be here. You may frustrate me to no end, but I'm still going to be here to deal with all of your stupidity and help guide you along. Like I said, you read through here and he says, I love you. In verse twenty-five, he gives a final condition saying, if you Don't do anything that I've been saying. You will be consumed. He gives a simple warning, a conditional warning at the very end saying, if you reject everything that I've said. You will be consumed. We know that that eventually does happen with the splitting of the nations, and they have many problems. But when you look through Samuel's farewell, you read through it, you see a man who's spent years So no pastor had said that it very easily he could have been 60 years and he began serving him as a child before them. He has 50 years of faithful ministry. How many people can you probably say that's been true of? 50 years of faithful ministry. And we know he continued on for many years. And he just looks at him going, I've been through you a lot. I've been with you guys. You made some foolish choices. I'm still gonna be here. But no matter what, I want you to remember to serve God. Fear him. We look at a simple application as we begin here. God had what was best planned for Israel. He sent men to lead them and provide for them at the very beginning with the history lesson. He kind of reminded that God had what was best. And they chose not to work with it. God may have waited to what we say is the last moment, and they didn't want to wait to that last moment. He simply begins looking at him saying, have faith, don't fear what you see. Have faith in who I am. I will provide a way for you. You look at the consequences and you see that there's a silver lining and it's he's just simply saying, serve the Lord. As I read through here, I almost get this aspect of confess, recognize that our sins have consequences. You made a choice. But our choice does not define them. Remember that God is still good. There's a silver lining with each one of those consequences of saying God is working. Are you watching? You messed up. God is working. And the same thing can be said in our lives. How many times can you look back, especially as we get older, we can tell the next generation of looking back going Yeah, that wasn't the brightest. And God did his own I love you. And we look through here and you just see these consequences. And then we end with Samuel's pleading here and we're just giving a last final request, and we can just simply see that God did care for his people and he loves them. He wants them to serve. And the same thing you said for us is that he cares for us, he loves us, and he wants us to serve him. He is holy. Because he's holy, there's consequences for sin, and he is just. But he does care for his own. He is still good. So as we walk away from here, let us remember that God is good and God is faithful even in our faithlessness and our failures. Let us pray. Father, thank you for today. Thank you for this simple reminder that you are good and you are gracious and you are you give us more than we deserve and you are better than we deserve, Father. Thank you. I pray though that as we take the opportunity to reflect on who you are, that we don't forget what you have done and what you're doing in our lives. Father, I just ask though that as we walk from here, let's be encouragement to others as we can tell a story of your faithfulness. Let's praise him's precious and holy name. Amen. is the fact that as we go through different seasons of life, especially when we raise our children and we invest our lives in people , one of the things that God does is He allows us to get some insight into how he sees us. You know, we get frustrated with people sometimes as you know our children. We love them. We we we invest in them. We want to see them really grow and mature. And uh we see their mistakes and we see their struggles sometimes even with us as their parents. We invest in people's lives and sometimes they don't appreciate it the way that we think that they should. And then God says, so how does it feel Feel. That's you. He does that so many times. And uh it's really good for us to be reminded to step back and go, you know what? I'm frustrated with this situation or this individual. This set of circumstances. How does God see me when I am doing the exact same thing? And yes, he's more holy than I am, more righteous, and he's given far more More than I have. It really puts things back into perspective. So great challenge for us to consider. Alright, well let's go ahead and turn to our closing hymn, hymn 371, A Passion for Thee. After we sing that, we will uh close in prayer, take a couple minute break, and uh allow those who are in the nursery to come up. If you have children in the nursery, please go get them so that those who have been watching them can come be a part of our meeting and then we will get started. So 371 let's stand together and sing this song together please. We are not we and we don't we need one we 're being my God If you did the law One everything else we can be That doesn't make sense. Please let's bound together for prayer. Father, we thank you for the text of Scripture we just read and the things that we have considered from your word. Father, help us to recognize that when we stumble and we make foolish and self-centered decisions, But there are great consequences, but there's also a God of rich grace who loves us and consistently extends his hand of mercy to us. In those moments, I pray that we would be honest with ourselves, we would face the reality of the choices we've made, we would confess our sin to you and humble ourselves, and that we would receive That special measure of grace that you give us in those moments. Father, help us to be a people who love you because you are so, so kind and so good. Help us to glory in your mercy and in your grace when we have stumbled. And Father, help us to purpose to walk in faithful obedience to you. delighting your ways. I pray that as we have a minute, a meeting and some few minutes, I pray that you would bless that meeting and may you give us wisdom in every choice we make. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.