Good to see each of you tonight. Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer and then we'll get into our Bible study. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to gather together in the middle of the week and to fellowship with one another, to sit under the ministry of your word. I pray that you would Just really bless in a special way tonight as we sit under this text of Scripture. I pray that you'd help me to effectively communicate the passage. I pray that you would help us to understand it, that the implications would really really weigh on our hearts, and that we would live in the light of it. Pray you be with those who are in the back for Truth Trackers and Tiny Trackers. Help those programs to be a blessing to the children. And we thank you for those who are working with our kids. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, if you have your Bibles, I want to ask you to take them, and let's turn together to 1 Timothy 6. 1 Timothy chapter 6, we've been working verse by verse through 1 Timothy, and we are actually really getting close to the end of the book. So 1 Timothy chapter 6, today we're looking at verses 3 down to verse 10. I'm going to go ahead and begin reading. If any man teach otherwise, and consent not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, unto the doctrine which is according to godliness. He is proud, knowing nothing but doting about questions and strifes of words. Whereof cometh envy, strife, railings, evil surmisings. Perverse disputings of men of corrupt minds, and destitute of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness. From such withdraw thyself. But godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and raiment, let us be therewith content. But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition For the love of money is the root of all evil, which some, while having coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and have pierced themselves through with many sorrows Now when we come to this passage in front of us, I have a very simple explanation of the passage. Basically, this text is dealing with false teachers. and those who love money. And you may ask the question, why does Paul deal with these two topics together? Why does he deal with the false teacher? And then he warns us about being a group of people that love money, that are covetous. Why does he put those two topics together? What is the connection? Well, what we're going to see tonight is that there's a very strong connection between false teachers and those that are covetous. And what's interesting is that when we look at this passage, we're going to see that Paul warns us that there's a certain kind of false teaching that has a tendency to lure people who are covetous. And the kinds of people that are lured into those teaching positions who take advantage of this kind of false teaching are often people who are covetous individuals. And so here's a purpose statement for the text in front of us. The purpose of this section is to warn the church against the danger of false teachers and the vice that most inflicts them and those that are duped by their dangerous teachings. And that vice that we're going to talk about is the vice of greed or covetousness. God wants us to be a people who have hearts that are guarded against false teaching and this vice of greed. And so in order for us to do that, we need to dig into this passage and we need to understand the truths that are connected to this main point that we're looking at this evening. Here's the first truth that we find in the scriptures. The scriptures must be our final authority. Here's what verse 3 says. It says, if any man teach Otherwise. I want you to just focus in on that one little statement. If any man teach otherwise, you might say, well, what does that statement mean? Well, there are actually four concepts. that are being stated or emphasized by that very simple statement, if any man teach otherwise. Here's the first of those concepts or or one of those truths that are being emphasized here. The first is that Paul was concerned that the church had been affected by false teachers. Notice he uses the word if. He's saying if because he understands that there is a problem in the church and that there are some people who are teaching the truth accurately. There are others who are not teaching the truth accurately. And so he's about to put a test in front of these men and these individuals, and he's going to say, you need to test those who are teaching according to a standard. He recognizes that there's a problem in the church, and he's concerned about the problem that's in the church. And by the way, one of the things we've seen earlier in the passage, or in the book of 1 Timothy. Is that Paul kind of tells us a little bit about the kind of false teaching that's there. There were a lot of Judaizers who are basically teaching that you had to keep the law in order to grow as a Christian or actually to be a Christian. In other words, they were undermining the concept of a salvation that is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. The second thing we're going to see emphasize is that Paul judged Each teacher 's soundness according to a very specific standard. He has this phrase, he says, if any teach otherwise. In other words, there is a standard that Paul is looking at, and he's saying, if they don't meet this standard, then we know that they're not a sound teacher. Now the standard is not going to be based on how many people are following them or how many people are basically in believing that they're good teachers. Maybe these people are very gifted in their ability to communicate. Maybe these people are very popular. Maybe they have a lot of disciples. That's not the standard that he's using to judge whether or not these are sound teachers. The standard is the scripture. In other words, if they're teaching in a way that's inconsistent with what he's laid out as the standard in the scriptures, then they're to be rejected soundly as false teachers. The third concept that we see is that Paul wanted the church to teach doctrines that were sound. In fact, when we look at this passage, he says, if any man teach otherwise and consent not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness, he is proud and knowing nothing. And so he uses the phrase wholesome words. The idea is he wanted them to teach doctrine that was sound That was giving the whole counsel of God. That was consistent with that body of truth that he had laid out. And then fourthly, we see that Paul wanted the church to be committed to the authority of Christ. And this is really important, he says, and to the words of our Lord Jesus Christ. In other words, the standard ultimately was not Paul, it was not Timothy, it was the words of Christ. The fact is, Paul's word was only as good as long as it was backed by the authority of Christ. I want you to think about Matthew 28, where Jesus says, All power meaning all authority is given unto me in heaven and in earth. And he says, Go ye therefore, because the authority has been given to me, go and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost. Teach them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. Well, he's basically giving the authority to the disciples, to the apostles, to preach the message that they were preaching. And so when he's emphasizing the standard, he's saying the standard is really Christ's word. Either what Jesus taught or what we are teaching under apostolic authority. In other words, in Christ's name. So this is very important. When we look at the first truth, we see that Scripture must be our final authority. Then we move into a second truth. It's very interesting. The scriptures are solely sufficient to grow us into Christ-likeness. Look down in verse 3 at what he says. and to the doctrine which is according to godliness. Now this is a really interesting statement He's basically saying it this way. The scriptures are the only source that can grow you into Christ's likeness. If you want to be a godly person, you absolutely cannot neglect God's word. When he talks about the doctrine that is in accordance with godliness The Idizzy , is saying godliness finds its source or its root in the Scriptures and the doctrines that come from God's Word You think about something like repentance and faith. Where do repentance and faith come from? Well, repentance and faith come from the Scriptures. In other words, the Scripture says that faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. You will not have faith, you will not have repentance, you will not have conversion unless the Word of God is expounded. In other words, the source that produces The faith in us is ultimately God's word. As the word of God is preached, as it's taught, as it's expounded, the Holy Spirit begins to work in those truths and begins to press it into our hearts. And ultimately, that's how we see this thing called repentance and faith take place in us. Well, in the same sense, the way a person grows into godliness is that the word of God is planted in the heart. I think you might remember the illustration that I used a long time ago in our James study. Talks about the engrafted word which is able to save our souls. And the idea is that when the Word of God is implanted in our heart, the Word of God begins to produce a fruitfulness in us Just like if we were to graft a a branch into a tree and that tree that's a lemon tree begins to produce oranges because that that orange plant has been grafted into the lemon trees, been bound together. In other words, it produces that fruit in the same way the scriptures produce godliness in us. If the scriptures and godly doctrine is not being expounded and taught, then it's absolutely impossible for us to grow into godliness. Absolutely impossible. If we neglect the truths of Scripture, we will not grow. And so not only does he talk about the fact that the Scriptures are the final authority But he's also emphasizing that the scriptures are alone sufficient to grow us into Christ-likeness and godliness. And really we see this in two ways. We see this negatively and positively. I want you to turn with me to Galatians chapter 3, because in Galatians 3. We're going to see a negative example. Now when I when I say a negative example, what I'm saying is this. A group of people that were trying to take something and put it in the place of sound doctrine And they were trying to let that thing that had replaced sound doctrine produce godliness. And what we're going to see is it's impossible For something that's not ordained by God to produce godliness and spiritual fruit, it's impossible for it to produce that. In Galatians 3, verses 1-3 says this, O foolish Galatians, who hath bewitched you that ye should not obey the truth? Before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been evidently set forth, crucified among you. This only would I learn of you. Received you the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith Are you so foolish having begun in the Spirit? Are you now made perfect by the flesh? Now this is really interesting. We go to the book of Galatians. We see that the Judaizers that were affecting those churches in that region were teaching that the way that people grow into Christ-likeness is through ritual. through law-keeping, through physical things like circumcision. And so basically they were telling Gentile Christians, people that had professed faith in Christ, that the only way That they could grow as a Christian or really be as a Christian was that they had to be circumcised, they had to follow the law, they had to follow the Jewish festivals and feasts. In other words, they were taking physical means to accomplish spiritual end. That's not the way that it works. He says, did you become a Christian by the works of the law? He says, no, of course not. He says, did you, he says, O foolish Galatians, who have bewitched you that you should not obey the truth. This only learned I have you received you the Spirit by the works of the law or by the hearing of faith. Well, he asked the question. Did you become a Christian? Were you regenerated? Did you have the Holy Spirit because of the keeping of the law and because of something physical that you did? The answer is no, of course not. He says it was by faith alone in the gospel. So he says in the same way that the law was incapable of giving you spiritual life. The law is incapable of giving you spiritual vitality. It's impossible for you to grow as a Christian by law-keeping. So we see the negative example. But then we see a positive example. And that's in 2 Timothy 3, verses 16 and 17. So if you could turn there, we know this passage. It's an extremely familiar passage. But positively, the Scriptures, a heart and a life that's saturated with the Scriptures, are a heart and life that's in a position to grow into Christ's likeness and to have spiritual vitality. 2 Timothy 3. 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for repro He doesn't mean that a person becomes sinlessly perfect, okay? That word telios has the idea of complete, fully matured. He says the way that you come to full maturity is through God's word. And the word of God makes you thoroughly furnished unto all good works. In other words, negatively, the law doesn't perfect you and mature you. Positively, the scriptures are the tool that God uses to mature us and to grow us into Christ-likeness. So when Paul's talking about this issue of false teachers, he's saying: listen, the standard that you judge by to determine if somebody's a sound teacher or a false teacher is how do they relate to sound doctrine? Are they preaching God's word or their own words? And two, do they really believe that the scriptures are fully sufficient to grow them into Christ's likeness? Or are they looking for some other means to kind of supplement God's word or to replace God's word or to replace sound doctrine as a means of growing into Christ-likeness? Then we come to a third truth. And this is extremely important. False teachers presume against Scripture and its authority Don't miss that. It's a really important statement. False teachers presume against Scripture and God's authority. Look carefully at verses four and five. He says he, meaning the false teacher, the one who doesn't believe in the sufficiency of Scripture, the one who's not Following and adhering to sound doctrine. He's not preaching and teaching the whole counsel of God. He's supplementing the truth with his own ideas. This false teacher is proud. Very important word. Knowing nothing, very important phrase. Doting about questions and strife of words. Whereof cometh envy, strife, railings, evil surmisings, perverse disputings of men of corrupt minds Destiny of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness. Now I want us to take each of these phrases and these words, and I want us to understand how they're connected to this whole discussion on false teachers. Now, if somebody, I want you to think with me for a moment, if a person is not teaching the whole counsel of God, in other words, they've taken their authority and they have imposed it upon God's authority of the Scripture. They don't believe in the sufficiency of Scripture, at least not in practice. What are they ultimately doing? Well, here's what he's going to tell us. The first thing they're doing, false teachers are doing, is they're putting their own opinions above the authority of Scripture. And so what does he say? This person is proud. In other words, they've come to the conclusion, either they've actually intellectually come to this conclusion, or just in practice, this is how they're actually doing their ministry, but they've come to the conclusion That their own opinion is on the same level or even superior to God's word Now, this is shocking that a person would do this, but the reality is when a person preaches their own opinions instead of the scriptures, that's exactly what they're doing. And you can't describe it any other way than saying the person is proud. They've put their own opinions on the same level as God's truth. Secondly, false teachers are teaching doctrines that are void of wisdom and power. Now we say wisdom, we're saying this is not true. It's not consistent with reality. It's not God's wisdom When we say that it's devoid of power, we're saying it's incapable of bringing a person to salvation, where a person is delivered from the penalty of their sins and they're justified. and they're saved, forgiven. It's impossible because it's not a message that bears God's authority. It's without wisdom and it's without power. And notice the way he puts it. These people know nothing. Know nothing. Thirdly, false teaching promotes incompatible inconsistencies. He says that these false teachers are doting about questions. And strife of words. Now this is really interesting. When we come to God's word, we're not just reading Paul's ideas. Or Peter's ideas or Matthew's ideas or Moses ' ideas. Moses and Paul and David, these men were instruments through which God spoke. He used their personalities, he used their backgrounds. So we do see aspects of their of their personality in the text as they're writing. But the reality is it's not Paul versus Peter. Or James versus John. It's God's word through different instruments. And so what we see in the Bible is that because it's the same ultimate author, God. Though he's using these different individuals to write his word, it's the same author. There's not inconsistency. There's a consistency in God's word. So I can go to the Old Testament and I can read from the books of the law and I can read what Moses wrote. I can go to the Psalms, I can read what David wrote. I can go to the Gospels, I can read Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. I can read Paul's epistles. I can read the book of James. I can read the book of Hebrews. And as I look at all these books, you know what I'm going to find out? There's a consistency there. There's a consistent theological perspective there because it's truth. It's God's word. There's a doctrinal consistency in the Bible. But when you begin to pit one teacher versus another and you have all these different ideas, guess what you have? Inconsistencies. You know what's really interesting when you watch the way that a person thinks from the time they're twenty years old to the time that they're thirty, then to the time that they're fifty, then the time that they're seventy, there are gonna be huge changes in the way they look at things. Is that true? Okay? Anybody look at life the same way you did when you were 18? No, you don't. Now there'd be some similarities, okay? But what happens as you as you get older and you go through situations, you start realizing, wow, what I presume there to be true is not true. I didn't understand that. You learn things in life. And so if you were to observe an individual's writings or their teachings over the course of their lifetime, you would find plenty of inconsistencies. One person, but you look at different decades of their life and you know what you'll find out? What they believed in the 1970s in certain areas. And what they believed in the nineteen nineties in certain areas, what they believe today, is not necessarily the same. Look at Joe Biden He believes in segregation when he went into the Senate, okay? It's the truth. This is the same man, folks, okay? And I'm just giving just one example. Someone who's been in the public sector for almost fifty years of his life. The idea is if you want to look at him from the 1970s versus the 1980s versus the 1990s versus 2008 versus 2020, guess what? You don't have the same person. I mean he's the same person, but he doesn't have the same thinking. Doesn't have the same approach to things. So what do you see? Incistencies everywhere. But you don't see that in the Bible. And the reason you don't see that in the Bible is because the Bible has one author. Yes, different penmen, but one author. And so when you have a false teacher, guess what? They're going to have all kinds of inconsistencies in the presentations that they give. And what does that stir up? Incompatibilities and doting about questions and strifes of words. In other words, is this person's opinion versus this person's opinion? And one is going to rule the day for a period of time. So what is the result of a teaching that is inconsistent? That's incompatible, that's not consistent with reality, its sources not God. What's ultimately going to happen in a context where you have people that teach in that way? Well, here's what he says. From this comes self-promotion, he uses the word envy. Contentions, he uses the word strife. Seeking to destroy other people's reputation, he uses the word railings. Assuming the worst of others, he uses the phrase evil surmisings. A twisted logic, he says, perverse, meaning twisted disputings of men of corrupt minds. In other words, when you have a person that's a false teacher, they are going to be very self-promoting. And that self-promotion amongst different people is going to do what? It's going to create all kinds of contentions amongst people. And by the way, if you examine those who are not sound Bible teachers, you will find that this is true of them. This is very true of them. They're always fighting to be in the lead We then continue on. He says false teachers are bankrupt of real truth. He says they're destitute of the truth. And then he says that false teaching Sees God as a means to getting material prosperity. Now you know what's really interesting when we come to second 1 Timothy chapter 6. I really think that this is the heart and the soul of what Timothy's talking about, or what Paul's writing to Timothy about. And what's interesting is in verse 5, he makes this transition, and then verses 6 through 10, he's going to spend all this time talking about greed, and he's going to warn us about greed. Why does he spend all this time warning us about greed? Because the last thing he says is that the particular kind of false teaching that was going on at the church at Ephesus at this time was a kind of prosperity theology. It was a belief system that said, God is a means to get the ends that I want. And you know what's really interesting? If you look at the Bible and examples of where people were involved in idolatry. What you will see is that many times people that had that had that kind of a worldview where they believed in multiple deities and they were paying homage to these deities, what you would see is that they saw those deities as a means to an end that they wanted. I want you just to think for a moment about what Jesus says about this issue of prayer. He says, when you pray, don't pray as the heathen who don't know God. They think through their long prayers that they're going to somehow manipulate God. You know, think about the example of Elijah on Mount Carmel. He's up on Mount Carmel, and you have all these prophets of Baal, and they're saying, bring down fire, we're going to prove who the real God is. And so all these prophets of Baal for the whole day, they're crying out to their God, and they're saying, Bring down fire. At the end, they're just making a total mockery of themselves, and Elijah's laughing at them. And then what does Elijah do? He says, God, demonstrate your power. Boom, it happens just like that. But we see something about the thinking of these people. They somehow believe they could twist the arm of a deity, someone who's more powerful than them, to get what they want. And by the way, when you talk about an animistic worldview, what you'll find is that that is ultimately what keeps people in that worldview. In other words, I don't I don't have the power to get evil in I don't have the power to get even with my enemy. I don't have the power to protect myself. I don't have the power to Get the money that I want, to get married to have children, whatever it is And so using this means to an end is how people tend to think. Well, that's exactly what was being taught by these Jewish false teachers at Ephesus. They suppose that gain comes from godliness. In other words, if you want to get stuff, material possessions Then you've got to play God's system. And if you play God's system, you'll be able to squeeze out of him what you want. By the way, that's the most prominent view of God in the world today. It really is. In our own country, all over the world, when we talk about prosperity theology, we're talking about a system of thought that thinks, if I can somehow use God, I can get whatever I want. I can get the reputation I want. I can get that relationship that I want. I can get the financial position that I want. I can have the health that I want. And so God will make me healthy and he make me wealthy and make me wise. And if I really want the American dream, I can use God to get it. And so we have all these self-help approaches to the Christian life that are really nothing more than seeing God as a genie in a bottle to get whatever we want. This is exactly what the Apostle Paul is saying. Don't get duped by these kinds of teachers. By the way, if we turn on religious television If we go into a bookstore and we look at religious books, the vast majority of the material that we'll see there, and many, many resource options that are available. The vast majority are going to be books and are going to be resources that fall into this category of being a prosperity theology. I'm going to tell you that this prosperous theology is extremely detrimental to the way that we think and live in this world. So he's dealing with this concept of false teaching that's rooted in thinking that God is a means to get what I want. So that moves us to our fourth and final truth that we're going to look at tonight. And this is extremely interesting. False teachers and those who are duped by their teaching are often slaves to the vice of greed. Now this is really interesting. He's not just saying that the false teachers are greedy. He's saying the false teachers are greedy and they're actually using the greed of the people they're preying on to kind of keep them in the position that they are. It's almost like a pyramid scheme, okay? It's like the guy at the top is the one who benefits from everybody under them. And so every single person under that top guy is basically supporting the guy above them. So the false teacher is the greediest of them all. But if any of them were not greedy, then they'd be able to get out of the system. But because they're bound by greed, they're duped by the false teacher. In other words, they're coming and they're hearing what they want to hear. And I have seen this over and over and over again. But somebody will tell people whatever they want to hear if it's going to line their pockets. And by the way, when the world looks at Christianity. And when they see these kinds of church situations and people that are basically taking advantage of the greedy to basically satisfy their own greed, they say, if that's Christianity, that's not anything I want. That's not what the Bible teaches. Take up your cross and follow me. Whoever will save his life will lose it. And whoever will lose his life for my sake in the gospel shall find it. What is your profit if a man gained the whole world and he lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? You know, it's interesting, we've been going to the book of Ecclesiastes in the morning, and one of the things that has really been emphasized over the last chapter and a half of the book of Ecclesiastes Ecclesiastes 8 and Ecclesiastes 9 is that many people have in their minds that if I if I do this formula, then this is the outcome that God is obligated to give me. Okay? So if I do these good things, I have to get this good thing. If I do these bad things, then I'm going to have to get this bad thing. And think about the story of Job. When Job's friends are gathered around him, they said, obviously, you did something really bad, Job, because God would never allow you to go through this suffering if it wasn't for something really bad that you did. Yet, what did he do? It wasn't because of anything he did. Or you think about the blind man and Jesus. Look at this blind man, and the disciples said, Who sins? This man or his parents? And Jesus says, neither. But this has happened for the glory of God. The fact is that when we look at life, there's not this magic formula that we can plug in and then we get the outcome that we want. As a general rule, God blesses those who make good choices. As a general rule, there are consequences for making bad decisions. But there's also God's grace. Truth is nobody in this room hasn't made terrible decisions at some point in your life. Yet God has been so good to us. In spite of us. There are times that we make the right decision, and God still allows us to go through difficulty because there are lessons that He wants to teach us. And there are things we have to learn about him. And there are things he has to weed out of our lives. The fact is that the way that God works in our lives, his providence and how he guides in circumstances. In fact, in many ways it's mysterious. Sometimes it's not even fully predictable. And so a false teacher gets up and says, you do this for God, and he's going to give you this, and the fact that that's just not true. And so Paul's addressing that issue. But let's look at what he says in verses 6 through 10, because this is very important. He says, Godliness with contentment is great gain. We brought nothing into this world. It is certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and raiment, let us be therewith content. But they that will be rich, and that phrase they that will be rich basically means people who lust for money, okay? That's the real simple way to put it. People who are consumed with becoming wealthy. People are covetous, greedy. They that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare. and to many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition, for the love of money is the root of all evil. Now, he's not saying that money is evil, okay? God blesses people financially many times. He prospers them. And he wants them to be good managers of the resources that he has given to them. So he's not saying that money is evil and money is sinful, but the love of it is, the passion to have it, being consumed with stuff, materialism. That is very, very dangerous. And we say this is the root of all evil. He's saying this all kinds of evil practices that ultimately are connected to the fact that a person is greedy. That's what he's saying. And so when a person is greedy, what do they do? They become very susceptible to somebody that says, let me tell you how you can get what you want. You do this for God, which means like, you know, put money in the offering so that I can be benefited by it as a man of God or whatever. And if you do that, then God will do this. Hey, if you give that money and you send in that gift and you send in your prayer requests, then God's going to take that seed and he's going to multiply it. How many people do that? How many people are flying around in private jets because they're teaching that kind of a thing? And some person is giving their last penny because they're hoping this is my last chance They are no different than somebody buying lotto tickets at Wawa, okay? Except they're vi they're viewing God as the lotto ticket. Just just to be very transparent and frank about it. So this is what he says. He puts out this contrast: presumption and humility, contentment and greed. He says, God's people should not presume, supposing that gain is godliness. Rather, God's people should be humble. Godliness with contentment is great gain. Hey, if God blesses us materially , that's very kind of Him. And I want to be a good steward of that. I don't want to waste that. I want to use it for his honor and glory. But I'm content. Hey, you can be content if you're very wealthy, you can be content if you're very poor, you can be content if you're in the middle. On the other side, you can be greedy if you've got nothing. You could be greedy if you're absolutely filthy rich. And you could be greedy if you're in the middle. It's not about what you have and what you don't have. It's about how you view what you have and don't have. Do you view it as a right? Do you believe it as that it is something that God is obligated to give you? Or do you see it as a good gift? It's a gift, it's grace. So he contrasts, he says, don't be presumptuous, be humble. Don't be greedy, be content. He talks about contentment. He says, let us therewith be content. With what? He says, with food and raiment, let us be with content. We brought nothing into this world, and we can carry nothing with us out of this world. In other words, if we have our daily needs being met, then God has given us what we need. And if we have beyond that, it's a gift. We don't deserve it, we're not entitled to it. But he's good to us. He talks about the power of greed, he says, but they that will be rich, those who have this lust for money, they fall into a temptation. And a snare. When he says the temptation, in other words, they've made provision for their flesh. In other words, greed leads to other vices Greed is not confined to only this one area. It begins to ripple into all kinds of other. It breaks up our relationships with other people. It can destroy a marriage. It can cause a person to be in a position where they're completely dishonest, where they're willing to steal from somebody, where they're willing to misrepresent certain things. Greed can really lead to all kinds of areas of temptation. And we talked about his snare. The idea is the person is trapped. They're caught in this thing called greed. The more they want, the less they appreciate what they have. And by the way, how do you get out of that? You don't get out of that by getting more money. The more money you get, the more afraid you get you're going to lose it, and the more you want more. In other words, there's temptation and there's a snare that's associated with greed. And they fall into foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. He says this destroys people's lives. Absolutely destroys people's lives. And so he's saying this because he wants us to realize that is ultimately the source of many false teachers' positions. Many. The reason that they're doing what they're doing, the way that they deliver it, the way they relate to people, the nature of the message being presented, it's all catered to basically get And people that are being duped by this, who are being lured into this kind of teaching, it's because they want stuff. Greed. So here's the question. How can we practically apply this very simple passage in front of us? Let me give you a couple of very simple important thoughts. First is this: the scriptures have to be our final authority. It is so important that when it comes to how I view life, how I view God, how I view myself, what I teach to people, what I stake my life on, it's got to be the scriptures. It's got to be sound doctrine. I can't go to some other source. Too. The scriptures are the only thing that can grow us into Christ's likeness. If I neglect God's word. I will not grow in the Christ's likeness. There are no substitutes. It's the tool God uses. If it's not present, then we don't grow. There's a connection between the two. Third, teaching our own opinions as truth is arrogance and promotes strife, disunity And self-promoting behavior. And might I even add, very destructive self-promoting behavior. Fourth, we should never view God as a tool to get what we want That's so important. We need to recognize that we're not entitled to things. We're not entitled to certain outcomes. We need to trust God. We need to recognize that He is wise. He is purposeful in how He works in our lives. We have to learn to trust Him and submit to His ways. And lastly, greed makes us vulnerable to the kind of false teaching that Paul was concerned about at Ephesus. It's so important that we keep our hearts in check. We will never get to the point in life when we cannot drift into this area, into this vice, into this struggle. And so may the Lord help us to live in the light of these trades. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, thank you for this text of scripture. It's very practical. It's very penetrating, and I pray that you'd help us to live in the light of it. Help us to recognize how how absolutely critical It is that your word is our delight, it is our final authority, we don't substitute something for the scripture. that we don't put our own opinions parallel to the scriptures, but that the word of God is the final say in everything I pray that you'd help us not to be greedy of this, not to be guilty of this vice of greed, as those who teach your word or as those who listen to your word. Help us not to see you as a means to an end that we desire, but help us to see that in fact your providential care is good and we can trust you. Touch you. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen