You can take your Bible and turn with me to Mark chapter 4. Mark chapter 4. We'll look at verses 35 through 41 of Mark chapter 4. Mark four, thirty-five through forty-one. We'll read the text and then we'll pray. Verse 35. And the same day, when the evening was come, he saith unto them, Let us pass over unto the other side. And when they had sent away the multitude, they took him even as he was in the ship. And there was also with him other little ships. And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that it was now full. And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow. And they awake him and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish? And he arose and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? How is it that ye have no faith? And they feared exceedingly, and said to one another, What manner of man is this? That even the wind and the sea obey him. Let's pray. Father, we come into your presence through the blood and the righteousness of your Son. And Lord, we praise you for your personal care and providential control. In our lives, that in the midst of our fears we can find rest in Christ. And so, Lord, I pray that you would encourage our hearts this evening. Lord, many are here with great burdens that they carry, sorrows they're bearing. Father, I pray that they would just have a fresh sense of your presence and your goodness. Stir our hearts afresh for a deeper affection for Christ. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Fear not. It's one of the most frequent commands in all of the scriptures, and for good reason. All of us. Struggle with fear, worry, anxiety as we navigate the uncertainties and challenges of life in a sin-cursed world We fear what-ifs. We worry about all of the what-ifs. We get anxious when we think about the future. And when we dwell on our fears, and that is a great temptation, we gradually become blind to the goodness and glory of God. Fear in many ways is like a thick morning fog that keeps us from clearly seeing the personal care and providential control of Christ in our lives. But the good news is, as God's people who have been set free from sin, we do not need to be defined by fear or grip By the things that we could potentially find as anxious. As we open the text this morning or this evening, we see that faith replaces fear when we rest. In the care and control of Christ. Faith replaces fear when we learn to rest in the care and control of Christ. So beginning in verse 35 and 36, we see the situation. And the same day, when the even was come, he saith unto them, Let us pass over unto the other side. And when they had sent away the multitude, they took him even as he was in the ship, and there were also with him other little ships. Now the passage begins with this phrase, on the same day. And that day, if you were to go back, begins in chapter 4, verse 1. And we don't have time to read through all of the context here, but we basically have a massive multitude of people who have gathered on the seashore to see Christ. Now some are eager, thinking that perhaps he will work a miracle, and they can see with their own eyes what they've heard about from others. Others are curious to see if the rumors that they hear about Jesus are true. But the crowds at this point in Mark's Gospel have become so large and so demanding and persistent In fact, a chapter earlier, Mark notes that the disciples were concerned that if Christ freely walked amongst the crowd, And had access, the crowd had access to him, they would crush him. And so we find Jesus in chapter 4 teaching the multitudes from a boat. There's no microphone, no raised platform, and it appears that he's been teaching all day. And in order to teach, he basically has to shout out so that the people could hear him. So more than likely, by the time the evening had come , He probably was exhausted. He hadn't eaten, no doubt, and he had no opportunity to rest or relax his voice. And so he tells his disciples, as the evening comes, let us pass over. onto the other side. Now it would be easy to kind of gloss over Christ's statement here and think nothing of it. You know, he probably just needs to go over and get away from the crowds in order to get rest. But there's a little more to it than that, because the other side of the Sea of Galilee was a place There was not exactly a spot where Jews would want to visit. It was a Gentile area that Christ was talking about. And this area was not viewed as a quote clean place. The Jews were very concerned about that which was clean and unclean. And Jesus says, after teaching all day long, let's go to the other side, to this uncle. Clean place. So picture the disciples here. They are hearing this. They're seeing all of this. And no doubt Christ's statement doesn't make a lot of sense to them. They would have had some questions and reservations. Going to the other side would seem like a very bad idea. And humanly speaking, it it kind of was. On the way, they almost drowned. And once Christ arrives, he's greeted Not by one of the friendly church greeters here, but by a demon-possessed guy. Not exactly the you know the greatest welcome in the planet. The men of the city They're not a whole lot nicer either. They treat him rudely and they beg him to leave. So Christ goes to the other side and he's not there very long. In fact, he goes back to Capernaum Where this story occurs. And so when you think about it, this just seems like a big waste of time. Why all this hassle? But it was all part. of Christ's mission. Because on the other side, there were two men, Mark focuses on one of them, who needed his healing, redeeming, transforming touch. And so Jesus left the curious crowds to care for a sin -sick soul, a man that others had given up on Now, of course, the disciples didn't understand all of that. They didn't really grasp what Christ's kingdom and mission was all about. In fact, at this point in Mark's gospel, they basically understand that God is working through Jesus. But they haven't really grasped that Jesus is in fact God. Despite their lack of understanding, Despite no doubt their reservations, they do obey Christ. And in verse 36 Other ships join them, they get in the boat with Jesus, and they set out for what should have been roughly a two or three hour journey across the sea to the country of the Garosenes. So that's the setting when verse 37 things begin to quickly spiral out, seemingly out of control. Because in verses 37 through 38, we see a great storm arises. Verse 37, and there arose a great storm of wind. And the waves beat into the ship so that it was now full. And Jesus was in the hinder part of the ship asleep on a pillow. And they wake him and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish? Now the Sea of Galilee is about 700 feet below sea level. It's kind of in this basin surrounded by these very tall hills and mountains. And so sometimes the cold air from the mountains and the warm air arising from the sea would occasionally produce a fierce, almost like a hurricane type Storm waves could potentially reach upwards to ten feet high. Now the disciples are experienced Fishermen, as you probably know. They've seen a thing or two in the day, but this was a different kind of storm. The idea here is the waves are continually beating and breaking into the boat. The boat is quickly filling, and things seem hopeless. You can almost feel the fear and the panic setting in as you read. The text. The storm is a stuff of nightmares. And the disciples who have no doubt, again, had their fair share of experiences, feel completely overwhelmed by this one. They're terrified. This is way beyond their control. And you can imagine as they're trying desperately to get the water out of the boat, but they're thinking to themselves, or even perhaps verbalizing, why are we even doing this? I knew this was a bad idea. But we see Jesus in verse 38. He's in the back part of the boat, and he's asleep We see here the full humanity of Christ on display. Incidentally, this is the only place in the Gospels where we hear of Jesus sleeping. In Mark's Gospel, it's just constant action. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. And finally, we see Jesus asleep. In his humanity, he understands. What it is to be exhausted. He understands what it is to be burdened. All day teaching, all day ministering, all day giving, exerting himself to the max. And in the midst of this great storm, he's fast asleep. Asleep with a great sense of confidence, because he knows the sovereign care and control of God over his life and his mission. But the disciples, they see Jesus asleep, and how do they interpret this? It's a lack of care , lack of concern. They're angry. They're frustrated. They're desperate. And they lash out in verse 38. Master, carest thou not that we perish? Teacher, excuse me, don't you care that we're perishing? And this statement seems to carry with it the idea of fault finding. Like we're perishing here because we're doing what you told us to do. This is your fault. Wake up and do something about it. Now you might be thinking, well, I mean, that's totally out of line. I would never do that. I can't believe that those chuckleheads said that to Jesus. But when we read these kind of accounts in the Gospels, don't look at these disciples and say, what kind of guys were these? Because these guys were made of the same stuff that you and I are made of. This is what we do in our fallenness. Think about those moments in your life. No doubt when the waves of fear and worry kept crashing in. And you begin to feel like your obedience to God has actually made things worse and not better. And aren't we tempted to respond the same way? A trial comes, a tragedy comes, and we say, Lord, why are you allowing this to happen? I followed you for my whole life, and this is what I get. We look at others, and life seems so easy. For them. Everything just seems to kind of fall into place. And things are so hard for us. We're trying to love the Lord and follow the Lord and we're trying to do the right thing. And it seems like the harder we try, the more the blessings seem to elude us. Jesus, why aren't you blessing me? Why aren't you answering my prayers? The reality is the disciples' response is not all that different than our responses. We may not verbalize it, but if we're honest, I think we've all been there. Things aren't going the way we had hoped. We find ourselves in situations that are way beyond our control. And so what happens? We become so bitter. It's so angry, so self-centered, and consumed by our fears that we lose sight of the sweet presence of Christ We forget. We forget his promises, his power, his provision. We've all been there Toward our final days when we were in Ghana. Ever since I was 12, I wanted to be a missionary. And we found ourselves in a situation that was simply beyond our control. And it seemed like the cumulative pressures and disappointments and discouragements would not relent. I remember getting so angry one time that I punched my brick wall. You know, of course, a good logical thing to do. That's what we typically do in these kind of moments of anger. And I begin to just kind of wallow in my own pity party. Lord, so many people would not do what I'm doing. I'm willing to do this. And you're shutting the door. God, why? I'm just like these guys. And the truth is, so are you But notice how Jesus responds. How does Christ respond to these sinful, unbelieving, fearful disciples? They rebuke him, and in verse 39, Jesus arises, and he turns and rebukes the wind. And he said to the sea, Peace. Be still. And through the power of his word, the wind ceased, and the great storm became what? A great Calm. Jesus is not surprised. Jesus is not panicking. He's not flustered. He's not angry. He's not stressed. The Son of God, the creator and Lord of all things, who had just been sinfully rebuked By his disciples, stands up and he rebukes the sea. Peace be still. And through the power of his word, Jesus does what only God can do. He turns the great storm into a great calm. And then in verse 40, he turns then to his disciples. And he said to them, Why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith? Why are you afraid? Despite the miracles, despite the teachings, the disciples still hadn't fully grasped who he was. They struggled like we do. But Jesus intervenes to make sure his disciples understand who he is and why, why they can trust him. So we have a great storm that turns into a great calm, and then the disciples respond with a great fear. Verse 41, and they feared exceedingly, and said to one another, What manner of man is this that even the wind and the sea obeyed him Now initially we find the disciples responding in a kind of anxious or angry fear. But the kind of fear that we see here in verse 41 is something quite different. It's a faith -filled fear. It's the kind of awe that comes over a person when they see and experience God's mighty acts of redemption. They are left in awe. Again, not a sinful fear that causes people to lash out in anger, but the kind of fear that leads to a deeper level of trust, a fear that leads to faith. You see, they knew something of Jesus, but they had never experienced such power before. Who is this? Even the wind and the waves obey him. And of course, Mark anticipates the answer. This is Jesus. He's the Son of God. He's the one who not only cares for his people, but is in sovereign control over all the events and circumstances of their lives. And in the presence of this great God, a healthy kind of fear is an appropriate response. Now it's interesting if we had time to dive into Mark chapter 5. We would see that Mark uses three more stories that follow the same kind of pattern. People overwhelmed by fear because of daunting circumstances. Sinners treating Christ with rudeness and unbelief. And we see Christ in these different stories, full of pity. Compassion and power, not disgusted by sinners, but moving towards sinners, healing and renewing and restoring. And in the end, we see people amazed at the care and control of Christ. So, what does all this have to do with your life and with mine? We read this story. It's a fascinating account. So what? Well, oftentimes we look at the daunting situations in our lives, and we, like the disciples, question Christ's care. Don't you care for us and his control? Like the disciples, we often try to fix our problems apart from Christ. And inevitably that doesn't work. And so we worry, we fear, and we lash out in unbelief. But the good news is That because of the grace of God in Christ, we can come to Jesus in all of our brokenness, in all of our burdens, and we can cast our anxieties upon him because he cares. For us. His sovereign control is not impersonal. It's profoundly caring. This is why the scripture says, casting all your cares upon him, because he cares for you. This is why Paul would say to the Philippian church, be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known unto God, and the peace of God, which passes all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. Now we hear these verses, we hear these realities, and maybe you're thinking, well, Micah, I've tried that, and it doesn't seem like Christ is doing anything. He 's not rebuking the wind and the seas. But don't miss this Because this passage isn't simply about Jesus fixing problems. In the full account of Mark's gospel, this is about him changing people. It's not about fixing their problems. It's about him changing these people. He changes these unbelieving disciples and he transforms them. and to men who are full of faith. In chapter 5, he takes that demon-possessed dude, that maniac, he makes him a missionary. He takes a woman who's on the fringes and he brings her in to the family. You see, the truth is, Jesus may not change your circumstances. He may not say, peace be still to your problems. But here's what he does. He works in his care to make you more like him. He works in his goodness so that you experience more of his grace. The reality is he may not change the problem, but he promises. To give grace and help in our time of need. And the good news is, his grace is sufficient so that his power is displayed even in And through our weaknesses. The truth is what Jesus is doing in you is so much bigger than any situation that you're facing right now. So we read this account, and here's the good news. Yes, we live in fear. And yes, anxieties at times can overwhelm us. But the truth is, because of Jesus, faith replaces fear. When we learn to rest in the personal care and providential control of Christ. So won't you come to him this evening? Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus We thank you that we have a Savior who sympathizes with us in our weakness, who moves toward us in our brokenness with grace to help in time of need. Father, I thank you that we can all look back and see the depths of your personal care and providential control Lord, there are situations we are simply not prepared for. There are things that will overwhelm us. And Lord, when those trials arise. May faith replace fear as we learn to rest in the care and control of Christ. We pray this that Jesus may be glorified It's in his name we pray. Amen.