Okay, if you have your Bibles, I want to ask you to take them and turn to 1 Timothy 3. 1 Timothy chapter 3, it's been a couple of weeks since we've been in this passage. And we've been looking at the qualifications of pastors. And I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to read the passage again. I'm going to kind of give you a summary statement for the section that's there, and then I'll quickly review over a couple of details and we'll get back into where we were in the qualifications. First Timothy chapter 3 verse 1 says this. This is a true saying. If a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work. A bishop then must be blameless The husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, of good behavior, given to hospitality, apt to teach, not given to wine, no striker, not greedy a filthy lucre, but patient, not a brawler, not covetous One that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity. For if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of the church of God? Not a novice lest being lifted up with pride he fall into the condemnation of the devil. Moreover, he should have a good report of them which are without, lest he fall into reproach. and the snare of the devil. Likewise the deacons must be grave, not double tongued, not given to much wine, not greedy of filthy lucre, holding the mystery of the faith in pure conscience Let these also first be proved, then let them use the office of deacon being found blameless. I'm going to go ahead and stop there and remind you of a summary statement for the section. The purpose of this section of 1 Timothy was to guide Timothy into the appropriate organization of the local church. And I want to remind you that this passage was written in a very specific situation. So The church at Ephesus was, I think, about eight to ten years old, so it wasn't a brand new church. It was an established church, but it was a church that had been around long enough to begin to drift away from where it was supposed to be as a church. And what had happened is there were people in the church that were getting into positions of authority and positions of teaching and leadership who really should not have been in those positions. Some of them were just straight up false teachers. They were teaching things that were contrary to sound doctrine. One of the issues that they're dealing with is they had Judaizers in the church. who are basically taking the law and they were trying to enforce Old Testament law on Gentile Christians. And so one of the things that Paul has to do is send Timothy over there to set in order the things that are going on. Timothy is going to have to actually remove certain people from leadership. That's not an easy thing to do. And Timothy's not an elderly man. He's not even A man who's really in middle age, he's pretty young. He's probably even younger than I am right now. And so he's coming into a position where he has to remove people that are older than him in a culture that Put a lot of weight in age and experience, even more than our own culture does. And he was up to a huge task. Another thing that he needed to do is he needed to teach the church so that the problems that they're encountering will not continue in the future. And so he's giving him instruction on how they're to organize the church. And that's really what's going on here. in 1 Timothy chapter 3. He's going to have to reestablish the leadership and reinforce amongst those who are in leadership the kind of leaders that should be in those positions. those who are pastors and those who are deacons. So we talked a little bit about that. We got into this concept of what is a pastor, and we saw that in the New Testament. There are three different terms that are used. One is pastor, one is bishop, meaning overseer, and one is elder. We saw that those three different terms are used to describe The same office, and the reason that there are three different terms used is because they describe different aspects of this office of pastor, elder, overseer , bishop. We then got into the issue of who a deacon is. We talked about that a little bit. And now what we're going to do is we're going to continue on in our section dealing with pastoral qualifications. One of the things that we see is that a church not only is supposed to hold fast to the truth, but it's got to have people who are in leadership who have that conviction as well. Not just that have that conviction, but they have the ability to do it, and they have the character that it's not going to undermine the work that they're doing. And so when he says that a bishop must be, it means he has to be. It means that he has to have these qualities. And basically you could put it this way, a man who is in pastoral office has to be able to stand a test when these issues are presented before them. And the word that he uses is blameless. The illustration of that is something like a Teflon pan. You know, Teflon pan, you can cook your eggs in it and this and that. And when you get done, you can. Just put some water in it and it, you know, it it cleans itself almost. Things don't stick to it. And so the idea is that when we look at those qualities, those areas that he addresses That person shouldn't have an area in the reputation where you go, I know it says this, I don't think that person really meets that criteria. In other words, it sticks to their reputation. And so what are the statements that he that he makes? First he says this, if a man desires the office, And so we talked about the fact that someone who is going to be a pastor has to have this internal burden and desire. And when we use the term calling, we tend to actually use it in the sense of they have this burden or this desire. Then we talk about the fact that the person has to be the husband of one wife, and we talked about the fact that that's not just simply saying he only has one wife. It's talking about the character of this individual. It goes even deeper than the fact that he's married to only one individual, that he's not, you know, married, divorced, remarried, those kinds of things. But that he has a character that is clearly appropriate when it comes to how he relates to ladies. We then saw that he needs to be someone who is temperate or vigilant is a word that's used. Someone who is sober. The idea is that he has uh good thinking. He's looking ahead. He notices areas that need to be addressed. He's someone who is of good behavior. That means that he's not sloppy. He carries himself in a respectable manner. He's given to hospitality That has the idea that he loves interacting with people. And so a pastor is someone who doesn't just go to the study and bury himself in his books and he comes out and he gives a sermon and then he goes back to his books. But he's someone who, yes, he can study, but he also needs to get out and interact with people. He needs to invite people into his home. He needs to go to people's homes. A pastor needs to be someone who is comfortable interacting with other people Very, very important, hospitable. One is also that he needs to be apt to teach. And the idea is that he's someone who has the ability to take the Bible. to teach sound doctrine, to open it up, to expound it in the public setting, but not just in the public setting, also in the private setting. A pastor should be able to answer theological questions. A person comes to them with an issue. I'm having a conversation with this person. I don't know what I need to say. A pastor should be able to sit down and say, well, let's take our Bibles and let's talk about how you can help that person. What kind of questions you should ask? Here are the passages that you go to. A pastor needs to be able to do that. The last thing that we talked about is he's not given to wine. And we saw that when we talk about this aspect of not giving to wine, he's not simply talking about alcohol only, but the reality is a pastor can't be controlled by any substance. And so it's not just that, oh, the pastor is not a drinker, the pastor's also not, you know, got some other kind of issue that he's addicted to. That's controlling his judgment, it's controlling his emotions and the way he thinks. So when we talk about wine, I think it goes even beyond just alcohol there. Now we're going to continue with the next phrase. The next phrase is that he's not a striker. The idea is that this is a person who's not violent or quick temper. He doesn't rush to fight people when he's angry. And by the way, this is a really practical thing. Pastors, well, if you're a teacher, you know what it's like to deal with kids to classroom, right? Well, those kids grow out. And their nature continues with them, okay? You know what it's like to be a parent and you work with children, and as those kids get older, well, the spats just get a little bit more, you know, there's more on the line when those people get into spats down the road. The reality is that any person who is in a position of leadership has to develop good people skills. They have to be able to to not be quick to rest your judgment, not to be quick to get angry, to take things personally, because they're going to have to deal with a lot of conflict resolution issues. Sadly, but truthfully, pastors deal with lots and lots of interpersonal spats between people. Way more than the average person. Some people come to church, they sit in their pew, they listen to a message, they give their tithe, they sing their songs, they go home. They never have issues with anybody in the church There's there's people like that in the church, and there's others that's not the case. They're saved and they love the Lord, but they do get in conflicts with other people. And the question is, who is it that's got to sit down with people in conflict and help them resolve their differences? It's the pastor. In other words, the pastor has to be willing to listen to what's going on. He has to be slow to become angry with those kinds of issues. Who is the person that calls the shots more than anybody else in the church? It's the pastor. So who is the one who gets critiqued the most in the church? Sebastian. Okay? Especially by his wife, right? No, I'm just kidding. I'm totally kidding. A pastor gets critiqued a lot. A pastor deals with conflict a lot. And the reality is that a pastor has to be a person who's not quick To become angry, to shout at people, to become aggressive, to become violent, because he's going to deal with conflict all the time I'm not saying that a pastor doesn't lose his cool from time to time, but if a pastor does lose his cool, it ought to be very rare. It ought to be very clear. It's out of character, and he better resolve it quickly the right way. And it should be something that doesn't stick to his reputation. But when he uses the term striker, the idea is this is a person who is quick to go to blows. In other words, there's a conflict in front of me and I'm immediately wanting to fight instead of calm the situation, resolve it peaceably. Pastor can't be that way. Next, he needs to be someone who's not greedy of filthy lucre. Later on in the passage, it says that he's not covetous. The idea is that a pastor is not someone who loves to pursue money. He shouldn't be someone who's consumed with making money or discontented with his financial situation. Now, caveat here, it doesn't mean that a church should abuse their pastor, okay? A pastor should be able to eat and a pastor should be able to clothe his family and put food on the table for his family. He should be able to live in a reasonable setting. But the reality is that some pastors become very, very quick at finding ways to make lots and lots of money. And what is interesting is when he says he's not greedy, a filthy lucre, the idea is he's not consumed with greed so that he's willing to do dubious things to make money and to get money. If I sat down and I wrote down all the stories that I've heard or observed over my relatively short life when it comes to Pastors who became greedy of filthy lucre, it's sad. There are pastors who've taken advantage of the elderly. There are pastors who have taken advantage of you know pyramid schemes and putting people in positions where they feel like they have to buy things from the pastor because of his position. There are pastors who tap into financial resources. There are pastors that take money and use it for things that they shouldn't. And the reality is that when a pastor is found in those things, he is unqualified and unfit to be in ministry. And not only that, but people should recognize if someone has that quality before they enter into the pastoral ministry. Next, he says he must be patient. The idea is that he's gentle and not overbearing, fair, mild-mannered You know, there's a difference between someone who is quick-tempered and they're ready to go to blows, and someone who's not quick-tempered, but they're very harsh. Do you know what I'm talking about? Some people they're not angry, but they're just harsh people. And the truth is that there are times when you deal with some people that they do have to be rebuked sternly. That does happen. But the reality is you don't start there. And the reality is some people you never have to get there. There are some people, and we even learned this when we're working with our children. You know, each child has a different kind of personality And so you have one child that they are really stubborn. And I mean, you start there with the real gentle and they just they keep pushing and they keep pushing. You gotta get a little firmer, well, a little bit firmer. But there are other kids that if you start here, you crush them. You ever disciplined your child or talked sternly to your child and they just like totally broke down and And all of a sudden you felt like you were this big. I know at least a few people in here are smiling. I've done that. I've done that. Probably you have too. Not because I was trying to be mean, but the reality is I didn't consider the disposition of the person in front of me. The fact that they had a much gentler, softer disposition than the other child I just dealt with 30 minutes before. A pastor has to be patient. He's got to be willing to sit down with people. He's got to come alongside people that are hurting. He's got to come alongside people that got really bad news, and he's got to be gentle and encouraging. He's got to deal with people that have been overcome by the same things over and over and over and over again. And he's got to come alongside of them, encourage them. A pastor has to be patient. Next, not a brawler. The idea is he's not contentious. What I mean by not contentious is some pastors, well let's not say pastors, some people just like to they like to go to controversy. You know what I mean? I remember when I was in college, we used to, all the preacher boys, you know, we'd have our Bible preacher boy class and then we'd all go to lunch. And we went to the dining hall that had pizza and hot dogs and all that kind of stuff, and we'd sit at the table, and you know, there'd there'd inevitably be a couple of guys at that table that were a little on the edgy side. And they're like, huh, the guy said this. What do you guys think about it? And the only reason that they put it out there was for the sake of argument. Well, you know, when you're 19 and 20 years old, it seems really funny. If you're 25 and you want to be a pastor and you've got the same attitude, you shouldn't be a pastor. That's simple. The reality is, churches don't need contentious pastors. They don't need pastors who are looking to pick fights with other pastors and other churches. They need people who are not brawlers. Very important. Next. One that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity. For if a man know not how to rule his own house How shall he take care of the church of God? He needs to be someone who manages his household well, having his children, being obedient and respectful. Now, as a man with young children, this is a tough one to address. Let me be very frank with you. The truth is that a pastor isn't going to have perfect kids But a pastor better not get run over by his kids. And not only better a pastor better not get run over by his kids, but he shouldn't allow them to do wrong and just let it go. He has to deal with them. The truth is, if someone doesn't deal with their children's behavior, if the teacher comes and says, Your child did such and such, and they say, Well, you know, life goes on, that's a big problem. If the worst kid in the church is the pastor, son or daughter, there's a problem. And the reality is that a pastor shows his ability to manage. The church on the small scale by how he manages his home and his kids. Very, very important. He has a well-ordered, managed family, children who are obedient, children who are respectful. Next it says this: not a novice, lest being lifted up with pride, he fall into the condemnation of the devil. The idea is he's someone who's not a young convert. He's not a young Christian. He's not someone who just became a believer. If a young believer is put into a position of authority too hastily, He will become proud, and this will ultimately be his downfall. In fact, the way that the text puts it is he can become lifted up with pride. and fall into the condemnation of the devil. Now Satan hates the church. Satan hates what we're doing. The truth is spiritual warfare is true. It's real. It happens. Satan wants to undermine this church. He wants to undermine any church that's preaching the gospel and is expounding sound doctrine. And he's going to go after the church any way that he can. And if you get a person in a position who is very young, very inexperienced, hasn't gone through a whole lot of hardship or difficulty in life, hasn't really developed good skill in life, and you put them in a position of leadership. And especially if they experience tremendous success quickly, that can be a recipe. For absolute disaster. Now I'm not suggesting that all young pastors become, you know, people on the side. Or all people that Experience success early on in ministry, fall by the wayside. That's not necessarily going to happen. But the reality is Satan will come after a person who experiences success. You know it's kind of interesting. We we we even uh see this when we uh ex examine kids that are playing sports in high school You know, a kid comes comes comes into the uh football team and he comes on the scene and it's his first year and nobody knows who he is and he has an amazing breakout year and and the guy's name is in the headlines day after day after day. I'll give you an example. I'm a Clemson fan. Okay? Trevor Lawrence. And Trevor Lawrence seems like a very level-headed guy. He had an amazing season last year. And every headline was like, This guy is unstoppable. And you know what? He was very stoppable the first four games of the season He made a lot of mistakes, a lot of errors. A lot of times the guy's a great rookie season and then that second year they have what they call a sophomore slump. Why is that? Because quick success oftentimes Well, develops pride in people. And God has to allow us to become humbled. God has to allow us to settle down. The truth is that it's so much better to get a person in that position who has gone through some challenge and some difficulty, has demonstrated that they have maturity, that they're not a novice So that when Satan hurls those darts, they handle them well. Lastly, he must have a good reputation with unbelievers. It says, moreover, he must have a good report of them which are without, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. You know, the world wants to destroy the work that God is doing in every church. And one of the easiest ways that the world can do that is when a pastor gets a bad reputation in a community. In fact, sometimes it's not even really of a fault of that person. Sometimes it's a false accusation that can come against somebody. But the reality is that when someone no longer has a good reputation in a community They cannot be a pastor. The reality is that it's going to hurt the cause of Christ far more than it helps Even if the person has a lot of teaching ability and the person is very gifted and the person has a a very likable personality, the reality is if this person has a poor reputation in the community, he cannot he cannot be a pastor In fact, there are a lot of men, frankly, that are in pastoral ministry today that probably some of these things are red flags. And many times those ministries, though they go through their high points, will over time begin to deteriorate And what you will see is the area that sticks will be the downfall of that ministry. And so we need to be very cautious that we take these qualifications seriously. That when we look at pastoral ministry and then when we talk about deacons as well, deacon the the role of the deacon and the responsibilities of the deacon and the qualifications of the deacon, in many ways they mirror a lot of the things that are here. The spiritual qualities, they're there. The character qualities, they're there. Deacons are not expected to have that teaching ability, but when you talk about the spiritual character of those individuals, it's the same. It's very important that as a church we hold fast to these things. So let me give you a couple of important implications. First, these are not suggestions. They're biblical mandates. Two, these qualities are a blend of both spiritual ministry, of ministry gifts, spiritual maturity, and a healthy walk. The reality is there are men in the church who are very spiritually mature, have a healthy walk, but God has not given them those ministry gifts. They don't end up being pastors. There are people that have these ministry gifts, and they make great pastors, but because of moral problems, they cannot be pastors. We need to recognize that these qualifications involve a blending of gifts, maturity, and a healthy walk. Three, every Christian should have a healthy walk and should be growing into spiritual maturity, not just pastors and deacons. You know, it's interesting we talk about these qualities, not a brawler, not a novice. Someone who's not greedy, a filthy lucre. Someone who's not given to wine, those kinds of things. The truth is that every every man in the church should meet these qualifications when we talk about these spiritual qualities. In other words, the reason that they're there is not to say, well, everybody in the church can just do whatever they want, but the pastor, we're going to hold them on this high level. No, the reality is that the whole church should have these qualities. There should be growth and maturity and depth within the church. The truth is that it's not just pastors and deacons that need to be godly people. You know a church is strong when you look at when you look out over that church and you see the heads of households that have these qualities. Maybe they're not deacons, maybe they're not pastors, maybe they'll never be deacons or pastors. But when you look at their lives, you say these men have these qualities. That's when you have a strong, healthy church. 4. Every failure, a failure to appoint qualified men into pastoral ministry, will ultimately trickle down into unhealthy leadership and an unhealthy church body. There's nothing more sad to me than to interact with a Christian who's going through a crisis in their life. They've been a Christian for 20, 30, 40, 50 years. And you can see that they've never really been disciples. They've never really been mentored. They've never really developed that spiritual maturity And the reason is because of the kind of church that they were in. It's so sad. But I tell you, I see it. I've seen it many times. You know, someone who's been a Christian long enough that this issue, it's a difficult issue, it's a trial of their faith, but they should have all of the framework and all of the doctrinal thinking, and they should have the the disciplines, the spiritual disciplines to be able to deal with this problem. And they don't. Because they were in churches that really weren't preaching the truth. I don't mean that their doctrinal statement wasn't. I don't mean that you'd never heard the gospel, but I mean that there wasn't a week by week enforcement of truth over and over and over again in the pulpit A lot of times that comes down to the fact that you have people in leadership who really shouldn't be there. Lastly, Timothy was not only looking for future leaders, but he was also given the uncomfortable task of removing unqualified men from office. I asked the question. Is it ever appropriate for a church to tell a pastor to step down? It is. Now, how they go about doing it, that's real dicey. But you know what's interesting? The book of 1 Timothy, it's going to tell us. It's going to tell us exactly how to do that. And the truth is that one would hope that a pastor would be willing to see that he needs to step down himself. But in this case, not everybody that Timothy dealt with was willing to. That's pretty sticky, but you know what sometimes you have to do it. Important implications So I want to talk for just a few moments about this concept of appointing a pastor. When I say appointing a pastor, what I mean is really I'm talking about ordination. And I'm not going deep into this, but this really is connected to this conversation here. What are some cautions that we should consider when we are looking at a person who will potentially be ordained to become a pastor? Maybe he's going to be an like a pastor, part of the pastoral staff here in our church here, or maybe somebody that's going to get sent out, like a missionary, or maybe they're going to go out and pastor another church. Someone that's grown up in our church. What are some cautions that we should consider when we're in that position? First of all, as a church, we should never force a man to become a pastor who doesn't have that burden in his heart. In other words, don't force somebody to take the office just because there's a need, just because you want them to do it. They've got to have that internal compulsion. They've got to have that conviction. If that conviction isn't inside their heart, they will not continue in the long term. Two, don't be hasty to ordain a young or untested man to the office of pastor. One of the things that I experienced as a missionary was having an individual that we put in a position and called him a pastor who really should not have been called that at the time. I cannot tell you how much Trouble that caused me, him, the church. It really complicated things. And you know the truth is when I was in that situation, I had no clue of the implication. But over time I learned them. There's a reason, you know. I'm glad that Chris is here, but there's a reason that Chris is not a pastor. He's an assistant to the pastor. Because until he comes to that point of ordination, he needs to understand he's not a pastor. If he was sitting right here, I'd say that. I mean I said that to him when he was when he was coming on. The truth is that before a person takes The step and the church appoints. And we put our amen on that person. We say, We believe that God has called you to the ministry And now you're working as a pastor, as part of this team, as a pastor, not just an assistant in the office and in the church, but you're a pastor. We have to be very careful that we don't hastily put someone in that position. And the truth is that if if somebody is young and untested and they say, I'm just gonna go do it, well You can go do it, but not with our approval. And it's not that we're nasty. It's not that we're mean. It's not we're trying to be difficult. But if you want us to say we we we see God's hand on you and we're going to formally ordain, then we need to see that there's been some stability and some demonstration Of these things. Three, don't be disobedient by ignoring what you know to be true about the candidate for ordination. The truth is that if someone clearly is not qualified, they should never be up here being questioned. They just shouldn't. And one of the things that I encourage the folks in our church in Ghana was I said, when when you're coming to that point of ordination, I want you to have a season of question where the congregation can come to them and they there can be some conversation. Part of one of the reasons this is on my heart is because uh in two months I'm going to Ghana for an ordination. I'm really excited about that. And what's interesting is that the person that's getting ordained, there was a time when we were considering ordaining him early and we held back. We did. And I'll tell you, it wasn't easy. It was an uncomfortable situation. We held back though. And you know what? I'm glad we did. I think he's glad that that we did. Now, now the time. Now. And you know what? We can get behind this and we can be very excited about it now Because there's been a clear demonstration of maturity and a person is ready to take this position. But we can't just ignore these things if they're there. All parties involved should be completely honest with one another. When we think about what's there, we really can't sugarcoat. And cut corners. We've got to be honest about what we see. And we need to recognize that God works sovereignly through this process. If God wants somebody in the ministry, number one, He's going to gift them with the gifts that they need to be pastors. Number two, they're going to walk with the Lord in such a way that they have the character that is necessary to be a pastor. And three, godly people in a church who work with that person day in and day out should very clearly see that it's the case. And so what happens? All those things come together. The gifts, the character qualities, the heartbeat of the church, there's a working together, and it's very obvious that this is what God wants. And the church does it. And you know, when ordination is done well, it is an incredibly big blessing to the church. It's a really sweet time. It can be a very emotional time because you see that God's hand is in these things. I put these things out here because I want to remind us that church order is God's plan, not ours. So we need to be cautious to strive to the very best of our ability to soberly follow what God says regarding the way the church is to be organized. And so So let's strive to do that as a church. And let's pray that God gives us the opportunity in the years to come to see people out of our church, people who grew up in our church, people who came in and were able to get mentored and work in our church, that we'll be able to see many, many men walk through this process and we would have the blessing. of sending them out or seeing them uh become leadership even within our church. Let's bear our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, what a tremendous blessing it is to think about the fact that in your wisdom and in your goodness You appoint people to the office and you put in our in our hands the responsibility to soberly look at these people's lives. And then to very happily and encouragingly appoint them to office. I pray that you'd help us as a church to do this very cautiously and soberly. I pray that you give us the opportunity to see many men go into the ministry in the years to come. And I pray that these things would s sink into our hearts, that we would even from our young people, we would see uh people that would go into the ministry. Ministry in the years to come. We ask these things in Christ's name, Amen