You to turn with me to the book of Luke. We are in Luke chapter 19 this morning. And we've been working our way verse by verse through this Book of the Bible for quite some time. In fact, this is the 97th message out of the book of Luke, and this passage of scripture is probably one of the most common and well-known if you grew up in church. And uh you had the opportunity to go to Sunday school when you were little boy or little girl. You probably remember the story of Zacchaeus. And you know that he was a little man and he climbed up in a sycamore tree so that he could see Christ And this morning what we're going to do is we're going to look at that passage of Scripture from Luke chapter 19 that talks about the miraculous conversion of a man named Zacchaeus. So this morning as we read this passage, we're going to look at the incredible comfort that is available to us as we think about how God worked in the life of this very unlikely man. Let's go ahead and begin reading in verse number one, and it says the following. And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. Behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans, and he was rich, and he sought to see Jesus who he was, and could not for the press because he was little of stature. And ran before and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was to pass that way. And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and saw him, and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, come down, for today I must. Abide at thy house. And he made haste and came down and received him joyfully. When they saw it, they all murmured, saying, That he has gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner. And Zacchaeus stood and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. If I've done if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house. For as much as he also is a son of Abraham For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. Please let's go ahead and bow together and ask the Lord to really help us to understand this important passage of Scripture from God's Word today. Father, as we read this text and think about it, I pray that you will take your word and impress it on our souls. Father, help us to see really the stunning way that Christ dealt with this man, Zacchaeus. And not only the stunning way that this man was dealt with, but also how he responded to Christ. How this is really a demonstration of something that had just been stated was impossible with man, yet is possible with you. I pray that as we work our way through this passage of Scripture, you would meet the needs that are in this room. You know what's going on in hearts. You know if there is someone here who is struggling with pride. Does not want to turn to you. You know if there's someone who is struggling with a view of self that is so low they said you would never desire to save them. I don't know what's going on in hearts, but I pray that you will take the word and use it. The passage in front of us is an important passage for us to consider, but not just by itself, but I want us to kind of think of how This passage fits in with the other things that Jesus has said, and Luke has recorded for us from Luke chapter 13 through 19. The reason for that is because these are all meant to be understood together. Each of these passages that are part of a main flow of thought in the book of Luke are meant to highlight miracles that Jesus performed going up to Jerusalem. And as I mentioned last week, as Luke is writing these things, he's obviously being guided and moved by the Holy Spirit. And so what we have is exactly what God wanted to be there. But Luke had a lot of information that he could have put down. These are probably not the only miracles that Jesus performed from the time period of him going up to Jerusalem. But these are four that he selected by the guidance of the Spirit, and they are ordered the way that they are ordered for a reason And so I want us to kind of go back and I want us to consider not just those miracles, but also what Jesus said after those miracles. Because the way that Jesus taught, his applications that flowed from those little moments that kind of brought to a head who Jesus is and how he deals with people, they're all very, very significant. And they're not just significant standing alone, but they're really significant because we're going to see kind of all of the pieces of these stories coming out in this one interaction with this man Zacchaeus. So the first miracle we read about is in Luke chapter 13. And in this passage, we see that Christ heals a person who is spiritually oppressed and physically infirmed. In fact, it is a woman, she was there in the synagogue. And as she is there in the synagogue, no one has ever been able to help her. And here on the Sabbath day, Jesus calls out this woman, he heals this woman, and there's a lot of commotion there in the synagogue. And listen carefully to what Jesus says after this miracle. It is a fascinating statement. He says in Luke chapter 13, 28, there shall be weeping. and gnashing of teeth when ye shall see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all of the prophets in the kingdom of God, and you yourselves are thrust out. And they shall come from east and from west and from north and from south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of God. And there are last which shall be first, and there are first which shall be last. Can you imagine after seeing Jesus perform that miracle, if he literally calls out the people in the very synagogue where he has done this miracle, to say that you will be excluded from the kingdom of God and you're going to see people from all over the world all of the nations of the world that are going into the kingdom of God to be with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all of the prophets and you will be excluded. And people who you thought had no right to be there will be there, but you will not be there. Can you imagine that statement from Christ? That's what he said. Then we move to a second miracle, and this is in Luke 14. We see a crippled man who is there at a dinner party that Jesus has been invited to. And interestingly, if you go back to the passage of Scripture, I think it is very likely that this man was brought into that setting so that the people could watch how Jesus dealt with this man. Because what Jesus does is he heals this man, and he does it in a way that creates a controversy with the religious leaders that were there. watching him and spying out how he would relate to this man. And listen carefully to how Jesus teaches in that moment. He says, go out quickly into the streets and the lanes and the cities. Bring in hither the poor and the maimed and the halt. and the blind. Go out into the highways and the hedges and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled. For I say unto you that none of those men which were bidden, and those who rejected Will taste my supper. Again, you see that Jesus is making a point that the people who are complaining about how he has dealt with a man who he has healed. How those individuals in the parable will be excluded from the kingdom and people who are poor and blind and halt and names, they will be a part of the kingdom. And those who have mocked them are on the outside looking in because they're excluded. Do you see what he's saying? Then we see a third miracle. And that is found in Luke chapter 17. And in this situation, he heals a Samaritan leper. He actually heals. ten people, but only one of them comes back to him, and that is a Samaritan. And that is the only one who said, thank you. And listen to what Jesus says in Luke 17, 17 and 18. Were there not ten cleansed? Who were to die? There are not found that return to give glory to God, save this stranger You know what he's doing again? He's drawing attention to the fact that the people you think would be coming to him and embracing him and a part of the kingdom, those are the people who are outside. And those who you would never expect, they're the ones who are there. And so that leads us to this last miracle, the one that we looked at last week And that is how he heals a blind man who saw Christ's identity. I love that statement. A blind man saw who Christ was. He didn't see him with his physical eyes. He understood who he was, and he believed that he was the Messiah. And not only was this man's eyesight given to him, but he was saved through faith. And notice what Jesus says in Luke chapter 18, verses 24 through 27, because this statement is very, very important for the story of Zacchaeus. He says, how hardly, right in this section, how hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God? It is easier for a camel to go through an eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God And they that heard it said, who then can be saved? And he said, the things which are impossible with men are possible with God. Now, all of these miracles together are meant to drive to this last story, which is so very interesting. And there are three themes that come out in these passages we've looked at. God is merciful to people who are destitute. He pursues outcasts. And he saves and transforms broken lives. That's what's emphasized over and over and over again. He is merciful to destitute people. He pursues outcasts. He saves. He transforms broken lives. And guess what? Those three themes are all going to be demonstrated in the passage we're looking at this morning. I would summarize what we're going to look at this morning in the f in this in this simple way. Luke records Zacchaeus' conversion to provide comfort. to those who appear to be to be beyond God's grace. It's possible for a person to be listen listening to the sermon this morning Maybe you're here right now, maybe you're listening on the live stream, whatever the case, and you go, you don't know me, you don't know what's going on in my life, you don't know the the kinds of challenges that I've been involved in, you don't know my sinful past You don't know how miserable and how broken and how low I feel. There's no way that God could save me. I tell you, I have good news for you. That thinking is wrong. There's hope. This passage of scripture will demonstrate that. You may say, I'm the kind of person that God couldn't save. That's not true. God desires to save your soul. And we're going to see that laid out in the story of Zacchaeus. He wants you and he wants me to take comfort in his mercy towards the most unlikely people. And the Bible is filled with example after example after example of God showing his mercy toward people who are very, very unlikely. So let's dig into this passage and look at this concept of how he wants us to take comfort in his mercy. The first comfort I want you to notice in the text in front of us. is that we are to take comfort in his gracious ways with those who are despised. His gracious ways with those who are despised. Now what I want to do is I want us to work our way through the things that we read in Luke nineteen, and I want us to pick out some of the most prominent details That are really going to demonstrate this particular concept. God's way with Zacchaeus was very gracious And God's ways with you and his ways with me are very gracious as well. And we will see it illustrated here. So the first gate I want to draw your attention to is found in verse number one. Here's what the verse says. Jesus entered and he passed through Jericho. Now, if you remember back to last week, maybe you remember the detail, maybe not. But I'll remind you that when I was teaching the story of Jesus healing the blind man, it appears, when you look at the cross references, the other passages that give us the whole storyline, that Christ is going into Jericho. And then he's coming out of Jericho as well. And so as he's coming into Jericho, this man is asking the people who is coming in? What's going on? What is this noise? And when he tell when he's told who it is Either when when he finds this out, he starts following Jesus into Jericho and he's crying out, Jesus, son of David, have mercy, or Jesus goes into Jericho, and then as he's coming out of Jericho He starts yelling, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. It doesn't really tell us exactly, but what it does show us is that he goes in and then he goes out. And so that leads me to a question. When did Jesus have this interaction with Zacchaeus? Because the way that he puts it is As he was going into Jericho, this man is looking for him. And so there's really two possibilities that come to mind. The first possibility is that as Luke is recording these events, he actually steps away from a chronological presentation. And he he saves back this story of Zacchaeus because in the order of events, it is not chronologically the last thing, but it's the one that pulls all of these details together. And so if that's what he's doing He is emphasizing that the conversion of Zacchaeus is kind of like it's like the capstone of all of these stories. And most certainly it is. Or the second thing that we could also conclude, which would also be very significant , is that Christ goes into Jericho, he comes out of Jericho, has this interaction with this blind man. And then he goes back into Jericho for a reason. The reason he's going is because he wants to meet Zacchaeus. So no matter how you take it, whether this has been saved for the end to kind of emphasize the totality of all these things, or whether it is Christ going back into Jericho to meet this man Zacchaeus, it is significant. It shows you that he's drawing attention to the significance, the importance of this man's interaction with Christ. Second detail I want you to notice is found in verse 2, where he says the following. There was a man named Zacchaeus, which was, notice the statement, the chief among the publicans. A second statement is made. And he was rich. Now, two statements there that ought to catch our attention. The first one is he was the chief amongst the publicans. If we were to take ourselves back and we were to put ourselves into the first century There in that time period, and we were to be one of those Jewish people under Roman occupation. The last person we would want to be a hero in a story was a publican. Because the publicans were despised. They were hated. They were hated because of their political affiliation. They're hated because they had power and they had authority. They're hated because they abused their authority. They were hated because they were wealthy. They were hated because they were basically living off of the backs of their own countrymen. You can only imagine how despised publicans were. It's not just that he was one of them. He was a ruler amongst these people. So out of all of the publicans in that region, he's the guy that was in charge of all of them. So if there was a person who was going to be despised in that region, this guy, he was number one. The people would not have liked him at all. And this tension between the Pharisees, the religious leaders, and between the publicans is highlighted over and over and over again in just this short little section of the book of Luke. You know, remember back to the parable that Jesus tells to people who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and they despised other people. He says there were two men that went into the temple. One was a Pharisee and one was a what? A publican. The Pharisee prays to God or prays with himself. He says, God, I thank you, I'm not like other people are. I don't do and he lists all these things. I do all these things. He says, I'm not like that guy right there. What does that show you? Well, the people that are listening to the story would go, yeah, the publican is a bad guy, and the Pharisee is a good guy, and by the end of the parable, what does Jesus do? He says, one man went to his home justified, the other one did it. The Pharisee did it. The publican did. And then just a few chapters back, a few verses back, we have this man who is called a ruler amongst the Jews. Not amongst the publicans, but amongst the Jews. This is someone who's like an elder in the community. This is a a Nicodemus kind of a person. And he comes to Jesus and he says, Good master, what good thing can I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus says, why do you call me good? Nobody is good but God. You know the commandments. And he lifts them off, and the guy goes, I've kept them all from my youth. And Jesus says, okay, well there's one you forgot. Sell everything that you have, give it to the poor, and follow me. The guy leaves. And Jesus says it's impossible for a rich man to enter the kingdom. And then they go, well, then what do we do? And he says, well, what's impossible with man is possible with God. And this story right here is going to demonstrate exactly what Jesus meant. Because as you step away, you go, okay, if if if this guy who is a ruler of the Jews is excluded from the kingdom. Then how in the world can a rich man who's a publican, who's a ruler amongst the publicans, how could that man ever become a believer? And the answer is by the power of God alone. And that is exactly what we will see here. That second phrase, he was very rich, means that rich people naturally are very self-reliant. It makes it very difficult for them to humble themselves and embrace the gospel. I say they. If we were to talk about human history, we're all rich in this race. We are very, very wealthy. It's very difficult for us to see our needs and to humble ourselves and to receive the grace of God alone. That's why salvation's a miracle. That's why the humbling of the heart and the drawing of a person to repent and believe, it is a miraculous work of God. Christ has highlighted what is humanly impossible. And he's going to demonstrate that he can do it. Third detail, I want you to notice. Is found in verses 3 and 4. And this is an interesting little series of statements. It says he sought to see Jesus who he was, and could not for the press because he was little of stature. And he ran before and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was to pass that way. Now, notice this, just like the blind man. This man is going to make a great effort to come in contact with Christ. Just like the lepers who said, Jesus. Son of David, have mercy on us. This man is going to go to extraordinary lengths to have access to Christ. And don't pass those details. He sought to see Jesus. He ran. He climbed a tree so that he could see him. Well when the Bible says that this man was a ruler, I don't get the impression that he was like a young guy. This, you know, when somebody got to that stage, this is somebody who is middle-aged. This is someone he's wealthy, so he has some clout. He's going to be expected to do certain things a certain way. So for him to run ahead, climb a tree as a grown man who's middle-aged, that's telling you he wanted to see Jesus. That's pretty significant. Fourth detail. Found in verse 5. When Jesus came to the place, he looked up And he saw him and he said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste. Come down, for today I must abide in thy house. Now, I just said that this man, like the blind man and like those lepers who wanted to be healed, he went to extraordinary lengths to come in contact with Christ. But there's another detail that's very important. While he made great efforts to have access to Christ, it is only Christ's initiation that made it possible for the interaction to happen. Don't miss that. Jesus didn't have to go by the way where the man was. In fact, as I read this passage of scripture, the thing that seems very clear to me is that Christ went into Jericho because he wanted to meet this man. In the same way that Christ went up through the land of Samaria in John chapter 4, and he sits by a well, and he meets the Samaritan woman. He needed to go through that region to meet that person. Jesus went into Jericho because he wanted to meet Zacchaeus. And so what you see is Zacchaeus is looking for Christ. He's running to get ahead. He's climbing up in a tree. But the reason he'll see Jesus is because Jesus is going to make it happen. Says Jesus came to the place. Jesus looked up into the tree. Jesus said to him, Today I must abide at your house. Zacchaeus didn't invite Jesus into his house. Jesus invited himself into his house. Isn't that an amazing thought? He goes to the place where the man is up in a tree. He looks up. He says, get down here. You need to invite me to your house. All of that is telling you that Christ came to meet this man. So we see tremendous comfort in the way that Christ dealt with this man. This is a man who would have been scorned, who would have been mocked, who would have been hated, and it did not change anything with Christ. He went to that man for a reason. He went to his house for a reason. And can I tell you that his character hasn't changed? He is the same Savior today that he was 2,000 years ago with this man Zacchaeus. He comes to us in the same way that he came to Zacchaeus. He comes to people and he says, invite me to your house. I don't mean physically. He walks up and looks up in a tree. I don't mean that. But through the preaching of his word. To the gospel, through the ordinary means of getting the truth to people. That's what Christ does. He draws people to himself. Second comfort I want you to notice in the passage. Is that we can take comfort despite the arrogance of the haters. Now, this is important to notice. What's highlighted in this passage of Scripture is Christ's mercy. And his compassion and his initiation. What is secondarily emphasized is the fact that Zacchaeus wanted to meet Christ But there's something else that's being emphasized. There are a lot of people that were put out that Christ would actually go to this man. There were a lot of people that said, what right does this man have to have the Messiah into his home? Why would Christ go and eat in the home of a great sinner? Someone who has abused so many people, taking advantage of them. He's abused his power. He's wealthy. Why would Jesus do that? Look in verse 7. It says, when they saw it, they all murmured, saying that he has gone to be the guests with a man that is a sinner. Notice the contrast here. We have Christ. Today I must abide in your house. What does that show you? He is a man on a mission. He's going into Jericho to meet this man. He's going into Jericho and standing below this tree and calling up to him and saying, Come down. Today I have to go to your house. Why? Because Christ has a purpose to save this man. We see Zacchaeus. He made haste and came down and received him joyfully. He's excited. Here I wanted to see Christ. I wanted to listen to his teaching. I want to know who this man is. And he just invited himself to my house. And I have the privilege to sit down and spend time with Christ. We see his joy. But then we see a third thing. We see the people complaining. They all murmured saying that he was gone to beg with a man that is a sinner. Let me just pause and say something. That is the only man in Jericho that the Bible says Christ went to his house. Yet all these people who are following Christ, they're pressing up close against him. They wanted to see a miracle. They wanted to hear his teaching. Only one man in that crowd. He said, I'm going to your house today. That's pretty significant, isn't it? In other words, he's trying to teach something. It's not just that he's going to save this man, but he's going to use this interaction to teach, to illustrate some very important principles for all of us. And the people are complaining. They murmured that he had gone to be guests to eat with a man who is a sinner. Guess what? We're all sinners. There's no exception. The fact that this man was a cheat doesn't mean that you and I aren't sinners too. It just means that his sins are more prominent. His sins are more known. His sins are more public. His sins have maybe affected more people, at least tangentially But when we come to stand before a holy and righteous God and we stand before his courtroom, we're all in an equal plane. We're all sinners. We all need salvation. It's Christ alone. It's his grace is the only way we can be saved. And so no one should have been like, oh, well, he went to the house of the sinner. He always goes to the house of sinners. But this theme has come up many times. God 's mercy, worldly opposition. God's mercy, worldly opposition. Go back and remind yourself of a couple of interactions. Back in Luke chapter 13, what does it say in verses 15 and 16? Doth not each one of you on the Sabbath day loose his ox and lead him away to watering? Ought not this woman being a daughter of Abraham whose Satan hath bound eighteen years be loose from this bond on the Sabbath day? He says, why are you guys bent out of shape that I would heal this woman on the Sabbath day? You take care of your animals on the Sabbath day. This is a person. This is a soul. This is someone who's been bound for nearly 20 years. Why would you be upset that I would show such mercy, so such grace, so such kindness? This doesn't make any sense. Luke 15, 1. Then drew nearer to him the publicans and the sinners to hear him, and the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. Do you see how it's coming again? As people whose lives were in bondage and broken by sin, as they hear the teaching of Christ, as they watch how He dealt with people They say, I want to get close to him. I want to know him. I want to hear what he has to say. I want to interact with Christ. And as Christ welcomes these people To save their souls from the bondage that they're in. There are others standing on the side and saying, what's his problem? Contrast. Luke 18. He spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves, that they were righteous and despised others. That's what we're talking about in Luke 13. That's what we're talking about in Luke 15. This is a major theme all throughout this section. As Christ is going up to Jerusalem, he's going to seek and to save those who are lost. He's going to go to the cross to die for the sins of people, and he's going to interact with individuals on the way to draw them to himself so that they can be saved through faith alone in what he was about to do. We also see the rejoicing over sinners highlighted in these verses. Luke 15. I say unto you, there's joy in the presence of the angels of God over one soul that repenteth. And so there's great comfort here. There's comfort in the mercy of God, how He deals with people. There's comfort despite the fact that there are people on the sidelines that are complaining and that are murmuring and saying, I can't believe that Jesus would be so kind and so merciful and so gracious to a person like that. There's comfort despite there. Third comfort. Take comfort in the transforming power of the gospel. Look down in your Bibles at verse number 8 and notice what it says. He says, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. If I have taken away things from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. Now, there are a lot of things about this story that the fact is we don't know other interaction between Jesus and this man We don't know if Jesus has a conversation with him, and in the middle of that conversation, Jesus says, this is what I'm doing. We do not know the moment that this man understood in his mind I'm a sinner, I'm separated from God, and in fact I need to trust in the Savior We don't know when he came to the conclusion, this man, Jesus of Nazareth, is Messiah. He's the one who's coming to die for my sins, rise from the dead, and I'm trusting in him and in him alone. We do not have those details put in. In fact, that's really not the intent of the passage. The intent of the passage is not to give us all of those connecting details so that we know exactly what Jesus said to him, like we know what Jesus said to Nicodemus. Unless you're born again, you cannot see the kingdom of God. Do not marvel that I tell you you must be born again. And he goes through all those details. That's really not critical to why this is included in this moment. The reason that this is included in this section of Luke is to highlight the fact that this is a man who nobody would ever believe could become a believer. He was a publican. He abused people by his authority. He became wealthy. He lived like the Gentiles. He was a traitor to his people. There are lots and lots of reasons to believe this man could have never ever become a believer, especially based on what was just stated last week. It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom. Is it impossible for man to be saved? Jesus said, well, kind of, yeah. It's impossible with man, but with what is with what is impossible with man is possible with God. That's why this passage is included the way that it is. is to highlight the fact that this man who was so unlikely is a citizen of the kingdom. And it's also highlighting how this man who comes to faith in Messiah is transformed by this faith in the Messiah. That's really what it's all about. When he's saying I give half of my goods to the poor. If I have stolen something by false accusation, I restore it fourfold. That's an interesting statement. If I took a dollar from you, I'm giving you five. Did you catch that? Imagine if that was the law of the land. Somebody gets caught stealing they gotta they gotta r restore fourfold. So you pay back what you stole and then four times. You say, well, where do you get that idea from? We don't know. But if you take you take yourself back several chapters in Luke, remember what Jesus, uh, what is recorded about John the Baptist when he comes and he preaches the gospel of the kingdom. Listen carefully to some of the interaction with John the Baptist. In Luke chapter 3, verse 7, it says this. Then said he to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of him, O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance. Begin not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father. I say unto you that God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham. Let me pause for a moment here What this is telling you is that as John is baptizing in the Jordan River and he's saying, repent, the kingdom of heaven is at is coming at is coming and the Messiah is coming, and I'm not even worthy to to loose his sandal from his shoe. That's how great he is. All those who believe the message that they were hearing, we are sinners. We need a redeemer. We believe that he's coming. What John says is true about us, we are waiting for the Messiah. All those who came were baptized in the river, confessing that they believed the message that John was preaching. But let me tell you, getting baptized doesn't wash away sins. And getting baptized is something that anybody can do. And so there were people that came whose hearts were genuinely broken over their sin. They believed that the Messiah was coming, and they were Old Testament saints. They were repentant and believing in the Messiah to come and there were others who said, I'd like to stay face and I'd like to do this too. I'm going to go ahead and get baptized because I don't want anybody to look down on me. And so they're getting baptized. But it wasn't in their heart. They didn't believe it. They didn't believe that they were sinners. They didn't believe that they needed to be saved by the Messiah. They didn't believe that he coming to wash away their sins and cleanse their souls and redeem them to God. They were simply going through the motions So that nobody would look down on them. Actually, a lot of people do that today, even in the church context. It's not going to the motions that makes you a Christian. It's believing in the heart, the truths of the gospel. And so what does John do? He calls out their hypocrisy. He says, if you really believe this, your life will change. That's what he's saying. Bring forth fruits worthy of repentance. Begin not to say within yourselves we have Abraham our father. I say God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham. Pretty amazing statement. But then we see how people respond to what he says. The people asked him, saying, What shall we do then? He answered and said unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart to him one that hath none. He that hath meat, let him do likewise, give half what ye have. He then goes on to say this. He says he came to the publicans who desired to be baptized and said unto them, Master, what shall we do? He said unto them, exec no more than that which is appointed to you. Do not cheat the people you are collecting taxes from. And so it is possible that Zacchaeus is actually doing what he's doing because he has come in contact with the preaching of John. But he's actually going beyond what John told them to do. He's not just giving half to the poor, but he's actually adding to what he has taken inappropriately a fourth. So what's the point? The point is don't submit to the don't submit to baptism and hypocrisy. Real repentance produces a new p disposition and change of life. Genuine repentance will result in a turning from our sin to God. And it is very likely that that is exactly what was going on with this man Zacchaeus. He was looking for the Messiah, and now he sees him. He's sitting in his house. I see Zacchaeus as a man who is an Old Testament saint. A man who has heard the preaching of John and all he knows is I'm a sinner, I need a savior, this is what's supposed to follow a genuine Profession of faith, a genuine conversion, and so to the best of my ability, I'm trying to live out the life that I have in Christ. And now he's meeting the Savior face to face. Think about John chapter 10. In John 10 it says, My sheep hear my voice, I know them, they follow me, and I give them eternal life. It's an amazing statement. What does he mean by that? What he means by that is there are people that were in that group who are already Old Testament saints looking for the Messiah. And when they saw him and when they heard him and they saw the verification, they said, that's the Messiah. We believe it. They followed him. That is the kind of man Zacchaeus was. Zacchaeus, without any prompting, did these things. He was generous with his wealth. He went beyond the law's demand to provide restitution. Luke six uh Leviticus 6 He shall restore that which he took violently away, or that which was deceitfully gotten. He shall even restore it to the principle, and shall add the fifth part more thereunto. Why did he do this? His zeal was not an attempt to appease God. It was not the basis or the cause of his salvation. It was the visible fruit that follows a genuine internal transfer, a transformation. It demonstrated the transforming power of the gospel, and it completely, radically reoriented Zacchaeus' life. Those people who heard the preaching of John and believed it and were looking for the Messiah, they were changed because they had experienced conversion. And Zacchaeus is one of those people, listen to what it says fourthly. We could take comfort in the gracious words of Christ, verses 9 and 10. This day is salvation come to this house, as much as he also is a son of Abraham. The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. There are three very gracious things that Jesus says about this man and his household. The first is this, he affirmed that he was saved. Salvation has come to this house. In fact, if you're studying uh system axiology, we one of the one of the doctrines that we study is called soteriology. Okay? That's where the word comes from. That word salvation, the Greek term that is used here, is the word that we get soteriology from, a study of salvation. This is used several times in the book of Luke. Let me give you a couple of examples. Luke 169. He hath raised up an horn of salvation for us. in the house of his servant David to give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins. When he says salvation has come to this house, he means this guy Is saved. Secondly, he affirmed that he is God's child. It says he also is a son of Abraham. Interestingly, he didn't say he's gonna be a son of Abraham, he says he is. And he's not talking about a sin of Abraham in biological terms. We know that because he has consistently warned people, do not take comfort in the fact that you are Abraham's descendants. You've got to be saved. In the same way you can't take comfort in the fact that you grew up in a preacher's home, a missionary's home, that you're a member of this church or anything like that, you have to take comfort in one thing alone: the finished word of Christ. He affirms that this man is God's child. He also is a son of Abraham. And thirdly, he affirmed that his salvation is the result of God's gracious initiation. The Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which is lost. Why was this man a believer? Because God did the work. That's why. And so what is this all about? It's comfort. It's comfort to demonstrate that God saves people like Zacchaeus. That God makes people like Zacchaeus' children. That he gets to this position simply because of God's gracious work in him. And by application I say that's how all of us become Christians. In the same way. So that leads me to a final question. How do we put this together? Let me give you some final thoughts. I hope will kind of pull everything that we've heard this morning together in a way that you can take home and apply. First of all is this. Biblical salvation is always a miracle. We should never get over the magnitude of this miracle in our lives. You and I aren't Christians because we're smarter than somebody else. That we know. The issue of salvation is about a humbling of the heart. It's about repentance toward God and faith alone in Christ. It's about his work for us. It 's about us responding to his work in us. And so when a person becomes a Christian, it's a miracle. Of his own will begat he us by the word of truth, that we might be his children. Think about that in the book of James. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. How can they believe on him whom they've not heard? How can they hear without a preacher? God has sent out the preachers. What does that show you? That God has worked in our hearts. And that should make us very thankful, very grateful people. Secondly, this miracle will result in a visible transformation that brings glory to God. One of the most compelling testimonies to the power of the gospel is what it does in the lives of broken people. I mean, even within our church congregation, you know, you might only know somebody in this church maybe for the last couple years. You don't know who they were 20 years ago. You don't know the kind of life that they lived. You don't know how low and how dark their life has gotten or had gotten at that time. You don't know the animosity they may have had towards the gospel and the things of God and the church of God. I mean, as a pastor, because I interview people when we go through membership processes, I hear the stories of people. But the fact is a lot of folks in the congregation, you do not know what God has saved people from. And the fact is that the people that know individuals whose lives have been transformed by the gospel They may say, I think the gospel isn't something I want, and I think the gospel is something I'm not convinced that it's true, but I cannot deny the fact that what it's done in you is something I cannot explain any other way The gospel changes people. And this is so very compelling that when somebody lives close to an individual who becomes a new creature in Christ, they see it in the way they think. They see it in what they love, they see it in what they hate, they see it in what they live for, they see it in what they're willing to die for, they see it how it orients their whole life. That person is transformed by the power of the gospel That's not how you become a Christian. That's how the people around you are convinced in fact what you say is true. They see it come out in your life. Thirdly, God graciously pursues sinners, even those whom we overlook. This pursuit of the lost comes through people like us. So we must be actively engaged in reaching the loss in our sphere of influence. You know, some of the disciples, one of them in particular, Simon, was a zealot. Simon didn't like Matthew. Simon would not have liked this person who was a publican. Why is that? Because in his mind, he's a traitor. I'd rather God just leave that guy on the wayside. There are some people that they would have loved for Christ to leave the Samaritans alone. They didn't want to go through Samaria. They didn't want to see Gentiles become a part of the Church of God. Why do you think there was so much contention in the Church of Jerusalem after Pentecost? Because you have Jewish believers and you have Gentile believers and you have this clash of cultures that's going on within the Church of God. And what does he do? He says, no, you're one body in Christ. And all those differences don't matter. What really matters is who you are in Christ. And so what does this do? Reminds us that God goes after sinners. Sometimes we don't want us to get saved. We wouldn't want to admit that. Sometimes it's true. Fourthly, we can all take comfort in his merciful ways towards unlikely people. Remember, take comfort in how gracious he was with this despised man. Take comfort that despite the arrogance of these hateful people around him, Jesus was unfazed. He went to that tree. He looked up in the tree. He said, come down, I'm going to your house. Salvation today has come to this household. Christ didn't care what other people thought. He was a man on a mission. Take comfort in how the gospel transforms people's lives. It's a beautiful thing to see what the gospel does in people. And lastly, take comfort in his gracious words. Those same words that were spoken to Zacchaeus in this house Salvation has come to this household. Truly, this is a son of Abraham. He's come to seek and to save those who are lost. Still true. Still true. The moment that you trusted Christ as your Savior, He saved you. The moment that He saved you, He made you His child. And He made you His child because He seeks and saves those who are lost. Is it possible that there's somebody here this morning that thinks that you're unsavable? Let the word of God speak to your heart. Is it possible that maybe some of us we see people in our lives and we we've given up on them? Or maybe deep down in our hearts we're not even sure if we really want to see them get saved? We need to be careful. This passage of scripture is the capstone of all of what Jesus has done here Saying all those little pieces, they all fit together in this one interaction. Isn't God good? I thank him for his mercy. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Before we close in prayer with our heads bowed and eyes closed, and ask a simple question, is there someone here this morning that would say Joel, I don't know for certain that I'm saved. Talk about Zacchaeus and forgiveness of sins and all those things, and I I don't really understand what you're talking about, but I'd like to know. I'm not going to make you stand up. I'm not going to make you come forward. I'm simply going to take note that you need to speak with someone. And I'll make sure that either I speak to you or my wife or a lady if you're a lady, a man if you're a man. We want to open a Bible and show you how you can be saved. Is there anyone here this morning that say, that's me, Joel? I need to trust Christ. I don't understand the gospel. I need to speak with someone. It's very important. Anybody at all? Just quietly raise up your hand, put it back down so I can see that. I'll make a note to come and speak with you The invitation is always open. If you need to come and speak with me, I'm ready anytime. Send an email, send a message through Facebook or YouTube, whatever We'll be very happy to help you. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Our father, as we think about your word this morning, what an amazing passage. What gracious interaction. To think that you went to save this man Zacchaeus. You went out of your way and to go into that city. You have pursued them in your grace. You have drawn them to yourself in your grace. You have provided redemption for them far far before they ever understood it was available. And you radically transform the lives of those whom you save. So may we live consistent with that position we have in Christ. May we live the way that we were designed to live. May we not be proud and condescending toward others, but may we have a humility that desires to see others saved, that mirrors your heartbeat for those who are lost. We ask all this in Christ's name, Amen.