Well good evening. Well good evening. Good to see each of you tonight. Looking forward to uh just a wonderful service this evening. And so let's now together for a word of prayer, and we'll ask the Lord to bless our time together. Let's pray. Father, we thank you so much for the opportunity again to gather this evening. We pray that you would meet with us in a very special way, that our hearts would be attentive to the word, that you would convict us and encourage us and strengthen us through the preaching of your word. I pray that as we sing praise to you, we'd really think about the implications of the truths that we're expressing in song. I pray that you would really uh work in our hearts this evening. And we'll thank you for that. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Good evening, Acre Baptist Church and guests. Let's take our hymnals. Well, you will look up at the screen. We musicians will turn to page 374. Page 374, please stand with me. We'll start off the services with be thou my vision three verses be thou my vision be thou my vision part of my heart Not we all else to meet say that thou art Thou my death thought by day or by Sleeping thy presence, my life, be thou my presence, and thou my true work I ever with thee. And thou with me Lord, thou my great father, and I thy Jesus Thou in me , whether we and I with pain wine I king of my victory one May I rich given to bright and sight of My own heart, whatever will be my vision over Amen. Go ahead and have a seat. We'll turn back to 371. Passion for the. We'll sing both verses. A passion for the Lord. Set my heart, oh dear father, on thee and the only Give me a thrust for thy presence divine. Lord, keep my focus on loving the holy Hurry from birth, turn my heart after the voice , compassion for thee, O Lord, turnify in my soul. And a thirst for my joy Hill my prayer for the cower embarge Not just her But deliver me with all of my heart, Father, fill with thy spirit and pives me for service. Let love for Christ every motive inspire, teach me to follow itself with submission Hey thou my joy and my soul's wonders all passion for thee O Lord is set up fire in my soul And the first for I God Hill my prayer Lord thy power in heart not just But to love me with all of my heart. Amen. Next song It's going to be near the cross. Keep me near the cross. Three verses. Jesus keep me near the cross. There a precious country to all the healing stream Cause from Calvary Mountain In the Cross, in the cross be my God. Glory till my raptured soul shall bind Near the cross of triming Where the bright and morning star says its name around me in the cross. Last name the cross be my glory. Till my raptured soul shall find rest be on the river Near the cross thou watch and wake. Hoping, trusting ever till I read. It's the gold and strand just they on the river in the cross, in the cross. Cross be my glory till my raptured soul shall die Rest beyond the river. Amen. Good singing tonight. Well on Sunday evenings we like Uh blessings, and then we will continue our song service. Father, thank you so much for the opportunity to share these testimonies. It's a blessing to hear people who see your hand at work in their lives. I thank you for Kimberly being able to give the gospel and begin having conversations with a person at work. And Father, we thank you that in spite of this COVID , we've had wonderful opportunities to meet people and share the gospel. You have opened up many doors. And you've brought people to our church. You've brought people to us through the internet. You've uh brought many opportunities for us to give the gospel. and to uh really invest in the lives of people. And so we thank you for that. And Father, we thank you so much for this young lady who my wife has been able to meet with And I pray that you would continue to bring people into our lives who are hungering to know the truth, people who are young Christians, people who Do not net do not yet know the gospel, but um you've been preparing their heart to place their faith in Christ. I pray that you would bring divine appointments. Thank you for Bruce being able to Coach soccer this year and for the team beginning to fill out. I pray that you'll really bless that opportunity. Father, we thank you for our children's programs being up and running. We thank you for our kids being able to learn God's Word, to memorize it, to have it taught week in and week out. We're so thankful for those who are investing their time. and their energies into teaching our young people. We are truly very blessed, and so we thank you for that. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, well I'm trying to get my act together here. We'll turn to page Page page 527. Page 527 for the musicians. We'll sing Revive Us Again. Three verses of Beautiful song. Revive this again, O Lord. And after the messages that we've been hearing, we should be ready. We praise thee, O God, for the Son of thy love, for Jesus who died is now gone above. Hallelujah, thy glory. Hallelujah, Amen, Hallelujah, by the glory, re by that again. We praise thee, O God, for the spirit. Hallelujah , Amen, Hallelujah, by the glory revival. I lost again, will he spark with thy love? We rekindled the fire from above. Hallelujah, thy glory. Hallelujah Pumpkin, Hallelujah, by the glory, we by Amen. Now we will go to our blue book. Blue book in page nine 65. God has spoken. How many know this one? Oh, Several, okay. But for those that don't know it, can we play it through once and get the tune? Okay, now how many know that? Because the first time I saw the words, I wasn't sure I I uh remembered it but the melody I did I did remember. So okay here we go. We're gonna sing all let's stand and sing all three verses God has whispered procreation. Making therapy created voice elects in the works we hear and see Oh what power, oh what wisdom, oh what kindness God has shown, God has whispered through creation He exists and maybe know. Exists and maybe know God has spoken through the scriptures. Breathing word The Otters have declared the death of life Teaching us off sin and sinners of God 's savings sacrifice God has broken through As to Jesus Christ , ask to Jesus Christ. Who the Savior , greatest word of God to make , word made flesh or nature , us with God. God has shouted through the same heart as the Amen. Please be seated and excuse the frog in my throat. Chris? Okay, as Chris is coming, uh children ages two to six may be dismissed to the back for Sunday school. And Chris, come and preach the word to us. Where are you? There he is. All right, Ezra chapter 6. In a few weeks since we had the opportunity to look at Ezra. And I'm kind of glad for having had a little bit of uh extra time to work on this passage. Because when looking through it, honestly, I had quite a bit of a challenge in knowing how the Lord was going to personally apply this. It's you'll see when we read it, but before we look at the passage, let's remember how just before the the time period that we look at there at the end of chapter six We had seen that the Jews, the remnant of the exiles, the returnees, had finally finished the work that God had called them to do. They finished the second temple. And come verse 19, things kind of shift a little bit. You'll notice there in verse 19, in chapter 6, how that Uh there it is. How that the the the calendar or the date that's given, the 14th day of the first month, that's a Jewish religious date. But if we go back a couple verses, back in verse 15, you'll see that it's saying the third day of the month of Adar was when the temple was finished. That's a political calendar, it's a political date. And so there's a change in tone here. We're talking about something that's very different from what has been before. But at the same time, there's a sense of normalcy. When we see in this passage Or what we look at in this passage is the Jews are celebrating, finally at last, the Passover and the feast of unleavened bread in a way that they haven't been able to in over 70 years. years, almost a hundred years. Now, unless you want to spiritualize or allegorize if it's It's difficult to say that there's a lot of spiritual truths here for Christians. It's very Jewish. It's a very Israel-focused passage. And yet, as I meditated on it, as I thought about it, and I thought, you know, this is a very normal thing for Jews to do is to to Well, that normalcy was something that they found joy in. And we're going to see that there is joy in just normal routine events. Now, the year 2020 has been anything but normal. And I don't think it's going to be any more normal than it was when we first started the series on getting back to normal. But even still, this passage is extremely applicable to us because we're going to see that God wants you and I to find joy in the normalcy of life. Let's start by reading there in verse 19 of chapter 6. It says, And the children of the captivity kept the Passover the 14th day of the first month. For the priests and the Levites were purified together. All of them were pure, and killed the Passover for all the children of the captivity, and for their brethren the priests, and for themselves. And the children of Israel, which were come again out of the out of captivity, and all such as had separated themselves unto them from the filthiness of the heathen of the land to seek the Lord God of Israel, did eat. And kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with joy, for the Lord had made them joyful, and turned the heart of the king of Assyria unto them To strengthen their hands in the work of the house of God, the God of Israel. The Jews found joy in normalcy. Things have been abnormal for almost a hundred years, and now they can observe the Passover, they can celebrate it, and they can celebrate the Feast of Unleavened Bread. And what you'll see here in this passage particularly is that there's three normal occurrences of life in which they and we must find joy. The first is this, that you and I, as the Jews did here, we must find joy in serious events. Some serious events. Now, when we think of holidays or uh observances in America, we think of like 4th of July and we think of Easter and Christmas. Uh American holidays, they typically don't have a very big serious to that seriousness to them. They're more of a a joyous, very upbeat, very you know fun time. But for the Jews, Passover and the Feast of Mother Bread wasn't a big happy let's celebrate, let's party kind of a holiday. No, these were serious, sober events. And they found joy in it. They found joy in being able to observe these very sober holidays. Like I said, the those two holidays, the Passover, which wasn't really a holiday as much as it was a meal, and the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which the Passover started, they they were You could almost say it like a combination of Thanksgiving and Memorial Day and Independence Day and spring cleaning. Very very unique to this culture. Now, if you're not fully, if you don't have it quite framed out in your head, the Passover was when the lamb was killed or offered up to God. through the tabernacle or through the temple as a sacrifice to God in remembrance of God bringing Israel out of Egypt. And that was on the fourteenth day of the first month. And they ate that on the evening, which started the day of the 15th. Does that make sense? So remember the Jewish day started in the evening prior to the day that they actually worked. Now that's that's weird that's weird to our minds, but uh hang on there with me. So they would eat this meal at the start of the 15th day, which was the evening of the 14th day. And that kicked off the seven-day feast of unleavened bread. So as soon as they ate that meal, it was the 15th, and that day was a Sabbath. They weren't supposed to do any work. Now, prior to all this, they should have cleaned their entire house of yeast. No yeast in the house at all. You couldn't have bread that was made with yeast, you couldn't have uh well modern day Jews they clean out uh any food like Oreos or anything that has yeast in them. It's it's gone, it's out of the house. They take it out and they burn it. You're you're not supposed to have it. And then during that seven-day period of unleavened bread, they had to make sure that there wasn't any of that yeast in the house. So the first day of that feast, the 15th day of the month, that was the Sabbath, and then they would have five days to kind of make sure that everything was good. And on the very last day that they would have another Sabbath, and they would pause, they wouldn't wouldn't do any work. After that they would have yeast again. Leaven bread. So, okay, what's so special about all that? Well, it it was a reminder of how Israel started out as a nation. It was a reminder of how God brought them out of Egypt. And really, it was a way for them to reflect, to remember, to bring themselves together as a community. It brought to them some sense of patriotism, and it it was a time that they were able to purify themselves, a time for them to reflect on themselves and make themselves right before God. There's a lot involved in these holidays, but overall you get this sense of it's a pretty serious thing. Not so much a, you know Go out and have a cookout and you know grill some hot dogs kind of a thing. It's a very serious sober holiday. And you know what? They found joy in cleaning out their house. They found joy in eating some very, very well done lamb. They they they made sure that they had joy in a week where they really needed to make sure the house was clean. Now, that may not sound so special to you, but after almost a hundred years where they didn't have a temple, where they couldn't offer up that Passover lamb, where they couldn't have that sense of unity as they traveled to Jerusalem. Well, now that they were able to, they were joyous. They found joy in the normalcy because they finally felt that connection to the God whom they had not felt that same connection with for almost a hundred years. Now we in turn must also find joy in these serious or sober events. Now we're we're not really expected to to observe Passover or the Feast of Unleavened Bread or the Feast of Tabernacles and Yom Kippur and all that kind of stuff. We're not expected to celebrate all that. But you know, we have some serious routine events as believers. We have baptism and communion, which are commanded of us as ordinances. And I know with baptism it's a little more easy to find that joy and excitement because oftentimes we see that as a sign of someone who just got saved, right? That's a pretty serious event. This is a person who's declaring that he is now a follower, a believer in Jesus Christ, and he is placing himself in front of the church and saying. Here I am, I am part of the body. And then you have communion. Now communion, we get that sense of sobriety, of seriousness. And I think oftentimes we kind of take that too far. To the point where it's it's solemn and you can't find any any happiness in it. You have to be serious. You can't enjoy this. Well, think about what communion symbolizes. It symbolizes the blood that our Savior shed for us. It symbolizes the body that was broken for us. Why? So that we could grovel in our pews? No, so that we could have eternal life through Jesus Christ. Let's find joy in those events. And we could talk about all kinds of different events like Palm Sunday, Holy Week, Good Friday, Resurrection Sunday, Christmas if you take out all the glitter and glam of it. Those are serious yet joyous events. We also find joy in them. We also find a sense of joy in the routine normalcy. Of those events. So finding joy in the normal sea of life includes finding joy in those serious routine events. But the children of Israel didn't just find joy in those serious events. No, they found joy in their unified observance of the Passover. That demonstrates for us that we need to find joy in unified gatherings. Unified gatherings. Now, not just gatherings where we're all together. No, these were these were events, these were activities, these were Gatherings focused on bringing people closer together. What does that sound like? Sounds like a church service, right? Maybe it sounds like a family reunion. It's a time for people to get together and restore and to renew that relationship and that unity. Now the people then they found unity through seeking the Lord. Look over there in verse 21. Chapter six verse twenty one says the children of Israel, which were come again out of the captivity, and all such as had separated themselves unto them from the filthiness of the heathen of the land, to seek the Lord God of Israel Now, you'll notice there's there's a couple of groups here. And the first group you see in verse 21 are the children of Israel which were come again out of the captivity. So, who does that include? Well, obviously it includes the Jews who had come from Babylon back to Jerusalem, back to Israel. But you know what? It also includes those who remained in the land. There were very few of them. But you still had a remnant, you still had a residue, as it says in some places, of Jew Jews or Israelites who were from other tribes. And they were included. Why? Because they were seeking the Lord together. And they wanted to reignite that unity as a nation. The people shared a national identity, ethnicity, and personal backgrounds. And though those individuals made an effort to gather together and intentionally seek out the Lord God. Why is that important? Why do people do that? Well, familiarity breeds contempt, right? Familiarity often kind of either dulls us to the special t the the the the specialness of our relationships or it can get our focus on all the negative aspects of individuals who are around us. That's why we need to have times when we refocus ourselves, re-reunify ourselves as a group of people. That's what church is there for. But it's interesting, not only the children of Israel were included in this group that sought the Lord. But notice in verse 21, it says, in the middle part, and all such As had separated themselves unto them from the filthiness of the heathen of the land. Who were these? Well, there's a little bit of debate. But I say it would include both apostate Jews, those who stayed in the land and they followed after the idols and the gods of the heathens and realized there's nothing in them. And they came back to the God of Israel. And it may very well also include, and I believe it does, the the heathen of the land, the Aramonites, the the Canaanites, the Gentiles. Who had come to realize that the God of Israel was the one true God. Now, what's so special about that? Well, this verse demonstrates what God's intention for Israel always was. to bring the people of the nations to it to know who God is. I think this is a beautiful, beautiful verse. Because Israel was supposed to be a nation who who brought in the Gentiles. And really it's the clearest example of the shared responsibility that Israel has with the church, and that they declared who God is. They declared who who the one true God is. It's a beautiful passage, and it shows us that in all of this, whether Jew or Gentile, whether former apostate or someone who is an exile They were all able to come together despite the varying or similar circumstances that they found themselves in and find unity in seeking the Lord. They found joy in that. But you know what? People then may have found unity in seeking the Lord. That's still true today People now find unity through seeking the Lord. Now It 's easy to think that most Americans have at least some Christian background and have uh at least some small inclination of seeking the Lord. But that that That honestly has not been the case for decades. It's not. In fact, you can maybe argue that that that majority has not existed maybe even since the first or second great awakening. Regardless of what your opinion on that is, Americans, our nation or any nation for that matter, cannot find true unity apart from Jesus Christ. Apart from seeking the Lord. And you know what that involves? Does that involve political or or or or or some kind of uh campaign that brings people through legislation and to get all of the uh the the the politicians together and get morality legislated No, it involves God 's people to come together as assemblies of believers to find joy in that communion, to find joy in that unity Now, it's also easy to think that the only fellowship we can have are from Christians who look like us, who dress like us, who think like us, who make the same uh amount of money as us, or who are are are exactly like us. People who have the same opinions that look , I'm not saying we need to go out to some Christian rock concert with another church. I'm not saying we need to integrate ourselves into an Amish community. But listen We recognize that although there are certain differences that keep us from worshiping together as a church It doesn't mean that we can't pursue unity with other believers, no believers, of different racial, ethnic, political, theological, whatever background that they may have Why? Because believers are seeking the Lord Jesus Christ together. Let's do that by whatever means possible. That's how we're going to find joy in unified gatherings. Now, again, being in church services together is the best way in which we can joyfully gather together and grow in our unity. But we recognize there are certain differences that keep all believers from doing that. That shouldn't stop us from connecting with one another. That should not prevent us from getting with someone from another church and having a meal with them. Maybe. Doing some fun activity, doing something that develops that unity as a body of Christ. Do you want joy as a believer? You want joy in the normalcy of life? Well, you need to find joy in those unifying gatherings. As well as those serious events that we we experience on a routine basis. But there's a third life occurrence in which the children of Israel or the children of the captivity demonstrated in this passage And what they they demonstrated joy in is something that I kind of bit my tongue as I typed it out. They found joy in governmental intervention. Now, some of you might start thinking I'm a little crazy with this one. But it's true. They found joy in governmental intervention. You know what? There is joy. in governmental intervention. Now stay with me here because I know some of you are starting to tune me out already. Look in verse 22 at the at the second half. Let's read the whole verse. It says, And the Israelites kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with joy. For the Lord had made them joyful. Why? Because he had turned the heart of the king of Assyria unto them. Now, the king of Assyria is another title for the king of Persia, who is also the king of Babylon. He was the king of wherever he conquered. So that that shouldn't be a problem as some people might try to make up. So the Lord made them joyful because he turned the heart of the king of Assyria unto them. Now I'm going to read some verses to you. If you would go ahead and turn over to Romans 13, I'm going to read to you Proverbs 21. 1. Because I think this verse in Proverbs ties into this passage so well. But turn over to Romans 13. It says there, the king's heart is in the hand of the Lord. As the rivers of water, he turneth it whithersoever he will. Now over in Romans 13, I'll turn there now. Over in Romans 13, we if you're familiar with the book of Romans, you know what this chapter is about, right? It's about obeying the powers that be, the powers that are over us. It says in verse 1, let every soul be subject unto the higher powers, for there is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. Whosoever therefore resisteth the power resisteth the ordinance of God, and they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? Do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same. For he, the government, the ruler is the minister of God to thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, he be afraid, for he beareth not the sword in vain, for he is the minister of God, a revenger to execute wrath. upon him that doeth evil. Now, we know that God ordained government. If we were to look over in Genesis chapter 9, we would see that God created government. As much as I Personally try to forget that fact. God created government. And God uses government, and God influences government What should that behoove us to do? Well, look over in First Timothy two First Timothy chapter two And this is what helps us to find joy in God influencing government. First Timothy 2, verses 1 through 4. It says, I exhort therefore that first of all, supplications. Prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men for kings, and for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceful life. peaceable life in godliness and honesty. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of who? God, our Savior. God established government. And you know what? One of the hardest truths that I've had to grapple as a person who has very strong feelings against big government. is recognizing that, you know what, God has made government one of his tools and institutions. So I a I had to ask the question, in light of God influencing government to intervene in man's affairs, is more government inherently sinful? Now In my mind, as well as probably your mind, you're thinking, yes? Well I hate to say it, but where God established government, he gave free reign for there to be less or more. The reality is it's not inherently sinful. And the more I dwell on that light, that in light of God's history of using government, both in the Old and New Testament, the less inclined I am to think that more government is a sinful thing. Granted, it's not a good thing. Because honestly, more government is a sign of a people who don't have the restraint needed to live a peaceable life And you know what? Honestly, mostly most government increase or the increase of government size often involves people who have corrupt motives. I recognize that. But you and I, when we see government moving and acting and doing what it does, we should see it as God influencing it in a way that should bring about joy. Now you may ask why. Why should I find joy that the government wants to get in my business? Well, you know what? The last part of verse 22 shows us in back in Ezra 6 that there is joy and that government plays a role in God's plans. Government plays a role in God's plans. Notice in verse 22 again, it says, the Lord had made them joyful there in the in the in the middle part. The Lord had made them joyful and turned the heart of the king of Assyria unto them. Why? To strengthen their hands in the work of the house of God, the God of Israel. Now they didn't raise their fists up at King Cyrus or at King Darius and say, we don't want Persian money. We don't want that entanglement in our countries. Well, they didn't do that first of all because they were a vassal state. They were kind of enslaved to the Persian Empire. But you know what? More importantly than that, they were seeking to accomplish God's will for them as a nation. That's what we saw back in verse 21. They were able to celebrate as Jews, as Israelites, as followers of Jehovah God. Why? Because they had their temple. And how did they get their temple? Through Persian money, through government intervention. Now, granted, the Persian government had its own agenda. It was trying to build a nice little barrier between it and Egypt. But you know what? God used them. God rebuilt his temple. God established his people again to be able to Perform their God-given responsibilities. And they, the Israelites, recognized that. And they found joy in it. It's a tough, tough one to swallow. But you know what? It's a normal reality. The government intervenes. It gets in our lives. And we should see it as God moving to accomplish his will. Whatever that may be. God wants you to find joy in the normalcy of life. Now m most, if not all, of us will live normal, average life, which is great. God that that's the life God gave us. But yet in the midst of all the normalcy, whether it's through those serious routine events, or whether it's through the the the the unity, the the the gatherings where we we strengthen ourselves as a body of believers, or whether it's through the normal government interventions in our lives or in the lives of our our nation, if you will. We need to be like these Jews in Ezra Six We don't need to grumble about the temple being smaller than it was the last time we were able to worship it and celebrate Passover. We don't need to be grumbling because these Jews were apostates. How dare they come and try to worship with us now? We don't need to grumble that the government is trying to get all up in our lives. Rather, we need to find joy in the normalcy that is all of that. Are you lacking joy this evening? Are you? When I think about everything that's going on in our nation today, I find it very difficult to find joy But when I consider this passage, and I would consider all that they went through for a lot longer than we did this year in 2020. I'm reminded that not only should I find joy in these things, but finding joy in those things is normal. Because as believers, we ought to have a healthy spiritual life in which we find joy in what God is doing. Look into your life. Examine yourself. When these normal occurrences in life come about, do you find joy? If not, ask the Lord Ask him to help you do that tonight. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Father, thank you that in your word you've given us examples of normal, everyday events. You remind us that the things that we go through, whether as a people, as individuals, or as a nation, there's nothing new under the sun. Things happen that are completely normal. And in the midst of it, we have a choice whether to be discouraged and discontent with it. Or to find joy in the fact that you have a plan in it all. Help us to see your plan. in celebrating and and enjoying the normal routine things that we do as Christians. Help us to find joy as we. gather together as believers from time to time, whether in church or in throughout our weeks. Help us to find joy in that, to find joy even when it seems like government is getting bigger and bigger and bigger. Help us to find joy in you. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. I'm not sure how many of you were able to hear the message yesterday. in our second session, but it was in Jeremiah 29, and it was talking about how we live as exiles. And it isn't it was an outstanding message. It was extremely practical. And the truth is that what was talked about yesterday um really is what uh Chris is talking on the fact that um it was ordinary things it was building a house it was planting a garden it was getting married raising a family, things that are just ordinary things that people do. And when we look at life, we can get very frustrated and throw our hands up in the air and say , This is a frustrating life, or we can say, you know what, God has a purpose and the ordinary things. And I'm going to do those things on a day-by-day basis. And I'm going to find The purposes that he has in that. Um it really makes me think about what we've been talking about in the book of Ecclesiastes. And um if you haven't joined us for our Ecclesiastes studies, I would really encourage you to do that every every morning. Around seven. Mondays are always late, just saying, um, because I am always a little bit behind uh in my mind on Monday mornings But um we're going to the book of Ecclesiastes. And the truth is that what Solomon basically says over and over and over again is that if you don't have God in the picture, your life is a miserable mess. It doesn't have value. It doesn't make sense. But when you have a God in heaven who puts everything in perspective in light of eternity, he says, you know what, there's glory and there's joy in the ornament things of life. And so let's not take those things for granted. Thank you so much for that challenge that we need to find joy and glory in what God has given us in those ordinary things. I wanted to remind you of a couple of things that we have coming up this week. First of all, this is the first Sunday that we have published a bulletin, and so we're not passing them out, but they are available. Please pick those up. We are going into a normal scheduling as much as possible now. That doesn't mean everything's normal as it was. But it does mean that we are we're having ladies' meetings again, though the the format's gonna be different. So they're gonna have eating at the end because some ladies may not be comfortable with the food distribution. So You can come to the Bible study and then after that there's food for those who would like to stay, but we're we we have that on our schedule. We are doing teen activities again, so I know the The teens tonight are meeting, but we are having regular activities as much as possible. We are really trying to get back to normal in a lot of these things. Next Sunday, we're going to have our Sunday school classes for everybody in the morning as we have been doing in the past. So kids are in the morning. uh adult and teen classes are in the morning. Our Sunda our uh our nursery is gonna be starting back again which today was a tough day for our kids. My kids, everybody's kids, it was a tough day. We're ready for nursery to come back on But with that, there's a lot of stuff that is going to be going on, so please be in prayer for that. But I just want to remind you, we are we are we are going back to a lot of the normal things that we've been doing. With some restrictions, yes, but we're trying to get those things back online. Also want to mention that we have our ordination. uh this Friday. And the way that that's going is you are invited but not expected to be there. Okay? From nine o'clock to about eleven, eleven thirty There's going to be an ordination council. And basically what's going to happen is we have several local pastors. Not everyone is local. A couple of people are coming from out of the area. Basically, they're going to be here. And they're going to be asking Chris questions and all of the major doctrines. This is something that we've had many times in our church Uh and basically he has set sent his doctrinal statement to them. Some of those men have already reached out and have even talked to him about some of those things. He and I have gone through lots and lots of questions together in the office. to talk about the kinds of things that he should be prepared to address, especially because he's going into the chaplaincy. And then at the end of that time, assuming that everything goes well, what we will do is we'll have a short break, mostly for those men to be able to get a little bit of food, and uh then we will have a service. That service is going to be like around 11. 30, 12 o'clock. Okay? If you want to come and be a part of that, that's probably the time to come. It will be a short, a short ordination service. And really what we're doing is Chris, he's on staff at Anchor, but one of the things that Chris is looking, believes the Lord is leading him to is the chaplain. So Chris actually is in the military right now as a reserve for now at the moment, but he's looking to go into the chaplaincy. And so a lot of the questioning and a lot of that is going to be specifically directed towards the kinds of things. that he is going to be dealing with as a chaplain in the Navy. And so I want to make you aware of that. Also, there is a pregnancy clinic walk that is this Saturday. And um I want to encourage you, if you are going to participate, I believe, correct me if I'm wrong, I believe at 1130, we are going to be meeting at the uh at the church parking lot. Is that correct? I'm looking at Eric because I know your wife's the one that's does organize it. Okay. My understanding is it's 1130. Um Reach out to Kayla to make sure that I'm correct on that. We're supposed to wear blue if you want to participate in that. But I'm very thankful for the Ministry of the Pregnancy Clinic. It's not a church. It's not a Baptist organization, but the work that they're doing is actually a very good work. The truth is that there are ladies who are coming there. and uh they were not expecting to be pregnant, they 're very fearful, they don't know what to do, and the truth is a lot of them are under tremendous pressure and they're gonna meet a person who loves the Lord, who cares about them as a person who cares about life. And they're going to really come alongside of those ladies and minister to them and try to show them that there are other options for them, not to terminate the pregnancy, but to actually uh keep that child and to to talk to them about ways that they can actually get the support that they need at that time. It's a very, very important ministry, not a local church ministry, but it's something that saves lives. And so once a year when they have that walk, several folks in our church gather for that. And I want to remind you that my family will be going and we'll be walking uh with that group on that day. So those are some of the things that are going on. Wednesday we we have our prayer meeting. We we're continuing our study in the pastoral epistle. So I hope that you can come to that as well. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. And then we'll be dismissed. I know it's a little hot today. We'll have to check on the temperature here. It feels hotter than usual. So all of the ladies are nodding their heads. Yes, so let's balance for prayer. Father, thank you so much for the time we spent together in your house this day. Thank you for the way we've been ministered too on Friday and Saturday. The preaching of your word has been very practical and very helpful. I thank you for the sermons that we've heard today. We thank you for this reminder that we need to rejoice in those ordinary, normal duties of life. And your hands are at work in our lives, and we can see purposes that you have for us, even in the government, even in decisions that come down from them. Father, I pray that you'd help us as we have many activities that are coming back online in our church, that we would be able to get involved in these things. that we would use these as opportunities to reach into the lives of family and friends who really do need to be ministered to in these days. Father, we thank you for the way you've protected our church physically. I pray that you would continue to do that. We pray that you'd help us to expand our outreach. into the community that we'll see people saved, baptized, growing in discipleship in these coming months. And we'll thank you for that as well. We pray that you'll bless all of the things we've been able to discuss today. That these things would be used as tools by you in our lives, we ask it in Christ's name, Amen.