And let's all turn together to Psalm 43. Psalm 43 and the last two songs that the one we sang and the one we just heard, I think just really capture uh the need of our hearts as we come to the text in front of us this morning. And so I'm going to read the text, but I want to remind you that Psalm 43 and Psalm 42. If you were reading in the Tanakh, they would actually come together as one unit. And so really we're kind of looking at the second half. of what would be the 42nd Psalm. But I'm going to begin reading in verse number one, and then we will bow for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to bless our time together. It says, Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation. O deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man For thou art the God of my strength. Why dost thou cast me off? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? O send out thy light and thy truth. Let them lead me. Let them bring me unto thy holy hill and to thy tabernacles. Then will I go into the altar of God unto God my exceeding joy. Yea, upon the harp will I praise thee, O God, my God. Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope in God For I should yet praise him who is the health of my countenance and my God. Please let's bow together. Ask the Lord to really speak to our hearts through his word this morning. Father, as we reflect on this passage, I pray that our hearts would be strengthened. Father, you know what's going on in every heart in this room. You know every burden that is being carried, you know every struggle. Father, you know the pressures that people may be encountering right now. You also know the things that are coming this next year that we know nothing about, but in fact we will need a text like this one. to strengthen us and prepare us for those seasons we may encounter. Father, I pray that you would open our understanding to these truths. Help us to see them very practically, very simply. Help us to respond humbly to them and help us to turn to you and find you to be our rock and our fortress and our strength and our comfort. I pray that you will take the word of God and minister richly to our souls this morning. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Now, if you remember back when we were looking at this passage, it's actually been several months. Psalm 42 and Psalm 43 are the beginning of the second book of Psalms. And if you look at this second book of Psalms, it starts out in a very low place, and by the end it ends in a very triumphant place. And when we look at these verses, we see the psalmist who is reflecting on all kinds of internal pressures that he's experiencing. Some of these pressures are very, very, very intense. And so as he expresses this Three times in the Psalms we see this statement, why art thou cast down, O my soul? Or maybe I should say a question. that the psalmist is asking himself and then we see him saying hope thou in God he is talking to himself in this time where he is very discouraged And then he says, I will yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance and my God. And interestingly, out of those three times, the last little part is slightly different in the first from the second two. So what we're seeing is we're seeing a person or the people who are singing this hymn that are reflecting on the fact that they are living in very desperate times. I don't know if those desperate times are because of physical circumstances or because of things that are are perceived as opposed to actual dangers that they're encountering. But these people are overwhelmed and they're expressing how overwhelmed they are. And this passage is really helpful to us when we will find ourselves in such a place. Because , hate to say this, but we will find ourselves in such a place. So I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts that I hope will prepare our hearts for the content of this psalm. A few basic observation observations about interpersonal friction. And this is something that I think we're all aware of, but it's something that sometimes we have to stop and we have to remind ourselves of. When we deal with people, we deal with complicated situations. The reasons for that. Some of the people that we interact with, hopefully not lots of the people that we interact with. Hopefully not the people that are the closest to us, but sometimes the people we interact with, in fact, they really do have evil intentions And we see this laid out in this Psalm. Plead my cause against an ungodly nation. Deliver me from deceitful and unjust men. And so there are some people that we interact with that, frankly, they are evil. They have ill intention toward us. We have to be very cautious when we interact with them. And it's going to weigh heavily on us as people. Some of the people we interact with, and I would say we would put ourselves in this category sometimes too, are very immature. Sometimes we get very easily offended And so something that didn't really need to be a big deal becomes a big deal because one person gets upset and then this person responds and they're upset and then this person gets upset more upset and this person gets more upset and eventually we're gonna have to have some kind of uh interference so that we can resolve this issue. It didn't have to get to that, but that is what happened. Some people are very impulsive. They make quick judgments. They don't have all the facts. And when they make those quick judgments, they make decisions that actually really hurt the situation. Makes things a lot worse. Have you ever had a situation where uh you responded and then someone says, Well, uh you didn't know about that and you're like, oh, if I'd have known that, I wouldn't have responded the way that I did. And they're like, you didn't let me fit is what I was saying. Ah , anybody ever been there? I've been there. And so what do we do? We bring needless trouble to situations. You know, the fact that we all have different temperaments leads to potential challenges. Some people are very gentle, some people are very forceful. Being gentle or forceful can be good or bad, depending on the situation, how we express it. But that leads to people getting hurt. Some people hold grudges. They bring up the past. Some people just cannot reconcile their differences. There's a reason that I bring this up. I bring it up simply to say there's a reason that we have Psalms like Psalm 42 and Psalm 43. There's a reason that there's lots and lots of material in the Bible. to help guide people who are dealing with trouble. And there are varying degrees of trouble that we encounter when it comes to interacting with other people. But I want to remind you of something very important when we talk about this topic. You and I cannot control how people relate to us. But we can control how we relate back. For instance, in Romans chapter 12, verse 18, it says, if It be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. Now when I read that verse, I get the impression that Paul, as he writes this, he goes, I know there's situations that are not easy. I know there's situations that you can't resolve quickly. There's some situations it may take a very long time. There may be some situations You never get them resolved. But as much as it depends on you, live peaceably with other people. That's what he's saying. In other words, we shouldn't be quick to give up on situations. We shouldn't be quick to say, this is irreconcilable. We should be slow. We should take time. We should hold out the hope that we can resolve our differences with individuals. What we can control is how we process things. What we can control is how we relate to other people and situations. There are instructions in the Bible to help us to navigate the difficulties of life in a way that honors God. The problem isn't that God doesn't speak on these issues. It's that we don't listen. It's that we don't want to listen. And we don't want to listen because we're not willing to do the work and trust God and draw on his grace and resolve things in a godly way. So with all that in mind, I'd like us to dig into this text, and I hope it will be very, very helpful to us this morning as we start the new year. God simply desires for us to hope in Him. And we're downcast. And there are lots and lots of potential ways that you can get yourself in such a place or that others have gotten you into such a place. And God wants to strengthen you in the midst of that. This text will help us. So the first truth that we see in the text in front of us is that we are to prepare to face unjust situations. Now, I'm going to read what it says, and then I want to make a couple of clarifying statements. Because I don't want you to get the wrong impression as to why I said what I did. And verse 1 he says, judge me. And that word judge there has the idea of vindicate me. I want you to examine me and I want you to examine the circumstance. And if I'm in the right, which I believe that I am, then I want you to step in on my behalf. And I want you to settle the issue in the right way. We're appealing to God to be the higher judge to resolve an issue between us. and a person or people or in this situation he even mentions nations not just individuals he says judge me or vindicate me oh god plead my cause I want you to stand on my behalf, to appeal for me, because I can't do it for myself in such a situation. He says, plead my cause against an ungodly nation. Deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man. Now here's my clarification. I am not predicting this for anybody. Okay? I'm not sitting here going, 2025, it's going to be a rough year for you. I'm not predicting that. I'm certainly not wishing that on anybody. I hope that this is the greatest year of your life. I really do. In fact, this week, as I was thinking about this service and this sermon and how we're entering into the new year, I said, God, please. Bless our church this year. Bless people as individuals. Bless our families. Strengthen us. Help us to grow. Help us to mature. Help us to see your hand at work in our lives. My desire is that this is not the kind of year where this passage of scripture is one, you gotta draw on constantly. But here's the fact. It might be. The reality of life is that we live in a fallen and messy world. We are fallen, the people around us are fallen, and stuff is going to happen. And so while it is not a prediction, and it is certainly not a wish, it is a reality of life Second thing I want you to notice under this point is that the psalmist speaks very specifically here. In verse 1, he says, plead my cause against an ungodly nation. And interestingly, a lot of the psalms are written not just by an individual, which obviously a lot of the psalms are written by David. This particular psalm, it doesn't appear like it was written by David, it's for the sons of Korah. So these are the musicians in the temple. But the fact is a lot of these psalms are written by an individual in interpersonal kind of situations, but a lot of times the individual is a king. And so it's not just that he's dealing with a family issue or a friendship issue or a justice kind of issue, but he's dealing with a national kind of issue. And so we see that come out in verse 1. He says, Plead my cause against an ungodly nation. You think about the pressure you experience when you have problems with other people on a relational level. It's very frustrating. It's very heavy. It wears us down. But imagine when your decisions are going to guide a nation. If you go to war If you hold back , you are making decisions that are going to impact the lives of people for the rest of their time on this planet. And if you don't stand strong, there's going to be a problem. If you come too hard, there's going to be a problem. There are realities in the world that someone in such a position is going to face. And so we see that there are national injustices. And by the way, every people group in humanity has been on either side of those issues, including our own people. Where there are those who have caused the injustices and those who are on the receiving side of injustices. And here the psalmist speaks of the fact that there are ungodly nations Who have ill intention toward the people that this individual is governing and has responsibility to shepherd and to protect and to defend. And they feel the weight of that. Look at what happens to presidents in our country when they govern. Like they don't look like the same person when they come out. There might be a few exceptions, but not too many. Especially if they surf for eight years. They go in looking young and vibrant, well, sometimes young and vibrant, and they go out looking like old men. Why is that? Because there's a lot of pressure that they deal with. The pressure of a nation. Pressures that we don't even understand, or we have no no no grasping of those things. That's kind of the sense of what the psalmist is saying here. But then he talks about in the next little part of this verse interpersonal injustices. And by the way We could say national injustices are really the manifestation of interpersonal injustices on a national scale. Okay? I mean when you think about all the little problems that happen in people's lives Just just think of something as simple as, you know, go down to the game room and watch the kids get back and forth over a little game. And then you think about how that manifests itself in a family context. And then think about all the little families and how they It manifests itself in interpersonal radio relationships between families. And then we go to communities and then states and then nations, and then we have all these kinds of problems. We could say that the big picture problems all go down to individual choices and individual mindsets. And he says, deliver me from the deceitful and the unjust. Man. So the psalmist has really a pretty large scope here. He's thinking about the pressures he experiences with people as individuals. and the pressures he experiences as a ruler over a nation. And there are a couple of examples that come to mind. The one that came to mind first is from 2 Kings chapter 19. And I want you to picture in your mind's eye what is being communicated here. It is Hezekiah. And this is what it says. Hezekiah receives a letter, and in this letter, the king of Assyria says, we're going to destroy your city. Okay? And he wasn't joking. He was absolutely gonna do it. And he basically says, there are no gods and there are no cities and there are no peoples that have had the ability to stand against our armies. You're next. Give up your arms, surrender to our terms, or face absolute and miserable death And this is what Hezekiah did. In 2 Kings chapter 19, verse 14, it says, And Hezekiah received the letter of the hand of the messengers and read it. And Hezekiah went up into the house of the Lord and spread it before the Lord. And Hezekiah prayed before the Lord and said, O Lord God of Israel. Which dwelleth between the cherubim. Thou art the God, even thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth, thou hast made heaven and earth. Lord, bow down thine ear and hear. Open, Lord, thine eyes and see and hear the words of Sennacherib which hath sent him to reproach the living God. I get in my mind a picture of a king, the most powerful person in this nation. He receives this letter and he he knows that these people are vicious and cruel. And they will do devastation to the city. And he goes up and he lays this letter before God and he cries out. He says, God, if you don't move on our behalf, We're gonna face the same thing all these other people did. God move. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about That 's a great example of how we're supposed to respond in tough situations. God, here it is. I plead with you, work. Interpersonal issues can be really painful. Proverbs 18. 8. The words of a tailbearer are as wounds and they go down into the innermost parts of the bell. You know what a tail bearer is? It's somebody that goes and they like to talk about other people behind their back. Sometimes it's just nasty, condescending. Sometimes the information we'd rather other people not know. Sometimes it's true, sometimes it's not true, sometimes it's embellished. Sometimes it's just not necessary. But when people do that, it hurts. It's very humiliating. It's irritating. It makes it makes you upset. Proverbs 26, 28, a lying tongue hates those that are afflicted by it, a flattering mouth worketh ruin. Not just the telling of tales, but someone who's dishonest. Who can destroy relationships because of their deceitfulness? And so when we talk about these verses, what do they remind us? Very simple fact, we're going to get in situations that we are being treated wrong. That 's life. I wish it wasn't, but it is. Second truth I want you to notice is this. We need to turn to God in these frustrating times. Now, when we face situations like this, we're going to respond. The question is, will we respond the right way or the wrong way? Now, a lot of times what ends up happening is we initially respond the wrong way, and then God works on us, and then we kind of start getting back on track and then We start responding the right way and then we respond the wrong way and get back on track and wrong and then back on track and wrong and back on track. And God is very persistent with us and very patient. That's the way that we tend to grow. But when we get into these situations, we've absolutely got to turn to God. And when we turn to God, it's not to demand of him what he has to do. It's very specific. And I want you to notice the things that are mentioned in the text. The first thing that we see is verse 1. He says, judge me. The word judge there means to vindicate. Now there is an assumption. If I'm asking God to judge me and my situation, I'm assuming that I am not contributing to the problem. Okay? I could be wrong in that. Or I'm assuming that I am being entirely treated unjustly. When I'm asking God, I'm appealing to Him To work on this situation on my behalf, I am assuming I'm in the right, they're in the wrong, I'm being treated unjustly, and only God can resolve the issue. This is why sometimes we need other people to help us resolve interpersonal issues. Because what happens is this person's got an idea and this person's got an idea, and if they're to sit down and try to work out, they can't because Their idea is not going to change and their idea is not going to change. But when they appeal to somebody else who is not of the same mind as both, they kind of can adjust those two issues. And find a middle ground and work it out. When you're appealing to God, you're appealing to someone who knows everything. You're appealing to someone who is perfectly righteous. And holy and just. He isn't going to fudge at all. He's going to do what's right. And so when a person makes such an appeal, it would be very wise for them to search their heart first. It'd be very wise for them to make sure that they address their own issues before they come into the presence of God and say, judge me. It's very similar to what's talked about in the Sermon on the Mount, when he says, do not judge. Judge not lest he be not judged. For with what judgment you judge, it will be measured unto you again. He says, first examine the beam in your eye, and once it's removed, you'll be able to see clearly remove the speck in your brother's eye. What's he saying? Before you take an action, take a personal action that resolves your ability to see clearly. Very important, when you turn to God, it would be very wise to do some personal reflection first. The second thing that's mentioned is the word plead. Plead my cause, or literally contend for me. It's like you're in a courtroom and you have someone who is a lawyer who is defending you. And what they're doing is they are demonstrating through arguments based on the facts, hopefully, okay. Assuming that you're in the right here, they're demonstrating that in fact The charges against you are false. They are not true. They're not sound. The facts do not align with what someone's charge against you is. And he's saying, God, you can plead on my behalf here. Do it. I plead with you, do it. The third thing is very interesting. Verse number one, deliver me. The idea is provide a way of escape. I'm reminded in 1 Corinthians 10, verse 13, that God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that ye may be able to bear it. I do want to make a very simple observation here. He does not tell you what the way of escape will be, and he doesn't tell you how long it'll be before it happens. He simply says he will provide a way of escape so that you may be able to bear it. How does God create those ways of escape? All kinds of different ways. Sometimes it's creating a little bit of distance, getting out of a dangerous situation. Sometimes it's swallowing our pride. Sometimes it's making an appeal. Sometimes it's going to somebody else to make an appeal for us. Sometimes it's God interrupting circumstances so that people that have this impasse between them gets resolved. I remember When I was a missionary, we had a situation between some men in our church, and it was it was pretty tense. And I remember sitting in a meeting with all the men and I thought it was going to be a fist fight. I mean it was very intense. And I remember like standing up and saying, guys, what's going on? Are you Christians? And they're like, are you doubting that we're Christians? I said, no. But I certainly don't see it right now. You know how that situation got resolved? Crazy, but true. One of the family members got hit by a car. And when that family member got hit by a car, those two men were humbled. And they sat down and they worked out the issue. I am not suggesting that's going to happen in anybody's life. Please. I am not saying that to suggest that. But what I am suggesting is this God is a sovereign God. He has his ways of getting our attention. And he did it that way because there was so much pride. And there was such an impasse that could not be resolved without God's interfering in such a way. God will provide a way. Could be hard, could be smooth, but he'll do it Next thing, by be my strength. In verse 2, he says this, thou art the God of my strength. Now interestingly, before he makes that statement, If you look back, he says, Thou God art my strength, why dost thou cast me off? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? So he acknowledges that in fact God is his strength. But then he says, but I don't feel like you're giving me strength right now. I feel like you're distant. I feel like you're not working in my situation the way that I need you to. I feel like I'm alone. I feel like I'm on an island all by myself And what's he doing? He's saying, God, I can't get through this unless you give me the strength that I need. That is God's grace. Think about the story of Paul who had a thorn in the flesh. It says, three times he besought the Lord. And he said, God, please remove this storm from my flesh. And what does he say? He says, My grace is sufficient for thee. My strength is made perfect in weakness. And so what does God do? God says, I'm not going to remove you from the situation. I'm not going to remove the situation from you. I'm going to give you the strength to endure and to grow and to triumph. Be my strength. Verse number three, he says, guide my steps by your word. This is a really important piece. He says, sound out thy light and thy truth. Let them lead me. Really a fascinating statement. Whenever we are in situations that are really challenging, And we are feeling very broken and very wearied, and we realize that, hey, I'm in trouble and I don't know what to do. The last thing you should do is just follow your impulsive emotional responses. That's the last thing you should do. The first thing we should do is go to the scriptures and let the Word of God shed light on what we are dealing with in our lives. And I do want to be very uh I want to caution you about this. Do not go to the Bible like it's a proof text that you're trying to find a little verse that's going to give you what you want to find, because you'll find it. You know, some I I I've done this myself, I'll just be frank about it, okay? Yeah, I got something in my head and I know what I want to see and I find it and if I sat down with somebody that you know, was a was a careful Bible expositor. And I said, see what God's telling me to do and say, um, what are you talking about? You have taken that passage And you have ripped it out of its context, and you are abusing that passage. Don't you dare do what you think God's telling you to do. So be cautious. Be very cautious. But when we study the Bible, it's amazing how God will give us very simple, very clear instruction on how to navigate the challenges we encounter in life. Notice the words light, truth, lead. See those words Sounds a light like Psalm 119, 105. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. Here's somebody walking in the dark. Sometimes I need this in my house, you know. You're walking, you're like, I need a little flashlight so I can see I don't step on like a Lego while I'm going up the stairs or something like that, you know But what does that little lamp do? It just gives you enough light to see the next step. And that's what God does. Sometimes when we're in these really tough situations , God doesn't like lay out the 15 steps we're supposed to take over the next six months of our lives. He shows you what you're supposed to do today. And when you do it, guess what he does? He says what you're supposed to do the next day. And then the next. And then the next. And then when you look back, you know what you see? There's the six months of God working. That's how he does it. His word is a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path. I think of a passage like Colossians 3. He says, put on as the elect of God, holy, beloved, bowels of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering. Forbearing one another, forgiving one another. If any have a quarrel against any, even as God forgave you, so also do you. And above all these put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness. Let the peace of God rule in your hearts Now I know that this would be dealing with the interpersonal situation, not the nation coming to war, okay? Different scenario. And there's clear instruction in the Bible for how to deal with some of those other scenarios. But when we're talking about a truly interpersonal squabble between people where somebody's frustrated us, they've hurt us. They've offended us, we've offended them, that kind of stuff, what does he do? He says, be patient. If you're in danger, flee. But if you're not in danger, be patient. Love those individuals, forgive them, keep the gospel in the forefront of your mind. That's the kind of stuff God wants us to do. Next we see that we are to teach that he says, teach me to praise you at all times. Verse number four, he says, Then will I go unto the altar of God Unto God, my exceeding joy, ye upon the harp will I praise thee. Now this is something that I think is super important for us not to miss about this text. He talks about how we're to cry out to God, how we're to how to say, God, vindicate me, plead my cause. We talk about all those kinds of things. Give me your word, instruct me in your word, be my strength, give me guidance. Help me to keep praising you. That's a big one. Because the truth is we don't feel like praising God when we're mad at him. Or when we're mad at the people that he won't deal with for us. We're not happy with God. Or we have circumstances that they truly are not our fault. We did not contribute to it, but we're in it. Yet what does the text say? Then, after I have gone through this little process, then I will be in the position to what? To go to your altars. My exceeding joy, upon the harp I'll praise thee. You know, interestingly when I think of David, he was a guy that, though he was a mighty warrior and a king, He played a harp with the sheep. Pretty pretty neat to think about. And just such a such a personal, such an intimate kind of interaction with God. This is not like a big corporate setting. This is just me worshiping God alone. If you don't sing well, definitely alone, right? 1 Thessalonians 5, rejoice evermore, pray without ceasing, and everything give thanks. He didn't say, give thanks for everything that happens. It's in. And everything gives thanks. We shouldn't be happy for evil. Evil's not good. But God can guide us through those things. You say, well, where are the alternatives? Pragmatism? Manipulating a situation? Being vindictive? Losing our minds because we can't control the situation? There should be something very different about the way that we respond to troubles in the world around us. First Peter 3, verse 15 says, Sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, be ready always to give an answer to everyone that asketh you a hope. Of the reason that is within you, the hope that was in you with meekness and fear. That passage is really Always been a fascinating passage to me because what it shows you is that when you are suffering and you submit to God, that's what he means by sanctify the Lord God in your heart. When you submit to God when you are suffering, people will see it And what they will see will cause them to ask questions. And the question is, why do we endure differently? When we experience a death in the family, when we experience injustice, when we experience heartache, when we have a financial crisis, when our health is beginning to deteriorate, how is it that we act different? How do we think different? How do we respond differently? Why? It's because we're Christians. It's because the gospel is the biggest thing in the world. It's because this world is not all there is. We have an eternity awaiting us. And that is the sense of it. Third truth. Learn to process frustration in a biblical way. The last verse is a verse that we hit pretty heavily. The last time we were in the Psalms in Psalm 42. But notice what he says, why art thou cast down on my soul? Why art thou disquired within me? Hope in God, I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance and my God. I want to remind you just very quickly what that passage reminds us to do when we find ourselves in this place. The first thing is draw close to other Christians. Folks, we need the church. The church is not just here so that it can take money or so that you get beat up over the head by a sermon every week. No, the church is here to be a place where we shoulder one another's burdens. It's a place where we receive instruction. It's a place where we're knit together as a body. It's a place where we worship as a community. It's a place where we encourage one another through the challenges of life. You need other Christians. And when we looked at 42. 5, 4211, 43. 5, the way it ends is different in the first than the last two. He says, I will praise him who is the help of his countenance. 42. 11, I'll praise him as the help of my countenance. 43. 5, I'll praise him as the help of my countenance. You know what the difference is? When the psalmist first went through the situation. He needed to draw strength from the people around him. He didn't have it personally himself. He needed it from others. It's like if you come to a church service and you're like, I'm in a bad mood, I am weary, I am discouraged, I don't want to talk to anybody, I don't want to sing, I'm just here because I have to be here. Because my parents dragged me. Hopefully not. My spouse dragged me. My conscience dragged me. Hopefully your conscience and your spouse are not the same, but okay, anyway The reason this place is so important is because there is a strengthening of people in this body. And so don't pull away from godly people. Go to them. Find strength and help from godly people. Secondly. Ask questions that get to the root of the problem. Notice he says, why? Why are you cast down? Why are you disquieted? The psalmist. isn't just concerned with the what. He's concerned with the root of it. If all we deal with is symptoms Then we're like a person who has a horrible disease, a horrible illness, and they just keep taking Tylenol, the c just keep taking advil, uh ibuprofen, whatever, and like the pain goes away for six six for six hours and then it comes back. The pain goes away for four hours and then it comes back. The fever is reduced for a little while. Listen, you better figure out why you've got a fever. why you've got a headache, why your body's aching, why you're sick, because that's a lot more important than the fever. That's a lot more important than the headache. A lot of Christians are like people who just take pain medicine instead of dealing with root problems. What's amazing is you deal with the root problem, it actually will help you in lots of areas. Not just the one that's the the sticking point. That's why he says, why are you cast down? Why are you disquieted? The third thing mentioned here is to speak stabilizing God-centered truths to yourself. Hope now in God. We've got to talk to ourselves. Everybody talks to themselves. It's just true. We do. We talk to ourselves when we're angry. We talk to ourselves when we're sad. We talk to ourselves when we're anxious. Hopefully people aren't listening to us when we talk to ourselves, right? Well this is telling us to talk to ourselves the truth. Not what we want, not what we wish we had, not what we're so angry about, what is true. Hope in God. Remind yourself who's in charge. And speak the truth to yourself. The truths that stabilize you when life is so imbalanced and so unstable. Hope in God. And lastly, purpose to praise him. I shall yet praise him. That isn't, I hope, I will. There's a resolve. That is what the psalmist says Say, Pastor, how do you apply this? It's very simple. We've got to learn to hope in the Lord when we are downcast. I think of James chapter 1. Count it all joy when you fall in the diverse temptation, knowing that the trying of your faith worketh patience. Let patience have her perfect work. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God who giveth to all men liberally. Let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. James 1 is like a perfect exposition of what we're talking about this morning. To do that, we've got to be prepared. Trouble's going to come. It would be better to get in front of it than have to work through it. Now, if you're working through it, okay, do it. But it's good to get ahead. Deliver or develop a right rather than wrong impulsive response. Seek God's face in prayer. Seek His will through studying His word. Seek His servants who can help you work through difficult situations. Ask the right questions and look for answers to those questions in the right places. Why are you disquieted? Why are you cast down? Learn to speak the truth to yourself when you're being driven by your emotions. Keep your eyes firmly fixed on the implications of the gospel. The redemptive value of what God is doing in your life through the trying times that you face. Life isn't just about what you get. It's not just about where you end up. It's about how you get there. It's about what you become as you're going there. God has ways, because he loves us, of shaping us through some of the most challenging situations we encounter. I pray this year is not a hard year for you. But if it is, God will give you everything you need to get through it. Spare our hearts and prepare to partake of the Lord's table together. Our Father, as we think about your word, I pray that it would minister richly to our souls. I know a lot of the things that are said today are not easy. Some of them are hard. They're hard for all of us. Father, we recognize that you will always provide a path to follow that honors you You will shed light on the decisions we are to make. You will pour strength into our hearts as we encounter challenges. You will bring the right people along our paths to help us. Father, use your word today to minister richly to us, to prepare us for what we may need or to strengthen us through what we may be in. And I pray that as we partake of the table together this morning, that our hearts would be so richly warmed by the tremendous love of God for a sinner like me. Like each one in this room, that we would rejoice in your grace, that we would glory in your patience and in your mercy, what you accomplish for us. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.