Living in a fallen world. Now, when we think about something like a task that you're given, there are tasks that we're given that we have to make judgment calls about how to go about the task. Let me give you an example. We're work right now we're working on on the Prophet's Chamber and it's looking really nice. And you stick your head in there and see the progress that's going on. I'm excited about how it looks in there. But let's say that you're going to be installing a hardwood floor. Has anybody ever done that? I've done that. I learned a lot of things not to do in that process. And if I was to do it again, it would be a lot better the second time, I'm sure of that. But I'm not planning to put in a second hardwood floor. But if you're going to be taking on this process this progress or this this process you're going to take on this project, then you have to make judgment calls about how much material you're going to buy. and then how you're going to go about using the material that you bought. You can kind of take two approaches to how you're going to do this work. You measure out and you take this very intense minimalist approach and you say, you know what? I have a hundred square feet, so I'm going to buy a hundred square feet's worth of material. Now what you're gonna find out if you do that is that when you get done, you're gonna run out of material. And in the process you are just taking every single effort to make sure that every single piece fits perfectly so you don't lose anything. Question, what will happen if you do your projects that way? Are you going to frustrate yourself? Yes. Are you going to frustrate the person or the people that you're working for? Yes, and in the end what's going to happen? You're going to have to go buy a bunch more material, and it's going to take you way longer than it needed to take. You could take the other approach to this project as well. You could say, hey, you know we're going to have waste, so I'm just going to go ahead and buy double the material that I need, and I'm not going to make any judgment calls. I'm just gonna guess just throw it there and whatever gets wasted gets wasted not gonna worry about that. And you work through the project very quickly and when you get done, guess what? You have about, I don't know, three quarters material more than you needed Right? Maybe not quite that much. We have way more than you need. Are you going to make the person that you do the project for very happy? And I said, of course not That the ideas that you're gonna have to make judgment calls about how you approach the project. You know that you're going to waste some material You know that you need to do the work within a certain period of time, and so sometimes you have to make quicker decisions, which means that you're going to lose a little bit, but that's part of the process. Waste is always a part of the process that you deal with in a fallen world. Well, with that illustration, I want us to kind of look at the approach that Solomon is telling us to take in this particular passage of Scripture. What Solomon is telling us to do is to find a balance in how we approach the judgments we make in life. First of all, let me give you a couple of introductory thoughts. These are biblical principles that we find both in the Old and the New Testament that have bearing on the topic that we're looking at this evening. The first truth is this. God is righteous and expects us to walk circumspectly. Now I don't want you to think after reading this passage of scripture or hearing what I have to say about this passage of scripture That God doesn't care about us being very cautious, being very wise, walking very circumspectly. The reality is that God does expect us to walk circumspectly. However, that does not mean that God expects us to think in terms of we will be able to do things There are some limits to the kind of judgment calls we make. The second point that we see is that poor decisions have consequences and they must be avoided. The book of Ecclesiastes is a book that's written to give you wisdom so that when you walk in this world, you won't make foolish decisions, harmful decisions, that will have terrible consequences. The book of Proverbs is written for the same reason. The Bible is full of instructions that are warning us about foolish decisions. We are to live in the light of eternity. And so we have to recognize that there is a balance between recognizing the danger of poor decisions and the balance of walking circumspectly and to what degree I can actually figure out how to go about doing that. The third truth, we're fallen creatures. Therefore our best efforts, let me say this very slowly Will always fall short of perfection. Let me read that again. We are fallen creatures, therefore our best efforts will always fall short of perfection. If you're given a task to perform and you do an outstanding job, your job will never be perfect. It just won't. You say, well, Pastor, we should strive for perfection. We should strive to do the best we can with what God's given us. But that isn't going to be perfection. Because we are fallen creatures, we live in a fallen world, we're lear we're using materials that have limitations, the people that we encounter and the amount of time that we have, these are all limits that we deal with in a fallen world. We will not experience perfection on this side of eternity. Fourth, this is a fallen world, therefore there are no perfect circumstances to work with. There are no perfect circumstances to work with. You know how many people Do not make decisions because they are literally petrified by the fact that there are some drawbacks with the decisions, the options that are available to them. Well, I don't I just gotta make sure I'm in the right place perfectly so that I can get married someday. Or I gotta make sure that I have the perfect situation so that my wife and I can start having children. Well, I can't buy that house because it has these drawbacks. I've got to find the perfect house so that it doesn't have any limitations or any drawbacks. Yes, I have this degree, and yes, I need to get a job, and yes, I need to provide for my family, but it seems like all the jobs that are available to me have problems with them, and I just can't find the perfect job Listen folks, there's no such thing as a perfect job. There's no such thing as a perfect spouse. There's no such thing as a perfect house. There's no such Sing as a perfect career. There's no such thing as a perfect job. There's no such thing as a perfect church. We are always dealing with some degree of limits and imperfection. And it's very important for us to recognize this. Number five Our best efforts are subject to God's providential prerogative. Whenever you set out to do a task, whenever I set out to do a task, I can only go as far as God chooses to allow me to go in that task. There are limits that God puts on us. And we have to be willing to accept that and to not allow that to trouble our minds. There is a degree of submission to God when it comes to the decisions that we make in life. And the last introductory thought I want to mention is that God accepts us entirely on the basis of grace and not merit. You know, when we talk about a passage like this , One of the things that we're reminded of as Christians is that the reason we need to be saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, on the basis of the righteousness of Jesus. is because there is no righteousness in us that God will accept. There is no perfection that we are going to have that comes from ourselves. The only way that God can accept us is on the basis of the perfection of Christ. The perfection of his righteousness, the perfection of his work, the perfection of his sacrifice. And so I believe that these six biblical principles are to help shape how we look at the discussion that we're entering into here in Ecclesiastes chapter seven Now what I'd like to do is I'd like to kind of give you a sense of the flow of the text that's before us. And as we deal with the flow of the text, you're going to kind of see this logical progression that Solomon lays out. And as we work through the logical progression that he lays out, then we're going to move from there to understanding the implications or the applications. And I kind of want to break this down as practically for you as I can. And by the way, when I think about this passage, this is something that I personally continually need to remind myself of, and I am very certain that We are all in the same place. So let's begin with this section one, the flow of the text before us. The first thing we see is in verse number 15, an observation that Solomon makes about life. Here's what he says. He says, All things have I seen in the days of my vanity. There is a just man that perisheth in his righteousness. And there is a wicked man that prolongeth his life in his wickedness. Now, when he talks about a person being just And a person being wicked, you need to understand that Solomon is not speaking in terms of this person is just, meaning they are sinlessly perfect. That's not what he's suggesting. He's really focusing in on a very particular context in the life of a person, and he's basically saying, in this context , The person was very conscientious about how they made decisions and the way that they followed through with the commitments that they made They were just in their dealings in that particular matter. When he talks about a person being wicked in this particular context, he's saying there's a specific situation that this person is in, and the way they handled that was pragmatic. It was unrighteous. It was sinful. That's really the sense of what he's talking about. Now we know that God righteously rules his creation. The Bible teaches this. I think about the book of Daniel. And one of the most interesting passages in the book of Daniel is during the time when Belshazzar sees this hand that's writing on a wall. And as he sees this hand that's writing on a wall, he's terrified. And the way that the text describes this man is he begins to shake uncontrollably. He's probably intoxicated with all these other people that's with him, and he doesn't understand what is written on the wall. And so the Queen Mother, this elderly woman, who was probably one of the wives of Nebuchadnezzar from when he was in power. She comes to Belshazzar and she says, there is an old man that is very wise. This man, your father, or maybe his grandfather, but his forefather, he respected this man's judgment. He can answer your question. And so he calls Daniel in. And what's very interesting, you go to the passage and you read it. And basically what Daniel says is this. Belshazzar, I don't need the stuff that you're promising me because tonight you're gonna die. And tonight your kingdom's gonna be gone. And so you won't have anything to give me, so I'm not worried about getting any from that's basically what he says. But then he says, you knew about the story of Nebuchadnezzar. You knew about how God humbled him. You knew what he said about God, and you completely ignored it. You completely disregarded it. Tonight you're making a mock of that God who humbled him, and guess what he's going to do? He's going to take your kingdom away. He's going to let you die at the hands of your enemies. And he's going to establish someone in your place. Now that passage reminds us that God righteously rules his creation. And we know this is true, and we see the evidence all throughout the Bible So because we understand this is true, we have this expectation that there's going to be a direct correlation in all areas of life. Anyone kind of think this way? So if God is righteous and God rules, then most certainly he's going to set everything straight in the way that I assume that he will do it. So there is this direct correlation between you do this, here's what's going to happen, you do this, this is what happens. It's just going to happen almost automatically, like we're dealing with a mathematical equation. But the question is this, is that the way the world is? Where wisdom always yields prosperity, folly always yields suffering. Is this what we observe in life? And the answer is, no, it's not. And that really puts us in this place where we go, how do we wrestle, how do we deal with the world like this? I believe that God is sovereign. I believe that he is righteous. I expect that there's this direct correlation between wisdom and prosperity. Folly and suffering, yet I don't always see it. I do see it many times, but I don't always see it. How do we make sense of this? This is the way that Solomon expresses it. He says, I've seen everything that you can imagine over the course of my life. Here's how he puts it: all things have I seen in the days of my vanity. He's the king, so he has seen people suffer. He's seen injustice, whether it's in a f in in a home, whether it's in a working environment, whether it's in a community, whether it's lower officials that are under his authority, under his jurisdiction. Solomon has seen all kinds of things in this world. He says, I've seen the full spectrum of what there is out in the worlds. And I know for a fact that while there is a general correlation as a general rule, it's not an absolute correlation in life. He gives two examples, very interesting examples. And don't miss what he's saying. The first example is a just man that perisheth in his righteousness. The second example is a wicked man that prolongeth his days and his wickedness. Let me kind of explain to you what I believe he's saying here. When he uses the term just in this context, he's talking about just in the sense of this is a conscientious person. This is a person who is striving to do things by the book. By the way, we teach our children to function this way, do we not? I teach my kids to function this way. Yet he says this is a person who's willing to do what's right no matter the cost, and in the end they get crushed. He says, because they did right, they get crushed. He's like, this is terrible. I've seen it in life. The second example, the wicked man, he prolongs his day. In this context, you could say this is a person who 's extremely pragmatic. Their concept is, will the ends justify the means? I'm going to bend the rules to get what I need. It's about protecting myself. And in the end, this person does twist the rules. They play the system. And they end up coming out on top. And Solomon goes, this is not the way it's supposed to work in God's world. He is righteous, and the righteous man, the just man, the conscientious man, they get crushed. And the one who's pragmatic and the one who twists and manipulates and bends the rules, they're getting ahead. I don't think it's right. This is what he's saying. And Solomon is expressing something that you know for a fact happens in this world. I've seen it, you've seen it. I've experienced it. You've experienced it. Could be in your workplace. Could be in your home situation. Could have been a promotion opportunity. It could have been when you were a student. So many areas of life. We see these kinds of things taking place. And so what Solomon is simply stating about what he's seen in life is not really a comment on what is right and wrong, but a comment on what he has seen. And so what Solomon is basically saying is, I understand in life that there are some things that don't work out smoothly and perfectly the way that I anticipate them or the way that I think that they should unfold. So the question is, what's the application? Solomon's going to give the application in verses 16 through 18. Let's look down at what he says. And this is where you're going to go, what in the world is he saying? Okay. He says, be not righteous overmuch. Neither make thyself over wise. Why shouldest thou destroy thyself? Be not overmuch wicked, neither be thou foolish. Why shouldest thou tie before the time? It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this. You say, what is Solomon saying? Well, let me first of all tell you what he's not saying. Because I think it's important for us to start with a verse like this on saying this is what he is not suggesting. The statement is not suggesting that we should be pragmatic and throw off conscientious, principled living. He is not suggesting that walking in wisdom doesn't matter, or that walking in righteousness is actually a form of folly. That is not what he is suggesting in this passage. In fact, we've got to recognize that when Solomon makes this statement, he is making it in the light of the entire book of Ecclesiastes. A book that's teaching us to walk in wisdom. A book that's telling us that we need to fear God and keep his commandments. In fact, one of the things that we have to recognize when we're thinking about this particular situation. Is that our immediate experience or a long-term temporal outcome is not the only factor to consider when determining the wisdom of a course of action? What I'm saying is, just because I experienced pain in this moment does not mean I actually made the wrong decision. Or just because as time goes on, over the course of weeks or months or perhaps years, I suffer for this that I actually made the wrong decision. There is another side to the equation to consider. There's a God in heaven who's observing what we do. There is an eternal state that is a whole lot longer and a whole lot more weighty than this short period of time that we live in in this life. In fact, when Paul talks about affliction, he talks about how our temporary, momentary affliction works for us a far more and exceeding eternal weight of glory. You say, well, what is Solomon saying? He's saying the affliction that we experience in this life, it is light Not light in perspective of this life, but in relation to eternity and relation to glory And so it's temporary, it's light in relation to eternity and the glory that is coming. And so if we're looking at the scale, we go, the weight of glory, eternal glory, is heavier. than the temporary suffering and pain we experience in this life. So what we see in this passage is that the ultimate analysis of whether a decision was right or wrong is not the immediate effect or even the long-term temporal effect, but it's how God views that particular matter. Ecclesiastes 12. 1 Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in thou So this statement that we've been reading in Ecclesiastes 7 is not contradictory to what he's saying in Ecclesiastes chapter 12. It falls in his progression as he's moving to that application in chapter 12. Verses 13 and 14, he says, let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God. Keep His commandments. For this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. And so where does Solomon ultimately take our minds when he talks about these issues? He says, I'm reminding you that it's not just about the immediate It's not just about the long-term temporal, it's about the eternal. That's what actually matters. Not that that doesn't matter at all, but in comparison, it is light. It is temporary. It is inferior. That is what he's saying. So the question comes down to this. Well then what is the supreme guiding principle of how we live our lives? The answer is found in verse number 18. Look at what it says. From this withdraw not thine hands. Maybe another way to put that is don't just throw up your hands and say I can't make decisions in life. That is how we feel sometimes when we see these kinds of complex situations. Sometimes we just bear our heads in the sand and we act as if it doesn't actually happen. Folks, the Christian faith is not inconsistent with reality. It tells us how to deal with reality. It tells us how to live in a fallen world. It explains to us why this world is a fallen world. The Christian faith doesn't teach us to bear our heads in the sand. It doesn't teach us to withdraw our hands and become pacifists. It teaches us to be active and to walk in wisdom. He says, withdraw not thine hand, he that feareth God shall come forth of them all. Another way to put that is, the person who is going to fear God when it comes to making decisions is the person who's really walking in wisdom Or maybe another way to put it is the balance is fearing God. You say, well, what does he mean by being a person who fears God? We could say it this way. We need to be people who are guided by this awesome sense of the greatness of God. And I want to break it down into three areas. And we're going to, when we get into the application side, which tonight we're not going to get into that, we're going to kind of break down these areas. First of all, we talk about the nature of God. So one of the reasons that I walk in the fear of the Lord is because I understand his character. I understand his perfections. I understand that he is holy. I understand that he is righteous. I understand that he is just. I understand that he is good. I understand that he's all powerful. I understand that he's omniscient. And because I understand the nature of God, it is going to cause me to have this awesome sense of who he is, and it's going to shape the way that I approach, the way that I make decisions in life, the way that I walk in life. The second area that I'll mention is that of his position. Now, when we talk about nature, we're talking about who God is. When we're talking about position, we're talking about what he does in his function. So he is holy, and as a holy, just God , he deals in justice. He deals in righteousness. So God is not just good and holy and righteous, but he is a good and holy and righteous judge. That means the way we live matters because we're going to stand before him one day. We could also put it this way, he's a king. Now, if somebody's a king, what do they do? They judge evil and they vindicate the oppressed. So a judge or a king is someone who establishes laws. And then holds people accountable to the laws that they have established. And they establish those laws on the basis of some standard. And the standard of God's law is his own nature. So God's not appealing to a higher standard, he's appealing to the standard of himself. In practical ways, that's what his law is. And so we are to walk in the fear of the Lord because we understand his nature. We understand his position. And thirdly, we understand his ways. Now we talk about God's ways. We're talking about how God, who has a certain nature , who functions in a certain role actually mediates the role that he is functioning in. So how does God rule? How does God judge? How does God manage? How does God work in this world? He is an active manager of the creation that he has made. And he does it in mysterious ways. So when we look back at the example of Daniel and Belshazzar, or Daniel and Nebuchadnezzar, we see that God allowed Nebuchadnezzar to raise up his heart in pride. He allowed him to speak boastful words, arrogant words, but then at just the right moment, what does God do? He steps in and he deals with it. But he doesn't answer to us as far as to when he does that. He doesn't answer to us and as far as the way that he does it. And so when we read the scriptures, what we see is we see that God does this, but we see that he doesn't do it on our time. table. He doesn't do it according to our wishes. He does it according to his perfect wisdom. And so that really is the big picture theological part of what Solomon is trying to get across. Lord willing, next week what we're going to do is talk about the practical implications of the text in front of us. I'm going to give you a small preview into where we're going with this. What I believe that Solomon is ultimately saying, to put it in a very practical way, is, Solomon is saying don't take a very law-legalistic approach to life. Or a very antinomian throw-off restraint approach to life. He's saying walk in the fear of the Lord rather than thinking constantly in terms of law. Or constantly in terms of, I don't need restraint. What do I want? That's really what Solomon is doing. And by the way, the balance is what we find in the New Testament. Walk in the spirits. And you will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. So when a Christian is walking in wisdom And they're growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus, their focus is not on the law, because they died to the law so that they can live unto God. Nor is their focus on the fact that I can do whatever I want because I'm under grace and I'm free to live how I choose. Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. And so even when we take this into the New Testament context, we see that Solomon teeth are not Solomon. Paul teaches us. That the Christian who is a believer, a new creature in Christ, is to walk by the Spirit, not with a focus on law like the Pharisee Or like the antinomian who says, who cares? Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die. Like the Greeks and the Romans, like the Gentiles who don't know God. He says we are to walk with the balance that is focusing on a fear of the Lord. And so Lord willing next week when we come together. I want us to really deal with in practical ways the danger of a legalistic approach to life. We're going to break this down into lots of different areas. And then we're going to talk about the antinomian approach, break this down into lots of practical areas, and then we're going to go to what we're supposed to be walking in the fear of the Lord. The spirit-filled approach to walking in this fallen world. And we're going to focus our attention on the way that we're supposed to walk in this world. So I hope that this is a help to you. When we think about this passage, what Solomon is basically saying is Don't walk like a Pharisee and don't like walk like a Gentile who doesn't know God. Now I I know he was writing as an Old Testament man, okay, but essentially that is the New Testament application. of what Solomon is saying. Walk in godly wisdom by the power of the Spirit in the fear of the Lord. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us to really internalize what's here and to really make the appropriate practical applications that he has for us. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the text in front of us. It is a very practical text. It is so easy for us. To begin to walk like a Pharisee. That we constantly think in terms of law. We constantly think in terms of controlling everything, micromanaging everything, doing things perfectly. We fail to recognize that we walk by faith. We stand in the grace that is established in Christ. We are to walk in the fear of the Lord by the Spirit's enabling. I pray that you'd help us to recognize on the other side that we should never walk according to the dictates of our bellies. Walking in the flesh, but that we should walk by the power of the Spirit. Pray that you take these truths and use them mightily in our hearts. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.