And the rest of you, please turn in your Bibles to the book of the Psalms. And we are in Psalm fifty-four this morning. Psalm fifty-four, and in fact, the Psalm in front of us is such Such a precious psalm. In fact, it's not really a long psalm. There's not a tremendous amount of uh information for us to cover in the text, but in fact, there's a lot there. And I'm really looking forward to digging into this together with you as we prepare hearts to partake of the Lord's table together. Psalm 54, we're reading verses 1 through 7, and because the prescript is very significant to appreciating what is in front of us, we will also read that portion of the Psalm as well. It says to the chief musician on Neganath, Mashal, a psalm of David, when the Ziphim came and said to Saul, Doth not David hide himself with us? Save me, O God, by thy name. Judge me by thy strength. Hear my prayer, O God Give ear to the words of my mouth, for strangers are risen up against me, and oppressors seek after my soul. They have not set God before them. Selah. Behold, God is mine helper. The Lord is with them that uphold my soul. He shall reward evil unto my enemies, cut them off in thy truth. I will freely sacrifice unto thee. I will praise thy name, O Lord, for it is good. For he hath delivered me out of all trouble, and my eye hath seen his desire upon mine enemies. This morning we're looking at a text that shows us how to find comfort when life is in fact very desperate. And so let's bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to really help us to appreciate what we find in these verses. Lord, as we read this passage and as we think about each little detail, I pray that the Holy Spirit, who dwells each of us as your children, Would take this precious word and really drive into our hearts. Help us to appreciate what David was experiencing in the moment that he would have written these verses, these words. And help us to see where he found his comfort and his confidence and his strength. And help us to find that you are the same rock today that you were so many thousands of years ago. You are an unchanging God. We can come to you in times of great need and desperation. We are fearful. Even when our lives are in danger, we can come to you. And we can find comfort and strength and stability. And so may you speak to our hearts this morning. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. The psalm in front of us could be summarized in the following way. Our God is a mighty deliverer who personally works. in our lives for our good. Our God is a mighty deliverer who personally works in our lives for our good. And he wants us to flee to him when we are in desperate times. Now, I don't know what's going on in your own personal life right now, but the truth is that as far as I can tell everyone here, we are not in personal danger like we're about to have someone try to kill us But the truth is that this is a circumstance that David finds himself when he writes these verses. And we may very well find ourselves over the course of our lives in very desperate and very dangerous situations. And the question is, what are we going to do in those times? How are we going to respond to our circumstances? Where are we going to find strength and stability and comfort? Well the answer is found in the verses of this psalm right in front of us. And so I'd like us to move our way piece by piece through what David has written here and hopefully try to really appreciate what's going on in his heart and what he is writing for us, what has been preserved for us, so that we can draw from the wisdom of a man who loved God but was in great danger. So first of all, let's look at David's context. When we talk about his context, actually if we look at the prescript of the psalm, we can find what was going on when David wrote these words. And it says the following. This was when the Zipim came and said to Saul, Does not David hide himself with us? You say, well, what is that all about? Well, if we look in the book of 1 Samuel, we will find two situations where David was basically revealed his location where he was hiding by the zipping. Two times that this group of people betrayed him to Saul who was trying to kill him. We see this in 1 Samuel 23. This is probably the situation where David writes this psalm, but we also see it again in 1 Samuel 26. In both situations, God delivered David from Saul's hand. But the way that he did it was different in the two situations. One was that the Philistines came almost out of nowhere, and it really wasn't out of nowhere. I mean, there's a constant conflict. There were constant battles between the Philistines and uh the land of Israel. But at this time the Philistines came and Saul was called back to defend the homeland at the last moment right before he was about to kill David. Here is David, he's about to be found, he's about to be killed, and rescue comes out of all places the Philistines. The second situation is actually when David and one of his men went down into the camp of Saul, and there is Saul sleeping, and beside Saul sleeping are all of his soldiers. And David comes down with his men and they say, God has delivered Saul into your hand. Just kill him right now, and you won't have to deal with him anymore. And David says, I can't touch the Lord's anointed. And so you can see the restrain of David in that situation. I think the first of the two is the one where the psalm was written But David felt that he had been personally betrayed by these people in the land of Ziph. And the reason for that is that they were not just fellow countrymen, but they were actually of the same tribe, the tribe of Judea. Interestingly, when David is eventually established as the king over Israel, he doesn't start over the king of the whole region, but he only starts from a certain region in Judea, and that's actually the region where he is hiding from Saul at this moment. So there was something very personal about this. These are people that You would have thought would have been kind to David. They would have realized that David's life was falsely in danger, and that he should have been protected by these people. But they didn't do that. But there's another detail I want to mention that I think is really important to understanding this psalm. When David talks about God delivering him, This is not a selfish deliverance, but there's actually a lot more going on in the picture than what you see immediately. And that's because this decision To personally align with Saul as opposed to David was a decision that showed where the land of Zif, these inhabitants, were choosing to align in relation to God's plan. And here's how we know that. Look down in your Bible at 1 Samuel 23, verse 16. Here is Saul's son Jonathan. And listen to what Jonathan says to David as he knows his father is hunting for his life and desires to kill David. Jonathan says the following. Jonathan Saul's son rose up and went to David, and it says he strengthens David's hand in his God. And they're really interesting. Here Saul is pursuing David. Jonathan is the head of the army that Saul is leading to take after David. And Jonathan knows where David is. And he goes to David and he says, David, I want to encourage you in your God. My dad wants to kill you, and what he's doing is unjust. It's evil. It's wrong. And this is what he says. He said unto him, fear not, for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee. Thou shalt be the king over Israel, and I shall be next unto thee, and that also Saul my father knoweth. Isn't that an amazing statement? So Jonathan knows that David is the rightful heir to the throne, not Jonathan, and not even Saul. And we also go to 1 Samuel 16, because this is a part of the background of this as well. We can see that God has personally chosen David to replace Saul as the king. Now it's not happened yet. It's going to take place, it's going to take Probably 15, 20 years to play out, basically. David is running for his life from his father-in-law for about 15 years. But this is what it says in 1 Samuel 16. 1 The Lord said unto Samuel, How long will you mourn over Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? Fill thine horn with oil and go. I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have provided me a king among his sons. So what does this all tell you? What it tells you is that the people who are betraying David are on the wrong side of history. Not just history, but God's history. God's plans for his people. And God has articulated this very clearly. There should have been no question in their mind that what Saul was doing was unjust It was fighting against God's plans, and they should have no part of it. They should in no way be defending Saul's actions. They should not be helping Saul in his actions, but instead they aligned themselves on the wrong side. Very important detail not to miss. The second thing I want us to notice is David's concern. And we can see this by the way that this psalm is actually crafted. It's really interesting when we study Hebrew poetry that The way that the psalm is written gives us an indication to what the heart and what the primary themes are. For instance, the first thing that we see is that there is a cry out for deliverance. Verse number one, save me. The second thing we see is in verse 2. He says, God, hear my prayer, be attentive to my prayer. The third thing is he re he recognizes that godless people have risen up against him. Verse number three. Strangers are risen up against me, oppressors seek after my soul. The fourth thing we see is he says, God is always with me. He is a present deliverer. Verse number four, behold, God is my helper. The Lord is with them that uphold my soul. Now here's what's kind of interesting. This is more of a data point, and if it's something that interests you, I hope that you can take this away as a little nugget. This is written in a kiastic structure. So that means that the last thing and the first thing are actually, when it comes to the things, they're connected to one another. And the second thing, and the second and the last thing that he mentions, they're connected to one another. And the third thing he says And the third to last thing that he says are connected to one another, and they all drive to the point of the psalm, which is verse number four. God is my helper. It was written that way to actually give us this information. And the same way that when we sing a song and there is a stan there are all these stanzas and then there's a refrain at the end and we sing that refrain three or four times. That's the thing that's kind of prominent in our minds. Or if I'm writing a letter, maybe the first thing that I say or the last thing that I say is really what I want to emphasize, I want you to take this away. David, as he writes this psalm, is saying, God help me. My enemies are godless and they don't care, but you're with me all the way and I know it. And so, as he backs off of that point, he says, God's going to reward the godless appropriately. Verse 5, he shall reward evil unto my enemies and cut them off in his truth. He's going to receive my worship and my praise. I'm not going to die. I'm going to keep praising him. Verse 6. I will freely sacrifice unto thee. I will praise thy name. And the last thing that he says is God has delivered me out of all my trouble, and my eyes have seen it. So it's important for us as we look at what is the confidence of David to kind of appreciate what he's highlighting as he writes this psalm. But I want to narrow this down to three basic concerns that I think are being communicated by David. The first is this, my life is in danger, verse 1. Now David's a warrior. David was a strong man. Young man, but a strong man. He knew how to fight. He was a national hero. But David is hiding for his life, and he believes that he's right on the edge of being killed. In fact, it's interesting if you go to the text where he talks about this issue in 1 Samuel 23. There's this mountain, and here is Saul and all of his soldiers. They're on one side of the mountain and literally on the other side of the mountain is David and his men. And so as Saul and his men are starting to move down the two sides of the mountain, David realizes, I'm in big trouble. I'm surrounded. I can't go over the mountain. I can't go around on this way. I can't go around on that way. Saul has his men and they've entrapped me. I'm in trouble. His life is in danger. But God delivered him. The second thing that he was concerned about was not just the danger of his life, but the fact that he had been betrayed by people who had no fear of God. And that's what made it personal. Not just I may die, I don't know if I'm going to escape, but I'm in this predicament because people betrayed me. They turned against me. They know the cause of right, and they know that he's on the wrong side, but they still betrayed me. Verse 3, he says, strangers Arisen against me and oppressors seek after my soul, and they have not set God before them. Don't miss this. He calls them strangers. But we know when we read the text that these people were his fellow countrymen. These were not from the surrounding nations. These were people from the very tribe that David came from. And number two, the guy that wanted to kill him was his father-in-law. Yet he calls him strangers white. Because though this is his father-in-law and these are his countrymen, they have completely abandoned him. And there's no relationship between them. And he feels that. And he expresses that. The second thing is he calls them oppressors who are seeking after his soul. These individuals who betrayed David were not just neutral. David, we're not going to help you. We we we wish you well. We're not going to get involved. We're just we're we're neutral. If Saul catches you, we'll be like, well, we we weren't trying to help him. And if Saul doesn't catch you, then we'll be okay because, you know, after all, it's It's unjust what's going on with you. No, no. They are oppressors. They are actively seeking to undermine David. And he feels the weight of that. But the third thing he says that I think is very revealing is he says they do not set God before themselves. You know, one of the things that sets apart a person that doesn't have any belief in God And a person that truly does believe in God is not that both don't sin. Okay? Both do sin But if I don't believe that there's an eternity, and I don't believe that there's a judgment, I don't believe that there's a God, and I don't believe I'm ever stand before him and I don't believe that there's a real standard of right and wrong. If that's my worldview, what restrains me When I am angry and I'm vindictive and I'm jealous and I'm willing to do anything to get even with a person, the answer is nothing. But when I believe that there's a God that I'm going to stand before, and I know I'm going to answer to him, and I know that there's right and I know that there's wrong. Even when I'm angry and even when I'm not thinking clearly and I'm not acting the way that I should, there is this natural restraint to my conscience that says, you're going to answer to God, don't do that. You know what David's saying? These people have no conscience. These people don't fear God. They're strangers to me. They're oppressors. They're seeking my soul. They do not fear God. So the question is this, how do you get out of such a predicament? Only one way, God intervenes. His third concern, injustice appears to be prevailing. And this is one of the great tragedies of life. That when we watch things play out, sometimes in real time, it does not appear like the good guys are winning. It's true. Sometimes as we watch a thing play out, we say, you know, the people that are doing wrong unquestionably, the people on the wrong side of what God says is right and wrong, they appear to be getting away with what they're doing. And then God in his own wisdom and at just the right time, he seems to reverse things. And it's amazing how God intervenes and how he works in history. But the truth is that when your soul, when your life is in danger and you think you're about to be killed, and you think that people have betrayed you and you think that the wrong guys are winning, in your mind you say something like this, is there any hope? Is there any righteousness? Is there any justice? David's enemies had aligned themselves on the wrong side of God's covenant and redemptive plan, and it appeared that they were going to get away with it. And don't miss how this is worded in verse 5. He shall reward evil unto my enemies, cut them off in thy truth. He didn't say my truth, thy truth. What David is saying is the reason you're going to deal with my enemy is because I'm on your side, but they're not. Not just I want you to do this because I am me and I want my way to get to to to basically prevail. He's saying I'm aligned with the side of what is right and true, and so I'm praying that you will deal with them in your truth. May your standard of righteousness just be lifted up. Cut them off in the truth. And verse 7 says, mine eyes have seen his desire on my enemies. That would be God's desire. There are times when we pray that if we were to just step back and listen to our prayer, we'd say, you know, that was pretty self-centered. And that was pretty arrogant. And we had no concept of the full perspective. Have you ever gotten down, you ask God for something, and then you walk away later and you're like, you know, how do I know that that's really what's right here? How do we know that that's best? I just asked God to do something that from my perspective was good, but I didn't consider anybody else of the picture. I only considered myself. And so what's David saying? He's saying, I'm not concerned about my desire as much as I am about your desire. And that's really important. David is saying, I have seen you accomplish your purposes. I'm praying that your righteous standard will be lifted up. Very, very important details when we think about David's concern. Third thing I want you to notice is David's comfort. By the way, it's an accident that these are alliterated. When we were doing our preaching discussion on Friday, I was like, well, look at that. I actually obliterated these. I wasn't even paying attention. So David's comfort. And then we came to the fourth one, I'll alliterate that one because that was on purpose. Psalm 54, verses 4 to 5, talk about the focus of what David is getting at here. For instance, in verse 4 he says, God is my deliverer. He says, God is my helper. Verse number 4, he says, The Lord is with those that uphold my soul. He is consistently acting on David's defense. And there are two ways I'd like us to look at this. I'd like us to look at it, first of all, as to what David has experienced in the past. Because this is a big reason why David prays the way that he does. Turn back in your Bible to 1 Samuel 23 and notice what it says in verse 14. It says, David abode in the wilderness. And Saul sought him every day. Could you imagine how for 15 years of your life you got to wake up every morning wondering if somebody's going to kill you You don't think that would mess your head up a little bit? That was David's experience. For that period of time, he abides in the wilderness, and every day Saul is seeking to kill him. But this little statement is so important. But God delivered him not into his hand. What an amazing statement. So David is praying on the basis of recognizing that God has, in the past, taken care of them. And I want you to see what God does in these verses. Look down in verses 25 through 28 of 1 Samuel 23. It says, Saul also and his men went to seek after David, and they told David, Saul and his men went to seek him, and they told David wherefore he came down into the rock in a boat. And when Saul heard that he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon, Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain. And David made haste to get away for the fear of Saul, for Saul and his men compassed David and his men roundabout to take them. So here is the picture. David's hiding over here, and Saul's men are coming on both sides. No hope, right? And just at the right time. It says, There came a messenger unto Saul saying, Haste thee and come. The Philistines have invaded the lands. Wherefore Saul returned from pursuing after David and went against the Philistines. It 's really interesting about that. The way that God delivered David was raising up a distraction for Saul. It's really interesting. Here David became a national hero because Saul has slain his thousands and David is ten thousands, and David's like is like, wow, I'm becoming a national hero. And Saul's like, I'm gonna kill you because you're gonna take my place. And we think about David and Goliath and that amazing story of how he delivers the people out of the hand of this mighty giant. And who does God raise up to distract Saul? He raises up the Philistines. It's almost humorous to think about, honestly. But that's the way that God works. God can use anybody he wants. God can use any kind of circumstances. God is sovereign. He rules. He works in history in amazing ways. He can work through the weather. He can work through an enemy. He can work through a friend. He can work through somebody that's aligned on the side of truth. He can work through a person that, frankly, their whole reason for doing what they're doing is completely self-centered, but God used them anyway He could use someone that's a born-again Christian and loves the Lord with all their heart. He can use somebody that doesn't believe in God at all and mocks him and scorns him. God can use whoever he wants. He raised up the Philistines at that moment to deliver him. And so what does David say in verse 5? God is righteous. He will do what is right no matter what. He shall reward evil unto my enemies. Why does he say that? Because there was a personal dynamic here. Was it just for Saul to hunt his son-in-law? No. David had not betrayed his father-in-law. David had been faithful. David was simply trying to do what is right. The whole reason that Saul was pursuing him was completely self-centered Completely irrational, full of jealousy, personal, if if the cause of right is going to prevail on the personal level, David doesn't die. There's a second side. There's the national. God sent Saul to anoint David as the next rightful king. And so if God sent man who's going to be the next king, the one who God has appointed to that role, if he's going to reach that position, then then David can't die here. Does that make sense? God's going to preserve his life. But there's a third side, and I think this is really important. There's even a redemptive side. When Jesus was born to this earth, and he came of the seed of the woman, who did he descend from? From David. You remember that story of this man who's blind in the way he says, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. Do you realize that if the cause of right is going to prevail on the personal, national, or redemptive level, David's life has to be preserved? It has to be preserved. You don't know how it's going to happen. You don't know what the circumstances are going to be, but God is going to preserve his life. And guess what? He did that. So the fourth thing I want you to notice is where David's confidence ultimately lies. And before we look at that, notice how he expressed it. He expressed it several ways. For instance, in verse 4, he says, God is my helper. Verse 4 again he says the Lord is with those who uphold my soul. He says, God's going to help me. God's my advocate. Verse 5, he will reward evil unto my enemies. He's going to execute justice. Verse 6, I will sacrifice freely unto thee. I know I'm going to live, and I'm going to continue to worship you as I always have. I'm just going to keep doing what I'm supposed to do. Verse 6, I'm going to praise your name. He's going to continue to praise him. So what's David saying? He's saying, I know that God is going to work here. But what was the grounding of that confidence? And I want to show you that in verse number one and verse number six. Notice what he says: Save me, O God, by thy what? Thy name. Verse 6. I will praise thy what? Thy name, O Lord, for it is good David's confidence was built on the fact that he knew the name of God. And you say, well, isn't his name just God? Well, we would call him God, but that's not his name. You say, well, what's his name? Well, in the Old Testament, names meant a lot more than saying, you're a man or you're a woman You're from that family or you're from this family. You know, I'm Joel, and you say, well, you Joel as opposed to my brother John or as opposed to my sister Sarah. I'm Joel Porsche, which means that I descend from the Porsche family, okay? So those are just identifiers. I didn't tell you anything about my character. Doesn't tell you well it tells you a little bit about my life story if you know something about maybe my dad or my grandfather or the history of our family, but it doesn't tell you a whole lot about it But in the Old Testament, names meant more than just I'm identifying you as Joel, John, Sarah, Joseph, whatever A name in the Old Testament identified several things about a person. For instance, it told a story about that person. It tells you something about their character. It memorialized their reputation. It even predicted things about their future. Let me give you some examples. The name Abraham, when you think of Abraham, what do you think of? Well you think about this guy who did not have children for all these years and God says, I'm going to give you a child, and all the nations of the world are going to be blessed. through that descendant. And his wife is barren, and his wife is beyond the age of childbearing. And they don't believe it can happen. And in Genesis 17, 5 he says Neither shall thy name anymore be called Abram, but thy name shall be called Abraham, for a father of many nations have I made thee. You know what that name means? Father of many? In other words, every time you hear that name Abraham, you're thinking, what's the story about this man's life? I'll give you another really obvious one, the name Isaac. We name our kids Isaac, we don't think in terms of the way they name this kid Isaac, but listen to what it says in Genesis 21, verse 4. Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him, whom Sarah bare to him Isaac. And Sarah said , God hath made me to laugh, so that all that here will laugh with me. And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham that Sarah should have given child suck? For I have borne him a son in his old age. You know what Isaac means? Laughter. When God said, your wife Sarah is going to have a son, she laughed and said, whatever. Whatever. I don't know if she said whatever, but she laughed. And when God says, well, why did you laugh? I didn't laugh. Wrong, and guess what? That's forever memorialized in the Bible. We know the name Isaac means laughter. Tells you something about his life. Or how about the name Jacob? You know what Jacob means? Steel catcher, trickster. And when he was born, he was clinging to his brother's leg. And in Genesis 32, verse 27, it says, He said unto him, What is thy name? He said, Jacob. The trickster. The guy that's always manipulating the circumstances to get what he wants. And by the way, you you study the life of Jacob. That was who he was, 100%. And he said, Thy name shall no more be called Jacob but Israel. For as a prince hast thou power with God and with men and hast prevailed. And you know what's amazing? He said, you've always been identified as the trickster, the thief, the manipulator, and I'm going to identify you from now on as the one who's a prince with God. Now what's the point? The point is in each of these stories, they were named, and by the way, God even gave them their names, but those names told you something of their story. And did you know that the Old Testament is filled with examples of stories of God's intervention in history and people's very difficult circumstances? Where his name was memorialized teaching the lesson that those people learned about God. All over the Bible. I'm not going to give you them all, but I'm going to give you a couple that I think are pretty significant to this story. The first one is in Genesis 16, verse 13. And it's the name Elroy, the God who sees. You know the story of Hagar? It's one of the most terrible stories in the Bible, to be very frank with you. And here Hagar has been sent out into the wilderness with her child, and she believes she's going to die. And as she is weeping, guess what? God intervenes in that story to preserve her life. And it says, she called the name of the Lord that spake unto her. Thou art the God that seest me, for he said, Have I also looked after him and seeth me? And so here in the scriptures, it's memorialized that even though Abraham and Sarah had no compassion for Hagar, God saw and preserved her life. And even made of her child a great nation. Pretty amazing. The God who sees. Or how about Genesis 17, 1? El Shaddai, the God Almighty. And when Abraham was ninety years old and nine, the Lord appeared to Abraham and said to him, I am the Almighty God, walk before me and be thou perfect. By the way, that would be what happened after the story of Hagar. And God says, I'm still going to give you a child through your wife, Sarah. And he says, I'm the God Almighty. I'm the God that can do this. Is anything too difficult for me? The answer is of course not, because he's the Almighty God. Or think about Genesis 22 verse 14. Abraham is is is commanded by God to take his son up onto a mountain. And he believes he's going to offer him as a sacrifice. And God intervenes and he provides a ram that's going to take the place of Abraham. And it says Abraham called the name of God that day, the place, Jehovah Jirah, as it is said to this day, in the mouth of the Lord it shall be seen. What does Jehovah Jirah mean? It means the Lord who provides. He never forgot that. Or how about the burning bush in Exodus 3. 13? When you come into the wilderness. of Israel, and say unto them, The God of your fathers has sent me unto you. They will say, What is his name? And he shall say unto them, God said unto Moses, Tell them, I am that I am. I am the eternally existent one. I am the one who is forever. And he says that my name is forever a memorial unto all generations. Or how about Exodus 15, Jehovah Rapha, the God who heals? If thou wilt diligently hearken to the voice of the Lord thy God And will do that which is right in his sight. I will give ear to the commandments. I'll put none of these diseases on thee, as I brought upon the Egyptians, for I am the Lord that healeth thee. How about Psalm 23, the one we just read to open our service? The Lord is my what? He's my shepherd. I'll not want. I'll not lack. He's Jehovah Ra, the Lord who is our shepherd. Or Psalm 46, 7, he's the Lord of hosts. The Lord of Sabbath, we say, a mighty fortress is our God. I love that hymn. I love that hymn. And he says, Lord of Sabbath is his name from age to age the same. And the idea is that God can use anything at his disposal. How about Jeremiah 23, 6? The Lord our righteousness. In this day, Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely. And this is his name, whereof he shall be called the Lord our righteousness. Because you know what the most sweet of all of them is? Jesus. Yeshua, the Lord our Savior. Matthew 1. 21, shall bring forth a son, thou shalt call his name Jesus. He will save his people from their sins This is just scratching the surface. But here's what's important for you to recognize about all of these examples. In every story, there was a great problem. In every story, people were put to the test. They were backed into a corner. They experienced personal pain and fear and injustice. And their backs were against the wall, and God came through for them. And guess what? He does in all of our lives. He does in all of our lives. And so when David says, I'm going to have confidence because of your name, that's what he means. I know God's name, or should I say his names. And because I know his names, I know his character, and I know the stories. That are associated with God demonstrating his care and his faithfulness and his concern and his power. And if he's done it there, he'll do it here. That's what he's saying. The second thing is he knows God's testimonies. Verse 7, he hath delivered me out of all trouble. He didn't say he's going to, he says he has. David's reflecting on the fact that God has brought him through very difficult times. And he says, based on what I've learned about God by his names, and based upon what I've learned about God through my own troubles. I will trust him. I will cry out to him and have confidence he will follow through. Psalm 19, verse 7: the testimonies of the Lord are sure. And they make wise the simple. A testimony is, it's like on Sunday night where we say, do you have any testimonies? God did this, and this is what I learned. That's what a testimony is. He knew from personal experience. Several years later, David's going to be the king and he's going to be established well. And this is what it says. 2 Samuel 5 verse 12, David perceived the Lord had established him king over Israel, and that he had exalted his kingdom for his people, Israel's sake. You see something very similar when we look at the story of Joseph. Joseph goes through all these heartaches, but what does it say? God was with him. God was with him. God was with him. People knew that God was with him. And this is the way that God works. So I pull this all together to one simple question. What should we do in the light of what we've heard? The answer is simple. Flee to God when you're in a tough, desperate position. Don't figure out how you're going to make it work on your own. Don't compromise. Cry out to him. And when you cry out to him, cry out to him with the confidence. That he will work according to his character, which is good. He will work as his names have demonstrated him to be faithful. He will work in those ways. As he has worked in our own lives, and the older we get, the more we learn this. We learn that God is consistent, we learn that God is faithful, we learn that God is good, we learn that God is patient, we lear God is righteous. We learn these things over and over and over and over again So how do we do this? Well we do this because we know his name. I just gave you examples how we seize people in their trouble. How he is almighty, how he does not change, how all creation is at his disposal to use according to his good purposes How he provides for us when we are in trouble. How he shepherds our soul through those troubles. How he heals us after our troubles. Bye, that's a big one. Sometimes we go through things that have just beaten us down so badly in life, and we say, I don't know how I come out of this, and the God who heals comes. And he gives us the comfort. He is the balm on our burdened and struggling souls. He's the God. All of those statements I made are connected to stories that demonstrate all of them. Secondly, because we're on the right side of the story. And I can't say that I know you're on the right side of it. I hope you are. The truth is if you're on the wrong side of what God is trying to do, that's a really bad place to be. What's really good about it is in his grace and mercy, he still calls us and gives us opportunity to turn to him. The Apostle Paul was fighting God when he was going to Damascus. His goal was to take Christians and drag them out of the city back to Jerusalem and to either have them killed or imprisoned, but certainly persecuted. He was on the wrong side of what God was doing. And you know what happened? God got his attention. And I think about statements like the Lord is our righteousness and the Lord is our savior, that shows you that when you're on the wrong side, you can get on the right side. And if God is doing a work, don't resist him. Align yourself with his purposes. The last thing I want to mention is this, because we've learned by experience. I close with this verse. That I think really captures this well. 2 Corinthians 1:7. Paul writes, and he's talking to the church about his own experience as an apostle who was persecuted. He says, Our hope of you is steadfast, knowing. As you are partakers of the suffering, so shall you also be of the consolation. For we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble which came to us in Asia We were pressed out of measure, above strength, insomuch that we despaired even of life. But we had the sentence of death in ourselves That we should not trust in ourselves, but in God which raiseth the dead, who delivered us from so great a death, and doth deliver, in whom we trust that he will yet deliver us. Isn't that awesome? He says you can have confidence in God because when you were struggling, he delivered. When we were struggling, he delivered. He has, he is, and he will. Why is that? Because he's an unchanging God Let's never, never get over the fact we serve an unchanging God. Let's bow together for prayer as we prepare our hearts to partake of the Lord's table. And what do we remember in the Lord's table? We remember Jesus, Jehovah's Saves. And he did it through his sacrifice. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you so much for the word. This is an amazing song. I cannot imagine what it would have been like to be in the shoes of David. To be hunted by your father-in-law, to be betrayed by your fellow countrymen, to have the promise that you will be the next king, yet wondering if you will survive through the night I pray that you would help us to learn from this psalm that you are a God that we must cry out to, and when we do, you hear. And you work. And you'll accomplish your purposes in our lives. May we never, ever doubt that. Give us the confidence as we reflect and meditate on the word And Father, as we partake of this table together, we we eat the bread that symbolizes Christ's body. That was pressed and crushed for us. And we drink this juice that reminds us of the blood of Christ shed for the remission of our sins. I pray that the remembrance of that sacrifice would give us great encouragement and great strength and would remind us of what unites us as brothers and sisters in Christ. May we be strengthened by this time of sweet remembrance. And we ask this all in Christ's name. Amen.