Let's turn in our Bibles tonight to First Corinthians chapter thirteen. And uh we've been in First Corinthians thirteen for a little while. And we're going to be there a little while longer. I mentioned, I believe, the last time we were looking at this text that my goal was to look at this a little bit more technically now, and we're going to get into this question of what the passage is talking about when it says, whether there are prophecies, they will fail, whether there are tongues, they'll cease. Whether knowledge, it will vanish away. We're going to look at not just the answer, what I think the text is talking about there, but I want us to consider So let's go ahead and read the text together, and we're looking at five marks over many weeks that set apart Christian love. First Corinthians 13, verse 1. Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels and have not charity, I become a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith so that I could remove mountains and have not charity, I'm nothing. Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Charity suffereth long, and is kind. Charity envieth not, Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, does not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil. Evil rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth, beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth But whether there be prophecies they shall fail. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. Whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. For we know in parts, and we prophesy in part, but when that which is perfect is come, Then that which is in part shall be done away. When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, and I thought as a child. But when I became a man, I put away childish things. For now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then shall I know even as also I am known. And now abideth faith, hope, charity. These three. But the greatest of these is charity. Such a familiar passage of Scripture. And so much for us to digest in these verses. We've kind of summarized it this way. God calls all of us to a walk in Christian love. And that should define all of what we do. And so we've broken it down into several different parts, and what I want to do is just kind of remind you of the the three parts to this section and then a little bit of uh explanation on each of those before we dig into this third part tonight. So part number one answers the question, why is Christian love so important? And Paul gives three reasons that Christian love is so important. First of all, Christian service Done without Christian love is just noise. A sounding brass, a tinkling cymbal. It's just noise The second thing that he mentions is that service, Christian service done without Christian love, cannot make us something that we're not. He says, though I do all those things, if I do them without love, I am nothing. Very, very important. A lot of times people will use their service to try to bolster their reputation. And what Paul is saying is While some people may think I'm something if I'm not doing it for the right reason, in fact I am not anything in the way that I'm doing this. And then the third thing he says is that our future reward will be lost without it. And then he says that I can do all of these things, but if I don't do them through love, then it doesn't profit me anything. Now he's not saying that other people aren't profited by it. So if a person gets up and they preach a sermon and they're not doing it for the right reasons, but what they're saying is true, people can be benefited by it. Or somebody can get up and they could uh be in the choir, they could be singing a song, they could be playing a special, and and the music is beautiful and it's powerful. But their motive is wrong in the way that it's done. Everybody in the church could be truly benefited by it, but the individual that's presenting that really hasn't done it in a way that honors God. God used it but it's not really honoring him in its core. Or maybe you have a person that's they're hungry, they have great need, and you're willing to give them um to help them with that need and in your heart the reason you did it is wrong but the person is benefited by it. The point that Paul's making is Christian love has to be at the center of all of those things. It's not that God doesn't use it. It's that the benefit to us is not there. The second thing that he points us to in verses 4 through 7 is answering the question to what does love actually look like practically? And he deals with it in two different ways. He deals with it by stating what it is positively and then stating what it is not negatively. So positively, love is patient. And love is kind. Love delights in what is true. Love doesn't give up. It doesn't quit. Those are all positive ways of talking about love. But then he defines it negatively what it is not. It's not envious It's not boastful. It's not harsh. It's not overbearing. It's not easily angered. It doesn't keep meticulous records of wrongs. It doesn't enjoy seeing others suffer or get crushed. And so the reason that Paul does this is not just to help us understand that that this virtue of Christian love is in fact a very rich concept, but it's it's also to drive at specific ways that this church is not doing it the way that they should. So when he says love is like this, they weren't doing it that way. And when he says love doesn't do these things, they were doing those things. And so Paul is really driving at this in a very personal and a very pastoral way. So that's the second part. And then the third part, what we're going to embark on this evening, is verses 8 through 13. What sets Christian love apart from all other virtues? And I want to give you five things. that we're going to work our way through piece by piece to help us to understand what Christian love, what sets it apart from all of the virtues. So the first is this, it endures while other gifts do not. It endures while other gifts do not. We're going to bring deal with that in just a second. Second thing it does is it will continue to have value even when other gifts will not continue to have value. To me, it's a very interesting argument that he makes. Third thing is this, as we mature, we will grow to appreciate its value to a far greater degree than we do now. Fourth thing, our comprehension of this principle will be partial until we meet Christ. And then lastly, not only is this the highest gift, but it is also the highest virtue. So those are the different marks that that Paul is going to present that say love, charity is superior to all other gifts. All other virtues, that is the number one of all of them. Those are the five marks. So let's work our way through them one by one. Mark number one, it endures while other gifts Do not endure. Look down in your Bible at verse number 18. Verse number 8, not 18. Charity never faileth. But whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. And whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. Now, let's kind of break this down a little bit to appreciate what Paul is saying. Paul is setting love apart from all the other gifts, or specifically from the gift of tongues and prophecy. And interestingly, when we look at chapter 12, 13, and 14, Paul is comparing prophecy and tongues, and he's saying, if you're to compare prophecy and tongues Tongues is inferior to prophecy, and the reason for that is that prophecy has value to the whole church body, whereas tongues has a limited value to the church body because it has to be translated or interpreted in order for everybody in the congregation to be able to benefit from it. So he says in this way, prophecy is superior to tongues. But then when he compares love, this virtue and this gift to prophecy and tongues, he says not only is tongues below prophecy But tongues, which is below prophecy, and prophecy, which is above tongues, is below love. That's what he's saying. So you can see that he's making a point that this is a big deal. Charity never fails, but these other gifts do cease The church had incorrectly elevated tongues to an inappropriate status. And we should ask the question, why? Why did they have this imbalance? The truth is the text doesn't absolutely answer this, but as we look through the details in the context, I think we can probably see two things that are very common that were problems in the church at Corinth. The first is that the church had a pride problem, a big-time pride problem. So when it came to gifts, when it came to acts of service, when it came to bolstering their egos. They had a problem with pride. And the second thing that the church had a big problem with was that the church was allowing the pagan culture that they had been saved out of to influence the way they practice within the church. One of the most uh shocking examples would be what happened at the Lord's table. People got intoxicated at the Lord's table. People were being gluttonous at the Lord's table. People were being exclusive and divisive at the Lord's table. And the question is, why do they do that? I mean pride was part of it, but there was a pagan culture that they were saved out of that was influencing their mindset. when they came into the church. And so I think that pride and really an emotionalism that flew that that flowed out of the paganism in their culture were two things that were a big part of what was going on here. So when we talk about this issue of tongues, we need to recognize that this is a gift that was given to the church that's highlighted in some really, really big events in the book of Acts. Tongues was highly visible. Four times God uses this gift to validate that the Spirit has come upon a certain group of people. For instance, in Acts chapter 2 at Pentecost. We have the Jews, and we have all these proselytes who are there in Jerusalem, and as Peter preaches the gospel, there is a sign given, tongues, that validates that in fact these individuals have been baptized with the Spirit. They've been placed into the body of Christ. And so this is a visible sign that people could see. Then the same sign was repeated again with the Samaritans. And who were the Samaritans? Well these are people that were uh we could say they were part Jewish, it was part of their ancestry, but they were people that came back from the Assyrian time period, and basically there was intermarriage But one of the things that really made the Samaritans, we could say, outcasts is because of the religious syncretism that was a part of their practice. And so again, we see this sign of tongues that is validating that the gospel isn't just for Jews and Jewish proselytes, but it's also for Samaritans. By the way, when Jesus says you're going to take the gospel, he says, to Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and the uttermost parts of the world, we actually see this play out in the book of Acts. And then we see a third example with Cornelius. And Peter is told to take the gospel to Cornelius' household. He's a Gentile, he's a Roman, and and Peter doesn't want to do it. I mean he's very hesitant to do it. And he he is actually given a vision so that he knows he's supposed to go. And what happens there? We see the same sign a third time. And the conclusion that Peter comes to is If this sign has been given to Jews and to Samaritans and to Gentiles, we're all part of the same body. These people have embraced the exact same gospel. They have the exact same spirit. We're part of the same community. They need to be baptized, just like we are. And then there's a fourth example, and that is when disciples of John at Ephesus hear the gospel preached, I would kind of put them in the category of Old Testament saints who hadn't heard the whole story. And then when the gospel comes to them, they go, oh, that makes sense. John was preaching about Jesus to come. He has come. We believe this. And then these individuals are placed There's something symbolic going on here in each of these situations, and there's also something very visible about it. So this was a sign gift that people wanted to have. The second thing I want to mention about this, and this is more of a cultural issue, is that there was a tremendous amount of paganism in Corinth. And part of the paganism were different cult groups that had practices that had ecstatic utterance as part of their religious worship services. In fact, history talks about these things. These mystery cults and Corinth that surrounded that region practiced rituals and we could say ecstatic moments. By the way, this isn't something that's just practiced in some forms of the Christian church. This is all over the world, different kinds of religious groups that have these moments where they go into a almost a trance-like state and they're talking in gibberish and they're all hyped up. It's a very emotional experience. This was something that was going on in the pagan culture and being brought into the church as well. And the people who practiced these ecstatic utterances also often felt that they were experiencing some kind of divine encounter. Now, from my research, Paul uses the same term in 1 Corinthians that Luke uses in Acts. So in my opinion, he's talking about tongues in the same way. A real language that could be translated, that needed to be translated. But the reality is this the church Through pride and through their cultural practices were bringing in things, a mentality that was clearly wrong. By the way, this imbalance is something we also see in our modern church. When churches teach that Christians have to, all Christians have to speak in tongues, the Bible clearly teaches that's not true. Okay, when we work our way through this text in 1 Corinthians 12, 13, and 14, there is no question that Paul expects that there will be many people in the church, love the Lord, they will not have this gift. Even when it is unquestionably in operation. So if someone's teaching that in order to be a Christian or to be a good Christian, everybody should expect to speak in tongues, obviously that's contradictory to what we see in 1 Corinthians. Or that believing that speaking in tongues is like the ultimate sign that someone has the Spirit. The truth is that Paul doesn't give that impression. Or that believing that tongues is a sign of some higher level of spirituality, those kinds of teachings are foreign to the text. as being presented the right way to look at it would actually be a lot of the mindset of the people that Paul was pushing against. And so we need to get into this question of what is he ultimately arguing about? He's arguing for the superiority of love. And there's something that you're not able to see in an English translation, and that is the different Greek terms that are used and how they're lumped together. So for uh your sakes, I've decided to kind of lump them together so that you can see this. So there are three different terms that are used that are translated either fail or vanish away in different ways. The first term is referencing love never failing. And you can see that on there. It's ecpipto, which has the idea of to fall away or to fall off. Now, this is the only time in the text that this is used. He says love will never fall away. It's going to be here forever. Then we see that prophecies will fail, knowledge will vanish away, and that which is in part will be done away. We also see a fourth example when he says, When I became a man, I put away childish things. What you don't know when you're reading an English translation is that the exact same Greek term is used in all four of those cases. So when he says That prophecies will fail, knowledge will vanish away, that which is in part will be done away. When I became a man, I put away childish things. It's all the same term. different than the term that's used for love not falling away. And that is katurgao, which has the idea of to render something ineffective To abolish or to put away. In fact, if you look at this term and how it's used in the New Testament, it is a really strong term. It's actually stronger than the term that is used for tongues, which is a different term. And so let me give you some examples. Ephesians chapter 2 verse 14. says he is our peace who hath made both one and broken down the middle wall of partition between us having you see that word abolished In his flesh the enity, it's the same term. That's used to talk about how God's going to prophecy is going to fail. Uh that which is in part will be done away. When I was a child I put away childish things. Knowledge will vanish away. Same term. Or Galatians chapter 3, verse 17. He says, this I say, that the covenant that was confirmed before of God in Christ, the law, which is four hundred and thirty years after, cannot disannul that it would make the promise of none effect. Same term used where we have the phrase none effect. Or Galatians 5. 4. Christ is become of no effect unto you, whosoever of you are justified by the law, you are fallen from grace. And the phrase is become of no effect. So what you can see is this is a really strong term. And in all four examples, it's using the same term. The the reason I bring this up is because I think that he's clumping those concepts together, whereas tongues is actually a different issue. Discontinue and the way that prophecy is going to discontinue from the way the text presents it is actually slightly different. And that's because they serve different functions. And that's why I'm bringing that up. Then we come to tongues ceasing. And the word that's used there is pa'o. It has the idea of to restrain something. And this is an interesting term. 1 Peter 3, 10. He says, He that will love life and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil. Interesting term. 1 Peter 4:1. Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh. Arm yourself likewise with the same mind, for he that hath suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin. has the idea of restraining oneself. So the idea is that the way that prophecy will end and the way that tongues will end is slightly different. We can see that in the text. Now, both are mentioned as not continuing indefinitely, but they're different. Second mark, I want you to notice here. is that it will continue to have value even when the other gifts will not continue to have value. Look down your Bibles at verses 9 through 10. It says, we know in part and we prophesy in part, but when that which is perfect has come, then that which is in part shall be done away. Now, when we look at this passage of Scripture, the argument should not be, does tongues and prophecy cease? The argument really comes down to how do you interpret when that which is perfect has come? I'm just going to give you a little bit of a teaser. I actually don't think it really matters in the big picture on the issue of cessation of the gifts. And the reason is because I don't think that this passage directly gives enough information for us to understand when prophecy in tongues will cease. Some of you might be surprised I'm saying that, but that is that is the decision that I take here Let me give you the four common ways that it's presented. The first two would be strongly in the cessate the cessationist camp, and I don't know if you know what I mean by the word cessation. But the idea is that it is the belief that there are certain gifts that operated in the church in the first century that do not continue today as normative operations in the church. meaning prophecy, tongues, miraculous sign gifts that are associated with the apostolic office, those do not continue to be in operation today because they are no longer That's what we mean when we say that someone is a cessationist. Okay? And so when we look at the two different ways that cessationists tend to deal with this text, They would interpret it in one of two camps, and they kind of actually go together. One would be that the phrase the perfect has the idea of the completion of the New Testament. So in this viewpoint When he says, when that which is perfect has come, what is in part will be done away, the interpretation would be the perfect thing that we don't have when 1 Corinthians is written is the Bible. We don't have every single book written. So there are there are there are a couple of New Testament books. We have all the Old Testament books. But we still have this period where we have apostles living. We have prophets who are actually in operation in the church. And so during this time period, we have some knowledge gaps that have to be filled. And so God has given these gifts for that time period because they are needed in the church until the scriptures are finished, and now we don't need those gifts. So that would be the one interpretation. And the idea would be that now that the scriptures are here, we don't need prophecy, we don't need tongues, we should assume that they're not going to be be a part of what goes on in the church. The second interpretation, which is very similar, and the reason they're very similar is because um When we talk about the completion of the Bible, the canon, we would say that when the out when the apostles are all dead, then that's when the scriptures are completed. But the perfect has the idea of the transition of the church from the apostolic era into the rest of the church age. So once you have Paul is dead, Peter is dead, John is dead, all those apostles who saw the Lord, who are writing scripture, once they're dead, guess what? There is no one coming behind them who is authorized by Christ. Given this authority, this responsibility, this function to actually write scripture. So that's why when John dies, there's no more scripture being written. There are no more apostles. Now you can see how those two positions are actually pretty close to one another. One is saying when the scriptures are finished. then that which is perfect has come. The other is saying, well, when the apostles are dead, then that which is perfect has come. They're really saying the same thing, okay? The other positions would fall under a potential continuation viewpoint. But I want to say this, not absolutely. Just because you hold one of these other two possibilities of interpretation does not mean that you absolutely believe that these gifts of prophecy in tongues should be understood as an operation today. You could, it leaves the door open. But it's not necessarily guaranteed. The third position is that the perfect refers to an individual believer coming to spiritual maturity and properly prioritizing love over tongues. By the way, this would be the most classic way that someone who believes that tongues would be uh expected, a normal part of church life, this would be the most typical way that this would be interpreted to say, we know that Tongues should not uh be used in the wrong way. So basically what we're saying is the priority over tongues is love, so we need to practice it in a loving way. And then the fourth Is that the perfect refers to our glorified state when we will see Christ face to face rather than through the scriptures? Now, the reason that that last way of looking at it could potentially deal with the issue of prophecy in tongues You could be a cessationist is because you believe that while it's true, the focus of the text is ultimately when we sin before Christ. It's also true that he may have other reasons of explaining why those gifts are no longer in operation. So the question, I know this is a little bit more like a teaching than a preaching, why does this matter? Well, it matters because we should expect that tongues and prophecy are normal in the church if this passage is to be interpreted as this is something in the future, we're still in the church age, so we should expect it. If yes Then the question is, how do you harmonize this with the passage? If you believe that tongues and prophecies are still in operation, how do you harmonize that? If the answer is no, then the question is, does it teach or contribute to your belief in any way? So let's work our way through what I think it's actually getting at. I would say that the most likely way to interpret it falls into one of two categories. And I know you're going to say, just give me the answer. I don't think I absolutely can. That's just a chance. I think that this passage is a little bit ambiguous. The first would be the idea that it is dealing with the completion of the New Testament. And let me give you the strengths for this viewpoint. He uses the word kadergao and he links three different things. One, prophecy, two, knowledge, and three, partial knowledge. So the idea is that he is emphasizing in this passage, there are certain things that you know right now, and these things are going to pass away. But that knowledge is partial. We know the Word of God is a sufficient book. And so that is one of the things that strengthens the viewpoint that when he says that which is perfect is come, is talking about when the canon is finished. When the apostles are dead, when the scriptures have been written, we have a a once and for all given book that is sufficient for life and practice. 2 Timothy 3. 16. Every word of Scripture is is given by inspiration of God, I think that that is a very strong point that he's making, potentially. The other possibility would be the fact that there's very similar language used in James chapter 1, verses 23 and 24. He says, if any be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he's like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass. He beholdeth himself, he goeth his way, and straightforward forgetteth what manner of man he was. And the question is: in this passage, what is the glass that he's looking into? It's the Bible. It's the scripture. Okay? So it would kind of make sense that he would be using a very similar analogy to what James is using And so for this reason, there are many, many people that would fall into this campus saying, when he talks about that which is perfect has come, he's saying that when the scriptures are finished. Prophecy is no longer necessary. In fact, it's going to be laid aside, cut off, because we have the Word of God and it's been given and it's sufficient and that's our final authority. We don't need prophets anymore. Or tongues is also along in that same category. There's also a second interpretation that I think is fairly valid. Potentially this is also a good way to look at it. And that is that he's talking about our glorified state when we see Christ face to face. Now again, I believe very strongly. That tongues and prophecy, as we're talked about in 1 Corinthians 13, are not to be understood as normative practices in the church. We're not a charismatic church. Okay, we're not. And when when I look at the charismatic world, I see tremendous chaos. And a lot of it has to do with how people approach the Bible. However, how I get to that position is not necessarily through this text. When he says face to face, the idea is now you see through a glass darkly. But then you're going to see him face to face. We know in part now, but then we will know him even as we are also known of him. And when he says, now abides faith and hope and charity, these three, but the greatest of these is charity, it's interesting. In eternity, our faith is going to be made sight. In eternity, our hope will be fully realized as we realize everything he has promised. But for all of eternity, we're going to continue to grow in our love for him. Our love's never going to pass away. Rather, it will continue to grow forever. And so I do think it's very possible that that second option, I think it's a very valid argument. I really do. Again, as someone who believes in the cessation of these gifts, I do believe it's a valid argument. So let me give you why I think the debate is not as significant as some people would think. My suggestion on this issue is that tongues have ceased as a normative gift, prophecy has ceased as a normative gift, but the passage contributes to the answer in a way that doesn't give absolute clarity. The explanation to the difference between these two gifts and how they cease is actually not found in this verse I think it's found in other passages. So I want to take on the one that I think is the most significant, and that is tongues. If you go back to the word that is used, he says that tongues are going to be restrained. And that should lead us to the question, well, what was the purpose of tongues? Why did God give this gift? Why was it necessary? Why was it active in the church? And the answer is actually given in the context of 1 Corinthians 12, 13, and 14. He tells us that tongues was a sign. Not of a person's spiritual maturity, not of a person's giftedness. It was a sign of judgment to those who did not believe in the gospel. And in order for us to see this, I think there's a series of concepts that we need to consider in the light of what Paul is saying here. So the first place I want you to turn is Luke chapter 19. Verses 41 through 44, and I want you to listen to what Jesus says, because all these things I'm going to give to you, I think they're actually a part of understanding what the purpose of tongues was and why I personally believe that tongues is no longer an operation. Luke 19, 41. When he that is Jesus was come near, he beheld the city and wept over it, saying If you had known, even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belong unto thy peace, now they are hid from thine eyes. The day shall come upon thee that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, encompass thee round about, and keep thee on every side, and shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee. They shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knewest not the day of thy visitation. Now this is right before Jesus is going to be crucified. And here he is, he's in the city, and these these people are weeping for him, and he says, Don't weep for me. You should be weeping over the future of this city because there's going to be a day that there is going to be such a vicious assault on this city. Such an absolute destruction of this city that people are going to weep and lament. Massive numbers of people are going to be killed in this city. And the reason is very simple. You did not embrace the Messiah. Now, when did that happen? It happened in 8070. That that what Jesus is talking about in Luke chapter 19 was fulfilled within the lifetime of many of those people. who stood in those mobs and were inciting the riot, getting all the people behind, doing all the maneuvering and all the manipulating behind the scenes to get Pilate to say, okay, fine. I wash my hands of this matter. He's yours. You do with him what you want. He's warning of judgment I'm going to show you a second text that is very, very important in understanding this. And this is Matthew 27, verses 23 to 25. I want you to notice the stunning way That the people rejected Christ. It says in Matthew 27, verse 23 to 25, they cried out the more saying, Let him be crucified. When Pilate saw that he could prevail nothing, but that rather atonement was made, he took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person. I mean what an amazing thing. Pilate says, he is innocent. You are making me do this I'm putting the guilt on you, not on me. Now, it was a total miscarriage of justice. It was a total lack of doing your duty But he said, it's on you. And this is what they said. Listen carefully. Then answered all the people and said, His blood be on us and our children. I mean that's stunning. I mean, what a what a hardened what a hardened hatred for Christ. Now, I want you to consider those two things that we just read. What Jesus says, don't weep for me, weep for the city. And this statement, it's okay, we take the guilt. And you know what? In 8070, they 100% experienced it as a nation. In fact, Josephus records the details of how many people were crucified. Nearly a million people, he estimated. In fact, he estimates more than a million. Scholars today say that they think he overblew it. But a million people were just wiped out. It was an absolutely horrific thing. By the way, there was no more temple for people to go up to. There was no more sacrificial system. The priesthood was wiped out. The reality is that that was a defining moment in the history of a people where an entire generation of devout worshipers was wiped out by the Romans. And that's significant to understanding the purpose of telling. You say I don't see the connection. I hope you will eventually Third thing I want you to notice is Peter's preaching at Pentecost. Acts chapter 2, verses 36 through 40. What he says here is so important to this discussion. Peter preaches, let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God hath made that same Jesus whom you have crucified, both Lord and Christ. Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their hearts and said unto Peter and unto the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? I mean, you want to talk about getting called out in the preaching. He said, what do we do? He could have said, well, it's too late. You blew it, guys. You rejected him and you don't get another chance. That's not what he said. Peter says, repent. Turn to the Christ you rejected. Confess your sin. Be baptized. That's very significant. By the way. Baptism doesn't save a person from sin, but their baptism in this particular instance is very, very significant because what it did is it drew a line of distinction between who they were in their Judaism and who they now are in the church. Their baptism was very significant. He says, repent, be baptized, every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins. You shall receive the Holy Ghost. The promise is to you and to your children and to all that are far off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call. Now here's what's really amazing. You had this crowd who said, crucify him, his blood be on us and our children. He says, you killed him, and they say, what do we do? And he says, repent. Be baptized, and then this promises for you and your children. It's pretty amazing. Because what it shows you is grace was offered to people even though they rejected Christ. But there's another component that is very important. It says, with many other words, he did testify and exhort, saying, save yourself from this untoward generation. Now that's the part a lot of people don't think about. Now why does he say that? Because their separation from that generation and their identification with the church. is ultimately what preserves them from a horrific death when judgment came to Jerusalem. So that leads us to Paul's reference in 1 Corinthians 14, where he explains what the purpose of tongues is. Look down your Bibles at 1 Corinthians 14, verse 21. Paul writes, In the law it is written, With men of other tongues and other lips will I speak unto this people. Yet for all that will they not hear me, saith the Lord. Wherefore tongues are for a sign. Not for them that believe, but to them that believe not. Now by the way, what Paul said there is like directly confronting the most common way that people misunderstand. The gift of speaking in tongues. People tend to think of this gift as something that says something about my spirituality. Do I have the spirit? All those kinds of things. That's not what Paul's saying. Paul's saying the purpose of tongues Was a sign to people that are being talked about in a text in the Old Testament that he's referencing. You say, well, what is that text? That text is Isaiah 28. If you go to Isaiah, by the way, this is an important little little thing for us in Bible interpretation. Whenever you see in the New Testament , That the writer has quoted from the Old Testament. If you want to understand what he's saying, you know what you need to do. Go to the Old Testament text and ask the question, what was going on there? Because what was going on there for Paul or for Peter, for these men, the Old Testament was their Bible. They understood those Old Testament contexts very, very well. And the people they were writing to understood those Old Testament contexts very, very well. You and I don't, because we are always in the New Testament. We're often in the New Testament, not in the Old Testament. So these contexts are not familiar to us. But if you go to this Old Testament context, I think it sheds tremendous light on what Paul is saying. In this context, Isaiah is preaching to a nation that is rejecting God. And as he is preaching to this nation, He tells them of a time down the road where they're going to reject God in a very definitive way. And listen to what he says in this text. He says, Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone. Triad stone. a precious cornerstone, a sure foundation. He that believeth shall not make haste. Who do you think they're talking about? He's talking about Jesus. So when when when Isaiah is writing about this in this passage, he talks about how God is going to speak to this people who reject The one who is laid as the foundation of the stone, the tried stone, the precious stone, the cornerstone, they're going to reject him. He's going to speak to those people Through the stammering lips of others. And you know what Paul says? That is a reference to speaking in tongues. So what's the point? The point is this. The purpose of tongues in the context in which we see, and by the way, this is true in all those Acts contexts. The purpose of tongues was to be a sign to the Jew who was skeptical of the gospel going to the Gentile. And it served multiple purposes. One was to say Those people who embrace the gospel that you're scorning and you're mocking, they are my people. You know what it's also saying? They're my people, you're not. Because they've embraced the gospel, you are haven't. And if you continue in your unbelief, you will face judgment. That's what he's saying. So the reason I believe that tongues has ceased is not because 1 Corinthians says, when the perfect has come, it's talking about the end of the scripture and all that, when the scriptures come in their fullness. That may very well be what it's talking about, but I think that the the the the correct understanding of the cessation of tongues is that it is no longer necessary because it served its purpose almost 2,000 years ago. 19,000 or 1900 and you do the math 100 years ago, AD 70. The time period between here and there, that's when it fulfilled its purposes And by the way, when we look at church history, we see over and over again, I'm not going to do this tonight because of our time, but I'm going to give you examples of people who actually go to that very statement. And they talk about the cessation of tongues in that in that particular context. Alright, well let's go ahead and we're going to wrap it up because of our time. But the question is this, what do I practically take away from this? Well, one thing I think we should practically take away from this Is that out of all the gifts in the church, out of all the virtues that a Christian could ever portray, the most important one is Christian love. And let me tell you, what makes you a godly Christian is not how mean you are, how high your standards are, how militant you are about the things that you hold on to. The way that you dress, how much service you give in some particular area of the church, you want to really look at how you can tell if a person loves the Lord, see how they treat people. I'm saying like their spouse, their kids, the people they work with, the people they go to church with. Their neighbors. Real godliness is found in the true virtue of Christian love. May we be a people that actually reflect that. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, I thank you for your word. I know that this was a very technical discussion tonight, but I pray that what we would walk away with more than anything else. is the fact that we as your people are to live consistent with who we are in Christ. That Christian virtue, that Christian virtue of love is the most important of all those virtues. It should shape how we serve. It should shape how we relate to one another. It should shape it should shape what we do and what we don't. And so I pray that you would help us to be a people who are growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus and truly living consistent with that expectation. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen.