Okay, well let's go ahead and turn in our Bibles again to 1 Corinthians chapter 13. And uh if you remember from last week, um we were getting into um a little bit more of a technical discussion actually um feel a little bit funny about doing that on um a Bible study night, uh but i it's almost more like a class Sunday school type of uh discussion point, but I hope that the things that we talk about are going to be helpful to you. And we we need to kind of keep the big picture in mind when we're talking about this issue of tongues and prophecy. And how in 1 Corinthians 13 he says that prophecy in tongues are going to cease. And then ultimately why there are certain gifts and certain practices that he says are actually to be desired more than others. And ultimately, the whole thrust of this section is to say When you serve the Lord and when you serve the church, you need to do it out of a spirit of true, genuine, Christ-centered love. So let's go ahead and pick up 1 Corinthians chapter 13. We're going to read through this entire section again, and then I'll remind you of a couple of the highlights, and then we'll dig back into it. Here's what it says. Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels and have not charity, I am become a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal Though I have the gift of prophecy, though I understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains and have not charity, I'm nothing. Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Charity suffereth long, and is kind. Charity envieth not. Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, does not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth. Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth. But whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. Whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. For we know in parts and we prophesy in part, but When that which is perfect has come, then that which is in part shall be done away. When I was a child, I spake as a child. I understood as a child. I thought as a child. But when I became a man, I put away childish things. For now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then shall I know even as also I am known. And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three. But the greatest of these is charity. Now when we look at these verses, we see that the main point is simply this. God calls us to walk in Christ. Christian love. And so when we serve in the church, we are to do it with a genuine love for the Lord supremely, and then we are really being used as a channel through which that love is serving other people. And so when we look at this passage, it breaks down into three basic parts. The first was why is Christian love so important? And it's because the service that is done without it is just noise. If it's done without it, it's not really going to amount to anything for us, and our future reward is ultimately going to be lost without it. Then we move to the second section, verses four through seven, and when he defines this issue of love, he defines it in really two different ways. And I mentioned this. Paul doesn't say, let me define love and give you a sentence. That's kind of the way that we think. Let me look it up in the dictionary. What is the definition of such and such? Rather, what Paul does is something that we see all throughout the Bible, and he says, well, it's not this, instead it's this. You need to understand the two together. In fact, when we look at the Proverbs, a lot of the Proverbs are written this way. Here's a positive, here's a negative, or here's a concept, here's an illustration, or here's a general principle, here's a specific principle. Or I would even argue that the book of Proverbs and the Book of Ecclesiastes are really giving us wisdom from two different perspectives that gives us kind of the fullness of that particular issue. And so if you look at Ecclesiastes without Proverbs, I think that you miss part of the wisdom discussion. Or if you look at Proverbs without Ecclesiastes, you kind of miss part of that wisdom discussion. Both are given in Scripture so that we will see a full balance of perspective. And so when Paul talks about charity or love, he does it in that way. So positively, it is patience. It is kind. It delights in what is true. It does not give up. Negatively, it's not envious. It's not boastful. It's not harsh. It's not overbearing. It's not easily angered. It does not keep meticulous records. It does not enjoy seeing others suffer. And by the way , We know that in life there are situations that test us in these areas. There are people that we do not feel like being kind to. There are people that have wronged us so many times that we want to keep a very detailed record of all of those wrongs and we want to squeeze every ounce of justice out of that situation. It is true we really do have this tendency, and all of us do. We all have a flesh and in the right moment with the right set of circumstances So when Paul writes these things, he's writing them because there is a very particular problem in the church. And he's kind of saying You think you're serving God in the right way here, but I'm going to tell you that's not love, and here's the reason why. That's the sense. Then we come to the third part, and that's what we are looking at right now. And that is what sets it apart from all the other virtues. So, verses 8 through 13, it endures while other good other gifts do not. Now, let's not lose sight of the fact that Paul was a lot more concerned, not with nailing down, do you want to know the day that tongues ends, or the day that prophecy ends? That's really not his point. That's the way we look at it because we have the whole charismatic movement discussion and we see the abuses that are out there and somebody says This is a word from God, it's a prophecy, and then a person builds their life on what is not a prophecy, what is not God's word, and in fact they experience all kinds of heartache. Or somebody who feels very disillusioned because their church says you don't have the spirit because If you did, you'd be able to speak in tongues. And they're like, I haven't been able to learn what the guy next to me has been able to learn. And I don't even see in the Bible where I'm supposed to learn how to do this. And all of a sudden there's a lot of confusion. Paul is not concerned with the same things you're concerned with and I'm concerned with. His concern is not to say, here's the day that it ends. His concern is to say, prophecy in tongues are inferior to this gift of love because that one lasts forever. Those are temporary. And then in a very general way he explains the nature of how they are going to cease. So the whole point is that there is one that endures and these do not. The second thing is it will continue to have value even when other gifts will not. And that is an interesting point that we'll get into. A third one. As we mature, we will grow to appreciate its value to a greater degree. And if you think about that statement where he says, when I was a child, I spake as a child, understood as a child, I thought as a child. When I became a man, I put away childish things. That's where we're going to get into that particular point and explain what he's getting into there. Fourthly, our our comprehension of the principle of the superiority of biblical love is partial till we meet Christ. And lastly, not only is it the highest gift, but it's also the highest virtue. So last week we got into what I feel is a very technical topic, and I want to just kind of hit a couple of the highlights so that we don't miss where we were going with this. We know that it endures while other gifts don't. That's why he says in verse 8, charity never fails, but Prophecies will fail. Tongues will cease. Knowledge will vanish away. What you see is that he is setting apart This gift of love above these others because one endures while others do not And then we took note on the fact that that phrase, that which is perfect is come, is actually a lot more ambiguous than we would like to admit. And it's been explained in several different ways. And by the way, I think that there is a strong case to be made for a couple of them. For instance, one of the ways that it is often explained is that this is talking about the end The the the perfect is talking about the completion of the New Testament and ultimately the end of the apostolic era. And I'm going to read to you a couple of quotes from church history and you will see that that is actually touched on by some of these people throughout church history. history. Another idea is that the perfect is talking about the transition from apostolic era to what we could say the normal practice of the church age, which is kind of almost saying the exact same thing. And then we have another idea that the perfect is talking about the maturing of the individual. So in other words, as a person matures, then they're going to actually practice in love as opposed to in a way that's fleshly. And then lastly would be that the perfect is referring to not the partial knowledge of our current situation. And when I say partial, what I mean is we have a completed scripture, a sufficient word. But we are walking by faith, not sight. Because we have promises in the Bible that are not yet fully realized. We have things that we're told that we're still waiting on, we're anticipating. When we read the book of Revelation, we see all these prophecies that We're waiting on these things to actually take place. We read about heaven and our eternal inheritance and our eternal state and the way things are going to be in the kingdom era. That's all future. We are waiting for those things. And so what he's saying is in our current situation, we have partial knowledge. But when we see him, we're going to have full knowledge. And when I say full, don't get the impression we're going to understand everything there's to understand, but it's we're going to see him face to face. be And so that would be kind of the last of those interpretation possibilities. And I kind of talked about the fact that also when you look at the Greek terms that are used He uses the same Greek term when he talks about prophecy and when he talks about knowledge, and he uses a different term when he refers to the ceasing of tongues. And my conclusion there is that the ceasing of prophecy in tongues is actually going to, from a time standpoint, be slightly different because their purposes were different. And we got into a very technical discussion about the purpose of tongues. Maybe you remember that, but this is the argument that I gave. I believe that the ceasing of tongues is connected to it being a sign of the destruction of a generation that is no longer with us. And that would be the generation of Jews who rejected Christ when he came and after the cross and after the resurrection. That generation that rejected Christ was given opportunity again to embrace the gospel. And as Peter is preaching at Pentecost, they say, What do we do? He says, repent. Be baptized and save yourself from this untoward generation. In my opinion, and that is what it is, my opinion. My opinion is that this the purpose of tongues was no longer necessary after the destruction of Jerusalem because that is what it was given for. It was given to remind this generation of Jewish people. That these Gentiles that are embracing the gospel while they're rejecting it, that are embracing the Savior that they said crucify, it is a reminder every time that that gift was present. That God is going to judge those who reject the gospel. And so that took place at that time. Again, that's my opinion. But when we get into some of the church history You're going to see that actually this comes up. The one that I think of is Martin Luther and his statement. Okay? Secondly, we didn't get into this issue of prophecy, but I want to mention this a little bit tonight as well. When the Bible refers to prophecy ceasing, the term that is used has the idea of rendering ineffective something because its purpose is finished In other words, prophecy served a very important purpose when it was necessary. But when that time came to an end. When the apostolic age was over, when the scriptures were completed, when the apostles' ministry was now validated and there wasn't a continuing need for validation. This was a gift that was no longer necessary. I want you to turn in your Bibles to two passages that I think shed light on this that are within the overall context of what Paul is talking about in 1 Corinthians 12, 13, and 14. The first one is in 1 Corinthians 14, verse 32. Look down in your Bibles at what it says. The spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets. You say, well, what does that mean? What Paul is saying is that if someone was known to have the gift of prophecy , They would be able to validate or they would invalidate an individual that claimed to have the gift of prophecy In other words, the person that had the gift could verify yes this is true or no this is not true. That was true of prophets, that was also true of apostles, and we see that And a few verses later in verse 37, you can see how Paul applies this principle. Look what it says in 1 Corinthians 14, 37. He says, if any man think himself to be a prophet, Or spiritual, let him acknowledge that the thing that I write unto you, they are the commandments of the Lord. Now, why did Paul say that? What Paul was saying is, I'm a real apostle. I'm writing scripture. The Spirit of God is moving through me. What I'm writing to you isn't just my opinion, it's the Word of God. And if you're a true prophet who God has given the gift of revelation to, then you know, because you're a true prophet that what I'm saying is true. And by virtue of that, the corollary is if you really don't know, then you're not genuine. You're a fraud. That's what he said. Pretty interesting claim there. So the point of this gift of prophecy was not just to communicate information. from God to people, but it was also to validate or verify or confirm that in fact God was speaking through people. So during the time of the apostles you have Paul can validate what Peter is saying, Peter can validate what Paul's saying. John can validate what Peter is saying. James can validate what Peter is saying. In other words, they can all confirm with one another because they're all living and they all have the gift of prophecy and they are apostles. They can confirm amongst themselves and to the church that in fact this is scripture, this is not scripture, this is a word from God, this is not a word from God. During this time period , Where the scriptures are being written, it's important that you have people that can do that. And also when we go to the book of Revelation, Revelation chapter 2. When he writes to the church at Ephesus, he says that you have tried or you have tested some who say they are apostles, they're not, and you have found them to be liars. And you say, well, how did they test that? There were actual objective standards that these people had to be able to demonstrate Did you actually sit under the ministry of Christ? Were you actually called by him? Were you a witness to the resurrection? Has God given you the gifts that accompany the gift of the apostle? Can you do those sign gifts to validate your ministry? Can the other apostles and those who have the gift of prophecy can they validate your ministry? If the answer is no on any of them, then you're not a genuine apostle. Okay, that's what that's what that's what John is ultimately saying. And so what you can see is that when the apostles are dead and the apostles are gone and the word of God is finished and written. Then we don't need this gift. Now that's not to say that God can't do what he wants to do, okay? But it's not needed anymore. And that really is a part of what we see in the term that's used. Where the term of tongues is, it's going to be like extinguished. The gift of prophecy and knowledge is talked about as if it is going to be invalidated. It's not going to be necessary anymore in a different way because there is an official capacity that in fact is no longer necessary. Now, when we look at church history, what we will discover is that the predominant view of Christians that we can read Was that these gifts ended within the apostolic era? And the viewpoint that they are for today is really a fairly modern viewpoint I'm going to read to you, I I don't necessarily like to do long reading, but I'm going to read some of these just so you can get the sense of what is going on here. So the first example I want to give you is Chrysostom from the fourth century. He writes, 1 Corinthians 12 is very obscure. The obscurity is produced by our ignorance of the facts and by the cessation of tongues and prophecies, since they now no longer take place in the church. Now that's not somebody that wrote a hundred years ago or fifty years ago. That's somebody who wrote in the 300s. Okay? And so he's saying. I don't know anybody who knows exactly what these gifts are because they are not going on in the church today. And let's remember that John died around 100. So we're talking about a fairly short period of time. We're talking about going back comparable to the Civil War, War of 1812 time period in relation to where we are today. So I think that's very significant. I'll give you another example. Augustine, also in the fourth century, and by the way, I'm not quoting church history because they have authority. It simply is to tell you that these are individuals that give us insight into how they looked at these particular issues. So it says, in the earliest times the Holy Spirit fell upon them that believed and they spoke with tongues. Which they had not learned as the Spirit gave them utterance. These were signs adopted to the times. There was this betoking of the Holy Spirit in all tongues to show that the gospel of God was to one throughout all tongues over the whole earth and it passed away. The sixteenth century, I know this is a large jump. That's a thousand years right there. Martin Luther, but a very well known figure in church history. In the early church, the Holy Spirit was sent forth in visible form. This visible outpouring of the Holy Spirit was necessary to the establishment of the church as were the miracles that accompanied the gifts of the Holy Ghost. Paul explained the purpose of these miraculous gifts of the Spirit in 1 Corinthians 1422. Tongues are for a sign. Not for them that believe, but for them that believe not. Once the church had been established and properly advertised by these miracles, the visible appearance of the Holy Ghost ceased. I could mention a couple of others, but I would like to kind of end with Martin Louis Jones because I think he captures this quite well. Here's what he says. Once these New Testament documents were written, the office of a prophet was no longer necessary. Hence in the pastoral epistles, and this is a very important point. What he's making here. In the pastoral epistles which applied to the later stage of the history of the church, as in the later part of the apostolic era When these things have become more settled and fixed, there is no mention of the prophets. It is clear that even by then the office of the prophet was no longer necessary. And the call was for teachers and pastors and others to expound the scripture and to convey the knowledge of the truth. I think that's a really strong point that he's making there. He goes on to say this. In the New Testament sense, they had received a special revelation of truth. The answer to that is that in view of the New Testament scripture, there's no need for further truth. That is an absolute proposition. We have all truth in the New Testament. We have no need of any further revelation. All has been given. Everything that is necessary for us is available. Therefore, and by the way. Where does it say that in the Scripture? You go to 2 Peter chapter 1, and he says, we have a more sure word of prophecy whereunto you do well to take heed. When did Peter write that? Right before he dies. Why did he write it? Well he tells us, he says, I'm writing this to you so that when I'm dead, you have this information forever. That's what he says. Or when Paul writes 2 Timothy 3. 16, he says, From a child you've known the Holy Scriptures that are able to make you wise into salvation. All scripture, every written word of scripture is breathed out by God and is profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, righteousness. And I love this little statement. So that the man of God may be perfect. That's full maturity, thruly furnished unto all good works. Now what do those things tell you? What it tells you is that Paul and Peter before they died Didn't say buy. I sure hope that there's some new apostles that come after us, and I sure hope there's some new prophets that come after us because We've got to pass on that authority to them. And then when they die, they've got to pass that authority. And he says, listen to this guy that I've discipled my whole life. That's not what he does. He says, when I'm dead, preach the word. When I'm dead, preach the scripture. The scripture is perfect. It is thoroughly furnished for all good works. If you want to be a godly person, read the Bible, study it, preach it, teach it, obey it. That is what we need. And so it's very, very instructive. If we needed prophecy in tongues, that's what they would have said. Paul would have said, Here's Timothy. I've given him my apostolic gifts, and I've given him my apostolic office. Let him take my place. He doesn't say that. Timothy preached the scripture. Very, very significant. So that's what Martin Louis Jones is saying here. The answer to all this is that the need of prophets ended when the canon with the canon of the New Testament. We no longer need direct revelation of truth. The truth is in the Bible. We must never separate the Spirit and the Word. The Spirit speaks to us through the Word. So we should always doubt and query any supposed revelation that is not entirely consistent with the Word of God. Indeed, the essence of wisdom is to reject altogether the term revelation as far as we are concerned and speak only in terms of Illumination. The revelation has been given once and for all. What we need and what by the grace of God we can have and do have is illumination by the Spirit to understand the word. I think that the way that Martin Lloyd-Jones puts it is really, really sound. Very, very helpful. I also want to add this as a bit of important thing to consider as well. The modern practices that people will claim are prophecy in tongues They fall short of the genuine gift. Anyone familiar with Mike Winger? I listened to Mike Winger. By the way, I don't I think Mike Winger is probably a soft charismatic, actually, okay? But he's pretty honest. And he's done a very long series of discussions on his YouTube channel about people that claim to be prophets that were complete frauds. Okay? I don't know that it would be worth your time to listen to all these hours. But the point that he makes is this. Lots and lots of people claim to have a word from God. And they give it to people as if it carries the authority of God, and they ruin people's lives because they're liars. They're fraudsters. People are taking this as God's revelation, and they are planting their whole life on those statements, and it's not true. I mean people going so far as to to actually scrolling people's Facebook feeds so that they have information about them and then giving prophecy in large settings. Hey, there's a person here Somebody named such and such. You got married on such and such a day. You recently went on a trip here as if God is giving them some ru this revelation and they're just looking at people's Facebook feeds. It's been proven. True. So, the reason I bring this up is to say this. The modern claims they fall short. Okay. Is it a genuine language? Is it truly spontaneous or is it worked up and taught? Is it any different from the similar experiences that are found in pagan cult groups? Those are questions people need to ask. Here's a big one. Is there actual genuine theological clarity in the church that claims to have this great gift? Do you think that God would give this special powerful gift to people that aren't even preaching the true gospel? That that treat the Word of God as if it's basically a charm to be used and abused? That have no standard of expectation for their leaderships? The answer is of course not. If you want to see where God's working and you want to see where God's moving in life, look at places where the gospel is clearly expounded, where there's a high view of Scripture, there's a genuine love for God, and people are striving to make disciples. And in those places, you will find the true working of God in people's lives. Where arguments are made for contemporary practices, they rarely follow the biblical pattern. Now, notice that I'm actually being a little nuanced here. I do think there are people that believe they are practicing the gift. I may not agree with them, but I'm not going to be harsh. They are trying very hard to do things the way that God's Word says to do them. But that's not the overwhelming way that it's being done. Let me give you some examples. 1 Corinthians 14, 27, if any man speak in an unknown tongue, let it be by two or at the most three, and that by course, and let one interpret. Is that the way it's generally done? In places where the gift is supposedly being practiced? Or does it just sound like utter chaos, a buzz in the air? 1 Corinthians 14, 34. Oh, this one will really get some people upset. Let your women keep silent in the church. It is not permitted unto them to speak. You realize that the context of that statement is speaking in tongues. Okay? That is the context. In other words, they were to limit speakers to one at a time. They should only speak if someone was present who had the gift to interpret so that the whole church could be benefited. And only the men in the service were permitted to speak in tongues. So, my encouragement is if people believe they have the gift, please follow the Bible in the practice. And it would probably kill the practice entirely. Just my opinion. I also want to make this comment as well. The most careful people who are not cessationists, and what I mean by that is either they believe that we should expect prophecy in tongues today, or they would say Not that we would expect it, but that it's possible. And this would kind of barely be in that non-cessationist camp, to be honest. Many times people in that particular vein of thinking are still very cautious in how they look at the For instance, they would say that prophecy is to be judged according to scripture. If someone is saying, God gave me this revelation, well then does it contradict the Bible or is it consistent with the Bible? If it contradicts, they say, well, it's not a word from God. That's what a faithful person would do. And then the question is, well, then how do you know it's from God carrying such authority? And is it truly necessary? Those questions could be asked. Those who are very cautious about this issue believe that God's will should be discerned primarily through ordinary wisdom, gleaned through properly interpreted scripture. In other words, if I have a decision to make, I'm not going to ask God to pop a word into my mind or to have somebody come and give me a word. I'm going to go to the word. I'm going to consider The situation objectively, what biblical principles are in view in this particular issue, have actual bearing on this issue, and I want to make this decision based upon biblical principle, not just how I feel. Or something that some random guy told me that he says comes from God. I'm going to look objectively, think it through, pray, and follow the scriptural principles. In other words, decisions should be made according to wisdom, not impressions. And impressions should be considered very cautiously. Words from the Lord are not normative, but possible in such a situation. Prophecy will be active and normative during the tribulation, but not necessarily now. And so the reason I bring these up is to simply say this. I don't want you to think that like Pastor Joel has this like hardcore narrow view that everybody that disagrees on when tongues ends or prophecy ends like they're not true Christians or they're all you know they're not following the Bible. I don't believe that at all. I think there's some very godly people that we disagree on the issue. And and and we could be friends and we could talk through the issue. But there will be some significant differences potentially in how the church is ordered or how we approach decisions. But what I'm trying to say is there are people who, even though they're open to the idea, they're extremely cautious about it. And in their caution, we actually probably are looking at decision-making the exact same way. Lock in wisdom. Be cautious about gut feelings. Just because somebody told you it's a good idea doesn't mean that it is. It needs to be considered objectively. And so the reason I bring this up is to simply say this. The text says prophecy and tongues are going to cease. His point is, the reason he states it is because what the church had elevated to an unhealthy position was something that they needed to stop elevating and they needed to move on to something considerably more important, and that was Christian love. And I also bring this up to say that most people in church history that we can go back and read and just talk about this issue, it appears that they believed it was no longer operating in the church. Now that didn't mean that they didn't believe there would be a time, perhaps during the tribulation or the kingdom era or something like that, where some of these things might rise up again, but they did not see it as a normal expectation in the church. And I also raise this issue to say that in most places where people really push this issue, there's a tremendous amount of emotionalism. There's a lack of making decision based on principle and wisdom, and there is a lot of fraudulent behavior. And so we need to be discerning people, gracious, but discerning. So may God help us to do that Now I look at my time, and uh the next one, in fact, I think will be very good. So let's pause and deal with it entirely. But this is what the one we will deal with, Lord Willing, next week is. As we mature, we will grow to appreciate the value of Christian love to a greater degree. And I think that this is true. If you want to know if a person is a mature Christian, look at how they treat people. Look at how they talk to people. Look at how they serve. As we mature, we will begin to develop more and more the mind and the character and the disposition of our life. Lord. And that is what He's going to really emphasize as we keep working our way through the text. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will spend some time in prayer together. Lord, as we think about the text that we've been looking at. I know that this section has a lot of disagreement in church history or in the current church environment. I know there are a lot of abuses. I know there's a lot of fraud. I pray that as your people, we would be discerning people. That we would understand how to look at these issues. And help us to have a compassionate heart. Help us to realize that there are people that might differ from us on the issue and they truly love you and you're working in their lives. But help us to also not get caught up in practices and expectations that ultimately will be detrimental to our walk with you. You. Pay that you'll bless our time together in prayer, and we ask this in Christ's name, Amen