Okay, well let's um pull out our Bibles again tonight and we'll go to 1 Corinthians chapter 13 and we have been in this passage for a while. And uh there's a lot for us to really digest in these verses. Um I'm gonna go ahead and read through the section again tonight, one more time, and then uh just remind you of a couple of details about where we've been, and then we're gonna close this out. So First Corinthians 13, verse number 1 says the following. Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels and have not charity, I am become a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy, and though I understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains and have not charity, I'm nothing. Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Charity suffereth long and is kind. Charity envieth not, charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth. Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth. But whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. Whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away For we know in part, and we prophesy in part, but when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away. When I was a child, I spake as a child. I understood as a child, I thought as a child, but when I became a man, I put away childish things. For now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then shall I know even as also I am known. And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three, but the greatest of these is charity. So, as we have been looking at this passage, we could summarize it in a very simple way. God calls us to walk in Christian love And in order for us to do that, we need to consider all of what Paul is saying here. The first part that we looked at was why this thing called Christian love is such an important part of our Christian experience. So we look at that in verses one through three. Service done without uh Christian love is just noise. Um service done without Christian love cannot make us something that we're not Christian love or service without Christian love is going to ultimately cancel the fullness of our future reward. Second part we looked at was in verses 4 through 7. And Paul answers the question, what does it look like? And he breaks it into two parts. First of all, he talks about it positively. Christian love is patient, it is kind. It does not delight, or it does delight in what is true. It does not quit or give up. Then he defines it negatively. It is not envious. It is not boastful. It is not harsh. It's not overbearing. It's not easily angered. It does not keep malicious or meticulous records of malicious actions. It does not enjoy seeing others suffer. And so we spent a lot of time on that. Very, very practical portion of Scripture. Then we come to the third part, and that's where we've been for the last couple of weeks, and that is what sets apart Christian love from all the other virtues. And we see this in verses 8 through 13. And there are several things that Paul notes. First of all, it endures while other gifts. do not endure. And so he compares prophecy and tongues which are going to pass away to love which endures. It will continue to have value even when these other gifts will not. And the reason that tongues and prophecy are going to pass away or fade away is because they will no longer be necessary. But Christian love will not be like that. It's something that will continue to be necessary. Now we're going to move to the third part, and that is as we mature. how we we will eventually grow to appreciate this more and more. And so let's look down in our Bibles at this fourth mark. And I'm going to have to Skip ahead in my notes because I have lots and lots of material that we were looking at there. Mark number three, as we mature, we will grow to appreciate its value to a greater degree. Look down at verse number 11 It says, when I was a child, I spake as a child. I understood as a child. I thought as a child. But when I became a man, I put away childish things. Let me read that again. When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child. I thought as a child, but when I became a man, I put away childish things. Now we should ask the question. What is Paul doing? What is his analogy that he's using? And then secondly, why is he using this analogy? So I think that the analogy that he's using is one that we all understand pretty well He's using an illustration of how people physically, mentally, and emotionally develop. So when we say, when I'm a child and I speak as a child, what do we mean by that? Well, have you held a baby in your arms and talked to them in baby language? Oh, you're so cute. Yeah, I don't do that. Ah, my wife did that, right? No, you know, we're holding this little child and we're like, we're talking to the baby And um we sound kind of childish because we're we're kind of talking to them in a childish way. And then, you know, children start expressing themselves uh with these these little words and you don't even know what they're trying to say. And what's great about having a couple of kids is that the kids seem to know what the kids are saying better than we do. And you're like, what is your brother saying? And then they say like, oh, I didn't even realize that's what they were saying. Well well Paul is saying, you know, when you're a little child, there's uh a kind of talk that is consistent with being a child. And by the way, even as a child gets to the place where they can start expressing themselves In actual words, in actual language that you know we can follow, it's still extremely simplistic. In fact, sometimes the simplicity of a child has has a little bit of of profoundness to it. You know, sometimes the way the kids express themselves. But but the simple fact is that children do not express themselves like someone who is an adult, or someone who is a well-trained adult, or someone who has the ability to communicate complex concepts. Children speak in very simplistic ways. And then he says, I understood as a child. Well, what's that? Children are super literal. Does it ever create a lot of humor when you hear the way that children express certain concepts and you're like, What? And then you sit down, you're like, you know what? I guess if I was to put myself in a really, really simple world That is probably how you'd express that concept. And so they're extremely literal. Sometimes you make a statement and the way that a child takes it, they really don't understand what you're saying. Kids don't get humored the way that we do Why is that? Well, it's because a child is developing in their ability to reason. He says, not only did I understand as a child, I thought as a child. Children are kind of selfish. No, they're not kind of selfish. They're extremely selfish. They really that's mine. And then they like slug their sibling with it. Like, if we do that as adults, we're going to jail, all right? So I remember having some conversations with my kids saying, hey, you know, that behavior is not only not only is it not appropriate, but when you get to be a certain age That's actually going to be something you can be criminally charged for. You can't do something like that, okay? You can't use those words. You can't use that physical force. You can't do it. I'm your parent and I'm not gonna let you do that The fact is that children are extremely self-centered. But this is what he says. When I grew up When I matured, there were certain things about the way that I taught and I thought and I understood that I put away. That is not maturity. Now, why is he saying this? First of all, I'm going to say this. I think it's normal, and we should understand it's totally acceptable for children to act like children. Now, when children sin in a childlike way, that's not acceptable, okay? But for children to act simple, for children to express themselves simply. For children not to understand concepts. This is just a normal part of development. One of the reasons that our kids go through school is not just to learn information, but it literally is to stretch their mind And teach them how to reason and how to work through problems and how to pay attention and how to sit still. And so they are being trained in that process if we're doing it in the right way. But it's not unusual for children to act like children. That's just totally normal. Like we shouldn't see a child crawling and be like, how dare you crawl at such an age? You should be running. No, that's normal development. But it's not normal for a child who's now a teenager to be crawling on the floor and not being able to walk. And to express themselves very simply. And so the idea is that we we and while we understand it is normal for people to be at those levels of maturity and development, it's not something we expect them to stay in. We expect them to go beyond that. As children grow older, our expectations for them should change. And so what and this is something that's actually challenging when we're when we're working with our children and we have lots of different age groups. So sometimes an older child will be like, why are you letting him get away with this, but you're coming down on me? And I said, well, because he's four and you're fourteen. And that age gap is giving me different levels of expectation. Okay? Very, very simple, right? And so the idea is that what we expect of an adult is different from a child's. And so he's using the illustration. But this is the point that he's really driving at. The point that he's driving at is as a church. I do have in my mind an understanding that there is a level of maturity that is appropriate for a certain time period, but you're past that. That's what he's saying. Think about the book of Hebrews. He says you need to be taught again the first principles of the oracles of God. Now why is that? Because when you are when you've been a believer long enough to be spiritually mature and to be able to reason through things and to be able to work through things and to actually communicate into The word of God. You should be at that stage. You're not. You have regressed. That's a problem. So what Paul is really driving at here is he's saying, you as a church are not where you need to be. You need to grow up. You need to mature. The people in the church needed to act like mature Christians, not brand new Christians. If somebody's been saved for five years, ten years, they shouldn't be acting like someone who's never heard any of these things except Salvation is by grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone. I'm baptized, and now I know I'm a Christian, but I don't know anything else about the Christian life. He's saying you need to grow beyond that. And if they do not do this, there's going to be a problem. The problem is what's going on in the church. If they do do this, and this is the point that he's getting at If they do this, they're going to actually appreciate what Paul's saying more and more. In fact, as a believer matures, their appreciation for what Paul is saying in these verses, it actually becomes stronger. They start to realize, you know, Christian love is actually hugely important in the church. Their life is going to conform more and more to this teaching, and it's going to reflect what Paul is saying as they mature. And so in some ways you could you could say that Paul is kind of calling some people out and he's saying, hey, you should be here and in fact, you're still over here. That's a problem. You think that you're over here, but you don't appreciate what I'm saying. That's actually indicating you're not here. You're actually over here. That's what he's getting at. Your life is not bearing the marks of Christ's likeness like it should. That is an indication that you've not matured like you should. And I think that that's the reason that he uses this illustration. So the third thing that we see here is that as we mature, we're going to appreciate this more and more and more. Fourth thing that we're going to see here. Not fourth tonight, but fourth in our study. Our comprehension of this principle will be partial until we meet Christ face to face. Now what is this getting at? Well let's look at what it says in verse 12. He says, for now we see through a glass darkly But then we will see face to face. Now I know in part, but then shall I know even as also I am known. Now this is kind of an interesting series of statements here. When Paul uses the illustration of a glass that is dark. He's talking about an old mirror. I don't know if you guys remember these mirrors, maybe when you were a kid. I remember my grandmother uh had one of these mirrors that when I looked at it, it was kind of like It was kind of like black. I don't know. How would I describe it? It it it was very hazy, okay? And so if you look into this mirror, and it was it actually was a really beautiful mirror. I mean it was very ornate on the back of it But when you looked at it, it was kind of cloudy and it's it's it had something to do with the nature of that glass Well I think that that's what Paul is actually talking about. There in Court they made mirrors, they made looking glasses, and so people understood this principle that there were times when you looked into that glass that while you saw the image The image was not totally clear. So what you're looking at really is a reflection of who you are and what is seen, but there is a cloudiness to it. There's a side to it that's not totally sharp. It's almost like when you're driving down the road and one day you realize the signs are not as clear as they used to be. I mean I'm seeing them, but I'm not seeing them like I used to Or I'm looking at this piece of paper right here, and as I'm reading it, all of a sudden I'm realizing I don't I can't see it quite as well as I used to. So my messages are all in 15-point font I mean it's because if they were in 12-point font, I guess I wouldn't see them very well. And you're telling me, get you some glasses. But the idea is, I mean I'm reading it, I I'm able to see it, but but I'm not able to see it as clearly. As I'd like to be able to see it. And so what Paul is basically saying is there is a side to the Christian life that what you're looking at is real and it's genuine, and you're really seeing it, but you're not seeing it clearly. You're not seeing it fully. It's not as sharp as it could be. And he's drawing this contrast. He's contrasting between today, their current situation, and the future situation that they will encounter for all of eternity. And so we see the statement now, and then we see the statement, but then Do you see the contrast? Now we see through a glass darkly. Now we know in part. But then we will see face to face. But then shall I know even as also I am known. I think what Paul is talking about is the contrast between the partial understanding of living on this side of eternity and the clarity we will experience on that side. And you say, well, why is he Why is he introducing this into this discussion? I think it's because he's saying to them, look, this issue of Christian love and how you serve in the church, you don't get it now like you will get it then. It's almost like when you're a kid, you know, your your your parents teach you these certain things and like you hear it and you just kind of keep going, right? And then one day You're an older person and all of a sudden it's like your mom's voice comes back to you. Your dad's voice comes back. A teacher's voice comes back to you. And you kind of like remember this conversation that you had and it's like, oh That's what they were saying. Now I get it. Why is that? Because you're on the other side of the issue. And so now I'm able to look back at my situation with a much better clarity than I did when I was in that situation. I think that that's the idea that he's saying. Paul is saying, look, right now you don't get it like you will someday. And so I'm telling you what is true right now so that you will live the right way because when you get it It'll be too late to correct what you did. That's what he's saying. So now their current knowledge was real but clouded. Their current knowledge was sufficient, but still incomplete. The quality of their current service was not yet fully realized. And this is something that we learn as well in life. So the Bible teaches there's a judgment seat of Christ and we're going to stand before the Lord Jesus someday. We're going to give an account for our lives And the thing that's amazing about the Christian life is we are involved in lots of different things over the years, but we're not at the same level of maturity through that whole process. Like, were you as mature a Christian on the day that you held your first child in your hands as you were the day that they went off to college or whatever? Or now that maybe some of them are married and they have children, now you're grandma or grandpa or whatever you call it. Well no, you're you matured a lot in that process, but the truth is You did a lot of stuff all along the way. And so what's very interesting about it is that we serve and we shape the lives of people and we minister in the church. We do it at different levels of maturity. And we don't even understand the full implications of what's going on, but on the judgment seat of Christ Day, we will be able to see back with clarity on the true quality of what we did. Or like when we're raising our children. This is what's so scary about raising children. When you realize there's a problem, it's kind of like almost too late. You're like you're like, oh, I'm having this problem with my son or a problem with my daughter. And the seeds of that go back a decade or more. And now I don't even know how to correct this issue. That's why we need people that are old and wise and spiritually mature and they love us to kind of invest in us along the way to kind of help us. so that we don't get caught in those situations as much. But the point that he's trying to make is there's going to be a day that you'll have clarity about this issue. So listen to what I'm saying now. That's what he's saying. But then, when we are glorified, we will see him face to face. 2 Corinthians 5. 18. We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body and present with the Lord. I think that's what he's talking about. When we are glorified, we will have a complete, though not exhaustive, knowledge of God. 1 John 3, 2, beloved, now are we the sons of God. It does not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him For we shall see him as he is. And interestingly, he says, and everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself even as he is pure. I think this is what Paul is getting at. When we are glorified, the true quality of our service will be revealed. 1 Corinthians 3. 13, every man. Every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. One of the things that really has gripped me as I study the pastoral epistles is how much Paul talks about the weight that he feels for the church. For that day. And what he basically tells Timothy is he says, Timothy, I feel the weight of this. I think about the day that the people that I have been given the responsibility to teach And a shepherd and a serve. I feel the weight of that day because my job is to warn them so that they do right now, so that on that day they will not find loss It's to lift them up and to encourage them when they're weary and they're discouraged. It's to shape how they look at life so that as they go through that process, somebody's investing in them. So when they stand before Christ on that day, There will be much value for the way they've served. And that value is going to go back to the fact that there are people in their lives, and Paul says, I'm one of them, and you're one of them, Timothy, and whoever is going to follow you Those individuals are going to have the duty to pour into their lives so that when they listen and they take it to heart and they actually apply it, they do things the right way. That's what he's saying. saying. And so the encouragement to everybody here is, if you've been further along in the Christian life than other people, take some people under your wing. And if you've learned some things the hard way, don't be afraid to tell them you learned something the hard way and you don't want them to. And you know if they really care about doing what's right and they're wise They're going to take to heart that vulnerability that you have given. And when somebody comes alongside you, and not everybody's right in how they do it, but If somebody comes alongside of you in the right spirit and they say, I'm concerned about this and I've noticed this, and I really want to encourage you, you know, take that to heart. Even if they don't come at you the right way. Still try to consider is there truth in what they're saying. The truth is that Paul was going at it the right way. And he was very concerned for the church. And so his point, I think, and use this illustration is to say, today you don't get it fully. But then you will, but it will be too late. So listen to what I have to say now. That's what he's saying. In glory we will have a much more complete knowledge of God. than we do now. Our hope, which has been built on an unshakable promise, will be fully realized. Our view of him that has been built by Scripture will be shaped by a visible, unhindered, and everlasting interaction with God Kind of awesome to think about. But that's what he's saying. Fifth mark. Not only is love the highest gift, but it is also the highest virtue. And this is something that I'm going to get into my opinion a little bit here, so take this with a grain of salt a little bit, but I do think that this is what he's saying. In verse 13 he says, now abide is faith, hope, charity. These three, but the greatest of these is charity. Now, what Paul is trying to do is not diminish faith and hope. He's saying these are virtues that are extremely important. But it's to say that there is one virtue that separates itself even from those high virtues of faith and hope. And that is the virtue of love. And I want you to just ponder this for a second. What will be the value of faith and hope in eternity when every promise That has been given is now fully realized. It's not hope anymore, is it? It's sight. It's not faith anymore. It's sight. So when I'm reading the Bible and I have all these promises from God that have not yet been fully realized, I'm living in a world of faith. I'm saying, God, you said this. God, you have demonstrated this. I believe that, and so I'm going to take action. I'm going to live in accordance with what your word says, but I haven't seen the benefits of it yet. We walk by faith, not by sight. We have the assurance because he promised and we're looking forward to that day. But when we stand before Christ someday, hope is now realized. What am I hoping for now? What promises are left to be realized now? There's Jesus. This is eternity. Our race has been run. But you know what's unique about love? Love is something that just continues to grow. And it grows all throughout eternity. So while the promises that Jesus made all throughout Scripture, all those promises are now fully realized, and they're all behind us, now I can just grow in my knowledge of Him. And by the way, I'll continue to grow in a knowledge of him. I'll continue to appreciate who he is and what he's done. One of the things that I think is an important doctrine for us to understand in the Christian life is that That the role that suffering plays in the Christian life is not just to to give us an opportunity for God to draw near to us. He does do that. It's not just to cause us to mature and to be shaped in our character, though he does that. It's also to give a backdrop of experience that gives us a greater appreciation for glory. You say, I don't get that When you have experienced temptation and suffering in this life, and then you're on the other side, you're going to really appreciate what God saved you from. When a believer is coming to the end of their race and their body is really beginning to decline, and physically things that they used to do all the time that were simple, maybe it was even a part of their identity. They can't do it anymore. And they're having to come to terms with the fact that my body is beginning to decline. And not just it's rapidly declining. I can't do what I used to do. And I and I don't like that at all On the other side in eternity, you're going to look back and say, I am living in a body that's never going to decay. It's never going to corrupt. It's never going to suffer. It's not going to get hungry. It's not going to get weary. It's not going to experience pain. It's not going to experience temptation. And you know what it's going to do? The fact that you walk through those valleys on this side are going to give you a deeper appreciation for those things. And when you see how God brought you through those things and how he never abandoned you and he always came alongside of you, even when you didn't see it. On that side, you'll look back and you'll be like, I see how he worked in my life. And we'll appreciate it. And so that's really what Paul's saying when he says that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. He's saying it's going to be more glorious in glory because we went through these heartaches and now it shapes our perspective much more fully. So what's the point of this? The point of this is that love separates itself because love endures forever. You and I will grow in our love for the Lord for all of eternity, not just till the day we die and enter into it, but forever. We're never going to stop growing in a knowledge and an appreciation and a love for Him. And so what does Paul say? That is the highest virtue. So do all things with Christian love. Well, how do you how do you put this all together in a practical way? Let me give you some final thoughts. First of all, I'll say this. Our lives have to be shaped by this virtue. And it is the highest of the virtues. So let's make sure that what we do, we do motivated by Christian love. Secondly, everything we do as a Christian should flow from this virtue. In other words, as I love the Lord, the byproduct of that, or we could say what grows out of that, is going to be a love for other people. If my heart towards others is cold, guess what that is also indicating? My heart towards God is too. Because there's this correlation there Thirdly, we're never going to stop. We will never express it fully or perfectly on this side of eternity. It's going to be something we grow in. Even in eternity, our love for God and one another will endure and grow deeper and more meaningful. So let's ask the Lord to help us to grow in this grace. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, we're very grateful for this amazing passage of Scripture that covers so much material and emphasizes the greatness of this virtue. Lord, help us to be a people who have a deep and enduring love for you, one that is constantly growing. Help us to be a people who recognize that on this side of eternity there's a lot we don't understand. And on that side, we'll see it better. I pray that we would not be immature, but that we would grow up, put away childish things, and live at a level of maturity that we should be at at this point in our Christian experience. And I pray that you'd help everyone in this room that has an opportunity to be a mentor, to be a teacher, to be in a role of shepherding a soul, whether it's kids. Whether it's people that are in the church, a Sunday school class, somebody that they work with, a new believer, may all of us, may we do it well. And we ask this in Christ's name. Tains, amen.