Let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to the book of 1 Corinthians. And we're in 1 Corinthians chapter 10 tonight. And we are continuing looking at part two. To the text that we dealt with last week. And the topic that we're addressing is the need to flee from idolatry. Flee from idolatry. And so let's go ahead and pick up in verse 14, and we'll read down to verse 23. Here's what the Word of God says. Wherefore, my dearly beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak as to wise men, judge ye what I say. The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break. Is it not the communion of the body of Christ? For we being many are one body, are one bread and one body For we are all partakers of that one bread. Behold, Israel after the flesh, are not they which eat of the sacrifices partakers of the flesh? Or of the partakers Of the altar, what say I then? That the idol is anything, or that which is offered in sacrifice to idols is anything? But I say that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice They sacrifice to devils, not to God. I would not that you should have fellowship with devils. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of devils. You cannot be partakers of the Lord's table and of the table of devils. Do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he? All things are lawful for me. But all things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me, but all things edify not Now to just kind of uh rehearse a little bit what we talked about last week when we were here, I just want to hit some of the highlights of what we talked about before we move into The third point here. Under part number one, we talked about the spiritual significance of the Lord's table. And we find that in verses 14 through 18. And the thing that we find that's very interesting about the passage in front of us is that Paul is really contrasting two things. He's talking about what happened when people would go into pagan temples. And they would eat meat that had been sacrificed to idols, which was a part of pagan ritual. And then what took place when people gathered together as a local church and partook of the Lord's table. And one of the things that Paul is going to make a point about is that we know that an idol is nothing, and we know that meat is simply meat. But when you go into that temple and you eat that food that is offered to an idol and you partake, even though what you're eating is just meat, And even though an idol is a block of wood or a stone or a piece of metal that doesn't have ears that can hear, it doesn't have eyes that can see, doesn't have a mouth that can speak, even though those things are true, technically speaking, You are involved in an action that has spiritual significance. And so the spiritual significance of going into that temple and eating that meat and showing being involved in that whole process Is that there is a spirit being, and I know in the King James it says devils, but the idea is demons are actually involved in this worship. So you are not worshiping the block of wood, you're actually worshiping demons. through that particular means. And so whenever we talk about idolatry, it's interesting how the scriptures will often talk about how the idol can do nothing, but it does not suggest that there isn't something truly evil that is going on in the context of idolatry. And so he deals with that on a negative side. And then on the positive side, he talks about what goes on at the Lord's table. When we gather together to partake of the Lord's table, we're not eating flesh and we're not drinking blood. That's a false doctrine. That's not what the Bible teaches. But what we are eating, though it is just bread, unleavened bread, and it is just juice, what it pictures, what it symbolizes, and the sacredness of what we are doing when we're when we partake of the Lord's table In the same way that there is spiritual significance to what goes on in the idol temple, on the positive side, there is something very significant spiritually that is going on. In that context, as we as we think about the body of Christ that literally took our guilt upon himself , and Christ was punished in our place, and we think about his blood that was shed, and we focus our attention on that symbol. And we eat it together, there is a spiritual communion that we enjoy in that context with one another and with the Lord Jesus Christ himself. That's what he's saying. And so he's giving us both a positive and a negative. So under the Lord's table, we talked about the fact that it is a memorial. It pictures what God has done for us. It is sacred in the way that it unites us in communion with God and one another as a body. And there is a real spiritual communion being enjoyed in that moment as our minds are drawn to reflect on the truth of the gospel. This is why it is so very important that we do not make a mockery of the Lord's table. It's so very important that when we come to that moment, we think very soberly. Now it's not to say that we should be uh having this Baptist confessional and uh we feel in like we're in great misery or something like that. I'm not suggesting that. But what we but what we recognize is this is a very sacred thing that we are partaking of. And so that was the first part. Then we looked at some of the implications that really flow out of that discussion on the sacredness of the Lord's table and the significance of what goes on in a pagan temple. You know, when we gather for worship, it's not just the Lord's table that's sacred. The reading of Scripture is sacred. The preaching of Scripture is sacred. The giving of gifts to the Lord, our financial Giving is sacred. These are all pieces of our worship. So we worship in our prayer, we worship in our attention to the reading of Scripture. We worship in our listening to the preaching of Scripture. We worship as we give to the local church with a heart that is right before the Lord. And we worship even as we reflect on the teaching of God's word and we submit to it and to the best of our ability, we try to focus our attention on the Lord. We worship in song when we sing praise to the Lord or when someone is doing a special selection like the choir and we're listening and we're actually engaged. One of the reasons that when we do offertories, we actually have the words on the screen is because we don't want it to be an entertainment. It's not just about listening to this Beautiful song, well that's really great. Well if you don't know the words of the song from a worship standpoint, it's really got very little value other than just being beautiful. The true value is taking the beauty of that music and uniting it to the message, the theological message that is there. And as we focus our attention on that, we worship from the heart. And so all of those things are very sacred. We then move on from that discussion to part number two, the significance of idolatry. And I wanted to kind of break this down a little bit because We're going to go deeper into it tonight. The nature of the pagan feast, an idol does not have actual power. The meat in the temple is just physical meat. But this does not mean that the actions are neutral. When people go into that temple and involve themselves in ritual, there is a significance there. A spiritual significance. And it's not a good one. It's an evil one. These actions are not neutral. Eating meat in a pagan temple has spiritual significance, just like partaking of the Lord's table. So, I want to move from that discussion that we had last week, and we talked about a biblical view of demons and witchcraft and the fact that we shouldn't be irrationally paranoid about it, we shouldn't be dismissive about it, we shouldn't have an unhealthy curiosity. We most certainly should not be entertained by evil. I want us to move from that to focusing in on what he says in verses 21, 22, and 23. Part number three, our desperate need for consistency. In the Christian life, it is so very important that the way that we live is consistent with what we say we believe. That the way that we live our lives is an accurate reflection of a consistency. Now there's no such thing as a perfectly consistent Christian. Okay? And and and you know, as you raise your children and they ask you, why don't we do this? There are going to be some times that you're going to go, I probably don't really have a good answer. I hate to say that, but it's true. And you know when that's the case, then you probably should reevaluate that practice and uh maybe soften it a little bit before you uh before you you you you hold that hard and fast. Or you should have a good answer for them. Or they might say, well Why do we do this? It's important for us to be consistent. Nobody's perfectly consistent. Think God's salvation is by grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone. But with that being said, we still should be consistent to the very best of our ability. As those who've embraced the gospel, we should live in a way that flows out of our position, that flows out of our doctrinal beliefs. And that is what he's going to say here in these verses. Notice carefully, verse 21. He says, you cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of devils. Ye cannot be partakers of the Lord's table and of the table of devils. Do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he? All things are lawful for me, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me, but all things edify not. Now, what is Paul saying here? I think it's pretty simple. If you're a Christian, you cannot successfully blend two worldviews that are in complete contrast with one another. You just can't do it. We could try to do it, and we're going to fail. Some of the most intriguing scriptures that I read are in the Old Testament when You read these passages and and and a king in Israel might be talking about the Lord, but all of a sudden you start realizing the way that he's talking about the Lord, the expression of worship that's going on is idolatry. What's going on there? Well what's going on is you have a person who's taking the idolatry of the peoples around them, and they're taking the worship of the one true God, and they're sort of like blending them together to make this monster. And you just can't do it. The truth is one. This is a statement we used to make in Ghana. It's almost like a little fanti proverb. The truth is one. You have the truth, and then everything that's around it is off. Now, you could have something that's way off over here. You could have something that's a little off, but the reality is they're both off. It's that simple. In fact, it's a lot easier to see when something's way off than it is when it's a little off. And what's really dangerous is we'll get off a little bit right here. And we won't notice it, and then we'll get off a little bit here, and we won't notice it, and a little bit here, and and pretty soon you're out here, and you don't even realize it That's what happens. Christians cannot successfully blend two incompatible worldviews. Verse 21. Ye cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of devils Ye cannot be partaker of the Lord's table and the table of devils. It's like a person who says, I want to be a Christian on Sunday. And then I want to do whatever I want to do the rest of the week. There's lots of Christians that they live that way. They walk into the church on the Lord's Day and it's like they're a totally different person. No, you're a hypocrite. And that's really what it is. The real you is who you are the rest of the week. I mean that's really what it comes down to. And so if that's where we find ourselves, we've got to we've got to stop and we gotta refocus and say, who am I? How am I going to live? Am I going to be a consistent, godly person? So let's kind of break this down a little bit so that we can appreciate what Paul is saying here. I'm going to break this into three basic categories. Because Paul's going to talk about the practice in the temple. He's going to mention briefly the practice in the Old Testament. And then he's obviously going to mention the Lord's table. What was going on when people went into that temple to celebrate a festival When he talks about the cup of devils or demons or the table of devils or demons, what were these people doing? Well, a lot of times people were simply giving in to the peer pressure of culture. I think there were lots and lots of people that when they said, you better pinch incense to the emperor or else they're like, I don't believe it, but I'm going to do it because I don't want to get crushed in the process. By the way, a lot of people that do that today. We don't have an emperor who says pinch incense. There are other ways in our culture that we are demanded of to give homage to the uh the culture of the day. But that was what they experienced in their day. Let's go to the temple, let's have the festival, let's eat the meat, let's not withdraw from society, let's blend with society. What were they doing? Four words that I want you to remember. The first word is the word celebration. When people went into that temple, they were celebrating something Now the people that really believed this, they were delighting in the good things that they had received from a deity that they believed was giving them good things. So when they when they had a good crop, they said, hey, we should praise the deity that gave us the good crop. Or A guy's wife gave birth to a child and the child is healthy and mom is healthy and everybody's safe when they say, hey, let's give celebration to this deity. Or we've had a successful campaign in the battlefield and we came back. And so let's celebrate the good thing that we have received from the deity. Now we don't think this way in our society today, do we? But that would have been super common in those days. I mean, just think of the story of David and Goliath. David walks out there into the battlefield and there's Goliath and he looks at him, and it's really interesting. It says, when he saw David, obviously he mocked him. And it says he cursed David by his gods. You know why he did that? Because he believed his gods gave him power. And then David says, I'm going to kill you because you defy the armies of the living God. So that all the earth knows that there's a God in heaven, you're going down. That's what he said. So what you see is it wasn't just about David versus Goliath. It was about a man that was blaspheming the God of Israel, the one true God, and he's saying, I can have victory by my gods. And David's like, no, you can't. And so I'm going to step into the arena and I'm going to demonstrate to everybody where the truth lies. So there was celebration that was going on. The second word is the word fellowship. They were delighting in a sense of communion with the deity. That's what they were doing. You might say, well, that's kind of weird. Like it's just a block of wood. Yeah, but they were communing with something behind the block of wood. You know, when the Bible talks about witchcraft, there's a real thing called demons, folks. They really do have power. They're really able to accomplish things. There are people that are just playing a game when it comes to this issue, and there are people that they know exactly what they're doing, and in fact, they're really involved in the occult. And so there was a communion with these demons. Third word is the word community. They were a part of a worshiping community. One of the reasons there was so much pressure to make sure that you pinched your incense to the emperor, or you went up into the temple, or you took part in this particular celebration, is because if you didn't and something bad happened, guess who everybody believed was was responsible for that. You. You're the guy that didn't follow the crowd, and because you didn't follow the crowd, something bad happened. And because something bad happened, we've got to take care of you. Can you understand why there's so much pressure here? And then the last word is the word worship, expressing devotion, admiration, veneration. When people went into these contexts, that's what they were doing. They were celebrating, they were fellowshipping, they were communing, they were worshiping. But you know what's really interesting? In the Old Testament, that is something that people experienced with God. Go in your Bibles to Deuteronomy chapter 12, verse number 7. A lot of times people don't realize this. We talk about tithing in the Old Testament. You do realize that tithing in the Old Testament wasn't just 10% of your income. Okay? It was actually closer to 30% of your income. There was a 10% tithe for this one particular matter and a 10% tithe for this other particular matter. And then every other year there was an additional tithe. So essentially, you're tithing 25 % of what you brought in. And obviously it was not primarily money that's being exchanged here. One of the tithes that the Jewish people were supposed to give was basically for those who ministered in the tabernacle and then in the temple. That's how people survived. That's how the Levites survived. They didn't have their own plot of land that they were supposed to farm. God was their portion. And so they lived off of the offerings of the people. That was one of the tithes that the people gave. A second tithe is very interesting. It was actually something that was to be put into a storehouse. And the reason that it was supposed to be put into a storehouse is because when it's put into the storehouse, it's going to be kept for certain seasons or times during the Jewish festival season. And so what would happen is as people tithe into the storehouse, when it came time for that particular celebration, everybody in the community had something from the storehouse. And they would actually, they would stop, it would be a time of Sabbath rest, so people wouldn't be working. Everybody would be gathering together as families and as a community. And then they would have a feast before God. Sounds pretty cool, huh? It's kind of like Thanksgiving, right? Well, listen carefully to what it says in Deuteronomy 12, verse 7, and think about the parallel slash contrast with what was going on in the pagan idolatrous communities around Israel. Deuteronomy 12, verse 7 says this, there ye shall eat before the Lord your God. You shall rejoice in all that he put your hand unto. Ye and your households wherewith the Lord thy God hath blessed thee. And by the way, this is not the only passage that I could show you an example of this. I just think this is a very explicit example. So what you see is that people are stopping from their work. They're going into the storehouse. They're bringing out this food, and they're, notice the words, eating the food before the Lord. Do you realize when people went into a pagan temple, they were eating their food before the idols? That's what they were doing. He says, you will rejoice in all that ye put your hand unto. Who are you rejoicing in? Well, the one who provided it, God. Do you realize when people went into the pagan temple, they were rejoicing in provision, not the God of heaven, but an idol And then he says, you and your household, wherewith the Lord thy God hath blessed thee. So it's not just an individual thing, and we you know we are a very individualistic thinking society, which has its good and its bad. It's actually kind of a blend. But when you are worshiping, you're not just worshiping as an individual. You are, but you are worshiping as a community. When people went into those pagan temples, guess what? They're doing the same thing. And so you can see that there is a comparison and a contrast. Literally, when God establishes these feasts and these festivals, he's saying rather than participating in what is common in all the lands around you where they are worshiping idols, you say no to that and you worship me the one true God. God. And this is how you do it. And he gives them a literal prescription of how it's to be done. What they're to eat, how they're to get the food, what time during the year, all of that is prescribed by God. And so you see those words, celebration, fellowship, communion, or community and worship, you see those there as well. Celebrating, delighting in, the good things provided by the Lord. Fellowship, communing with the Lord at his invitation. By the way, when the Bible talks about the Sabbath being the Lord's Sabbath, And it says that the Sabbath wasn't made for man, but man wasn't made for the Sabbath, but Sabbath was made for man. It says that it's literally God telling you, rest and then come and enjoy me. That's what the Sabbath is. Rest and come and enjoy me. You know how many Christians today do not do not take a day of rest and enjoy God? Sabbath isn't an hour. It's a day. It's a day. Just something to think about. But God invites us to come and to delight in Him. Community, delighting in the Lord as a covenanted community. And when the nation of Israel gathered together in the Old Testament, they were gathering as God's people. He's king. His law is the law of the land. The king over them, the human king, was supposed to take a copy of the law, and he was to write his own handwritten copy so that he's thinking about it He can read it because it's in his own handwriting, maybe. I don't know. That'd be trouble for me if I was a cake in those days. But it's to remind him, this is God's nation, not your nation. God's law, not your law. You have a duty to follow what He has given. And that sense of community is we are God's people. And then that last word, worship, expressing devotion, admiration, and delight in the Lord. And this is how the people lived in those days. Well, guess what? The point that Paul's making here is that the Lord's table has the exact same sense to it. The cup of the Lord. The celebration is delighting in our union with Christ as we remember what Christ has done for us. We gather together, we take those elements. It's not just I'm remembering I'm saved. Yes, I'm remembering that. But it's we're saved. We're all on an equal footing at that cross. We all have come into God's presence through the same blood. the same sacrifice, the same righteousness, we are to celebrate what we have in him. Fellowship. We enjoy the communion with him and with his people. And so really when we when we eat those elements and we think about that, and especially when the scriptures are being read and it's been preached and we're really reflecting on this, we should sense this deep closeness to the Lord. And this love and this affection for him. And we really should have that sense within our own body as well. And then that word community, delighting, remembering and worshiping as a local church, the Lord's table is not for the individual to take on their own terms. Like, oh, it's Monday morning. I think I'm just going to partake of the Lord's table today so I can remember what Christ has done for me. I mean if you want to remember what the Lord's done for you on Monday morning, that's a good thing. I hope you'll do it. But you're not partaking of the Lord's table. You're just remembering. The Lord's table is something we do in the body, in the local church. And then worship, expressing devotion, admiration, and delight in God's gracious, redemptive work on our behalf. So what is the point of this passage? Is it just to blast people going into the pagan temple? No. It is to talk about how serious that is, but also to elevate in the minds of the people how important the Lord's table is. And how precious it is. And by the way, in chapter 11, he's going to talk about those who were mocking the Lord's table. And he says, for this cause some are weak and sickly and even sleep. So it was a big deal. Last thing I want to mention here is that the excuses that people provide, while very creative, are inadequate. Now, if you look down in verse 23, there's a statement that's made twice. And that statement is, all things are lawful for me. He says it twice. And the question is, why does Paul make that statement? Well, interestingly, if you look back at where we've been in the book of 1 Corinthians, There are several times that Paul makes a statement, and then from that statement, it's almost like he provides this counter counter-argument to that, and you go, well, why is he doing that? Well, the reason he's doing that is because there are people in the church that had these little slogans or these little statements, and they basically were saying this, Paul says don't do this, but I can because of this statement right here. Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? Paul says, hey, salvation, it is all the work of Christ. It's all of grace. Just think of it this way: the more you sin, the more God's grace is elevated. There are people saying that. And Paul's like, what are you talking about? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. How shall we who have died to sins? Live any longer than that's a great example of Paul presenting this argument that is being presented in the church and he's going against it. That's what he's doing here. The excuse is all things are lawful for me. Somebody says, I'm under grace. I can do anything I want. My salvation is secured in Christ, so the ways that it live doesn't matter. I should just rejoice in that. Paul says, you are misunderstanding, you are abusing, you are twisting a correct understanding of that concept. Is it true that there is now no condemnation of those who are in Christ Jesus? Yes, that's true It's also true that those who are in Christ Jesus do not walk after the flesh, but after the Spirit. There's something that's taking place in our hearts. So there's the excuse. Here are his answers. He gives two very simple answers. The first is this: While you say all things are lawful for me, I will tell you, but not all things are expedient. What does that mean? It's not profitable. There are lots and lots of things that we might be able to make the argument, I can get away with it, and he says, but is there profit in it? Well, not really. Well then why are you doing it? Why are you wasting your time? Now that's not the only thing he's going to say. That's part of it. He's going to go beyond that to go to a second. All things do not edify. He says, does this thing build you up? And the answer is, of course not. How could going into a temple and how could capitulating and basically compromising, how could that build you up? How could that be profitable for you spiritually? How could that not be detrimental? He's like, obviously it is detrimental. Don't do it. That's the point that he's making. So positively, he's basically saying this: you and I need to be committed to doing what's right in everything. We need to do what is right. We need to do what is profitable. We need to do what builds up. We need to think about how our actions are affecting the people around us. You know, I I might say, oh I could I could do this and it's not going to hurt me, but what about your kids as they watch it? Do you think it might hurt them? What about a young Christian who hasn't developed much discernment? Have you ever considered that you take that action, there may be long-term ramifications down the road for that particular individual? We need to consider these things. In other words, our actions aren't just about us, it's also about how it's going to impact other people as well. And so Paul is putting this in as part of the calculation for how we're supposed to respond. Well, after hearing all these things, the question is how do you apply it? Well, I'm going to break it into two parts. One is the negative response, and the other is the positive. What I mean by the negative is here's what we don't do. The positive is here's what we're to do. Negatively, we need to be willing to think honestly about these issues. There are lots and lots of things in the Christian life. that we're really not willing to think them through honestly. You say, how do you know that? Well I know that because the apostle Paul had to write 2 Corinthians to defend his apostleship because he got the people so upset at him. They didn't want to think about it. They did not want to hear him say, Don't do that. They said, You don't understand the pressure. He said, I know the pressure. Be willing to think the thing through. And I think that there are times in our Christian life that God may bring something to our attention. It might be a conversation that we have with somebody. It might be something we read in a book. It might be a sermon that we hear. It might be that our consciences never bother us about an issue, but all of a sudden, something just kind of starts nagging at us. And we start going, you know what? I never really thought about it from this angle, but I am starting to think about it now. Don't bury that. Work it through. Now just because your conscience is a little bit afflicted by something doesn't mean your conscience is right in its affliction. But you need to work through the issue. You need to have biblical discernment. You need to make sure that you have a principled approach to why you do or don't do the things that you do. But the question is, are we even willing to think honestly about the issue? Are we willing to ask the question of ourselves? Sometimes it comes because our kids ask us, well, why do we do that? This other family doesn't do that. Or why don't we do this? This other family does do this. Or you're telling me I can't do this, but I don't see anything wrong with it. Why can't I? And you know a lot of parents are like, hey, don't be rebellious. Don't push back. Do you have good answers? Do you want your kids to be robots or do you want them to have discernment when they become adults? Teach them how to think. Work to the issue with them. Admit, you know, where you struggle a little bit. Be transparent. There's nothing wrong with that. That's a good thing. Secondly, we need to make decisions based on principle, not emotion. There are certain topics That the truth is, we do not make the decision about them because of what we believe to be right. We really do it because of what's easy. Or we think it'd be too hard for me to not do that. Or it'd be too hard for me to make this change. It'd be too hard for me to disrupt the status quo in the context that I'm working in. So I'm just going to ignore it. You can't do that. There's going to be some kind of consequence down the road when you make that kind of a decision. Make decision based on principle, not emotion. Three We need to resist the curiosity impulse. Just because I want to know doesn't mean I need to. It's just the truth. There's some things that curiosity is a good thing, and there are other times that we go, you know, I mean the Bible does say that we're to be simple toward evil. It wasn't a bad thing that Adam and Eve only knew good in the garden We'd like to know good and evil. Well, guess what? We know evil and it's not good. It's horrible. That curiosity to know good and evil is what we learn when there's wars. It's what we learn when people abuse one another. It's what we learn when people make willful, sinful decisions that have desperate consequences. That's how we know evil. We need to resist the accommodation impulse. I could blend these things two together and I can come up with something that makes everybody happy. Actually it won't We need to embrace a thoroughly Christian distinctiveness in our culture. And what that means is that there are going to be some things we have to say no to. There 's some things that we're gonna have to start cutting out, or some things that we're gonna have to start doing, and and we've got to be honest about it And by the way, when you have questions, go to the most godly and stable Christian you know and say, I want to talk to you about this particular issue. And if they're a godly person, they're not gonna be all up in arms when you come and talk to them. They'll give you good insight, they'll they'll honestly admit their limitations and just talk to the issue with them. On the positive side, here's what we need to do. We need to consider the rich spiritual blessings available to us in the local church. When we come to the gathering of the church, we need to get to the place where it's not just about duty. I gotta be here. I mean, we should be here, don't get me wrong. But that really shouldn't be our primary, our primary motivation. We should say, I anticipate God's going to do something special in my heart today. I anticipate that I'm going to learn something new or I'm going to be reminded of something absolutely glorious and my heart is going to be stirred by the Spirit of God when I gather with the local church. There's going to be somebody that needs encouragement, and God's going to put me right next to them, and we're going to have an interaction, and through that, God's going to use me to minister to them. And we come to this gathering with an intention That God is going to richly bless us and He's going to use us to richly bless others. Secondly, we need to enjoy the depth of healthy Christian community that's available in the church. This is something that even in our secular society is being talked about a lot. People are talking about how there's this big gap in our culture. And in that gap, people are not they're not mixing. They're on a phone. They're on the internet. They're doing social media connecting, but there's no Sit down face to face, have a conversation, feel like I'm a part of a group of people that are actually involved in something that has real value and significance more than just me. There's a huge lack of community in our society. And God created the local church to be a healthy God -centered place of community. Because really the community is not so much about us connecting to one another, as much as we are as a body connected to Him, and that's what connects us to one another. We need to delight in the rich spiritual significance of the Lord's table. When we come to the Lord's table, it ought to be a really sweet time. A really, really encouraging time. We should walk out of this place going, I feel fed, I feel encouraged, I am so grateful. I just want to say thank you. That's the sense that we should have. And so what's really interesting is the passage, it is negative, but it's not just negative. It's negative, so I can be attached to what is positive. So may God help us to do that. May He help us to actually embrace the conduct of this passage and live in the light of it. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, I thank you so much for the word. I thank you for this passage. Such an interesting concept that we often don't think about. Seems so foreign to us. Yet the truths that are here are so rich and so practical. Help us to be a discerning group of Christians. Help us to love you with all of our being. Help us to delight in the community that we have as Christians with one another. Help us to delight in the sacredness. And the warmth and the communion that is available when we partake of the Lord's table as a church. I pray that you would help us to flee from idolatry and help us to flee into your presence and to delight in them always. In it always. Bless our time of fellowship as we pray together this evening, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen