Well let's go ahead and uh turn our Bibles again to First Corinthians chapter ten. And the text that we're dealing with is just a continuation of A topic that Paul has been addressing to the church at Corinth, and not to mention, it is a topic that put him in contention, hot water, with the church, because They really didn't like what he had to say because it put them in a very, very tough position. But in fact, they needed to hear these things. And so In fact, we need to hear them as well. So I'm going to go ahead and read this text beginning in verse 14, and we will read down to verse 23. Here's what the scriptures say. Wherefore, my dearly beloved, flee from idolatry. I speak as to wise men. Judge what I say. The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ? For we being many are one body and one one bread and one body, for we are all partakers of that one bread. Behold, Israel after the flesh, are not they which eat of the sacrifices partakers of the altar? What say I then that an idol is anything, or that which is offered in sacrifice to idols is anything? But I say that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice They sacrifice to devils, not to God. I would not that you should have fellowship with devils. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of devils You cannot be partakers of the Lord's table and the table of devils. Do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he? All things are lawful for me, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me. But all things edifieth not. Alright, what a very interesting passage of Scripture. In fact, it's really somewhat difficult for us to put ourselves in the position of these people and sometimes understand what Paul is saying. So what I want to do tonight is I want to kind of walk back into this context a little bit and try to help you to appreciate what Paul is saying. And interestingly Paul is beginning to get into the topic of the Lord's table. Now we know that 1 Corinthians 11 is one of the major passages of scripture that talks about the Lord's table. In fact, almost every time that we uh partake of the Lord's table together as a church, we almost always go to First Corinthians chapter 11. And if not 1 Corinthians chapter 11 Um not yeah, chapter uh eleven. If not chapter eleven, then we'll go to uh a passage in the gospels. But first Corinthians chapter eleven is is such a key passage because It says more about the Lord's table than almost any other passage I can think of in all the scripture. What's also very interesting about 1 Corinthians 11 is what is stated is uh is framed in a really dark context. Okay? Paul is basically chastising the church. He's confronting them and rebuking them because they are making a mockery. of the Lord's table. Now, what's important for us to recognize is here in chapter 10, verses 14 through 23, he's actually beginning to talk a little bit about this issue of the Lord's table. And this should give us insight into some of the kinds of problems that were going on in the church. What's going on in the church is that you have people that were completely comfortable going into a pagan temple sitting down and having a meal that was uh a part of we could say uh idolatrous practice for lack of a better way to put it they were participating in an idolatrous festival And then they could go from that context, and on the Lord's day, they could go into the gathering of the local church, and they could partake of the Lord's table, and they in their conscience thought that those two things were completely compatible. And it's not compatible. Okay? Paul is trying to make a point that you cannot do that. It's not going to work. And what's even more fascinating about this is that when Paul would approach this issue with the church, they would not just accept what he was saying. They would literally push back at what he was saying and they'd say, all things are lawful for us. Another way to put it might be, we're under grace. We can do whatever we want to do. Don't worry about it. We're saved by grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone. We don't have to worry about this. Go into the temple and do this and then come to the Lord's table at the church. We can do both of those things. It's okay. And Paul's like No, it's not. , But it's really interesting how he actually framed this discussion. The way he frames the discussion in verse number one is, my dearly beloved. Flee from idolatry. I speak as to wise men. Judge what I say. Interestingly, though this is a very heavy topic, Paul is really approaching it in a fairly gentle way. He says, you are my brothers. Okay? We are a part of the same body. And when he says, I speak as to wise men, judge what I say. Another way to say this is I believe that you have the ability to, and I'm inviting you to just sit down and think through this issue with me. And I think that that's actually a very healthy thing for us to do as Christians. You know, it would be really easy for a pastor to get up and say, you can't do this, and you can't do this, and stop doing this and start doing this, and they just blast all these areas And the truth is everybody's like, well, am I doing it or not doing it because you're telling me to do it and not do it? Or am I doing it because I actually have a biblical conviction that this is right, this is wrong, and I'm going to do it What I love about Scripture is that the Scripture presents it in a way that just pause, think this through, have discernment, ask yourself the questions, and as we work through this, you should be able to see where to stand on the issue. In other words, Paul is saying, I am convinced that if you will just hear me out, think through the issue. then you will understand that you have no business going into those temples and having these festive occasions with people, even though you're feeling the pressure of it in your culture. And so that's what's going on in these verses. So let's go ahead and let's break it down piece by piece. Perhaps we get to it tonight. Maybe we don't. I don't know. Alright, part number one, the spiritual significance of the Lord's table. This is such an important topic. In verses 14 through 18, he's going to make some statements that I think are very, very profound. And I would say that in Baptist church circles, we almost sometimes uh we really do not handle the Lord's table well. I'm just gonna say that uh as a general observation. In most Baptist churches, the Lord's table is really used like a confessional. And people sit in their pews and they are terrified to partake of the Lord's table. And I know that in a lot of churches People just they will not come to church on the Lord's table day, or maybe they will they will leave at the end of the service or they'll sit there like there's no way I'm gonna partake because I don't want to die because I forgot to confess some sin And you might be in here today going, I feel that way sometimes. If you feel that way, it's because you've not been taught properly about this issue. It's because it's not been presented in in a healthy way. There are deep warnings about the Lord's table. But the truth is that the Lord's table is not supposed to be a Baptist confessional. It's supposed to be a celebration. It's supposed to be a time of remembrance. It's supposed to be we use the word communion because it's supposed to be a very reflective and a very sweet time. And so that is the sense that we should have when we come to the Lord's table. And I hope that in our church that is the sense that you get. That's what we're trying to communicate when we do this. So notice what he's saying here. He says in verse 14, Dearly beloved, flee idolatry. I speak as to wise men, judge what I say, the cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ? We being many are one bread and one body. We are all partakers of that one bread. Behold, Israel, after the flesh. Are not they which eat of the sacrifices partaker of the altar? Now when he uses that word partaker and he uses that word communion, what he's basically saying is that when we gather together And we connect as a body, and we eat that bread in unison, and we drink the juice in unison, and we consider the implications of that bread and what is pictured. And that Jews and what is pictured, there is actually a spiritual union that is taking place in a very profound and special way. It's not just a physical action. There's something very profound that's going on. There's something that we don't fully understand. Now, I am in no way suggesting that that bread becomes anything but bread, and that juice becomes anything but juice. It is a picture, it is a symbol, it's bread, it's juice, that's all it is. But we can go a little too far on this and be like, well, that's all it is, so there's not more going on in that moment than there is. The truth is that this should be a very sweet time, a time that we feel a deep communing, affection for God, and for others in the body. His two considerations for the church are simple. Run away from idolatry as fast as you can, and be reasonable and think through what I'm saying. So let's think about the nature of the Lord's Supper for a minute. And part of it is what we have here, and then part of it we're really going to dig into this in chapter 11, not so much tonight, but we will kind of reference those things. The Lord's table is a sacred remembrance that memorializes the body and blood of Christ and enables us to enjoy sweet communion with one another in Him. The Lord's table isn't something we do at home by ourselves. The Lord's table is something we do when we gather together. Do you realize that the Lord's table actually is exclusive? Now in our church we practice what we call close communion. So we don't say if you're not a member, you can't participate. We actually are more open than some Baptist churches are on the issue. But it is exclusive in the sense that a person cannot partake or should not partake If number one, they're not a Christian, they don't understand what's going on. They're simply visiting here, but they don't understand the implications of the table. And then number two A person should not participate if they're coming in a way that's inconsistent with the weight and the gravity of what it is. And so when he talks about partaking in an unworthy manner, He's saying that the way that you approach it needs to be consistent with what it is. So if someone is flippant and careless and doesn't care, that's a huge problem. So there actually is to be a tightness on some level to the Lord's table. And it is on the shoulders of people to make that choice themselves. Let a man examine himself. I'm not the one who examines you, and you're not the one who examines me. We examine ourselves. We say, am I a believer? And am I coming to this with the right heart attitude? But when we gather together as a believer, We experience something that is very sweet. We are connected as a body and we are remembering together what unites us all. And that's a beautiful thing. It 's not a means of grace to contribute in some way to our standing with God. By the way, this is what separates how we look at the Lord's table from the Roman Catholic or the Orthodox or even, we could say, a lot of the Reformation tradition. They don't all look at it the same way, but there are some viewpoints that are this is contributing in some way to my salvation. There's nowhere in the text of Scripture that teaches that This is a symbol. This is something we remember. It doesn't add to our salvation in any way. Who you are in Christ doesn't change Because stronger or weaker because of the Lord's table. But your understanding and your appreciation and the experience of thinking through these things and how it warms your soul, that's really what's affected And so it's not a means of grace contributing to your salvation or strengthening you and your position in Christ. It's not a confessional where we wallow in misery as we consider all of our failures. And I can say that as someone who, for many years in my life, that's high-purched the Lord's table, I promise you. I remember I remember looking at the church calendar when I was a teenager and I'm like, oh, the Lord's table is this Sunday, and I gotta spend like an hour in prayer trying to remember everything that I could possibly confess to God. And then of course I always felt like I forgot something. And then I'd be like, can I do this? That's not the point of the Lord's table, folks. That's not. It's all about you remembering what Christ has done for you. And it really should be a joyful time. It should be a sweet time. It's a memorial that pictures what God has done for us. And when we go to the 1 Corinthians 11 passage, it says That as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. And so it's all about him. It's all about him. It's a sacred way. It is sacred in the way that it unites us in communion with God. and one another as a body. There is a real spiritual communion being enjoyed in that moment as our minds are drawn to reflect on the truths of the gospel. And by the way, this is not just true about communion. This is true about lots of aspects of local church worship. And perhaps you've experienced it. I hope you've experienced this. And if you haven't, I hope that you will at some point, that the scriptures are read, and as you begin to think about what's being read, those truths begin to really settle into your heart. And as you think about them, as you chew on them, as you reflect on them, it begins to move you emotionally in a very profound way. You ever experienced something like that? Or, let's say that you're singing some of the hymns, and we try on Sunday morning, we try to have a lot of continuity in our in our services. So from the scripture reading to the things that we pray about at the beginning of the service and then the songs that we're singing, there there's kind of this unity, there's a flow, there's a progression of thought that's going on there. And if you think about the truths that are being expressed in those songs, there are times that it just uplifts you. Or maybe someone does a special and as you listen to that music and as you look on that screen and you think about the words of that song It begins to really move your heart. There is something really sweet about coming to church and actually being moved to such a point. Where you just want to praise God from the heart with all of all of your energy, or or maybe you begin to weep. Not like you're grieved, but that you're humbled and you're You're softened and it's encouraging. There are songs that we've had in our service or there have been times in a service that it moves people. I've seen it even as I'm preaching. I've seen people moved in such a way. I personally know what it's like to be in such a situation. And so the question is, what's the cause of that? Is it just like we're emotionally manipulating people? Hey, in this church, we don't emotionally manipulate people. If we err, we err on the other side of that for certain, okay? Well, there's a lot of context to go into and it's it's all about the mo it's like it's going straight to the emotion. The head is not engaged, but we really focus in on Getting the mind engaged with truth so that the emotion is stirred from the mind. That's the point. And the truth is that God can do this in lots and lots of different ways And there's something very special about gathering together as a church. When we neglect the local church and we kind of isolate ourselves out, we are missing out on the opportunity to be in that context. where the word is being preached to us collectively, not individually in a little house. Like I listen to podcasts all the time. I listen to sermons all the time. I read my Bible in the morning, right? And there's benefit in all those things, but there's something very special about being gathered together as a body where the Spirit of God is moving in our midst as a congregation. And so this is something that's supposed to happen at the Lord's table. We take that bread and we eat it and we think about the body of Christ broken, or we take that juice and we drink it and we think about his blood that was shed. That physical action connected to the understanding of what it represents is something that the Spirit of God can use in our hearts, not just as individuals, as a body. And the Bible uses a , there are a lot of passages that talk about the spiritual significance, the deep spiritual significance of gathering as a body. Verse 16: The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread that we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ? And that term is quinia. The idea of a community. There's something very special, uniting about it. Or here's another one, Matthew 18. I know this is a little bit more of a negative context. This is talking about when there's church discipline involved. Where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst. This is true when we gather to make heavy decisions. By the way, church discipline isn't like the pastor gets mad at somebody and says, Well, you can't go to church anymore. Like, that's not biblical. Church discipline is I'm burdened about an individual and I go to them and I talk to them and it it's a it's one of those serious issues and there's a series of steps that are taken and people are resistant and they're hard and and they're callous and they want nothing to do. with what the Bible teaches on this issue. And when a church comes to the place where they actually have to take an action, it involves the entire congregation. And when the entire congregation is involved, there's a heaviness. And there's a love for that person, not an animosity, not an anger, not a nastiness, but a brokenness, a desire to see that individual restored. I mean, we've had situations in our own church where someone's been unfaithful to their spouse and they're hardened and they're rebellious against the Lord, and we've ended up in a situation like that before. That's a sobering thing. If it's done the way it's supposed to, according to God's commands, God is moving and working in that situation. Ephesians 2. 22, he says, you are built together for an habitation of God through the Spirit. This is true as we grow together in spiritual maturity. There's something very sweet to watch people grow spiritually. And you know, you don't see physical growth is is different than spiritual growth. Like, you know, if you haven't seen your grandkids in a while and then you're like, oh yeah, there they are, and you're like, well, what happened to you? This kid's like so tall. Or you got kids growing up in your own house and then one day you're you're like standing next to them in the kitchen and like, what happened to that kid? He's not a little guy anymore. What's going on? Or you're watching him ride a bicycle or doing something and all of a sudden it just hits you like, wow, that that kid's becoming a lot bigger and a lot more mature looking and we see it physically but spiritually it's true too. You see how people handle situations. You see how they respond to the word of God. You see how they love one another and how they interact with people. And you go, that person's growing. God's doing something in their life. Well, that's supposed to happen in community. 1 Corinthians 3. 16, know you not that you are the temple of God, the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. And we tend to focus in on this being an individual. I am the temple of the Holy Ghost. That's true. But that verse is saying, we. We. He's not just focusing on the individual. That's true. But when we come together and we are bound together as a body, then he moves and he works in our midst. And so the gathering of the church isn't just something we do, I mean it shouldn't be just something we do because we feel obligated or we have to be this because we love that assembling because we don't know what God's going to do there. Every time I get up and I preach the word of God, I don't know how God's going to move in a heart. I don't know what has been going on in someone's life potentially. And how God's going to take something that's been stated that I I have no no knowledge of that scenario and God takes it and just drives it home. Or maybe the way that I intended it What I'm trying to hit here, actually, God takes another piece of that that I wasn't thinking about and he drives it home over here. God does that. So when we talk about the gathering of the church, we talk about the Lord's table, sacred thing. It's no small matter So what are some implications here? Well, when we read the scriptures and listen to preaching, we're putting ourselves under the influence of the Spirit to move and work in our hearts as individuals in our midst of the body. When we pray as a body, we are knit together in spirit as we come before the Lord in prayer. I hope that when we get together in our groups and we pray. I hope first of all there's fellowship that we end up having conversations and that that bond that we enjoy on a basic level gets a little bit deeper each time we gather together. But I hope that as we as we get on our knees or as we Bow in prayer, we lift up these requests that there is a bonding that takes place in those moments. Because we're brothers and sisters in Christ. And we're lifting up requests to our great God. And we're carrying those burdens in our heart as we think about the things that people are dealing with. When we sing praise to God as a body, our hearts are knit together in the same way. Too many churches are de-emphasizing congregational singing. And making the worship service basically just an entertainment context, that is not what the church is supposed to be. The church is supposed to be a place where you gather and we all contribute. We all sing. We are the choir. I mean, I'm all about the choir singing, but we are the choir. And when we gather together and we sing praise to God and we pray and we listen to the word, we are contributing in worship. The Lord's table has that same unifying effect on the body. It's not strictly physical or neutral. It is sacred and not to be treated lightly. Now That is a positive statement about the nature of the Lord's table. Here's what's really interesting. Paul is now going to step out of that world and he's going to say, in the same way that the Lord's table is sacred and there's something very significant going on there spiritually, he says the same thing is true when you walk into that pagan temple. But it's the exact opposite. You're not connecting with God. You're not unified with believers. You are worshiping demons. What a shocking statement. What an absolutely amazing thing. And somebody say, well, hold on a second. I thought that uh idolatry, these are stones and And these are wood images. They can't hear, they can't see, they can't talk, they do not have power. And Paul would say, yes, that's true. But Who you are communicating with through those images, those are demons. That's what he's saying. That's a pretty shocking thing. Idolatry is not a neutral thing. Worshiping through those images is actually worshiping demons in the place of God. So notice what he says in verses 19 and 20, the spiritual significance of idolatry. He says, what say I then, that the idol is anything, or that which is offered in sacrifice to idols is anything? But I say that the thing which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to devils or to demons, not to God. And I would not that you would have fellowship with devils. Now, you know, that's something that you and I probably don't think about at all. That we could actually involve ourselves in behavior that is communing with evil. Rather than God. But obviously that's what Paul's saying here. So again, his two considerations: run away from idolatry as fast as possible. My dearly beloved, flee from idolatry. In the same way that we're supposed to flee from sexual sin, the same way that Joseph fled from the presence of Potiphar's wife, we need to flee from idolatry. Be reasonable and think about what I'm saying. Verse 15, I speak as to wise men judge what I say. So Paul's saying, give attention, ask yourself some real questions. Think about the significance of what you're doing. And so we're going to wade into this a little bit in a way that maybe we don't think much about. In the same way that we consider the significance of gathering together as a body, eating bread, drinking juice Remembering the death of Christ as a body, the spiritual significance of that thing, he says, consider the nature of pagan festivals. An idol does not have actual power. Meat in a pagan temple is just physical meat. By the way, uh when we eat bread at the Lord's table, it's just bread. When we drink juice at the Lord's table, it's just grape juice. But when you consider what we're doing as a body and according to the command of Christ, and reflecting on it as he intended, then it's more than just eating juice or drinking juice and eating bread. There's a spiritual dynamic to it. Doesn't change the nature of the elements But it does not change the fact that there's something very significant spiritually going on in that moment. He says the same thing is true when you go into those pagan temples. It's just meat They're just stones. They're just blocks of wood. No power. But what they represent, when you go into that context, that's evil This does not mean that the actions taken in a pagan temple or involvement in pagan ri rituals, or this does not mean that the actions taken in a pagan temple or involvement in pagan rituals are insignificant. These actions are spiritually significant. They are not neutral. Eating meat in a pagan temple had Spiritual significance just like partaking of the Lord's table had the sacrificial and the sacrificial system had spiritual significance. The objects of worship in pagan temples We're entirely evil and we're to be avoided 100 %. That's what Paul's saying. So I want us to consider some implications. Why is it that people in the first century were okay going into a pagan temple and being a part of a festivation that they would say, hey, you know what? All things are lawful for me. It's just me. An idol is nothing. What does it matter? What was the motive for people? Well, there are all kinds of motives. And by the way, you and I cannot always know what people's motives are. So we should be very cautious. Just because someone's doing something doesn't mean they've thought it through. Just because somebody's doing something doesn't mean that they're thinking consistently. Doesn't mean that they're willfully trying to be rebellious. We have to be very cautious about people's motives. But what God does call us to do is be a discerning people, to think things through in a godly way. So some of the different motives that popped into my head as I thought about this, the first would be ignorance. There were people in the church that probably never really thought through the issue. These are brand new Christians They're just barely beginning to understand the basics of the Christian life. They understand that Jesus came, that he died on the cross for their sins, that he rose from the dead. They are so thankful to be saved, and they've not thought about the issue at all. And you know what? Paul's saying, I'm encouraging you to stop and think about what you're doing. A second group would not be in the same category, and that is there were some people that were just bluntly rebellious. Paul could say, don't do this, and they could say, I don't care, I'm going to do it anyway. Now, why did they say that? Well, because there was a great cost if they chose to isolate themselves from these practices. They would have to face pressure maybe from their families, maybe from the people that they worked with, maybe from their neighbors. And so they said, I do not want to deal with the pressure, I'm gonna just go ahead and do it because I'm gonna go along to get along, and even if Paul tells me it's wrong, I don't care. I'm not gonna deal with this pressure. There are a lot of people that were like that. And by the way, that's why Paul had to write 2 Corinthians to defend his apostleship, because people were happy with him because of some of the things that he was saying. Here's a third possibility. And this is something that can most definitely happen, especially if someone has been saved out of a truly pagan background, where they have they have seen the power of witchcraft. They have seen what evil forces can do. They know that there is something really going on, and they are fearful of what someone can do to them when it comes to an issue like witchcraft. Or they know about the power, they know about the knowledge that can be given to someone who is actually truly practicing those things. And so in a moment of weakness, a person could revert back and in doubt could begin to Dabble in those issues again. They start looking back when times get tough and their faith is tested. This is very interesting. You know the story of Jacob and Laban? What did Rachel do when they fled? She stole the idols of her father. You probably don't think about that very much, do you? Why did she do that? Because there's a lot of money there? No, it's because she was superstitious. That's just the bottom line. She believed that she was going to be protected if she could take his gods. And so she takes those and she hides them. And when Laban confronts Jacob, he was like, We didn't take your gods. Whoever's got them, let them die. And he didn't know his wife's bitch, she's got them, okay? But it's like, why is that? Or you know what's really interesting when when the Bible talks about Abraham, it talks about how he he it says our fathers left their gods on the other side of the flood. You realize that Abraham was a pagan idolater before he became a believer in Jehovah. It's kind of interesting when we read the Bible and we start realizing that there are people that sometimes dabbled in these issues and it would surprise you. And so sometimes in a moment of weakness people revert back to the old ways. They're very conflicted in their heart. It's wrong, but in a moment of weakness and doubt they do that. And so that would be a potential motive. A fourth is syncretism. They were trying to make accommodation for two worldviews that are incompatible. This is a huge problem. It's all over the world. In fact, I would say a lot of what is called Christianity around the world is just its syncretism. It's taking the truth of Scripture. and then kind of adapting those things into the culture and the religious system that's already there and kind of adding to this system Jesus and some things. Okay? That's it's a it's a huge problem. Now when you take those things and you blend the two together, do you have the truth anymore? No, you don't. You may talk about Christ, you may talk about the cross, you may talk about the resurrection. You may talk about a lot of similar things to a true biblical church, but the reality is what you have is this very tangled-up mess. And by the way, it doesn't just happen in foreign contexts. It happens in America too. There are lots and lots of churches, quote unquote, that really have become syncretistic in their theology. And they've adapted practices that are not in the Bible. And so one of the reasons that we have to be so committed to the authority of Scripture, the Scripture alone is our final authority. when our with our teaching, our practice, all those things is because we constantly have this tendency to drift off course and we need the Bible to pull us back. So to the best of our ability, what we walk with a consistency according to Scripture. And so this issue of syncretism was huge. I believe, reading about what was going on at Corinth with the Lord's table, there was a syncretistic aspect To what was going on at the Lord's table. People got intoxicated at the Lord's table. Okay? That's what he says in 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Why did they do that? Because they were adding some things in that they were doing in their culture. And that's why it was such a big deal. Syncretism. And the last one I mentioned is fear. They do not want to face the public pressure and potential humiliation. That is the one that probably gets us the most. We just don't want that distinction is something that makes us uncomfortable. We don't want us to have somebody look at us and say, oh, you're one of those Christian people. Oh, you don't do the fun things that we do. And you're like, well, I mean we're not like totally like that. I mean we got a couple of areas where we're different, but I mean, you know. And so what do we do? We we make these accommodations because we don't like the price. And so it's really easy for us to get hard and nasty towards these people, but the truth is we've we face all of those things in our own situation today. So in modern consideration, the context for our temptations are different, but the principles still apply. We don't have pagan temples to walk into in uh in Roma County. Well maybe we do. I don't know. I just don't know where they are. Of a different religious system, right? But that's not a temptation that you guys are facing. But you know what? We do have areas where we're tempted to compromise. We do have areas where we're tempted to kind of like Let's blend it up a little bit. You know, out of fear, I don't want to be, you know, the guy that's not participating in this activity or that activity that everybody's laughing at. I don't want to be a part of that. And so we we make these adjustments. I would also say we become far too desensitized to evil and have become far too willing to compromise in these areas. This is the problem that we have in our society today. And by the way, it's not a new problem. It's something that has been a constant problem in the church from the very beginning of the church. There's never been a church that didn't struggle with compromise and being consistent at any time in history. The greatest first-century churches were very very troubled churches at the best. So I want to move from that very quickly to some final thoughts under this point. We need a biblical view of Satan, demons, and witchcraft. We can have a lot of different ways that we kind of fall off the cart on this issue. And I'm going to give you some examples of what I mean by that. The first is we can have an irrational paranoia about Satan and demons. We can have this idea that every time I'm tempted, Satan tempted me. I I've I've heard people say, Man, the devil's really beating me down today, and I'm like, there's one devil and there's a lot of billions of us, and I don't know why he's going after you today and every single day because there's a lot of other people he's kind of like a leaving off the hook. Or we could get into our heads that every time we we experience some like random weird thought, like it's it's demonic oppression or something like that. But let me tell you, it can be. It absolutely can be. And so we need to be cautious that we don't have this irrational paranoia, that we really think scripturally about demons and Satan and their power and their limitations. Satan is a created being. He is not God's peer. He is not equal in power to God. God isn't like intimidated by the devil, okay? God doesn't need you and me to fight the devil because he doesn't have the ability to do it. The devil is not omnipresent. He's only in one place at a time. He's not all-powerful. He has limits. If God tells him no, he's got to sit there. If God says, you can go this far but no further, he can't go any further. He's like a dog on a chain He's pretty vicious where he's given freedom, but where he's limited, he is limited. He can't do anything more than God allows him. He is not the source of all of our sinful thoughts and temptations. We do have a flesh. And most of our sin goes right back to our own sinful passions welling up in our souls. But there's another side to this too. We can have a very dismissive attitude about Satan. We can say, well, you know, he's not omnipresent. He's not all powerful. Yes, he's not the source of all of my evil. So I don't need to worry about the devil. He is an extremely intelligent creature. He is well practiced. He is persuasive. He is deceptive. He knows how to exploit vulnerabilities. He is well organized. I can tell you that when we talk about Christian ministry, there have been several times over the years in ministry where I have seen seasons where, in my opinion, I can't like see in the spiritual realm or anything like that, okay? That's not what I'm saying. But I can tell that there are things going on that are more than your usual problems that people encounter. I've seen it on the mission field. I've seen it even in this church. And you say, well, what do you do in those situations? You just get on your knees and remind yourself that you're under God's authority. And that your responsibility is to do what's right, and you pray for those individuals that are struggling and you pray about the situations that you know are very intense. And you say, God, help us all to be faithful and endure this season. And when we get through, we're going to be stronger. We're going to be wiser. We're going to be more dependent on you. And we're going to see your hand of blessing again. And you know what? That's what he does. But even in people's families, they experience these seasons. We can also have an unhealthy curiosity. And I think that there are a lot of times that people go, you know, I'd like to read a book on this to kind of learn a little bit more. I remember when I was in college. Getting this book written by Meryl Unger. Did you have Merrill Unger a priest in this church back in the 70s? It's true. He did. He started Calvary Baptist in Glen Burney He had this extensive book that he wrote on demons in the world. I just remember reading this book. Now it was a theological resource. But I think I was reading it more out of a curiosity. I was like, oh, I wonder what he's got to say. He's going through all these things. I think we should be very, very cautious. about reading, studying, watching videos simply because we're curious and we want to know about these things. It's very dangerous for people to dabble in these things. And I will tell you that there are people that over the years have done that and they do not realize the can of worms they're encountering. We can also be entertained by evil, and I think this is something that our society today has a huge problem with. The devil is not a fantasy. He's not a joke. He's real. He hates you and he hates me and he hates God's work. And so we really shouldn't be entertained by the devil or entertained by demons. Or entertained by witchcraft or entertained by occultic things. Yet our society thinks it's a joke. And the reason they think it's a joke is because we think, well, we're modern people and this is all just a fantasy world. It's not. You know, when people put together books, when they write uh scripts for moo movies and plays, and all those different kinds of things, a lot of times they research these things well, and the reason they do that is because they actually believe that this is real. But by bringing it as an entertainment, it kind of desensitizes us to it. We need to be very cautious. It's not cute, it's evil. It's not something to laugh about, it's something to mourn. And so the reality that Paul is trying to paint here is this. There is a positive reality of the beauty of the church. And there's something very spirit , a spiritual reality that we enjoy when we gather together, but there's another side. And when people go into these pagan temples and they begin to worship, yeah, it's just a block of wood, yeah, it's just a stone, but you know what? They're worshiping demons. They're playing in a realm that in fact is very dark and very evil. And it's not just an ancient problem, it is a problem today as well. And it's not just a third-world problem, it's a problem all over the world. In fact, as Christianity wanes in the West, you know what is actually beginning to grow an interest in these things. Why is that? Well, because people want to know about something spiritual. And so we have to be so cautious. I think there's both a positive and a negative side to this. The positive is let's delight in what we have in the church and in truth. The negative is let's flee idolatry. Lord willing, next week we will get into the need to be consistent. And so I hope you'll join us for that. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Our Father, as we think about this passage of Scripture, we think about this topic. I know it can make us feel uncomfortable. But it's there in the Word. It's something we need to address. And Father, I pray that you would help us to not be enamored by evil. To not be enamored by spiritual darkness, to not be entertained by it, to not think it's cute and funny. But help us to realize spiritual darkness is truly evil. And help us to love the light. Help us to love the word. Father, help us to love the gathering of the church. Help us to love true biblical worship. Help us to love The work that you do in our hearts through your word. And I pray that rather than being enamored by the darkness, we would be drawn into the light and we would glory in it. Bless our time of prayer. I pray that our fellowship would be extremely sweet this evening. As we gather and we pray together, we lift up requests. May it be a wonderful time. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.