Okay, well good evening. Got a lively bunch tonight. Everybody's all fired up. That's what happens when it rains for a month, right? Well just be glad you're not in the back with the kids. I bet they're really a lively bunch too, but Anyway, we're going to go ahead and start out with a word of prayer, and then we'll sing a song tonight I think is uh appropriate for what's going on outside. A shelter in the time of storm. And then we'll get started with our study tonight. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your faithfulness and your goodness. And as we gather tonight, I pray that we would have a greater sense of how good a God you are. As we think about the fact that we are sinners who are redeemed, yet we still struggle. on a daily basis in our walk with you, I pray that the truths that we lay out before, that we look at this evening from your word would just speak to our hearts. Help me to communicate this text effectively. And just bless our fellowship together, be with the children in the back, and pray that you would also just bless our time of prayer together. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. 99, a shelter and a time of storm. We'll just sing two verses, the first and the last verses. Oh, what a we are in my Can we hide? Just there is a time of story. Oh we listen , Oh here we land , a weird , a weird. Oh, run we must go back. We here shelter in the time. We have our year. Alright. Good song. Okay, well tonight we are back in Matthew chapter six, and so I'd like to invite you to turn there with me, Matthew chapter six, and we are working our way through the Sermon on the Mount. And at this point in the sermon, we're working our way through the Lord's Prayer. And so we are looking at verse 12, but in order to just kind of familiarize ourselves again with the context of This passage, let's begin in verse 5, and we're looking at the statement, forgive us our debts. As we forgive our debtors. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Here's what Scriptures say. And when thou prayest, Thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have the reward. But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou shuttest thy door, pray to thy father which is in secret. And thy father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly. But when ye pray, use not vain repetition as the heathen do. For they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking Be not ye therefore like unto them. For your father knoweth what things ye have need of before you ask him. After this manner, therefore, pray ye. Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name Thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Now the passage in front of us is an important passage for us to dig into, and there's a lot of, I think, potential question that can come as a result of what we just read this evening. So let me give you a summary statement. And then I'd like us to work our way into the content of these verses. Because Christ wanted his disciples to enjoy continual fellowship, and that is a very important piece of what we're going to talk about tonight. Because he wants his disciples to enjoy continual fellowship with their Heavenly Father. He taught them to ask God to forgive their debts. Now, when we use this term debt And it talks about the debt a person is owed. Don't think in terms of financial debt or money. He's talking about a grievance, something that has happened between one person and another, where one has wronged the other. Because he's going to talk about the fact that we need to ask God to forgive our debts. And we are to forgive our debtors, those who owe us debts. That's what he's talking about. So as we look in these verses, we're going to see that God wants us to be conscientious. and maintaining healthy fellowship with Him. And so in order to do that, we're going to work our way through these verses. First truth, I want you to notice tonight from the text is this. We are to walk with several constant realizations. Now notice the verse. It's a simple one. He says, forgive us our debts As we forgive our debtors. Now, I want to begin by reminding you what it doesn't say. And the reason for that is that sometimes when we read something, we we just kind of like Insert our own thought into it without considering the words that are there. For instance, he did not say, Forgive us our debts if. Now, there is another passage of scripture where we're gonna have to talk about that concept. And after the Lord's Prayer, he actually comments back on this, but the statement is not forgive us our debts if we forgive our debtors. Or he doesn't say forgive us our debts because We forgive our debtors as if the reason, the basis for which God forgives us our debts, is that we forgive other people. No, the reason God forgives us our debts is because Christ has paid the penalty for our sins. It's another thing that's interesting. He doesn't say, as we forgive our debtors' debts. There's a difference between talking about the debt that is owed and the individual itself. So those are three things that are not stated. He doesn't say forgive us our debts if or because or forgive our debtors We'll forgive our debtors' debts, he says, as we forgive our debtors. In other words, he's talking about their attitude towards the individual, not so much the wrong that they've done. And that is actually an important piece for us to consider as we work our way into these verses. So here's what he's saying. Here's the point. There's a certain sense in which Christians continually need God's forgiveness. Now, last week we talked about the fact that we were to pray Give us each day our daily bread. So God's going to provide for my daily needs on a day-by-day basis. In the same way that there is this continual need to ask God to provide for our daily needs, there is a continual need for us to remind ourselves that we are sinners And we sin against a holy and righteous God, and we need to remind ourselves that we should admit to him, here's what I've done, and we remind ourselves again and again and again of the basis for which he forgives us. The work of Christ on the cross. We're going to eventually go to 1 John 1, and we're going to see this laid out in another text. The second point is this. This is a continual need. Continual need. Not just for us to get forgiveness, but for us to give forgiveness. Now why is that? Well, because we live in a world where people wrong us. There's nobody in this room that has gone through life without wronging other people, and there's nobody that's going to go through the rest of life without wronging other people, and there's nobody Who's going to go through the rest of life without other people wronging us? This is a part of living in a fallen world. And guess what? The people that might wrong you the most are the ones you live with. That's right. Your wife, your husband, your kids, your parents. Why is that? Well, because we live together and we interact with each other all the time And so the potential for us to sin against each other, it's very high. So first point is that we need to be reminded that we continually need God's forgiveness. And number two, we need to continually remind ourselves we need to forgive other people because they're going to wrong us. Thirdly, I want to remind you that we're not forgiving their debts, but rather the person. Now, that may seem like it's a little bit of a mute point, like why are you why are you saying that? But if you look carefully at the wording, it is what he says. Forgive the debtor, not the debt. Now here's why this is significant. This is focusing on the relational sense of forgiveness, not the judicial sense of forgiveness. You and I do not have the right to judicially forgive another person's sin. Do you understand that? In other words, if somebody commits a terrible crime, you and I, against this, we can't say, well, I forgive you. God doesn't have to deal with you now because I've decided you're forgiven. You can't do that. In fact, it's interesting in Luke chapter 5, verse 20, there is a conflict with Jesus and the religious leaders, and this is what is stated When he saw their faith, he said unto him, Man, thy sins are forgiven thee. And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this which speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone? Isn't that an interesting statement? In other words, you are not able to judicially forgive a person because you don't have a basis to do that. But you are to relationally forgive people. And there is a basis for that, and we'll talk about that a little later tonight. Fourth thing, those who understand forgiveness and have personally experienced God's forgiveness. Recognize they need to freely forgive others, and that is how they live their lives. Now, we're going to look at another passage. Again, I keep saying this later on tonight. Where that is going to be the focal point of Paul's reasoning with the Colossian believers. Here is why you are to forgive. And he talks about the basis of it. This final point will be an important consideration as we interpret the rest of the verses that come later in the passage. It's ultimately an additional this is not ultimately some additional condition where God goes, okay, my hands are tied. If you do your part, then I can consider that and I'll forgive you. That's not what's going on here. Second truth I want you to notice is this. We've got to understand the concept of forgiveness. And this is actually a much more complicated topic than people realize. It really is. When he says forgive us our debts, there's a specific Greek term that's used, but it's not the only term that's used in the New Testament that's translated forgive. In other words, when we think of the word forgive, if we want to understand what God is saying, we need to look at all the words that are used in the Greek text. and the nuance of those words in order for us to really appreciate the concept that is being taught in the scripture. So first of all, I want to begin with the English term forgive. So that we understand that. And then I want us to move into the Greek terms. And I'm not so much concerned about you remembering the Greek terms. That's not the point. It's understanding the nuance of the words that are being used. So modern usage. Stop feeling angry or resentful towards someone that has offended you. That's the way that we tend to use this. Stop being angry, stop being bitter. And by the way, that is a part of forgiveness, okay? But that's not the totality of it If we go to Webster's 1828, which gives us a little bit more of the way it was being used at the time that it was translated in our Bibles, it has this sense: to pardon. To remit as an offense or debt, to overlook an offense and treat the offender as not guilty. By the way, it doesn't mean he's not guilty. It means you treat him as if he's not guilty. There's a difference between those things. The original and proper phrase is to forgive the offense, to send it away, to reject it, that is, not to impute it, to put it to the offender. But by an easy transition, we also use the phrase to forgive this person offending, to remit a debt, a fine, or a penalty. That's Webster's words, not mine. But what does the Greek term that is used here have the sense of? Well, the word aphimi has the idea of to send away, to disregard, to let go of the pursuit of a debt. In other words, even though I've been wronged, and even though I feel I have the right to pursue you and make you pay me back what you What I believe you owe me, I'm choosing to disregard the matter and to leave it alone and let God deal with it. That's really what that's saying. In Matthew 3. 15, it's translated this way. Jesus answering said unto him, Suffer it to be so now. The idea is: make an allotment for it. That's the idea. Or another example in John chapter 12, verse 17, or verse 7, he says, Let her alone, against the day of my bearing hath she kept this. It means Leave this person alone. Don't hound them about the issue. That's the idea. Or in Matthew chapter 4, verse 20, it says, they straightway left their nets. And they followed him. It's to abandon something. There's a reason that when Webster wrote his definition of forgive, that It reflects these. It's because he was looking at the way that this term was being used in the Greek text when he explained the English term. And then in Matthew 5. 24. Leave there thy gifts before the altar. Go thy way. First be reconciled to thy brother. Then come and offer thy gift. Leave it alone. So what is the sense of this word? Someone has wronged you in your heart, you expect them to pay you back, and you're hounding them, and then at some point you say, you know what, I'm going to let it go Now when I say I let it go, I'm not saying it didn't hurt me. I'm not saying it wasn't wrong. I'm saying God, your court, your jurisdiction, not mine. You do with it what you want to do. That's what I'm saying. In other words, I'm releasing the burden off of my shoulders and I'm letting God deal with it. You know how many of us would ease a lot of our pain and suffering and our misery if we would learn to do this? We hold on to things in our heart, and we pursue people with our grievances, and we have no power to resolve the issue. And if we could, the way that we go about it would be very destructive. He says, let it go. Release it. That's what the word Athiami has a sense of. A second word, and this is only used once, is apaluo. It means to dismiss, to send away, or to acquit. And then there's a third term. This is the term that Paul is using the most in the epistles. And that is charismi. And the root there is charis. Charis is the word for grace. And so part of this idea of charisma is to be kind, to be gracious, to show favor. That's what he means by forgive. In other words, instead of me treating this person with disdain And instead of me hating and despising this person, instead of me doing everything in my power to get even with them and to undermine them, I'm treating them with grace. I'm treating them with kindness. I am being good to the one who has done evil to me. That's what we're doing. Romans 8. 32 It says he spared not his own son, but he delivered him up for us all. How shall he not with us also, and here's where the word is, freely give us all things. That's the same word that's translated forgive in other places. Freely give. In other words, He is giving us something we don't deserve. Is this not the way we live the Christian life every single day? First Corinthians 2:12. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God, that we might know the things that are Freely given us of God. There's the word again, freely given. In other words, it's all of his grace. It's God showing kindness and favor to a person who doesn't deserve it at all. So, when we forgive someone, that's what we're doing. When we don't forgive someone, we're doing the opposite of that. That's basically what we're doing. And so I give you the simple definition. It's a choice to stop clinging to an offense or pursuing the settlement of, maybe I should have used the word perceived, o debt, to extend grace. And show kindness. It is the opposite of seeking revenge. That's what forgiveness is. God tells us that we are to ask God to forgive us our debts as We are forgiving the the the debts of others. We are forgiving the debtors that owe us debts. That's what he's saying. In other words, God's forgiveness of debts Is what we're seeking, and our willingness to forgive the debtor that owes us is what we are doing. Now, let me give you a couple of examples of this. I want us to see it on God's side, how God forgives us. And I want us to see it on our side, how we forgive others. So the two examples that I thought of, the first one is David. And when we think about David's sin with Bathsheba, the Bible has a lot to say about that particular issue. When we go to Psalm 51, we see how David pours out his heart to God, and the way that he speaks to God, the way that he prays, it indicates The way he feels toward God, how God is dealing with him, what he what he's asking God to do. So that's the first example I wanted to address. When God forgave David's sin, what was taking place? Well When God forgave David's sin, he chose not to hold the offense to David's account. What should have happened to David because of his sin of adultery? He should have been executed. I mean that is what the law called for. And he didn't just commit adultery, he also murdered. So y you could almost say that uh he'd he'd he'd he committed two capital offenses. He had committed adultery. He had murdered. God had every right to expect that that took place. But what did God do? He spared his life. He chose not to hold that offense to David's account. And in Psalm 51, you see David's prayer, have mercy on me, O God, according to to thy loving kindness, according to thy tender mercies, blot out my transgression. And he goes through that whole passage of scripture. David is in heaven today because God forgave his sin. He is experiencing real fellowship with God forever. And he did experience fellowship with God after this moment. God forgave him. Secondly, when God forgave David, he did not reverse all the natural consequences associated with David's Now, David sinned, God forgave. Did God remove all the consequences? The answer is no. He absolutely did not. For instance, the child died. Terrible. David's family was troubled by internal conflict, and this was directly connected to David's sinful practices in the home. There is a reason that David had problems with his children. There's a reason that one of his sons rebelled against him and overthrew his reign. It's because David failed on the home front in many, many ways, and it linked back to the things that he did in this situation. Bathsheba's grandfather Ahithophel hated David with a passion. And he did everything in his power to undermine him and destroy him when Absalom overthrew David. So there were real-life consequences for what David did. David was forgiven, but consequences continue. Thirdly, when God forgave, when God forgives us, he may choose to act in mercy, but he's not necessarily obligated to show mercy on every single level. When I say God be merciful, I'm at his disposal. And when I say God have mercy on me, that doesn't mean that he is obligated to do everything that I desire. He may. But that's his prerogative. And so God restored David's throne. He was able to minister to him in his misery, but he also refused to let him build the temple. You see that? Now, did David get to say, okay, here are the things that God has to do because I said, have mercy on me? And he didn't get to do that. But God was merciful to him. He spared his life and he was good to him. When God shows us grace, he shows favor to us despite the offense. God blessed David's union with Bathsheba, not his sin. But he gave him a child, Solomon. And Solomon is the one that followed David as the king, and he's a part of the lineage of Christ. And so when we see that story, that's not God putting his stamp of approval on David's decision saying, hey, you know, it doesn't really matter. Yeah, you know, in that moment it wasn't the best, but that's okay. That's not what God's doing. It's his grace. He's taking a sinful situation. He's not putting a stamp of approval on it, but he's saying, I'm bigger than this situation. I can accomplish my purposes despite what's gone on. That's what God was doing. And so this is how God deals with us. But then I want us to see the side of man's forgiveness of other people. And I want you to turn with me to Colossians chapter 3 for this one. This is very important because what we're going to see in Colossians 3, 12 to 15, is we could say Paul's echoes of what Jesus is teaching in these verses. Here's what he says. Colossians 3. 12. He says, put on therefore as the elect of God. Now, what is he saying? What I'm about to tell you applies to you because you're a Christian. That's what he's saying. So you're to do this because you're my child. And then he says, you are holy and you are beloved. Holy means you're set apart to God. That's a part of your position. Beloved is God's affection towards you as his child. So because you're his child, because he set you apart unto himself, and because of his intense love for you as his child , This is how you're supposed to live. And by the way, we see this pattern all over the New Testament. Romans chapter 6. Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? He says, God forbid. How shall we who are dead destroying sins, live any longer therein. Reckon yourself to be dead to sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Same concepts here. So he says, put on bowels of mercy. You ever you ever heard someone say that that person just like they like poured their guts out or something like that? This person, they're just like they're just like spewing all their internal emotions And you're like, oh, I feel very awkward right now. I didn't want to hear all these things. What do they say? Their heart is talking. They're just, they're speaking from their gut. When he says put on bows of mercy, what he's basically saying is this, you as a Christian are to have a heart of deep love and compassion for others. That's what the word the the phrase bowels of mercies means. It's deep-hearted compassion. Put on kindness. Put on humbleness of mind. Put on meekness. Meekness means that instead of me using the absolute force that I'm capable of, I restrain myself. And I only meet to the level that I need to to to deal with the issue. You don't have to to meet force with you know An infinite amount of force, you meet force with necessary force. That's what you do. And so that's what meekness is. I am controlled, I'm restrained, I'm responding appropriately. Even though in my passions I don't feel like doing that. Meekness. Long suffering. That means I put up with a lot of garbage from people. Forbearing one another. It literally has the idea of I'm I'm carrying this load, this weight, and I'm still doing it. And I'm still doing it. Got some guys in the military, you guys remember rucking? Okay, rucky. And you carry in this load, you just keep going, you keep going, you keep going. That's the idea. Bearing long, forbearing. Sometimes people's actions and their attitudes they weigh on us. And he says just just carry it. Be tough. Bear along with these people. And then he says, forgive one another. And that word forgive is the last of those words that we looked at. And the idea is you're showing grace, undeserved kindness to this individual. He says, if any has a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. Now, ooh, that's important there. He goes back to position. He says Because you're a Christian and because you're set apart to God, and because you are beloved, and because God has forgiven you, you are supposed to forgive other people. That's what he's saying. Above all these, put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness. In other words, the highest quality in this story is you love other people. Love God, love your neighbor as yourself. Let the peace of God rule in your hearts. That's not, okay, I have peace about this or I don't have peace about this. That's not what he's talking about. The peace of God is there's peace between you and God. You are his enemy, you've been reconciled to God through the death of his son. That's what he's talking about. And the same way when we look at the Christian armor and he says we're to have our feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, what gives you stability is you say, There's peace between me and God. Not because I earned it, not because I purchased it, not because I deserve it. It's because he gave it to me through the cross. That's the idea. And so what he's basically saying is this you forgive other people, and you're deferential to other people, and you bear along with other people because God's done that to you over and over and over and over and over again. So what's the point? Remember who you are. Remember how he's dealt with you in grace. Bear long with difficult people, refraining from vindictive actions or attitudes. Stop clinging to your grievances. Release your perceived rights to be the enemy's judge. Show the one who has wronged you kindness. Now, does that mean that they're gonna decide to in turn be kind to you? Not necessarily. But they might. But in some sense that's irrelevant. That's not why you act the way that you do. We respond to others on the basis of how God has dealt with us. Now, I do think it's important for me to give you a couple of, I don't know if caveats is the right word, but a couple of things to consider here. The first is this: forgiveness is not removing consequence. Someone would say, well, man, so so I just like let people off and they never have to face consequence. No, no, that's not true. Just because you forgive someone doesn't mean consequence is gone. You know, when your child does wrong and you have to discipline them, You know, they say, I'm sorry, Dad, I'm sorry, mom, I forgive you. It's not like, okay, well now we can walk out of the room because I don't have to discipline you, because we got the forgiveness thing out of the way. You say, well, I forgive you, but there is a consequence and you need to face that That's a part of this process. It's a part that's important. David still faced consequences, even though God forgave him. God loves him. God showed him great kindness. God was very merciful to him. But he still He still faced consequence. Trust lost is not automatically restored by forgiveness. This is important. Someone says, well, I'm forgiven. So Trust me again. No, actually, that would be a very foolish thing to do. You say, well, then you haven't forgiven me. The fact that I show you grace and kindness doesn't mean that I respect The viewpoint that is unbiblical. Just because I've showed you grace and kindness doesn't mean that the trust that's been broken is all of a sudden established again. The fact is it takes time to rebuild those things. And so trust is not automatically restored by forgiveness. Choosing to forgive does not mean you will magically forget the wrong. People say, well, for forgive and forget. Well, here's the truth. When somebody's wronged you, You're going to remember it. It's not like it just goes away and it's gone. It's still there. But there's a big difference between remembering something happened and rehearsing it to yourself. There's a big difference between those things. Because one is I know it happened, and the other is saying, I want to think about it. I want to dwell on it. I want to reflect on it. There's a big difference between those two things. Forgiveness is choosing not to rehearse the wrong or nurse the wounds. And I think it's important to say this: you cannot restore every broken relationship, but you can choose to leave wrongs in God's hands. There's a passage in Romans where it says, if it be possible as much as life in you, live peaceably with all men. That's a very important passage. You know why it's important? Because there are some people that say, if somebody has an issue with me And it doesn't get resulted resolved, then I know it's on my then I know I have a problem on my side. And that may not be the case. Now it could be the case, don't get me wrong, but not necessarily. There are some people you cannot resolve things with. Because in order to resolve an issue, you have to admit your part and resolve your side, but they have to do the same on their side. And then when they come and meet you and you come and meet them, the fact is, even though you have both admitted wrong, it doesn't mean that your relationship magically goes back to the way that it was. It's going to take time to heal and to mend and to rebuild. In the same way that when you go to the doctor and you have to go under the knife for surgery and it takes you weeks and months to heal from an injury. The restoration of relationship can take a long time. To where it becomes healthy and strong and vibrant could take a long time. And if we love people, and on both sides are willing to do us right, we can do that. We can work those things out, but it takes time. And so I think it's important to remember those reminders. Third thing. We are forgiven in one sense, yet at the same time in need of forgiveness in another sense, and constantly being called to forgive others. You go, that's confusing I'm forgiven. I need to be forgiven. I need to forgive. How does all that work out? Notice I said in one sense. Okay? In other words, there's a kind of forgiveness that you have now and forever. There's a kind of forgiveness that you need over and over and over again. And you will always have people you will have to resolve issues with. In verse 12 he says, as we forgive our debtors, I'm asking you to forgive me, and this is what I'm doing with other people. It's happening at the same time. This just this is a part of life. This is a part of relationship. Some sometimes people, you know, they get married and they're like, I'm never gonna have a conflict with my spouse. We love each other so much. It's gonna be this amazing relationship. And you know, it could be an amazing relationship, but you're still gonna have to resolve issues between yourselves, okay? That's just the way that it goes, all right? Sometimes premarital counseling is is like helping people to wake up and realize, guess what? Real life isn't Your dates, right? That's just not the way life works. You're gonna buy a house together and you're gonna go through a lot of challenges together, you're gonna deal with in-laws together, all that good stuff. Raise kids together, make financial decisions together. You're gonna have conflicts. You're going to have to resolve issues between yourselves. That's a part of life. The forgiven need forgiveness. We are simultaneously saints and sinners. Did you know that? We cannot, or we can be accepted in the beloved yet out of fellowship with God at the same time. Isn't that an amazing thing to think about? You know, when Paul writes to the church at courts, he talks about them as saints, and then he talks about all their sin, and you're like, which one is it? He says it's both. You are positionally righteous and there's nothing changing that. But you're practically living like a stinker. You are not living like a Christian. You're living inconsistent with your position. You are saved and you're forgiven, but you're walking in sin. We have this conflict that takes place in the already but not yet. We are saved judicially. We are still walking in a fallen world and in fallen bodies. There's a constant need to maintain health in our walk with the Lord. That's why 1 John 1 is in the Bible. Listen to what it says. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie. And do not the truth. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Now Was John a believer when he wrote this? Well, of course he was. Was John a godly man when he wrote this? Yes. He was probably a fairly old man when he wrote this. But he didn't say, if you say that you have fellowship with God and walk in darkness, you lie and do not the truth. He didn't do that. He said, if we. You know what he's saying? I'm in the same place you guys are. Nobody on this side of glorification has arrived. This is something we all deal with. This is something we're always going to deal with. Until we go to glory, we're going to deal with this issue. And so I'll bring it like this. If we say we're walking with God yet excusing our sin, we're wrong. I use the word self-deceived. That's what the text says. We say we're in fellowship with him and we walk in the darkness. We lie. Who are we lying to? Ourselves. Self-deception. If we believe we have reached a point of sinless perfection, we're wrong. He says if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. The truth is not in us. Again, self-deception. When we sin, we need to face our sin honestly and acknowledge it to God. That's what he means by confess our sin. We are agreeing with God about what we've done. This is what God calls it, and I'm gonna go ahead and I'm gonna say this is what I did. I'm naming it. I'm admitting it. I'm acknowledging my wrong to God. That is what David's doing in Psalm 51. Against thee and thee only have I sinned. Is he saying, I didn't sin against Bathsheba? He's not saying that. Well, I didn't sin against the people that were having to lie for me. I didn't sin against her husband Uriah. I didn't sin against those soldiers who Who received orders from their king, who abused his authority and said, Withdraw from this great mighty man and let the Philistines kill him. He's not saying sin against those people. He's saying, You know who I sinned against more than anybody else? I sinned against you. That's confessing our sin. When we do this, we are reminded that the blood of Christ cleanseth us from every sin. I love this. He is faithful and just To forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You know what I'm doing more than anything else when I'm confessing my sin to God as a believer? I am reminding myself again and again and again and again. of why the cross was needed. That's what I'm doing. Instead of me taking the cross and trampling it and saying, I don't need this I'm reminding myself of the cost of my redemption and what gives me forgiveness and cleansing in the presence of God. There are two kinds of forgiveness. One is legal and one is relational. And I pointed that out earlier here. He didn't say forgive your debtors' debts. He says forgive your debtors. Okay? In other words, he's looking at the relational side here. And this is what we're doing. There's a relational kind of forgiveness, and there's a legal kind of forgiveness. We talk about justification. God declares us legally not guilty. He declares us righteous. Imputed righteousness. Not practical righteousness. We're not practically righteous. We are positionally righteous. There's a difference And so in John 5 24, he says, Verily, verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that set me, hath everlasting life, shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. Well we could say it this way. Until that happened, you were under wrath. You were under condemnation. But you have now passed from death to life. That's the legal side of forgiveness. John 3. 18, he that believeth in me is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already. Because he hath not believed on the name of the only begotten Son of God. Legal forgiveness. Judicial. Romans 5. 1. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Judicial. Legal forgiveness. But then we come back to 1 John 1 and what do we see? Relational. In verse 6 he says, if we say we have fellowship. with him. Fellowship, important word. He then goes on, he says, if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. What 's his point? He's not dealing with how you become a Christian in 1 John 1. You already are. He's dealing with how you enjoy the eternal life he's given you. He's talking about the qualitative side of our eternal life. He's talking about community. He's talking about fellowship. And so In 1 John 1 9, when he says, we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive and to cleanse, he's saying, your fellowship has been broken and it needs to be addressed. That's what he's saying. And so an unwillingness to address our sin hinders fellowship with God. That's the whole point of Matthew 6:14 and 15. If you forgive men their trespasses, your Heavenly Father will forgive Forgive you. If you forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses. What's his point? He's talking about the fact that a person who says, you know what, I'm not going to forgive you. I'm not going to give poor grace out towards you. I'm going to hold on to my grievance. I'm going to be bitter and angry at you. And I'm going to demand my pound of flesh. Okay? And then you go to God and you say, Forgive me? And He says, Aren't you forgetting something? What about your brother? Why don't you take care of that and then come talk to me about it? That's what he's saying. Does that mean you're not a Christian? No. It means you're not in fellowship with God. Interestingly, in 1 Peter, when he talks about the relationship between husbands and wives, he talks about husbands. He says, Dwell with your wives according to knowledge, and he says, so that your prayers be not hindered. Amazing statement. Why does he say that? Well, because when a man abuses his authority in the home, he doesn't treat his wife the way that he should. And then he goes to God and says, I walk with him. God says, Wrong. Simple. You're wrong. You can't treat your wife like that and then think you're walking with me. You're like the guy in 1 John 1. 9 says, I have no sin. He says, you deceive yourself. The truth's not in you. So the point of this whole text of scripture is a very simple one. God wants us to conscientiously maintain So are we constantly reminding ourselves that what we have in him and how we got it? We need to do that. Are we reminding ourselves? I mean, are we willing to humble ourselves and seek restoration when fellowship with him has been broken, fellowship with others has been broken? Okay. Are we willing to see others and their sin against us through God's eyes? You ever wonder how God looks at one of his children when He's given them so much and they just shake their fist in him his face and say, I'm gonna do this and I don't care what you have to say. You say, we don't do that as Christians. When we sin with a high hand, what are we doing? That's what we're doing. doing. And we look at the grievance, the the things that people have done to us and we we hold such animosity in our hearts, I think we've done far more in the eyes of God to him. Do we recognize the great privilege that we have before God? And are we experiencing a rich quality of that life that we possess in Him? That's the question. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, thank you for the word and the way that you have brought it to us this evening. Help us to be a people who are humble, who love you. Who are willing to release the debts that others have toward us, that we don't have animosity and bitterness toward others. But that we truly show them grace. Because we've received grace. Help us to recognize this is the natural practical outflowing. Of a person living in the light of their position in Christ. So take the word and use it in our hearts tonight, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.