Good evening. Take your Bibles and let's go to First Corinthians. First Corinthians. A lot of kids tonight. That's great. I want to say first of all, we have been royally treated here as always. We've enjoyed our time meeting and re meeting and meeting new faces. as we do each time and enjoy getting to interact with many in the church and we're very, very thankful for that. First Corinthians 6 is where we're going to be tonight. This is an important passage. And as many as you know, and based on the Tuesday night revival crowd, many of us will be very familiar with Scripture. But the Corinthian church had some issues, had some problems. Can you imagine if the Apostle Paul walked in and had a word for the church, do you think you'd listen to him? Yeah, he's the Apostle Paul. He was used by God to write a good chunk of the New Testament. But this church had things better. They thought they knew better. They actually rejected the Apostle Paul. And from what we can tell, Paul wrote at least four letters to them. Only two of them, thinking, we're thinking this is the second and the fourth, are the ones we have inspired and preserved for us. But over and over again, God's people in Corinth rejected Paul's admonition, and there was a lot of issues, a lot of problems. Here we come to a very important subject, and a very important Topic, and I gotta be honest, I'm gonna be as careful and appropriate as possible, but we live in a day and age in which this truth needs to be taught and understood. And I realize that we have some young people, some junior high age and even younger than that junior high young people, and I'm going to be very appropriate tonight with the subject matter that we're going to look at. But this is so important. Our kids are getting indoctrinated and are getting lied to left and right. And let's just be honest, it's not just our kids too. We are in a day and age in which this matter we're looking at tonight needs to be addressed and redressed and reaffirmed consistently. In our hearts and lives, and I say that from a personal standpoint, one who is in the ministry, we need the truth we're looking at tonight, and every single one of us do. So before we even begin to read the scripture, we're going to be in the last half of 1 Corinthians 6. Before we even begin to look at the scripture, let's ask God to help. I know we've already prayed, but while I pray out loud, would you pray quietly, asking God to help us understand truth and to grow and to know and understand exactly what God wants us to take away from this passage tonight. Father, we come to you and I admit I need your help. This these are very sensitive but yet very important issues Would we identify through your Holy Spirit's power, through the Word of God's power, would we identify lies that we have swallowed? That we have believed and that perhaps we have been forced upon because of our culture. And would we see the truth of the Word of God? Would tonight we be liberated to live holy, biblical, godly, sold-out lives? pure lives because of what the truth of the word of God has to say to us. Would you take these scripture truths and would we be reminded again? And would we be helped To know and to be and to do what you want us to be and do. Lord, I love you. I need your help. I can do nothing but fail. Pray you take your word, your truth tonight and implant it, change us, convict us, encourage us. I can't do that. Only you can. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let me begin just by simply reading, beginning in verse number nine. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither adulterers Excuse me, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. And such were some of you But ye are washed, but ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me. But I will not be brought under the power of any. Meats for the belly, and the belly for meats, but God shall destroy both it and them. Now the body is for not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. And God hath both raised up the Lord and will also raise up us by his own power. Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? Shall I take them the members of Christ and make them the members of a harlot? God forbid. What? Know ye not that he which is joined to a harlot is one body? For two, saith he shall be one flesh But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit. Flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body, but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body. What Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own? For ye are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. It's obvious tonight, and it's time we have that we're not going to hit in detail every single phrase in this passage we just read, but I want us to see what God is saying here through the Apostle Paul. The Corinthians had some error. We see some similar error in the book of Colossians. The Corinthian error, they had taken Plato's words. Have you not not the stuff you play with, your kids play with, but the Greek philosopher. They had taken his words and the Plato, the Greeks, they despised the body. They thought it was just a chain that you had to drag around until your soul was set free. And they had taken that to mean that, you know, you know, the body isn't any big deal. I can do what I want in the body. Because after all, it's just material. God's gonna destroy it. I it doesn't matter if you sin or not in the body, because after all my sin spirit now is saved and therefore what I do in my body doesn't matter. Do you see error right away in that philosophy? And Paul does too. And Paul says, hey, don't you know, verse number nine, that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? When he uses that term unrighteous, he's referring to throughout the book the unsaved. And he mentions things that characterize sins that characterize the unsaved, and I'm not going to get into detail of each one because we obviously understand that. But he says this homosexuality, this fornication, this idolatry, all this stuff, that's what characterized the unsaved. They are not going to inherit the kingdom of God because that is their sin, and sin of rejection of Christ plays itself out in love for this world's sin. But look what he says in verse number 11, and I want to see first, consider our past. And such, can you say that next word with me? Were Now, if you don't have a Bible, follow along with me even on your phone, 1 Corinthians 6, because I want you to see the Word of God because my words can't change your heart and life, but this word can. And such were some of you, but ye are washed, but ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. But the first thing we have to understand is that was who we are, but that is not who we are today. That was our past. And many of you could deny, could give me testimony of, yeah, before I came to Christ, I was, and you're not even going to mention it, and that's fine. We don't mention those things. But that's who we were. And yet some of us have the wrong impression, well, you know, Brent, that's just the sin that keeps getting me. That's just what I I just can't get over it. Now hold on, keep your finger here in 1 Corinthians and look over with me at 2 Peter. So toward the end of the New Testament, you find the little book of 1 and 2 Peter. And look what 2 Peter 1 says. 2 Peter chapter 1, look at verse 3. And follow alongs, look what it says here. 2 Peter 1 3 says this. According as his divine power Now who's this talking about? Back up, look at verse 2. Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of our God and Jesus our Lord. So according as his divine power, that's God's power, hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue. There's a lie oftentimes that God's people swallow and hang on to and that says something like this. I you know, I just can't get victory. You know, this is 2022. Have you seen what's on television? Have you seen I just can't have victory because After all, I'm a guy, that's just the way guys think. After all I'm a gal, that's just the way girls talk. And that's no no no no no hold on. Stop that lie right now Paul says in 1 Corinthians, that's who you were, but now you're washed. You're justified. You're sanctified. God's doing a work in you. And none of us are perfect. None of us have arrived. But Peter says something similar. God has given you all things. That's everything you need for life and godliness. All things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of Him that has called us to glory and virtue. If you are a blood-bought child of God, friend, you've been called to glory and virtue. Is what's on your phone glory and virtue? Is what you're watching, thinking, meditating on, glory and virtue? Well, you know, it's just it's just too hard to no no no no no no no you're making excuses, you're believing a lie. You and I, through the grace that God has given, He's given us the grace to be holy, to be pure. That was our past. That's not our present. So don't let it define you And perhaps tonight some of us have believed the lie. Well, you know, that's just that's just the chain that that's just the sin that it 's my the one that rings my bell. It's the It's it's the chain that has me. No no no no no no no. You have swallowed a lie, friend. And tonight through the power of the word of God, through the Holy Spirit's power, you could admit that's a lie, and I don't have to live like that because that was who I was. That's not who I am. Through the grace of God, that's who I was. That's not who I am. So I want you to first back in 1 Corinthians 6, consider your past. Such were some of you. Were. Notice, secondly, realize your purpose. Look beginning in verse number 12. And let me just read 12 through 14. And we'll talk about how this passage is interpreted All things are lawful unto me, and all things are not but not all things are expedient. All things are lawful unto me, but I will not be brought out of the power of any Meats for the belly, and the belly for meats, but God shall destroy both it and them. Now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. And God hath both raised up the Lord and will also raise up us by his own power Now, I realize this is Tuesday night, 7. 25 in the evening, and many of us have worked a full day, we've gotten busy, and we're just kind of winding down perhaps and just kind of sitting here, and you're just glad you made it for the evening service. I get it. I'm there sometimes. And I'm the one preaching sometimes. But stay with me. If you read this passage, you're like, meats, belly. Expedient law brought what in the world is this talking about? Right And I gotta be honest, the first time I looked at this passage and started studying this, I'm like, I don't know. Paul, throughout the letter to 1 Corinthians, he takes the Corinthian slogans, the statements. and he repeats them back to them. And he says, but no, no, no, no, no. This is not true. And he does that throughout the letter, and that's exactly what he's doing here So let me give you the Corinthian slogan. The Corinthian slogan was, All things are lawful for me. You see that in verse twelve twelve, the first part of the verse. They were saying, Hey I can do anything I want because after all, the last time Paul was here, he says that we're in liberty. We don't have to live under this whole Jewish law thing. But what they were doing is they were taking the law and twisting it, and they were saying, hey Since this body is going to be destroyed by God, I can live any way I want. Ha ha ha. Because I'm going to heaven. After all, I've got my past. Get out of hell free card. I got grace. I can live any way I want And Paul says, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, you're missing this. So they're saying, all things are lawful for me. And Paul says, no, no, no, look at the next part. But all things are not expedient. What does that word expedient mean? It's helpful, not profitable to others Paul says, we do have liberty. He affirms that throughout the New Testament. We have liberty. We are not under the law. We are under grace. But that grace is not to hurt other people. When you and I participate in things that are wrong, it hurts. It is not loving toward others. It may not be somebody we know. But when we participate specifically in this immoral sin that's mentioned here in this chapter, when we participate in that, we are hurting. We are not helping anybody, we're hurting others. And Paul says, that's not expedient. That's not helpful. Hey, church member at Corinth, you can say, I have liberty. All things are lawful from Oh, wait, wait a minute, wait a minute. But not all things are expedient, not all things are helpful. The fact that we love our brothers, what's the greatest commandments? There's two Thank you. Appreciate it. Basically we could sum it up as love God, love others. And Jesus said that's that's the law and the prophets. And you could even take the Ten Commandments and almost divide them into half, and you have the first half love God, the second half love your neighbor. That's a simple way of looking at it. But when you think about that How does this sin that was specific to this immorality, how does that help you love God or love your neighbor? Does it? No It's completely selfish, you're self-focused. And Paul says, you may take the grace of God and twist all things are lawful for me. No, no, no, no, no. No, they're not expedient, they're not loving, they're not helpful, no, they're not profitable for you or for the church or for whoever It's not helpful. He goes on, he says, look again in verse 12. The Corinthians say again, all things are lawful for me. I can do what I want. And look what Paul says in verse 12. I will not be brought under the power of any He says we are not to be bound. This goes to the Lordship, the headship that should be in our life. Let me ask you a question. Is this type of sin addicting? Yes, absolutely. I'm going to be very proper and very careful, but science has studied this sin even from a secular standpoint. And it is killing, killing, killing our churches. Absolutely killing. When it says fornication in your Bible here, the Greek word is pornea. Hmm, see any um correlation with the word that's not good in our society today? Does anybody see any correlation? Yeah. No-brainer. And the word that I use to define pornia pornography is any type of um innuendo, any type of suggestive that is toward that, that is against one man, woman for life So let me define it again. Pornea is any type of suggestion that goes against God's plan of one woman, one man for one lifetime. That's pornea. And that's a pretty tight definition. But you study it out. The word pornea also has the idea of to advertise. It has the idea of to sell. And to sell, you have to advertise. So there's also suggestion in there. The world defines hardcore as that. Actually, the Bible defines any type of suggestion, advertising as porneo. And so you know right there, we're on pretty thin ice, we're on pretty thin ground. It's not politically correct. You know what that does? According to the Bible here, it brings you under its power. Now I'm not going to ask for raise of hands. I'm not going to try to be inappropriate, but many of you would know that this is incredibly addictive. Science tells us this stuff is as addictive as crack. This stuff that is killing our churches is enslaving God's people left and right, and it's not just one gender. Studies now say that upwards of 34% of females are addicted to it as well. It is sickening. It's killing us. And what we don't realize is that you and I, and Paul's going to go into this in greater detail. You and I, when we involve ourselves in that, we are taking ourselves out of the Lordship of Christ and we're putting ourselves under the Lordship of filth. We are being controlled by something other than God. That's an idol. And that's idolatry, plain and simple. And so many of God's people, both male and female, are bowing today at the altar of idolatry, fulfilling physical desires that God says no to. And we are idolaters. No, we're not dancing around in a bush somewhere, bowing down to an idol, but we're doing the exact same thing. It's still idolatry and it's still front. We're not loving God. We're not loving people. And Paul makes another statement here. He says, I will not be brought under the power of any. For the Christian, anything that keeps our allegiance, anything that makes us tick besides God's power is something that needs to be be brought under subjection to the Lordship of Christ. And specifically in this passage it's it's fornication, it's pornea. And that pornea word is a broad word as you can imagine. It's all encompassing. But let's just ask ourselves the question: is there anything in my life that has mastery over me? And it might not be evil, it could be money. That has mastery over my mind. It could be food, it could be a beverage, it could be drink, it could be any number of things. And Paul says very clearly: hey, Church of Corinth, we are not to allow anything to be master over us. Why can't we have liberty in this matter? Why can't we just do it because Paul said no it's not expedient, it's not loving for to God or others And secondly, it's not about lordship. You're taking the lordship of Christ, and you're taking away from God and you're putting your lordship, your headship under pornea. No, don't be controlled by that. Don't be controlled by anything besides Jesus. So we need to first realize our purpose. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. Look at verse 13. He says here, meats for the belly, and the belly for meats, but God shall destroy both it and them. He says, no, no, no, wait a minute, you're missing this. The Corinthians were saying something like this, and again I'm going to try to be very appropriate. God's giving me normal appetites, the belly for meats, and the belly for meats, and Follow that on. He's giving me that appetite. And God's gonna destroy this whole body, so it doesn't really matter how I live. I can look at that, I can enjoy it, I can indulge in that Because this body isn't really that important. My soul, my insight, that's saved, and so that's holy. And Paul says, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You're missing the whole point here. Look what he says here. Middle verse 13. Now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord. Can you say that phrase with me, starting with now? Say it with me. Now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord. This is Tuesday night, 730, and I think we need a little bit more, boys and girls. Can you give me a little bit more energy on that, boys and girls? Let's have the boys. Here we go, just the boys. Ready boys? Say it with me. Now the body is not for fornication but for the Oh, that was pretty good girls. Do you think you can do it a little bit better than the boys did? You think you can? Okay, here we go girls. Here we go. Ready? Here we go. Now the I think the girls did a better job than the boys did. Good job, girls. Way to go. Wait a minute, I'm not in kids' class, right? Sometimes I I enjoy kids. I'm preaching to juniors this summer quite a bit at quite a bit. And I love juniors. Because they actually you can see what they're thinking. They don't put on airs, they don't scowl at you. They're either asleep or participating. It's great. Look what it says here again though. Now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord. Wouldn't it be wonderful if every single one of us actually understood this? Our body, yes, this physical flesh, which is going to get resurrected one day, is not for fornication. It's not for pornea. Who's it for? The Lord. Paul's going to expand this argument further. Many of you know these verses. You probably, like I didn't memorize them as a kid. The body is not for fornication, but for the Lord. It's for God. And we need to understand our headship, our Lordship is Christ. The body is not for fornication. What's our purpose? Our body is for Him. And Paul is hammering this point home. He's saying, No, no, no, church, you're missing this. You're using wrong faulty logic. They were saying, well, you know, the meat meat's for the belly, the belly for meats, God's gonna destroy everything, and you know, I got these appetites, God gave me these appetites. So certainly I need to use these appetites, if you know what I mean. And Paul says, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The body is not for fornication. It's for who? The Lord. The body's not for fornication, it's for the And we need to understand that. When we're flipping through the channels, when we're scrolling on our screens, we need to realize and understand my body is not for fornication, it's for the Lord. I don't have a right. I don't have the uh wherewithal to look at this stuff because it's not for me, it's for the Lord. And he's going to expand this further. He says, consider the resurrection. Look at verse 14. And God hath both raised up the Lord and will also raise up us by his own power. What do the Corinthians say? Oh, this body, it's immaterial, it's inconsequential, God's going to destroy it. And Paul says, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Look at verse 14 again. God's going to raise it up and will also raise up us by his own power. He raised up the Lord, and just like he raised up the Lord, the Lord's the first fruits, Jesus was the first fruit, he's going to raise you and I up as well. That's why God's people historically have held to a biblical view of resurrection. We believe in a bodily resurrection. Now you ask me how that's going to happen if a person's been cremated or lost at sea or the body's been lost or burnt up or whatever. I don't have to answer that. Because I'm not God. If God created the world and he formed man out of the dust of the ground, he can take care of that business. But that's why historically God's people, and I'm not saying this is a hard and fast rule, that's why historically God's people have been buried, bodily buried instead of cremated. Again, if your loved one, if your relative it was cremated, don't think for one second that I'm not I'm downing that. That's a sensitive issue. It's not hard and fast, but that's why God's people historically have preferred and and even uh believed in burial, bodily burial, because of the respect for God's temple that this is and the fact that God said, I'm gonna raise it up one day in that last day. So there's the resurrection. Consider the fact that God values your body. God has a plan for your body. God doesn't want your body, your physical makeup to be brought under the power of any whether that's illegal drugs or prescription drugs, legal drugs. And definitely not Pernina. But that includes at the same time any substance that abuses the body. Because this is the temple the Holy Ghost says we'll see. God has a plan for it. So, first off, consider your past, realize your purpose, consider the resurrection. Fourthly, I want you to see, beginning in verse 15, I want you to think on your union. Look at what it says in verse 15. Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them the members of a harlot? God forbid. The strongest language you can find the Greek to say no is those words meg anointed. We is translated, God forbid. No We don't realize and we don't understand the purpose of the union. We are one with Christ. We sing about it sometimes. The fact that we are joined together, we're joined heirs of the Father. You are royalty. If you're a blood-bought child of God, you are now part of God's family. You don't find king's people, king's family living in the slums typically. It's sad. It's newsworthy when it does. Where do they live? They live in palaces. They live separate. They don't interact with different people that they live separately. From you and I, through the justification that we've received through Jesus Christ, through the fact that we are made right, Paul is emphasizing the fact that we've been joined into God. Verse 15, again, know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? And it's not just the Spirit. Notice he uses this word bodies. The body is important in Christian theology. It's not devalued at all. No, it's important. Know you not that your bodies are the members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them the members of the harlot? God forbid. Verse 16, what know ye not that he which is joined to a harlot is one body? For two saith he shall be one flesh. But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit. These Corinthians had believed a lie. They believed a lie that my body I can do what I want because it doesn't matter. I don't know that anybody tonight walked in believing that lie specifically, that the body's going to get burnt up so I can live the way I want. I don't know that anybody tonight would even have this life in particular. But all of us, all of us today have different lies. There's different lies that are in operation, especially if you're a teenager, won't you listen? This is not a complete list, but I I have been collecting lies of the devil, hopefully not believing them, but hopefully just writing them down. Here's just a few that I've written down. Line number one, it's more fun to date than to be married You look at our society, it's all about dating. The age of marriage has been pushed back and pushed back and pushed back and pushed back and pushed back. And I think it's almost 29, 30 years old now for a guy My grandfather got married at 17, bought a farm at 18, fought a war at 19. Different age group, I know, a different generation. But why? Because they were ready. And they got it. And grandma was 16. Oh, I guess their marriage didn't last 63 years. We we we laugh sometimes, but you look at the television sometimes, just turn on the television sometimes, and marriage is always downplayed. The married couples are always the ones in a fight And young person especially, listen to this. The Bible says in Hebrews 13, marriage is honorable and all, and the bed undefiled. God never honors dating or courting even. He honors marriage. He that findeth a dating partner findeth a good thing. No, he that findeth a wife, young men, better learn that. He that findeth a wife, gonna find a wife. You guys Mm -hmm. Have you found a wife yet? Okay, that's fine. You got a few years. And dad's like, yeah, you better wait a few years But for you young people specifically, listen very carefully. God honors marriage. God honors marriage. That's important. Look what it says here. Even in our Bibles, again, look back with me what it says, verse 16. What know ye not that he which is joined to a harlot is one body? For two, saith he shall be one flesh. Here, God again is going back to the original commandment, one man, one woman for life. God honors marriage. The second line to be very careful is about this is the fact that some people begin to believe that there's something dirty, raunchy, or sinful about marriage bed, and that's actually not true at all. I heard preaching as a kid that said something like this, young person, God wants you to be pure until you get married. That's wrong. God doesn't want you to be pure until you get married. God wants you to be pure your entire life. There's nothing dirty, nothing sinful, nothing raunchy about what happens within the marriage relationship. It is beautiful, pure, wonderful. God created it, blessed it, and called it good. And part of our problem perhaps in some of our churches is that we haven't been uh biblical enough in our thinking and teaching our children what marriage is. We've ahead them sometimes. We've all And there's a age and a place for appropriateness, and we should be appropriate. I'm a parent. I've got young young people in my house, but we need to be biblically affirming God's command. This is Beautiful. This is wonderful. There's nothing dirty, raunchy. And that's I have seen that from a counseling perspective drive young people away from a biblical relationship into filth. Lie number three could be the lie that is so common, so prevalent today. LGBTQ plus minus whatever it is, whatever other letter they add to it. I'm not trying to be unkind, but we've got to teach our kids. Oh, this is so hard. It's not natural. It's not right. But I've got friends, family that are involved in that. That's a lot. It's a lie. And you may not believe in the lie that the Corinthians believe, but there's still lies. There's a couple other lies. I'm not going to get through all of these. Line number four is this it's more fun to have an illicit relationship. Read Proverbs nine. The lady that seduced the guy said this, stolen waters are sweet, bread eaten in secret is pleasant. There's always part of our human nature that thinks, Oh If I only had that little relationship, that little it gives us a little bit of excitement. Oh, I'd be so excited. No, no, no, no, no. It doesn't. That's a lie. So many of God's people believe that lie. Well, my life's so boring. They make justification. They let the bitterness into their heart toward their spouse or toward their Toward their church or toward whatever. My life is so boring. I just need a little bit of excitement. No, no, no, no. You're bringing ruin upon yourself. You're killing yourself. Don't do that. Line number five is similar to the former. It's more fun now than in marriage. No, that's for young people. No, no, no. God blesses marriage. Line number six, I've mentioned already. That's just the way guys and girls talk and think. Line number seven says something like this: I won't get caught. Everybody's doing it. I'll get away with it. Or my sin is private. Keep your finger here in 1 Corinthians 6 and look over with me at Hebrews. I mentioned this verse already, but Hebrews 13, verse 4. Look what it says here, Hebrews 13, 4. Marriage is honorable in all, and the bed undefiled. But can you read those next words with me? But whoremongers and adulterers, God will judge. Can we say that last phrase again? But whoremongers and adulterers, God will judge. Is the Bible true? Do we believe it? Of course we do. We're in a Baptist church. We believe it. Well, okay, okay. than what you're doing on your phone, what you're thinking about, what you're watching, what you're listening to, God has promised judgment toward homemongers and adulterers. And the whoremongering and adultering is what it is it's like pornea. Those words are used here in almost interchangeable fashion. God will judge. You're not going to get away with it. And you your lie that you're believing may not be the lie that the Corinthian church was believing, but what we need to go back to is the fact that Christ is Lord. This body is not for fornication, it's for the Lord. And so many times we imbibe different lies. It may not be the exact lie that the Corinthian church was believing, but we imbibe the lies nonetheless. So go back with me to 1 Corinthians 6, and I want you to see verse number 16 again. What? Know ye not that he which is joined to a heartle is one body, for tooth, saith he, shall be one flesh? But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit. Then Paul says this in verse 18: I want you to think on your escape, identify your escape. Flee fornication. Can you say that again with me? Flee fornication. Hey, young men and young women, I want you to look right up here. I'm looking to see who looks to see who thinks they're young and some of you are on purpose aren't looking. But if you're unmarried, I want your attention very briefly. Okay, there's several of you. If there's bad things, and you know what they are, and the Holy Spirit's inside talking to you if bad things pop up on a screen, television. In a magazine or with people you're talking to. Don't try to stick around and hang it out. Run. Run fast. But they'll make fun of me. It's worth it Flee fornication. Don't try to dialogue with them. Don't try to think as we get older, well, you know, I'm theological Strong. I can understand that. I can handle that. You know, I'm trying to counsel the situation. You know, I know it's a little tempting in my soul, and I wouldn't be admitting that, but you know, I can help this person. No, you can't. Not a one of us are capable of handling this. We need the body of Christ. And Paul is saying this to a church: flee fornication. Don't stick around. What did Joe do? Remember Joe in Genesis 39? I love what Joe did. No one would have known. He's the only guy of his family. For all practical purposes, he's dead. And if anybody had the justification to be bitter, it was Joseph. What did he do? Potiphar 's wife, hey, come on. No one's looking. No. I can't sin against God and do this great wickedness. I can't I can't do this. Yeah, come on. She grabbed him He got out of Dodge. And that's exactly what you and I have to do. Flee fornication. And again we come to an interpretive detail that I want to talk about. So again, let me have you engage your brains. You guys are still with me. I appreciate that. Look at verse 18 again. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body, but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body. This is a challenging passage. What does this mean? And I've come to realize again, I've come to fully believe, and if you want to debate me on this, that's fine. We can do it later. I believe that every sin that a man doeth is without the body is another Corinthian slogan. I believe Paul is using that against them. He says, every sin that a man doeth is well at the body. You find here that Corinthians are saying, you know, remember my body, it's all going to get destroyed, and every sin I do. Is without the body, because after all, my body can do anything at once because it's all gonna go in the ground, it's gonna get destroyed, it doesn't really matter. And Paul says, no, no, no, no, no, that that's not true, because look what he says at the end of the verse. But he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body. It's destroying your soul, it's destroying who you are Paul says, no, no, no, I disagree with that. Every sin the man doeth is without the body. No, Paul says, no, no, no, no, no. He that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body He's saying flee fornication. The Corinthians are saying, hey, I can do it because my body's going to get destroyed. And Paul says, no. It's destroying you. It's destroying your body. Peter talks very similarly in 1 Peter 2, verses 11 and 12 and 13. He talks about how that any sin that we do is warring against our own soul. We're destroying ourselves from the inside out. Abstain from fleshly lusts, he says, which war against the soul. And so many times we think, well, I can handle this, I can take care of this. Everyone does this. We believe one of those lies, perhaps one of those lies we just talked about, and what it does, it destroys us from the inside out. Flee fornication. Don't stick around. The biblical example again is Joseph. Get out of there. But they'll laugh at me. My my co-workers will make fun of me because I didn't do that. I g if I don't go to that bar, if I don't go to that place, if I don't enjoy that, if I don't watch that, my friends, who cares? They're not worth having anyway Your body is more important. Your soul is more important. Flee fornication. Because the body's not for fornication. It's for who? Lord, flee fornication. And then we come to verse 19 and 20. And I want you to understand your ownership as we finish tonight What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God, and you're not your own? Notice Paul's logic here. Hey, Corinthians, don't you realize that your body, yes, this physical flesh, is not your own. You don't belong to you. The Lord Himself, through the Holy Spirit, is living inside of you. That's ownership. I don't have a body, it belongs to God Then it says, ye have of God and you're not your own. Decades ago, an evangelist was traveling by train in between meetings. I never got to hear this man preach. I did it via, I think it was an old CD or tape or record, whatever the case it was years ago. But this evangelist was a great evangelist. God used them all around our country and even around the world. And this evangelist was traveling by train, and there was a night where he had was going in between meetings, and this is back in the days of train travel. And he was sitting there in the car and he was just kind of kind of nodding off, and a group of men up in the car were playing cards. They were gambling is what they were doing. And they looked back and they needed the fourth guy or fifth guy, whatever the game was. They needed another guy and they said, Hey, you, you want to play cards? And the evangelists looked at them and said, Uh, I I can't. I'm sorry, I I I don't have hands. They look kind of funny. I back at them and said, What do you mean you don't have hands? What's those things attached on the end of your arms? And he said, Oh, these? They're hands, but they're not mine. They belong to God. They're not mine. I can't do that. It wouldn't be great if God's people actually began to live this out. These hands? They're not mine. They belong to God. These eyes, they can't look at that trash because they're not mine. They belong to God. These feet, they can't go to those places because they're not mine. They belong to God. Your bodies are not your own. And I heard this preached as a teenager, and it's good preaching for teenagers. But it's good preaching for all of God's children. We need to remember: hey, who owns you? Who owns you? Well, my company does. I'm under contract for the next couple. No, no, no. Oh, my spouse does. I have a honeydew list in my no no no no no. Who owns you? The Lord does. What'd he pay for ya? An incredible price. The death of his dear son You know what that means? I don't have eyes. These eyes they're not my own. I have no right To act as though they are mine. I have no right to look at filth, to walk places that I shouldn't, to do things I shouldn't. I have no right because this body is not my own eye. This body is not for fornication, it's for the Lord Because he owns me. He bought me. He's got the title to this body. Good, bad, or ugly. Mainly on the ugly for this case. He's got it. It's all his. It's not mine. And it's time that God's people live this truth out. Look again at verse 20. For ye are bought with a price. Therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit with your gods. It goes back to the argument that we saw back in verse number twelve The argument of being being expedient and the argument of lordship. Love and lordship should be the controlling things that control our life. Hey, I should love God and I should love others so much that I don't want to hurt them, and hurting them is committing fornication, pornia. I'm not going to do that. And because of his ownership of my life, because of the fact that he owns me, he bought me, he paid for me, I don't have a right to this I'm going to follow him. I'm going to live for him. I'm not going to indulge in that. I don't have the right to scroll through Twitter and look at in modesty on Twitter. I don't have the right to look at filth on the internet or look at streaming services that do anything. And you can Every single one of us know it's out there everywhere. And I can't I can't even begin to list all the opportunities that are available today. You're not your own. You're bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. Would God help us? Live this. Practice it. Encourage it within the body of Christ. Teach it to the ones who are growing up in 2022. Wow. We need God's help. Every week I hear stories of ministry friends or acquaintances or people I've been at church with who have failed. Every week. That's sad. It doesn't have to be that way. God, who has called us to grace and glory, has given us all things we need for life and godliness. He's called us to purity. And you and I, through the power of the Word of God, can realize we're not our own. We're bought with a price. Glorify God in your body and your spirit, which are his. Would everyone just bow our heads and close our eyes as we finish tonight? I realize that this type of message is incredibly sometimes difficult to respond to, and I've got to be honest. What we're talking about tonight is incredibly important. I'm not embarrassing anybody, because truth be told, every single one of us need these truths. But without admitting deep, dark, gross sins, tell me to say, Brent, tonight, God spoke. God encouraged. God convicted. God challenged me. In this matter. First off, first question. There's lies that I have believed, that I have swallowed, that I am practicing. God showed me that I am thinking incorrectly in the matter of purity and pornea. God showed me I'm believing a lie. Would you lift your hand? Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you for your honesty. God bless you. Put your hands down. I was going to say, Brent, I I'm not admitting that I'm immoral and I 'm not and I'm definitely not perfect, but God's night spoke to me. God convicted me. I need to live my life Not under the power of anything. God specifically told me you're living controlled by something else. It could be pornea that is controlling you, that is that has got you by the tail, that's wagging you. It could be substance. It could be something that's innocuous that we wouldn't think anything of, but it's got you, and God sold you tonight. Hey, you're not under the lordship of Christ, and this is the reason you're not under it. God spoke to me tonight. I'm not under his lordship like I should be I'm not having him as my Lord. God convicted me tonight. There's something that is in front of the Lordship of God. God the Spirit convicted me. Would you lift your hand to that? Amen. Amen. Amen. Many hands How many, you think you can put your hands down? How many say, finally, Brent, God tonight spoke to me? I I need to live this truth I know this, I've heard this, pastors preach it, I memorize these verses, but I oftentimes live as though my body belongs to me, and tonight I realize once again My body is not my own. The body is not for fornication, it's for the Lord. God has bought me, He's redeemed me. This body belongs to Him, and I need God's help to live that out on a daily basis. I want to be again a living sacrifice. God convicted. God challenged. God spoke. Would you lift your hand? Amen. Amen. Praise the Lord. Many, many hands tonight. Thank you. Put your hands down. I'm going to ask. We haven't done this completely like this just yet. But in a minute I'm going to pray. And then I want us all to stand her feet. And again, I realize that on a message like tonight it's kind of a little sensitive because this is this is deep stuff sometimes. But perhaps there's a teenage boy or junior high young man or lady who God's been speaking to tonight. Maybe tonight you just need to kneel at your seat. You need to kneel in prayer. Maybe you need to come forward and kneel. Maybe there's a man who God's been speaking to you about what you're viewing, what you're doing, what you're looking at. Perhaps there's somebody who's in control of you and it's not the Lord, it's not Jesus. You're under somebody else's lordship and you need to realize that's not who I am created for. That's not my position. That's not my union. That's not who I am. And God tonight used his word to convict, to challenge, to speak to you. If that is the case, and after I pray, I'm going to ask you to take the time necessary to get right, to do business. Perhaps that means kneeling when we stand. I don't know what you normally do all the time, but I'm going to ask us to take some time without singing while the piano plays to simply do business with truth. This is so important. And I know we can just go on our merry way. And yeah, yeah, I'll make the decision later. But if God has spoken, take the time right now. Respond to truth. Father, work in our hearts. Help us be open and honest. Help us respond correctly. Help us take steps toward getting things right. Lord, I need your help. None of us are perfect.