Please take your Bibles and let's turn together to the book of John. We are in John chapter 20 this morning, and we have already read the first portion of this chapter. And what we've kind of done is we've really looked at the bookends. We've looked at how the chapter starts and we've looked at how the chapter ends. And during this time, what we're going to do is look at four different individuals. who had a very specific interaction with the resurrection. And so let's go ahead and look in our Bibles, beginning in verse 26. We'll read down to verse 31 and then work our way through some fascinating and very personal details from that day. Here's what the text says. Now after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas was with them. Then came Jesus, the door being shut, and stood in the midst and said, Peace be unto you. Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands. Reach hither my hand and thrust it into my side, and be not faithless, but believing. Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God. Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed. Blessed are they that have not seen, and yet believe. Many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book, but these are written that ye might believe. That Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing he might have life in his name. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to really help us. To understand the content of these verses. Our Father, we thank you so much for this time we have spent together sing praise to you, hearing those who have been working hard to prepare to sing praise to you that we can all with one voice and one heart Focus in on the glorious story of Christ's triumph over sin and death. And I pray this morning as I as we work our way through this very fascinating passage of Scripture. That the Spirit of God would move in our hearts, would grip us with the reality of these truths. You know every heart, you know those that perhaps have never placed their faith in Christ. I pray that today would be the day That these verses make sense for the first time, that they would understand what these verses are calling them to do, and that they might turn to you with a humbled heart of repentance. And place their faith in Christ. And I pray for every believer here that their faith would be strengthened, their heart would be stirred, that we would worship you with great gladness this day. And we ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. I want to begin by looking at four individuals who are talked about in these verses. In fact, I don't know if you've read through the Gospels over the course of your Christian experience. But as you read through those Gospels, you'll notice some things about the personality and the tone of those individual gospels. Out of all of the four gospel accounts. The Book of John stands as the most unique, and the reason it's the most unique is because it is the most personal There are many details that Luke will talk about in his account. John takes no time to address those issues. There are details that Mark, who moves very quickly through these accounts, He talks about John does not deal with those things. Matthew would be the exact same way. And so people may ask the question, why is it that John is doing it in such a way? Well, the reason for this is that all of the facts have really been established. John 's goal is not to establish the fact of the resurrection. It is rather to show you the story of individuals who personally interacted with Christ all throughout his ministry. And those key stories are things that he's using to drive at one very simple application. And that is where I hope to end this morning. But I want to talk about those four people. The first one is a woman. Her name is Mary Magdalene. And the Bible tells us several things about this woman. For instance, if we go to the book of Luke, when he talks about this woman's life, it says that she was a woman whose life was characterized by great sin. It also states that she was a woman that had been formerly possessed by demons. The reason that she was not in such a condition at this moment was because she met the Lord Jesus Christ and she was gloriously rescued from those horrible things. that had defined her life and everybody knew that. She was literally a slave and to demonic possession. But she becomes a follower of Christ and she loved him very deeply. And the reason for that is because she had been saved from so much. Out of all the people that John talks about in this particular passage, she is the one who seems to be presented with the most gripping emotions, and that has a lot to do with the fact that she was the person who Who is at the cross with Christ? Could you imagine this for just a moment? They're at the foot of the cross, for the whole event, this woman is sitting beside Jesus' mother. And sitting beside Jesus' aunt, she was there. She heard the groans. She saw everything, and I can only imagine how that would have been something that she could have never gotten past in her mind. She was one who went to the tomb. She was the very first person that the Bible says saw the Lord. touched the Lord, spoke to the Lord, and the very first person to bring the message to the disciples that in fact he's alive. Amazing thing to consider. The second person is actually a person who never names himself in the story, and that's because he's the one who we believe wrote the events. And he simply describes himself as the disciple whom Jesus loved. John was a fisherman. He had formerly worked with James, his brother, and with Peter and Andrew, who were men who were kind of known for being intense individuals. He was a compassionate person. In fact we know that out of all the disciples, he lived to be the oldest. He wasn't actually killed as a martyr. He was a pastor for much of uh his time after the the death and resurrection of Christ. And John is often portrayed as a person who had a very pastoral heart, very compassionate. He loved the Lord and he loved the people. He was present at the trial of Christ. In fact, he was known to the family who was there trying to move Pilate to kill Jesus. He was there at the cross. He was the only disciple of the twelve that was mentioned at the foot of the cross. Out of all the disciples, he was the only one for Jesus to say, Hey, take care of my mother. Can you imagine that? He's hanging on the cross and he thinks about his own mom. And her well-being and her care. He tells John to do that. And the Bible tells us that John believes before he sees the Lord. It says that he understood scriptures that he had not understood formally, and he believed that in fact Christ was arisen. He is the first one. And then we come to Peter. Everybody loves Peter. Peter was a fisherman by trade. Amongst the twelve, he was the first to speak. He was the most dogmatic. And yes, he seemed very impulsive. He was present at the trials, but he was reluctant to go in. In fact, John actually had to go out and say, hey Peter, come with me into the trial room. And Peter's like, yeah, I don't think I want to be there. And three times he is confronted, and people say, hey, you're one of his disciples. He said, I don't know that man. In fact, the third guy that does this was a relative to the person that he hacked the ear off. Can you imagine that? He's like, I know you. You're the guy that tried to like cut my my cousin's head in half and you got his ear. I was like, whoa. He's like, I don't know this guy at all. You must be thinking about somebody else In fact, Peter's story is one that is really highlighted in this passage of Scripture. We then come to Thomas. In fact, we don't really hear a lot about Thomas throughout most of the gospel accounts, but John diverts from these other accounts in the sense that he takes a little bit more time to highlight Thomas. Thomas gets a bad rap amongst the twelve. He was a very plain-speaking individual. He looked at situations in a very practical yet skeptical way. Like when Jesus is going up to Jerusalem and he's saying I'm going to die, he's like, well, let's just go up and die with him because obviously we're all we're associated with him. It's going to happen to us. He's a very plain-speaking person. He is very honest in his assessment of how he sees things. He demanded evidence before he committed to belief. Thomas gets a bad rap, but the reality is Thomas was a realist. And he didn't believe the account just because a woman came and told him. Or because women came and told him, or one of his friends' disciples came and told him, or because all the disciples came and told him, he said, unless I see it with my own eyes And I take my hands and I can actually handle those nail prints in his hands. And the hole in his side, I will not believe this. Interestingly, what does John do? He saves the interaction with Thomas for the last because it's the most significant. So these are the players. These are the people who John talks about in his account who walked and talked and interacted with the Lord. So let's move our way through the various scenes that are in this text. The first scene is a scene that is one of simplicity. And what I mean by that is that the person who is in this account that kind of sets everything the tone is a person who is going to come across something that they did not anticipate at all. Notice what it says in your Bible, John chapter 20, verse number one. It says, the first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early when it was yet dark. Now we know that there were actually other women that went to the tomb. The other gospels talk about it. John is not saying there weren't other women that went to the tomb. He's simply saying only one is important for my discussion with you in this particular book. And that's Mary. Mary's desire was a simple desire. She wanted to honor the Lord. Now we know earlier in the book of John that Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus actually prepared the body for burial. So here's Jesus, he's been hanging on the cross, he's now dead. They thrust this spear up into his side to confirm that he's dead. That the pa that they're they're coming up on the on the pr preparation for the Sabbath day. It's a high and holy Sabbath day. And basically these two men say, this man Jesus needs to be buried properly. And so they rush once he's taken down from the cross. They have a tomb that he's going to be laid in. And they very quickly do the work that needs to be done. Probably the best way to put it is this. What Mary and those women were doing is what your mother did when you were a kid. And she said, Did you iron your clothes? And you said, Yes. And you walked out of your room and she said, Give me those clothes. I'm going to iron them again because they are not going to work. You know what I'm talking about. These ladies believed that the job was hasty and rushed, and they wanted to be done right. You know what that tells you? They do not believe that Jesus is going to be gone. They don't believe he's alive. They don't believe that his body's going to be stolen. They're anticipating that when they go there, there's going to be a body. It's going to be wrapped by Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea. They're going to have to redo some things, and they're going to do it because they want to honor the Lord. And so when these women come, what do we see? We see that they come to the tomb and things are very different than they anticipated The second scene that we come to is one of complete confusion. If we look in our Bibles at verses 2 through 9, That is narrated by John, but I want to focus in on one statement that I think captures the entirety of what is stated in these few verses. As Mary comes to that tomb and she sees that it is empty, she does not know how to process this information. And this is what she says. They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we do not know where they have laid him. By the way, it's very interesting. She obviously didn't go by herself, but that's what John focuses on. We don't know where they laid him. Just a little point there. What does this tell you? It tells you that Mary knew the body was gone, but assumed the absolute worst about it. And verse number two, when she says, they have taken away the Lord, She is her very first impulse is not to assume that Jesus is alive, but rather to assume that somebody has stolen the body. But you know what's also very interesting about this? The very first people she goes to is the disciples, and she tells them that somebody has stolen the body. You know what that tells me? That tells me she didn't believe that they were the ones who did it. And so she is completely confused. She doesn't know how to make sense of this. We see secondly that Peter and John also knew that the body was gone in these verses. But the details didn't add up to them. In verses 5 through 6 it says, He stooping down and looking in saw the linen clothes lying. Yet went he not in. Then cometh Simon Peter following him and went into the sepulchre And see if the linen clothes lie and the napkin that was about his head, not lying with the linen cloth, but wrapped together in a place by itself. Have you ever been awoken in the middle of the night? And you knew something was wrong, but you you were so like you could not figure out what was going on. You ever been in a situation like that? I'll give you a classic example for me. When we were missionaries in Ghana, we were robbed one night in the middle of the night. Our dog was growling a little bit. I was like, could you cut it out? And my wife's like, well he doesn't usually do that, so we should see if something's gone on. So I I come out of my room, I walk into the living room and I look around like something seems a little off in here. Like some things don't seem to be here that were here earlier tonight And there's like this ripping our window screen and and and all of a sudden I'm trying to make sense of what's going on. I'm kind of tired and I wasn't expecting to be robbed that night. That's why the guy was able to pull it off. And here's the point. Peter and John were not expecting to come to an empty tomb. And when they look at what's there, they say, something's weird here. The people with the greatest potential motive to steal the body were confused when they found an empty tomb. I think that's a very significant detail. They obviously did not anticipate the resurrection. They obviously had not conspired to craft some fake resurrection story These guys are coming with the same level of confusion that Mary is. They're not weeping and crying, but they don't understand what's going on. And another detail that is so fascinating to me is that they notice that the arrangement in the tomb is that the clothes are there, they're actually separated out. Somebody has taken the time To actually remove certain things and put this over here and put this over there. And I I mean I don't have any experience robbing um A grave, but I don't think I would have done that if I was trying to get in there and get out of there very quickly. That just wouldn't be the way I would go about it, probably. Probably you wouldn't either So the simple fact is they don't get it. They don't really know how to make sense of what they've seen. But here's the third fact under this scene. Before this moment, they did not understand the scriptures regarding the resurrection. But John figured it out. In verses 8 and 9 it says, Then went in also that other disciple which came first to the sepulcher. That's talking about John. And he saw and he, what's the next word? He believed. He saw and he believed Now by the way, he didn't see Jesus standing before him and say, Hey, take a look at my hands and notice my side. He didn't say, Hey, I I think that's him standing over there in the side. Let's go and talk to him and see if that's Jesus. That's not why he believed He believed because in the confusion of this moment, he said some things don't add up. You know what? Jesus did say he would die and rise. He did talk about scriptures and all of a sudden for the first time this man gets it. He understands that Christ is alive, but he hasn't yet seen him. We then move from this scene of simplicity, a person who's very confused, to scene two, people that are very confused, to scene three, a woman in great despair. And we see this in verses 11 through 18. And the statement in this section that I think most grabs and most summarizes what takes place in those few verses is the following statement. Mary stood without the sepulcher weeping. And as she wept, she stooped down and looked into the sepulcher. Mary is no way convinced that Jesus is alive. She believes that someone has stolen the body. In fact, by the time that Mary gets there, Peter and John have run to the tomb, they've gone into the tomb, they've made their assessment of what's taken place, they've gone back to some other place. And now Mary has worked her way back to the tomb, and there are no other humans there at the tomb. It's just her. She's by herself. And she's trying to make sense of what is going on. And John, three times in these verses, he emphasizes how broken and how deeply in despair this woman was. Verse 11, Mary stood without, and she was weeping, and as she wept, she stood and looked in. Verses twelve through thirteen. Mary seeth two angels, and they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? And she said unto them, They have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him. Verses 14 and 15. When she had thus said, she turned herself back. She saw Jesus standing, knew not that it was Jesus. He saith unto her, Woman, Why weepest thou? Whom seeket thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener, said, Sir, if they have borne him hence, tell me where they have laid him, and I will take him away. What do you think John's trying to help us to see here? She was in a great, great, great grief. And so this dear woman does not believe that Jesus is alive. A second detail in this section that I think is important is that in her despair she did not recognize Christ. Now someone might go, hold on a second. So you mean to tell me that this person who was the first to see Jesus, who is weeping uncontrollably Who believes that someone has stolen his body, she's a prime candidate to tell people that he's alive now? Like, come on. Doesn't make a lot of sense to me. By the way, if John's trying to convince people, it doesn't seem like a very strong case to make unless that's simply how it happened. In God's providence, the least credible of all of the potential witnesses is the first to see, to hear, to touch. And to say, I've seen the Lord, He's alive. It's a pretty amazing thing to consider. It says she turned her as she as she as she is looking at Jesus, she didn't expect him to be alive. I think it's also important to recognize that the last place that Jesus was seen by this woman, you know where he was? He was hanging on a cross. In fact, when we read the other gospel accounts, they beat him so brutally that he was literally unrecognizable humanly speaking. His face was beated. They ripped out his beard. They took this crown of thorns and they beat it into his skull. They tore his back and his side apart as they whipped him over and over and over again. They put this draping over him and as the blood began to stick and dry, they ripped it off of him. And he hung on that cross in great physical agony. So I don't think that Mary was prepared for what she encountered. Have you ever seen someone that you thought was the person and it wasn't? Hey, how's it going? Oh, I don't know you. You're like waving to somebody and you realize, ah, I I thought you were somebody else. My bad. Just just ignore that I ever did that. Oh my You go to home take this kid's hand and you realize it's not your child. Oh, I'm sorry. So he's like, what are you doing? I have six children. One of them looks kind of like yours. I'm sorry. Scary, right? The truth is after the resurrection, we really don't know what Christ's body looked like. We know that it was identifiable. Obviously, he still has these scars. and his hands and his sides, and this is a huge deal. Obviously when she hears his voice, she recognizes his voice. Obviously when he speaks to her, he knows her name and she's that's really taking her off guard. But the fact is she didn't recognize him initially. So what was the difference? The third thing we see is when he spoke her name, her despair was replaced with great comfort In verse 17 it says, Jesus said unto her, Mary, she turned herself and said unto him, Rabbenai, which is to say, Master. She knew her name, or he knew her name, and he spoke it to her. She knew his voice and he was comforted by it. He called his disciples brothers for the very first time. I find that so interesting. Do you realize that before this moment, as Jesus refers to his disciples, There is not one indication in all the gospels before this moment that he calls them his brothers. Isn't that really interesting? He calls them friends. He calls them servants. He calls them disciples. Verse 17, go to my brethren. This reminds me of Hebrews 2, verse 9. We see Jesus, who is made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, that he, by the grace of God, should taste death for every man. For it became him from whom are all things, and by whom are all things in bringing many sons to glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through suffering, for both he that sanctifieth And they who are sanctified are all one, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren. It's a pretty amazing statement there. Saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren. Fifth thing I want you to see here And I stated this kind of already. The least credible witness was the first to see, speak, touch, and proclaim his resurrection. Now, there are a lot of reasons for that. Let's remember what time in history we're talking about. This is a woman whose past was very sinful. This is a woman who in her past was known as the demon-possessed crazy lady in the city. Okay? She's not the one you want to say, hey, he's alive. She told me I believe it. And she's the one who's weeping And if anyone could say that is not a credible witness, let's not hear what she has to say, she's the one. Yet that's what God chose to do. I think it shows you something remarkable and beautiful about God's ways. But then we come to this fourth scene, and I want you to think about this. There's been a progression through each of these scenes that John is relating. I mean, at first he's talking about someone who just they didn't understand the situation. They weren't pro or negative. It was just, I don't know. I'm completely unaware of what I'm coming across. Then we move to this second scene where people are completely confused. And then we see this third scene where someone is in complete despair. But this fourth scene is different. This man is a skeptic. He says, I don't believe unless God meets me on my terms, and if he does, then I will believe. We see the skeptic in verses 19 through 28, and that is Thomas. This is the last person that he talks about before John says, here's why I wrote this book. And here's the phrase that I think should really catch our attention. Here's what he says. Except I see in his hands the print of the nails. And I put in my finger into the print of the nails and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. Thomas does not believe that Jesus is alive. In fact, when we go back in verses 19 through 28, the first part of this last scene is that when Jesus goes to his disciples, he goes to them that very night that he is risen. And so it says in verse 19, the same day at even Being the first day of the week when the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in their midst. He literally goes to the disciples. He is so merciful. He doesn't just leave them with, well, there's an empty tomb. Nobody can make sense of it. Hey, he did say some things before he went to the cross, so we're gonna just go ahead and hang her hat on that. Or oh someone said that she saw him and and she touched his his hands and and she actually spoke with him and he called her name and so We're going to put all of our confidence in that. What does Jesus do? He goes to them to give confirmation by physical sight. I love that. Verse 20, he showed unto them his hands. He showed them his side. Then were the disciples glad when they saw the Lord. So they went from being afraid and hiding to being now so excited. He's alive. But John records one detail that's very important, and it's a part of what this whole section, this whole scene is about. One disciple wasn't there. And that was Thomas. And by the way, out of all the disciples, he was the one who seemed to be the most likely to say, give me the facts. Before I say I believe. I'm not going to believe simply by your word or somebody else's word I want to see And so we see in verse, in these verses, 24 to 25, but Thomas, one of the twelve called Didymus, means he's a twin. Was not with them. He said unto them, Except I shall see his hands and print in the nails and put my finger into the print of the nails and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe Then we move in verses 26 and 27 eight days later. I want you to just think about this On the day that Jesus rose from the dead, he shows himself to ten disciples. Mary Magdalene has seen it. In fact, it appears from the other gospel accounts that the other woman who went down to the empty tomb would have seen him as well. And so for a whole week, you have these disciples who are talking about the resurrection, and one of them says, I don't believe. I don't believe you. For a full week and an additional day. Thomas does not believe the report of the others. And in verse 26, it says After eight days again, his disciples were within, and Thomas was with them. Then came Jesus. It's a repeat of what had taken place a week earlier. Verse 27, then said he to Thomas, Reach hither thy fingers, behold my hands, reach hither my hands, thy hands, and thrust it into my side. Be not faithless, but believing. Why didn't Jesus say that? Did he have some inside information? Did one of the disciples go to and say, hey, you know, Thomas doesn't believe the message. You need to go have a conversation with Thomas. And by the way, let me tell you what Thomas said when he said, I don't believe. He said, I've got to see his hands and actually touch them. I've got to see his side actually touch it. Jesus knew exactly what was in Thomas's heart. He's making a point. In fact, John is making a point to conclude all of these stories with this final scene. He's driving home at an application. The fifth thing I want you to see here is that though the last of the twelve Though he was the last of the twelve to affirm the resurrection, his testimony was the strongest. Verse 28, Thomas answering, said unto him, My Lord. And my what? My God. None of the disciples were recorded to have said such a strong statement about who Christ is. In other words, Thomas is saying you're not just a man, you're God in flesh. This event, the resurrection from the dead, has confirmed in my mind something. That you have claimed over and over and over again. You are the Messiah. You're the resurrection and the life. You're the only one that can save us from sin. You're God in flesh. I now Know it is true, and I will testify to it. So that leads me to a very simple question. What did John want people to do with this information? What did he want him to do? Was he just saying, hey, I'd like to tell you a bunch of really interesting stories that, you know, be s kind of fun to talk around the dinner table about and You know, we could we could talk about you know Thomas, he kind of doubted, and now he believes. And you know, Mary, she she came and wasn't anticipating the resurrection. She was at the foot of the cross and She was weeping and she saw Jesus and she grabbed a hold on him and said, don't leave me. I mean that's the picture that's there. Is that the point just to kind of entertain us or give us information? The answer is no. So we can put together this perfect timeline and know exactly when everything happened? No. The reason is very simple. So that you'll become a Christian. It's that simple. In fact, what I love about John is he tells us exactly why he wrote it. Here's what it says in verses 30 and 31. If somebody tells you something otherwise, don't believe them because John answered the question. Here's what it says. Many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples which are not written in this book. He's saying, I didn't write everything that happens. In fact, later on he says, if we were to write everything like The whole world couldn't contain all the books that would have this information. He says, but these are written. So that you might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. And that by believing you might have life through his name. You know why John wrote this? One simple reason. So that you will believe on Christ. Out of all the other books, there is no book that gives more personal detail About how the individuals in the story, who are not really, the story is not about them, it's about Christ, how they interacted with the information that they were given. John wrote each of these very personal interactions for a very simple purpose. He wanted to convince you, me, us, he wanted to convince us to personally believe on Christ. You know what that tells me? That tells me that faith isn't just a leap into the darkness Now there is a side where you're not going to get every single question potentially that you could come up with answered. There's no question that there's a point where you have to make a choice And you have to actually step out and rely on the amount of information that you are given. There's no question about that. But you know what's also true? When God tells us to believe on the Son, He's given us so many reasons to do it that it should be very clear to us. You have all these Old Testament prophecies, and you know what they are meant? To say when this guy comes, you will recognize him. You have all of these interactions that are described in the Gospel of John. Because as these people interacted with Christ, it tells you something about the kinds of people that can be saved. The kinds of temperaments that are out there. There's not a religious temperament and then a non-religious temperament. Either you believe and you obey what God says, repent and believe, or you disregard it and you just say, I don't believe Because we have a person who's very emotionally wired. She believes. We have a man that's that's like, give me the facts, I want to see the facts, empirical evidence, I will, empirical evidence, I will not believe without the facts They're both in the story. We have one disciple who's stepping out and he's always stepping on himself. And you have one who's so compassionate and he's there. The point is, God saves all kinds of different people. Why do we need salvation? It's very simple. Every person in this room is a sinner There's no exceptions. I'm a sinner. You're a sinner. All of us have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There are zero exceptions. People that come to church are sinners just like people outside these walls. You don't come to church because the church somehow gives you salvation. You come to church to hear that you need it, and then you're pointed to what Jesus did for you. We are all sinners and we're all separated from God by our sin, and we all deserve God's eternal judgment, and we do not have the power to reverse that guilt. You and I can't offer to God some kind of appeasement. Oh, we can't press God with all of our righteousness. The Bible says all of our righteousness is as filthy rags. So the very best that I can do for God and the very best that I can present to God is nothing more than dirty rags. You cannot cleanse yourself with a dirty rag. A dirty rag is the best we can give God. You know what that means? That means our only hope is if God does something for us. We do not have the ability to do anything for ourselves to earn our way to God. So our only hope is Christ He went to the cross for us. He took our guilt on himself. He was punished in our place. He gave his life for us. He conquered death when he rose from the dead. To put it very simply. He became sin for us, though he knew no sin, so that we could be made the righteousness of God in him. The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. Jesus did what no other man could do. And Jesus didn't just die, but he conquered death. The resurrection is a triumph. He is triumphing over the consequence that all of us deserve for our sin. Nobody in this room could do that for themselves. Nobody in this room could do that for another. Only God can do this. And he purchased with his death and resurrection a perk a gift called eternal life. Ephesians 2. 8. 9, by grace you're saved through faith. It is not of ourselves. It is the gift of God. It is not of works, lest any man should boast. This gift is 100% of the grace of God. Nobody deserves salvation. Nobody. As long as in my head I think that I do something for God to contribute to my salvation, I'm still not understanding the gospel. When the Bible talks about repentance, it means that I come to terms with the fact I'm a sinner, I've broken God's laws, and my only hope is Jesus And I cannot in any way contribute to this salvation. It's all his work. I simply receive it by trusting in what he did for me. That's really what repentance is. It's me finally coming to terms with that, confessing, admitting what I am and what I cannot do. It's a gift. It's free to you. It's free to me. We don't pay for it. Now that's not to say it isn't paid for. He paid for it. If you believe that it didn't need to be paid for, then you believe you don't need the cross. It's that simple. If righteousness could come through the law, Christ died in vain. If you believe you can earn your way to God through doing good, being good, looking good, coming to church, giving your money, then you are saying, you may not realize this, but you are saying Christ didn't need to come. This whole season was a waste. But he did. And because of what he did, we can be saved. And this gift is available to whoever will humbly receive it. You know what's amazing by the book of John? We have almost an entire chapter dedicated to a conversation with one man, Nicodemus. And Nicodemus was a very religious man, but you know what? Nicodemus did not understand, you must be born again. And you know why that is in the book of John? It's because there's a lot of people in this world who are religious. And they don't understand, you've got to be born again. They're like a Nicodemus. And for a preacher to say you're a sinner, you're separate from God, you deserve his punishment You cannot come to God through your rich or your righteousness. They go, I don't get it. And so he says, well, look at the story of Nicodemus. That's you. Or then we have the story of the Samaritan woman, the very next chapter. Why? Is this large portion of scripture dedicated to a conversation with a Samaritan woman who'd had five husbands and was living with a man who was not her husband? It's pretty simple. Because salvation is for broken people. People whose lives have been wrecked by sin and the sin of others. The truth is we do not know the circumstances to those five broken marriages. We don't know the circumstances. But why is that story there? It's there to say that while society may say that person's an outcast, that person can't be saved, God would never love that person. The Bible says that's wrong. Salvation is available to whosoever will. We have Mary Magdalene, this woman who's enslaved by sin. She's demon-possessed. They're people. That believed because of some choice they made, some statement they made as a teenager or as a young person in relation to the occult, that they could never be saved. And you know what? Every time they hear the gospel, they say, well, it doesn't apply to me because this is what I said, this is what I did, and I've given my my my life to that that kingdom of darkness And I am beyond salvation. And you know what the Bible says? You're wrong. You're wrong. And then we see Peter, this impulsive man Who is humiliated by his failure? And there are people that say, I step all over myself all the time. Certainly God has no use for me. Yet Peter would say not true. And then we see Thomas, who reminds us there are people that say, I'm too smart to believe all that. I'm a scientist. I'm educated. I believe in following the evidence. And there's no way in the world that a man died and rose again. And so, since it's not humanly possible, there's no way I can believe it. And Thomas says, join my camp. I believe the same thing that you did. But I saw him. What's the point? This gift is available to whoever will receive it. By faith alone. And so my simple question is, what's keeping you from placing your faith in this Let's bow for prayer. Before we close in prayer, please keep your eyes closed. I'm just going to ask a simple question. Is there someone here this morning that would say, Joel, I I heard this message and I've never placed my faith in Christ. And maybe I'm a little bit like the Samaritan woman, maybe I'm a little bit like Thomas, maybe I'm a little bit like Peter. Maybe I'm a little bit like Nicodemus. Maybe I'm like Mary. But today I realized salvation's available for me and I want it. And I want to trust Christ. If that's you, would you quietly raise up your hands? I'm not going to call you out. I'm not going to ask you to come forward. I'm simply going to take note that you've heard this and you want to respond. Anybody at all like that? In the quietness of this moment, before I close in prayer, I want to encourage you. If you've never placed your faith in Christ and you want to do that today, then the quietness of this moment, tell God you're a sinner and you know it. Admit to him you understand that you cannot earn your way to him. That Christ is your only hope. And ask him to save you because you believe that Jesus paid in full that price, conquered death. Life and you want it today. Tell him that. You say, well, I don't know if I can get all those words in. The Bible says, with the heart one believes. It's not about what you say. It's about what you understand and embrace. Right here and now, do that. Trust Christ. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I thank you for your word. This is such an awesome passage because it just so beautifully lays out real life encounters with the resurrection. And each of these people with their various personalities and their different backgrounds, each of them had great struggle in their heart in some way with these truths But by the end of the story, they all believed. And so I pray that if there's someone here this morning, either in this congregation or perhaps Watching on the live stream, I pray that today would be the day that they understand what you have done for them and they place their faith in Christ. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen.