You know, it's funny, this afternoon I uh when I had lunch, I had some cough drops sitting on the table. And so I was sitting on the couch and Adeline comes over and says, Daddy, I have some candy for you. And she had one for herself and she had one for me. Well those were the cough drops I was supposed to bring tonight. So thank you, whoever gave me those cough drops. Uh my daughter was trying to be a blessing. Oh, you got a whole bag of 'em. Hopefully I won't need that many. So Philippians chapter 1. I hope you enjoy the study that we're having in Philippians. And I hope that tonight will be another encouraging passage that we look at. In this text, I wanted to kind of put in perspective what Paul is trying to communicate. So I wrote this purpose statement. Paul wants the church to know exactly how he's praying for them. So he writes this section of the letter to express specific qualities that he is asking God to develop in them as they mature into Christ-likeness. Let me mention that again. He wants to let them know the specific qualities that he's praying that God will develop in them as they mature into Christ's likeness. As we reflect on Paul's purpose for why he wrote this, I think this is what we will see that God wants us to pull from this text God wants us to have those qualities being developed within our own lives Now, I want you to understand something. I'm not suggesting that we either have these things or that we don't. What I'm suggesting is that we need them and we need to grow in them We need to develop in them. And as we get into the text tonight, I think that you'll get a sense of exactly what I'm saying. So the question is this what are the qualities that Paul is praying that God will develop and perfect? in these Christians. And what are the qualities that we should desire for God to be developing and shaping in our own lives as well? Well, there are three things that we'll see. The first quality is dealing with our love. The second quality is dealing with the way that we think about things, and the third quality is dealing with our character and what we are So with that in mind, I want to start with this first illustration. I've been using the illustration of growth because I think it applies to a lot of different areas in our Christian lives. Picture for a moment a little child. I remember one of my teachers when I was in seminary using this illustration. He said, you know, sometimes when we look at the Christian life, we expect to be here when really We really should only have expectation for being here. He said, I want to ask you the question. Think about when you had a a little child, because some of the people that were in our class they were married, they were fathers, they had kids. He's like When you first became a father, did you expect your child, the moment he was born, to be able to write a dissertation? No. Did you expect him to be able to walk No. Did you expect him to be able to crawl? No. Did you expect him to be able to roll over? No. You expected him to be completely dependent upon your wife for everything. He said, imagine if it with with me for a moment, is that that child was growing and starting to develop It got to the place where it could roll over. And then after it was able to roll over, it got to the place where it could crawl a little bit, where it could sit up, where he was starting to make some noises that you feel like might be words Remember the first time that your child smiled at you, and it wasn't just that he had a stomach problem, but he really smiled at you. You know what I'm saying? He said, imagine with me for a moment if when your child was first getting to that stage where it could become mobile, you said, you know what, I'm going to force this child. To walk over and get its own meal. And you get the food, you put it on the table, and you say, until you can walk over and get your food, you aren't going to eat tonight. Would any parent do that? I mean any loving why I shouldn't say would any parent do that. There might be some that would, hopefully not in this room. But would any loving and wise parent do a thing like that? No. Their expectation for that child We could say is conditioned by the season of life that the child is in. So they understand, okay, this child can't do this. It's not old enough to be able to do that. It's not normal. It's not natural. No child at this point can do those things. You say, well, why are you giving the illustration? I'll tell you why I'm giving the illustration. Because sometimes when it comes to our Christian walk, we fail to realize that we grow just like that. You cannot expect a brand new Christian to have the same level of discernment and the same level of knowledge and the same disciplines that someone who's been a Christian for a very, very long time would have. Even as somebody is growing in their walk with the Lord, they progressively grow in those areas. And so when Paul talks about these qualities , He talks about them in a sense in which these are things that you're going to grow in from now until the day that you die. Every single day of your life, you'll continue to grow and mature in those areas I want to encourage you as a Christian, don't get discouraged unreasonably with where you are in your walk with God. You understand what I'm saying? It is possible to be complacent as a Christian, but it is also possible to go to the other extreme, where you feel like I need to be able to do all these things. And I can't do them. I don't feel like I reach that expectation. And so we get discouraged. As my professor was encouraging us, have reasonable expectations for where you are in your walk with God. And have reasonable expectations of the people that you interact with as a pastor, as a father, as a mother, as someone who's working with individuals. What are the qualities that Paul expresses a desire to see these people grow in? Here is the first quality that he mentions. In verse 9 it says this, this I pray that your love may abound more and more in knowledge and in judgment. The first quality that Paul desires to see God mature and perfect in these Christians is the quality of a love that is growing. He uses three descriptive terms when he talks about this love. He talks about a love that is abounding. The idea is growing in richness. It is growing in depth. He uses the phrase in knowledge. It's a love that is going to be shaped by particular thoughts and facts and truths. And then he uses the term in judgment, meaning that it's a it's a love that is shaped by discernment. So I want us to explore exactly what Paul is talking about. The first thing that I notice is this: love is a quality that has substance, it has endurance, and it has depth If Paul says, I want your love to abound, then he is assuming that it's something that has depth and can grow in depth. It's something that can mature. It's something that can grow in its expression. Think about what he writes in First Corinthians thirteen. He says, Charity suffereth long and is kind, it envieth not, it does not vaun itself, it is not puffed up, doth not behave itself unseemingly. seeketh not her own, it's not easily provoked, it thinketh no evil, it rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth. It beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Think about that statement of how Paul views love, Christian love. It's something that suffers. It's something that's kind. It's something that's not proud. It's something that's not provoked. It's something that thinks the best of individuals. It's something that is hopeful. It's something that is enduring. But the reality is this. Those things are things we grow in over time. There will be situations that you experience And you can genuinely say, I love this person and I'm expressing my love for them. But if you were to go through a more pressing series of situations, you might not be at that level of maturity yet So do you know what God does? Over the course of our lives, he brings us through situations and he stretches us and he matures us. And that love that we have is something that grows deeper and richer and fuller. Love is a quality that has substance, endurance, and depth. It's a substance That is connected specifically to our knowledge of God and to the degree to which we genuinely walk with God affects how deep and mature that love is. Love can be viewed as a grace that God gives us. It's something that God produces in us. It's something that God cultivates in us. In 1 John 2, he says this Whosoever keepeth his word in him, verily the love of God is perfected. Did you catch that phrase? Perfected. In other words, God is shaping what we call love. God is maturing it. He is developing it. He is expanding its depth and its expression. 1 John 4, 7, beloved, let us love one another. Love is of God. That means the source of that love is from God Himself. Everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. If we look at that passage carefully, what we see is that our ability to love in the biblical sense is something that we only can do because we are in Christ. Because we have a new nature. Because we have the indwelling spirit. Because God Himself is working and perfecting and maturing us. in this particular area. And it's not just that we are saved, but we are growing in a knowledge of God. 1 John 4, 12, no man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us. And his love is perfected in us. Can you not see how all these passages are giving us the understanding that love is something that we grow in? It's something that grows deeper and richer and fuller as time goes on. And the ability that we have to grow in this is directly connected to the fact that we have a new nature in Christ. And we have the Holy Spirit, and it's directly connected to the fellowship that we have with God and our knowledge of the Lord. 1 John 4, 16. We have known and believed the love that God has to us. God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God and God in him. The first thing that Paul prays is that they will have an abounding love. But he also expresses it in two other ways. Love that is in knowledge and love that is in judgment. Love is something that we grow in our ability to express. It's something that's not natural to us, even within our most intimate of human relationships. Think about Titus 2 He says, teach young women to be sober and to love their husbands. In 1 Peter 3. 7, he says, husbands, dwell with your wives according to knowledge Showing honor unto the weaker vessel. In Ephesians chapter 5 he says, Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. Love is not natural to us Even in our most intimate and personal and closest human relations, it's something that God has to mature in us and perfect in us and expand within us. Love is something that we need to know how to express in the moral sense. And that is why he uses the phrase in knowledge. Love has to be expressed according to truth, according to what is right and according to what is wrong. In John 14, Jesus says: if a man loves me, then he will keep my commandments. Why is that? Because as we love God, we obey God. You understand? Love is connected to obedience Love is connected to truth. Love is connected to a knowledge of God. You cannot have faith without knowledge You cannot have obedience without knowledge. You cannot have relationship without knowledge. You can't have discernment without knowledge. You can't make right choices without knowledge. And you cannot love in the biblical sense. Without knowledge. Your ability to love as God intended is directly connected to the knowledge that you have of God and the knowledge that you have of what is right and what is wrong. Love is expressed practically in a moral sense. But love also needs to know how to express itself in a practical sense. Notice the phrase, not only in knowledge, but in judgment. That phrase in judgment has the idea of discernment. Discernment. I love using this illustration. I remember one time there was a man who came to our church in Ghana and he was doing a discussion on marriage and family issues. And he used this phrase, he said, we need to learn how to love according to the culture that we're in. He said, husbands have a certain brain culture and wives have a certain brain culture. And he's kind of going on and talking about this. And he's basically expressing the idea of this. You can love somebody, but if you don't know how to express it to them in the language that they understand, they don't get what you're saying. In fact, a lot of the issues that we dealt with with the young couples that were newly married in our church in Ghana, a lot of the issues were directly connected to the fact that it was as if you had two people who were from different cultures, if you will, one being a husband. One being a wife. Sometimes they were from different cultures because they were from different communities. They had different backgrounds. But the reality is that our expression of love And our understanding of that expression of love is something that we have to learn how to communicate. We could look at it as brain cultures. There's a book called The Five Love Languages. You ever read that book or heard about book saying that, you know, one of the ways that some people express love is by giving gifts. And other people, a gift is not something that they think of when they think of that. Or some people they like to spend time together. Or some people they show affection by physical touch. You know, one person you hug them and they're like, get away from me. And another person if you haven't hugged them they feel like you don't care about them. Why what is it that causes us to be that way The truth is some of it is our gender, some of it is the family that we grew up in, some of it is the part of the country that we grew up in, some of it is our professional background, some of it is the experiences that we went through in our youth. But the reality is that we have to learn how to express love to one another in a practical sense. So when Paul talks about love, he's saying, I want it to grow in its depth, I want it to grow in knowledge, and I want it to grow in the practical sense of how we express love to one another. As we get older, we should be learning more and more how to communicate to our spouse that we love them. And we should grow and learn more and more how to understand that our spouse is trying to communicate to us that they love us. We should be able to grow in our ability to communicate to a child or communicate to a teen or communicate to an elderly person in the church that we love them. And we should learn how to interpret when they are trying to show that to us. That is what Paul is saying. I'm praying that you have depth, I'm praying that you have knowledge, and I'll praying that you have discernment and how to express. This issue of love. The second quality that Paul addresses has to do with our thinking. Look at the phrase, he says, this: that you may approve things that are excellent. That you may approve things that are excellent. The idea is that he is praying that they will have the quality of a thinking that is shaped by the highest. Values. What would be the highest values? Eternal values. Eternal values. Not everything in life is equally important, is it? I used this illustration the other day, I think it was in Sunday school I said, imagine that you have a kid. I could see one of my kids doing this, okay? Now we tell them, look, when you go into the bathroom and you're done, you've got to wash your hands. It's very, very important. Doesn't happen a lot, so you have to constantly teach them gotta wash your hands, right? If you go out in public, you gotta comb your hair. That's important. You don't want people to think that you don't care about how you look, you gotta comb your hair. Okay, in the morning after you eat your food you need to brush your teeth. Okay? Nobody wants to talk to you and be like, oh man, what in the world? You gotta brush your teeth. When you get older you're gonna end up at the dentist a lot When you're getting ready to go to bed, you gotta brush your teeth. So we try to ingrain into our kids these very basic principles of hygiene. Washing your hands. combing your hair, washing your face, brushing your teeth. Are those things important? Are those things important? Of course they're important. They're extremely important. But I have this question. Let's say that one night, when your kids are getting ready for bed, it's time for them to wash their hands, it's time for them to wash their face, it's time for them to brush their teeth, there's a house fire. Can you see a child being like, do I leave the house it's burning, or do I brush my teeth? Now some very conscientious children might actually struggle with that. I won't mention who might do that, but imagine if you have somebody that has that choice between I gotta brush my teeth or I gotta get out of this house so I don't die from This ventilation problem and the heat and ultimately the smoke and all that. Which of those two is more important at that time? Getting out of the building. Getting out of the building. Now we we laugh about it, but the truth is that there are some principles and some truths that are not of equal weight. It's not that they're not important, it's not that they're not true. But when those two things are compared one with another, the one that has greater proportion and greater weight is the one that we have to emphasize. In times of and in life's decisions, many times, we have a decision between two things that we need to do. One is good, and one is more important, or one is better. Let me give you an example. Is it good and is it good to desire to have a happy home? Do you want to have a miserable house? No. Is it wrong for you to want to have uh we could say financial comfort or stability? Is that a wrong thing? No, not at all. But sometimes people will put more emphasis on their financial situation than the quality of their home life. So they'll make a decision and go, okay. I can take on more hours at work and I can have a little more money in the house, but then I'm going to neglect my family. I'm not going to spend time with them. And so which one is more important to me? And they make a decision about those things. We ran into this a lot when we were in Ghana. We would have uh two individuals are working and one gets a transfer to a new area. And so what do they do? They decide, well I want to make sure that I can keep my job here and my wife wants to get her job over here, and so they decide they're just going to go live in two different places because of the financial decision that they're making. What are they doing? They're putting finances and money above their relationship. The truth is that we have lots of decisions that are like that. And in life, many times we come to decisions and we look at, this is good, but this is better, or this is more important, this has more value, this should have more weight. And the question is, which of those two things are we going to choose? Paul is saying, I want you to value what is eternal higher than what is, we could say, temporal. So if you're gonna make a decision like Daniel and they say you have to uh not pray f you know uh in i uh to anybody but the king, what is he gonna do? Well, he's gonna obey God, even if it's gonna cost him something. You have Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo, and they say if you don't bow down to that image like everybody else, when the when the music is playing, then there's going to be a terrible consequence. What do they do? They value obedience to God. higher than their material comfort and their safety. God wants us to sh be have thinking that is shaped by eternal values In Matthew 6, Jesus says this to the disciples: seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Now he's not suggesting that the other things that are concerns to the people are insignificant. He's not suggesting that it's wrong to work for your daily food. He's not suggesting that we should not think about our material possessions. We shouldn't think about the house that we live in. We shouldn't think about the clothing. He's not making that suggestion, but he's saying between those two things, put higher priority on what is eternal and the kingdom of God. In 1 Timothy 6, verse 12, Paul writes this to Timothy. He says, Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, one to thou art called, and hast professed a good professing before many witnesses. Again, what is this suggesting? Put your emphasis on what is eternal. In 1 Timothy 6, 19, he tells Timothy to write this to the or to say this to the to the rich in the church. He says, that they lay up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come that they may lay hold on eternal life. These passages are emphasizing something. They're emphasizing that we put the greatest importance on what is eternal. We put the greatest importance on God 's kingdom, not on our temporal and physical needs. Paul's not suggesting, Christ is not suggesting that our physical needs are insignificant, but he's suggesting that we need our thinking to be shaped where the greatest weight goes on what is eternal. We then come to a third quality that he mentions. And that is found later on in the passage. He says this: that ye may be sincere. And without offense until the day of Christ. That third quality is a quality of sincerity. God loves and is pleased with sincerity. God hates hypocrisy. God loves and is pleased with sincerity. God hates hypocrisy. Let me give you a great example of what I'm saying here. In Matthew 23, verse 13, Jesus makes the following statement: Woe unto you, scribes. And Pharisees, hypocrites. You shut up the kingdom of heaven against men. Ye neither go in yourselves Neither suffer ye then that they might go in. Later in that passage he says it multiple times, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. Why does Jesus make that emphasis? Because it bothers him when people are not sincere. It bothers him when what you see is not consistent with what is really going inside And the truth is that these religious leaders presented themselves as godly, as patient, as loving, as conscientious, as kingdom-focused Yet inside they were greedy. They were full of themselves. They were puffed up. They were pride. God wants us to be sincere. And when Paul is praying for these Christians, he's saying, I want you to be sincere and without offense. Until the day of Christ. On the other side, we see that Jesus loves sincerity. Matthew 5:8, he says, Blessed are the pure in heart. They will see God. What does he mean by the pure in heart? He means people that are consistent. What is inside and what you see, they're the same thing. In 1 Peter 1, 22, he says this, see that you purify yourselves in obeying the truth to the Spirit unto unfeigned love. That word unfeigned means it's not fake. It's real. It's genuine. Unfeigned love of the brethren. See that you love one another with a pure and fervent heart. We see the concept of sincerity. In Hebrews chapter 10, verse 22, he says, let us draw near with a true sincerity heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience. Again, the concept of sincerity. And now in in Psalm 15, verse 1, this is what the psalmist writes. Lord, who will abide in your tabernacle? Who shall dwell in your holy hill? Here's what he says. He that walketh uprightly, he that worketh righteousness. He that speaketh the truth in his heart, he that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doth evil to his neighbor, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbor, in whose eyes a vile person is condemned. But he who honoreth them that feareth the Lord, he that sweareth to his own hurt and changeth not, he that puteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent, he that doeth these things shall never be moved. The psalmist is expressing that those people who will abide in God's presence are people who are people of sincerity. And he says, till the day of Christ. God doesn't just want you to be sincere today, though he wants you to be sincere today. He wants you to be sincere today until the day that you go to meet the Lord. Lots and lots of people in this world, they start out very well. But they don't finish well. They go through seasons where they're very consistent and they're on track, and then as time goes on and circumstances come, they move to the side. What is what does Paul write in 2 Timothy 1? He writes this. For the cause I suffer these things, I'm not ashamed. I know him who I am believed and persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him. Against that day. Paul's focus in his ministry, his commitment to faithfulness, was not just focused on today, but it was focused on that day. When he stands before Christ. Second Timothy four six, he writes, I am ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I fought a good fight. I finished my course. I've kept the faith. There is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me in that day, and not just through me only, but unto all them that love his appearing. Can I encourage you with this simple thought? We need to be people who are sincere, genuine. Real. Not just now, not just for the next couple of months or years, but throughout the rest of our lives. You might be sitting here tonight and you say, you know, Pastor, I don't want to confess this to you, but God knows me. I'm not a sincere person. I'm not a genuine person. I'm not inside what people perceive me to be. How can that change? Well, that really changes, beginning with an admission that that's the case. You gotta come to that reality. You gotta say, God, this is what I am. You gotta ask God to show you what you are. You need to ask him to humble you in your heart. You need to confess that a sin to God. You need to ask him to help you to begin to take steps. To become a sincere and godly individual. You might need to encourage other Christians to come alongside of you and encourage you and help you in those areas. Might I encourage you to be a person who is sincere, not living as a hypocrite, a double life When Paul prayed, he prayed, number one, that these people would have an abounding love. Number two, he prayed that these people Let me get it here. That these people would have a thinking that is shaped with etern by eternal values. Number three, he prays that these will be people who will be sincere and without offense until the day of Jesus Christ. And there's a fourth quality that he mentions that I want to mention it briefly, and that is the quality of a godly character. He prays, lastly, that you will be filled with the fruits of righteousness. Which are by Jesus Christ. When I see this statement, there are two questions that come to my mind. Question one is, what does he mean by a godly character? And question two, how is this character developed? Or who is it that ultimately gives me this kind of a character? And he actually answers that in this text and some others The first is what is a godly character. If you want to know what he's talking about, go to Romans chapter 8 and verse 3. Listen to what Paul writes. What the law could not do, and that it was weak in the flesh, God did. Sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin. He condemned sin in the flesh. And here's the key: that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us. who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. When Paul talks about righteousness and godliness in these individuals, He's talking about a character that is produced by the Holy Spirit that indwells them. He's talking about a character that is directly opposite to the flesh that has dominated these people prior to their conversion. And he says, God saved you so that the righteous requirements of the law might be fulfilled in you. And it will be fulfilled in you as you walk according to the Spirit, not according to the flesh. In Galatians 5, Paul gives us some of those qualities. He says, the fruit of the Spirit, or if you will, the fruit that is produced by the Spirit in the lives of God's children are these things: love. Joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, and temperance, or self-control These are character qualities that Paul is talking about. Paul is praying that when you see these individuals, when you interact with them on a daily basis, You will see the love of God being poured out through the hearts of these individuals. He's praying that you will see individuals whose hearts are full of joy. People who are very patient, people who are not contentious, people who are not dominated by their flesh, but they are temperate, they have self-control. People who are gentle, people who have strong faith and confidence in God, people who are trustworthy, people whose lives are characterized by goodness When Paul prays that these individuals will be filled with the fruits of righteousness, that's what he's asking God to do. And when we desire that, that's what we're asking God to put in us. But the question is, how does that happen? Notice the little phrase, these are by Jesus Christ. You don't make yourself a spirit-filled person. In other words, this is not a list of rules and say, okay. Today, work on love. You don't have enough love. You need more love. So start working on love. Oh, joy. You don't have joy, so work up joy in your heart. Oh you're not patient. So work up patience. You're not self-controlled. You're not temperant. So work up temperance. And so uh by the strength of our flesh and by diligence we work and we labor and we try to perfect Those qualities in our heart. That is not the way that we develop those qualities. Rather, those qualities are fruits that are produced by the Spirit of God. In other words, if I want joy and I'm lacking it, if I want love and I'm lacking it, if I want temperance and I'm lacking it, if I want goodness and I'm lacking it, I Don't focus on those things and try to perfect them in myself I go to the source, and that is God. I spend time in his presence. I grow in a knowledge of him. I commune with him. I abide in him. He begins to change and reorient how I think and how I process and how I relate to people. And as I walk under the Spirit's dominance, things in my life that are fleshly, I begin to turn from those things. I begin to replace those things. And by the Spirit's help, my affections change. My thinking changes. My responses change. All of a sudden, those things begin to show up in my life because God's producing them. When he says these are by Jesus Christ, that is what he means. The fruit of the Spirit is not something that we create in us. It's something God produces in us when we walk with Him. Second Corinthians 3:18 says this. We with open face behold the glory of the Lord and are changed into the same image from glory to glory. Catch this by the Spirit. of the Lord. Might I encourage you to have appropriate expectations for where you are in your walk with God. Have appropriate expectations. If you're a child, don't expect to have a PhD. Now I'm not suggesting that if you have been in the Lord for fifty years and you are beginning to, we could say, get out of fellowship with God, that you in complacency say, Oh, I'm just gonna have realistic expectations. That's not my suggestion. But my suggestion is this: know where you should be. Realize that it's God who produces those things in you. Realize that God wants you to grow more than you want to grow. God has the power to change you. God has the power to shape you and mold you and perfect you and to make you something that you aren't today. And so as Paul prays, he prays for an abounding love. He prays for a thinking shaped by eternal values. He prays for a life of sincerity. And he prays for a character that is godly. And that is how we should pray for one another. That is how we should pray for our own walk with the Lord. That's how we should pray for our pastor and the deacons and your your husband and your wife and your children. That's how we should pray for one another. God wants us to grow in love. God wants us to have thinking that's shaped by eternal values. God wants us to be sincere. God wants us to be godly. My question is: Are you letting God do that in your heart? Might God help us to be people whose lives are characterized by godliness Let's bear our hearts together in prayer. Our Father, as we think about this text, I pray that you will help our souls to be fertile ground for the truth. Father, help us to pray like Paul did for the things that Paul was concerned about. Father, help us to have realistic expectations. About where we are and where we should be in our walk with you. Father, help us not to carry the weight and the burden of making ourselves godly. But to recognize that we become godly as we walk with you. As we come into your presence, as your word becomes our delight. As we grow in our knowledge of you, you change us fundamentally. You change how we look at situations. You change how we think about the experiences that we are going through. You change how we respond to one another. You change the very character that we have. You give us power to overcome temptation. You give us victory over sin. Father, I pray that you'll help every individual in this congregation to have an abounding love Help every individual in this congregation to have thinking that is that is shaped and focused on eternity and their value shaped by the Word of God. Father, help every individual in this congregation to be godly and to be sincere. I pray that you will work these qualities into our lives. And may we rejoice in the work that you will do in our lives. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.