And let's turn together to Ecclesiastes chapter 6. Ecclesiastes chapter 6, and we're looking at verses 7 through 12 together tonight. And the title of this message is Four Humbling Reminders. And I think that there are times in life that we need to be reminded that we serve God who is sovereign. We serve a God who is Lord. And we are not the Lord. We don't have the right to dictate our own lives, but the reality is we need to submit ourselves to God and his authority. And this passage is one of those passages that's going to emphasize that very important reality, and it's going to remind us of several things that are going to bring us Bring our hearts back in check, back into focus, where we will be thinking and acting in a way that we as God's creature should be. Be thinking. So Ecclesiastes chapter 6, we're looking at verses 7 through 12 together. Here's what the word of the Lord says: All the labor of man is for his mouth. Yet the appetite is not filled. For what hath the wise more than the fool? What hath the poor that knoweth to walk before the living? Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of desire. This is also vanity and vexation of spirit. That which hath been is named already. It is known that it is man. Neither may he contend with him that is mightier than he, seeing there are many things that increase vanity. What is man the better? For who knoweth what is good for man in this life, all the days of his vain life, which he spendeth as a shadow? For who can tell a man what shall be after him? Under the sun. The section of scripture that we're looking at this evening reminds us that God rules over our lives. And I think that there are times that we need to to be reminded that God rules, we don't rule. A lot of times we act and we think as if we do rule, but the reality is we are people that are supposed to be submitted as servants to our master, our Lord, our King, the sovereign over all things. And so the passage in front of us is going to remind us God rules over our lives, and since he is in charge, we need to live in two simple ways. Humbly and wisely. We need to make choices that reflect the fact that we are under God's authority. not our own authority. We're not in charge. He's in charge. In order for us to kind of see this from the passage, I want to begin with a very important passage, and that is Psalm 119 verse 71. In fact, it's probably a passage that you're familiar with. I'm going to read it, and then I want to kind of comment on this kind of as an introduction. The verse says this: It is good for me that I have been afflicted. That I might learn thy statutes. Let me read that again. It says, it is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. Now I ask this question, do we think the way the psalmists thought and expressed in these verses? Do we believe that affliction is good? Do we believe that it has a good purpose? That God is able to use it in a way for our good? And the answer is we should. The fact is that there are times that we get very proud. There are times that we think that we have all the answers. And so you know what God does? God in his own way brings us through circumstances that reveal to us some of the answers that you and I think we have, we actually don't. And so God forces us through circumstance to go to the Bible and to work through matters so that we think biblically, so that we think clearly. Sometimes people ask me the question, Pastor, why is it that after I trust the Lord Jesus Christ as my Savior, and now I'm a Christian, now I'm forgiven, now I'm cleansed? I go through life and I continue to struggle with temptation. Why is it that I continue to deal with besetting sins? Why is it that I continue to deal with trouble. And one of the answers that I will give people sometimes is I will say that is one of the ways God reminds you, you're human and you need to grow. Sometimes we get into a place where we think we've arrived spiritually. You know what God has to do? God has to bring events, circumstances into our lives that break us down and bring us to our knees. and remind us again freshly that in fact we are not as strong, as wise, as pure as we think that we are. Sometimes we need to be reminded of our limits. We are not self-existing, self-sustaining creatures. In fact, it's very interesting. A lot of times we think about people in the world today as modern thinking people, people have become so attached to the the the the gadgets that we have and we have so much ease of transportation and all these kinds of things communication That we kind of get in our minds that modern man is arriving at a different level that is far superior to those behind us. Let me tell you something. That's not true. All it takes is one little thing, and all of these things that we're dependent upon, they can fall apart in just a moment. All of the infrastructure that we're dependent on, it can fall apart in just a moment. And we will be reminded again, we are not in charge, we are not self-existing, we are not self-sustaining. God has to bring us back to our senses. Sometimes we need to be reminded that we're not on our own. So as we go through life, we can begin to feel as if God is not there. And what does God do? He brings us through life Circumstances that are very tough. And he comes alongside of us and he strengthens us and he encourages us by his very presence. We're not alone. Sometimes we need to be reminded that we have the freedom to choose, but with that liberty comes responsibility. This morning we were talking about Romans chapter 1, and as we were dealing with Romans chapter 1, We talked about the fact that there are times that God will let people who are resistant to him, who are fighting him. God will give them over to their own desires so that through the giving them over to their own desires, they will walk down the road that brings them to the point where they see that terrible, painful, destructive consequences of their thinking and their actions. And so sometimes God doesn't restrain us, sometimes God gives us over to what we want. so that we will see how bad it is. This is what God has to do with the rebel, the fool, the scoffer. We see that sometimes God has to remind us that he's never taken by surprise. He uses all these circumstances. to accomplish good in our lives. And sometimes we need to be reminded that we can't figure it all out. When I talk about the fact that God is sovereign and that God rules, yet you and I are responsible for our actions. And this God in heaven uses our actions to accomplish his purposes. Even the poor decisions that people make, it doesn't stop God from accomplishing his purposes. You know, if we stop and we try to figure all this out in our mind, you know what's going to do. Do it's gonna blow our brain. We're not gonna be able to figure all this out. How God is so big and so powerful that He rules and He manages and He governs, yet He really gives us the freedom to make choices. And we're responsible for those choices. I bring all these things to our attention to simply say God sometimes has to bring us to a Point where we see things as they are. And so this evening, I'd like us to look at several reminders from this very practical passage of Scripture. For us this week. The first reminder is this: we need to remember that wisdom only helps temporarily. Now, please don't misunderstand. What I'm saying. I am in no way suggesting that wisdom is a waste. I am in no way suggesting that we should ignore wisdom. The Bible is full of instruction to teach us and to drive us to the point that we will dig a hold of instruction. and wisdom. I think about Proverbs chapter 2, where basically Solomon tells his son, son, you need to seek wisdom. You need to cry after wisdom. Like someone mines out treasure. You need to go and you need to to search it out and it's the Lord who gives wisdom and out of his write mouth comes knowledge and understanding. Obviously Solomon wants His son to be wise. But in this passage, Solomon reminds us that wisdom is good, but wisdom only counts here. Here's what he says in verse 7. All the labor of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled. What hath the wise more than the fool? What hath the poor that knoweth the walk before the living? You might say, well, what is Solomon trying to say? He's reminding us that we do not live forever. There are some people that as they go through life, they develop knowledge and they develop skills and they accomplish lots of amazing things. They get a lot of money and they become accomplished in what they're doing. You could say that the person has wisdom in the sense that Solomon is referring to here. But there's gonna come a day that that wise man, that rich man, that accomplished man It's going to be laid to rest. And he's going to lay in a casket, and people are going to come to his graveside, and they're going to lay him to rest, and his days are done on this side. Solomon's trying to make a point. Wisdom is good, but don't forget you're gonna stand before God. someday. In fact, one of the things that we see in the book of Ecclesiastes is that he encourages us to remember the conclusion of the whole matter is fear God, keep his commandments, for this is the duty of Man for God will bring into judgment every single action, every single thought, every single word. So walk wisely and consider the limits of your life. Here, Solomon breaks it down this way. Everything that we do just fills our belly for a little while. And then we're hungry again. Now I mentioned that my wife and I got to go to Boston this week. And one of the things that we were excited about in going to Boston was getting some of that really good seafood. NBA seafood people, I love seafood. I grew up on the water down in Florida. I love seafood. You know what's great about seafood? It tastes good when it goes in the mouth. But what's bad about the seafood is about three hours later, you want to go back and get the same meal again. You know what I'm talking about? It's like the better the meal, the hungrier you get faster. You know what I'm talking about? And this is what Solomon is saying. A person works So they can eat and they eat, and guess what? They get hungry again. Then they work and then they eat and then they get hungry again. And they work and they eat and they get hungry again. He says, this is this endless cycle, and he says, that's how our lives are. Everything we do just fills our belly for a little while and we're hungry again. In one sense, this wisdom doesn't give us any advantage. Now he's not saying in every single sense, but in one sense His point is that we're all going to die one day. And the advantages that we gain in this world are at best temporary advantages. He's not trying to discourage us from working hard and seeking practical wisdom. He's trying to remind us to be humble and remember who we are. This life is not all that there is. I ask this question to you. Are you living in a way that is preparing for eternity? Are you ready to meet God? We do not know what's going to happen when we walk out these doors. We just don't know. And so every moment of every day, we should be living with an intention. Anticipation of the return of Christ. We should be walking in an orderly manner, in an obedient manner, in a submissive manner, in preparation for the return of Christ. If we've never embraced the gospel and trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ, today is the day we need to resolve this matter and turn to God and trust in the Finished work of Christ so that we can live a life that is more valuable than just what we have for these few short years. That is the point that Solomon is trying to get across. Your wisdom Is only as good as the time you're given. The second reminder he gives us is to remember to be content with what you are given. You know, this is one of the greatest, one of the greatest lessons we will ever learn in life. It's interesting. I talked to my son. My son just gave a testimony today. About how he learned that God's way is best. And what he was alluding to, at least what I think he was alluding to, was a conversation that he and I had uh early in the week before we went on this trip. My boys really wanted to go and stay with a friend and unfortunately there was a sickness in the family and so they couldn't do It and my boys were devastated. I will say maybe a little angry. I don't know. We'll talk about that later. And so I go into their room and I sit down with the boys and I said, boys, let's talk about this. I know you're upset, and it's okay to desire to do something, but you need to keep it all in perspective. I said, who's in charge here? You, me, or God? God's in charge. Okay. So if you're upset, who are you really upset with? God. Okay, listen, son. God's way is best. If God wanted you to do this at this time, he would have made sure that it happened. But He chose, out of circumstances outside of your control, outside of my control, outside of everybody's control, he chose to not let this happen as you wanted it. And so you and I need to accept that reality. Again, the next day, I got to eat my words because I experienced the exact same thing. But listen carefully. You and I need to learn to be content with what God has given us. If we're taking a trip and God chooses that at this time your tires gonna blow on the road and you're gonna be stuck on the side of the road and you're gonna have to Repair that tire, and you're gonna have to drive to a place, and your your whole schedule of what you wanted to do and what you believed you were entitled to, it all gets disrupted. Guess what? That's what God gave you. Make the best of it. Be content with it. I'm saying this to myself as much as I'm saying it to everybody here. And so this is the way that Solomon expresses it in verse 9. He says, better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire. This is also vanity and vexation of spirit. Now think carefully about what he's saying. What you see is better than what you want. What you see is better than what you want. What you see is what's in front of you. What you want is what you don't have in front of you, but what you want to get. You understand what I'm saying? And there are lots and lots of people that God's given them a good wife or a good husband or beautiful children, a sufficient job. They've put them in a place that is Good for them, it's what God wants them to give their energies to, and instead of enjoying what God has given them. And making the best of what God has given them and investing in what God has given them. They look at what's in front of them and they say, I would do better if I had this over here. And so they start wandering with the eyes. And wanting somebody else's family and somebody else's circumstances and somebody else's house and somebody else's car and someone else's bank account. And what Solomon says is Remember, you need to be content with what you're given. We talk about the Ten Commandments. The tenth commandment is: don't covet, and he mentions all these things. Why? Because that's the way people are bent. If I've got a good car and you've got a good car, guess whose car I'm happy with? The one that you have. Not the one that I have. And you know what's amazing? While I'm looking at somebody else's car, somebody around me is looking at my car. And this is the way it goes in life. We need to learn to be content with what God has given us. It's better to be content with what you do have than to be discontent with what you don't have. Discontented people Are slave to their appetites, and this servitude is empty and troubling to the soul. That's exactly what it means when he says, It is vanity, it's empty Vexation of spirit. It's going to trouble you. If you and I can't learn to be content with what God has given us, we're going to be people who live empty lives. frustrated lives and it's not necessary at all. Reminder number three, remember to keep your decisions in perspective I think this is a really interesting and a very profound point that the scriptures make on this point. Verse number 10 says it this way: that which hath been is named already. Think about that. That which hath been is named already. It is known that it is man Neither may he contend with him that is mightier than he. Let me read that again. That which hath been is named already, It is known that it is man, neither may he contend with him that is mightier than he. Think of it this way: Do you have the ability to do what you want to do? Well, some of you are saying yes, and some of you are saying no, and some of you are saying, well, in some ways yes, and in some ways no. Well, in one sense, yes, we do. You and I have the freedom to make whatever choice is available to us. But we don't have the freedom to make whatever choice we want. Because there's a God in heaven who actually limits some of the choices that we would like to make. A person that believes they can do anything they want to do is a fool. Can you jump off of a building and fly? The answer is no. Well, then you can't do anything that you want to do. What if you want to fly? Drinian's over here going, I wish I could do that. Well, listen, you are bound by the law of gravity. God put it in the universe. It's one of those things that you have to contend with in life. In other words, if you in your mind believe you can jump off of a building and fly, you're gonna learn that that freedom that you chose was not as broad as you thought. The idea is that there are times in life that God does not give us the options that we want. In fact, some of the most frustrated people in life are people that are longing to make choices that are not available to them. And you say, what is the solution to such a place? It's to learn to take the options that are available to you Well I mean to explain it this way. God's sovereign will is set. What I mean is there are certain things on God's timetable that no matter what people think they're gonna do, no matter what people say they're gonna do, it's not gonna change anything. There 's going to be a day that the Lord Jesus Christ is going to return. And no matter how rebellious the people living at that time are. No matter how much they think they can dupe God and they can go into eternity doing their own thing, they're gonna find out they're wrong. In other words, God is gonna set it straight. He is going to set his timetable in order and nothing, nothing, nothing can stop what God's going to do What you decide to do was known by God before you did it. And we talk about the fact that God is omniscient, he knows everything. And really, the statement that he's making could really have two senses. When he says that which has been named is or that which hath been is named already, he could be saying it this way: what you do is just a repetition of history. In other words, you can look down the list and you can say, hey, you know, what this generation's doing, there's a generation back there that was doing the same thing. Why is that? Because history repeats itself. Or he could also be saying, and this is what I think is more of the sense here, is that what he's saying is God knows before you act. Nothing catches God by surprise. God's going to use all of those details to accomplish his purposes. Yes, you chose, yes, you had the freedom, and yes, God's hand was involved in the details. Number three, you can't overthrow God's purposes. Lots and lots of people think they can, but one day they're going to find out they were wrong. We should walk away from this concept with a deep sense of humility. Ingratitude. You know, there are times in life that we make very bad decisions. And when we make those very bad decisions, if everything was left to chance. And God was not in charge, and God's gracious hand was not at work, our lives would fall apart miserably Yet though we chose horribly, and though there are consequences for action, our good God comes alongside of us, and in his grace he strengthens us. Encourages us. He points us in the right direction. He continues to work in our lives. This is the way that God works in our lives. Those things should humble us and make us very grateful, thankful people. The fourth reminder that I want us to see tonight, and this is the last, and it's very important, is we need to remember to be decisive people. We've been reminded this this evening that wisdom only helps for a period of time We've been reminded that we should be content with the options that we're given. We need been reminded to keep our decisions in perspective. The last thing we're reminded to do is be decisive to make good choices. And verses 11 and 12 he says, seeing there be many things that increase vanity, what is man the better? For who knoweth what is good for man in this life? All the days of his vain life, which he spendeth as a shadow, who can tell a man what shall be after him under the sun? You might say, well, what is Solomon trying to communicate here? What Solomon is trying to communicate is this. You need to make decisive decisions because you don't know how God is going to To use that in the end. communicate There's another passage later on in the book of Ecclesiastes. I'm looking forward to getting to it. But basically, what Solomon says is If you're the kind of person that goes out into your field and you look at the sky and you go, I just don't know if it's really a good idea to plant my crops today. Go into your house and you don't plant your crops. You come out the next day and you go, you know, I just don't know if it's a very good day today for me to plant my crops. You go back into your house. You do that enough times, and guess what's gonna happen While everybody's planting their fields and the rains are coming and everybody's crops are beginning to grow, when it comes time to harvest. The people that were decisive and they planted their fields and they cared for their fields, they're gonna go out and they're gonna bring in a harvest. And all of those people that went into their houses every day saying, you know, the circumstances aren't perfect for me to plant my field, guess what they do? They start planting That's how a lot of people live their lives. They're not decisive to take action with the opportunities that they're given. And so Solomon is reminding us that we need to be people who take decisive action. There's no point in arguing about the way that things are. People who complain and people who bicker and people who want somebody else's opportunities and people who are not content with the opportunities that are given them, guess what? Those people don't take the opportunities that they have available to them. We need to learn to get over it and make the best of what we have. The job that you have, the family that you have, the opportunities God's given you, guess what you need to do? Make the best of them. You say, well, I wish I had get out of the I wish, make the best of what you're given. Invest in it. Do what's right with it. No one can tell the future of how something is going to play out. So be decisive and do the best you can with what you have. One of the things that I that I see a lot of times with young people, and when I say I see this with young people, I see it because when I was in this stage of life, this is what I did. I was trying to read the fig leaf. You know what I'm talking about? Trying to figure out, you know, what is God telling me through this sign? I see this sign. Maybe this sign is telling me what I'm supposed to do. And so I kind of I kind of lean that way, and then the sign seems to be pushed in another direction, and I get thrown off and I'm gonna make this decision and I'm just like boom boom getting blown back and forth over and over and over again and I'm petrified I can't make a decision I'm sure nobody's ever done Been there? Nobody's ever been there, right? And you know what God wants us to do? God wants us to take principle. And he wants us to look at what's in front of us. And he wants us to take biblical principle and apply biblical principle and do the best we can with what's in front of us. Us. That's not reading fig leaves or tea leaves or whatever leaves. That's not getting blown about by this sign and that sign. That's taking real biblical principle Godly instruction from the people around us who are not caught up in the situation saying that's the up, those are the options that are in front of you. Here's what God's word says about this and this and this. And so do the best you can with what you can Have. And people who do that, you know what happens? God blesses their labors. God's not going to sit back in heaven and go, I just can't wait to see you make a misstep so I can crush you. That's not the way God is. God is good. God loves us. He's patient. He works through our decisions. Sometimes a person's push Pushing in the wrong direction, and they don't have the sense to pull away from that direction. You know what God does? He closes a door. You say, why is he that? Because he's really kind to people. This person isn't trying to be rebellious, but the reality is they don't have the sense to realize they shouldn't go down this direction. And so God, through circumstance, pushes them away from that. God had to do that in your life, probably when you You were young. God had to do that in my life when I was a very young man. Why is he like that? Because he loves us. But God wants us to take the opportunity In front of us and take the biblical principles we learn, and he wants us to apply them in a practical way for his glory. Remember, God uses our decisions to accomplish his purposes. In some ways, I ask myself the question. Why in the world would a God who knows everything, who has unlimited strength, unlimited resources knows the beginning from the end. Why does God choose to work through us mere mortals through our decisions? Why does he do it? It's a pretty phenomenal thing to consider. Yet that's the way he operates. And that brings him incredible glory because it shows us how powerful and how wise And how good he is. I want to pull this all to a conclusion with a very simple thought. God wants us to live humble, wise lives because he's in control. The fact that God rules is not something that should say, oh, well, you know, because God rules, I'm just gonna let Him do it all. That's not the appropriate response. Because God rules, I'm going to humble myself and I'm going to make wise choices for his glory. So let's be a people who are humble, realizing that we will one day breathe our last breath on this. Earth. Let's be people who are content with what God has given us, knowing it's ultimately his right to do it as he chooses. Let's be a people who realize that the choices that are available to us are limited by God, so we need to accept this reality and choose wisely. Let's be decisive since we do not know how God is going to use our decisions in the future. I really want to encourage our young people. Be a person before you are at that stage in life where you got to make these really big and tough decisions, be a student of the Bible Be in the word. Be reading the book of Proverbs every single day. Every single teenager in this room. You should be reading through the book of Proverbs every single month. Do I have the authority of God to tell you to do that? No, but that's good sense. Take the book of Proverbs, read it through over and over and over again. Let God's word get into your heart. You say why? Because you need Godly wisdom when you face the choices in life. Every single young person in this room, listen to the godly people in your life that have walked down the road. You know who that is? That's mom and dad. That's people who are an authority in your life. Listen to them. Do you know why parents have wisdom? Because parents made bad choices when they were your age. Is that true? Yes, it's true. Parents made bad choices when they were your age. And because they've gotten in a good church and because they've gotten in the Word of God, they've learned from those bad choices, and they don't want you to make those bad choices. So get into the word, listen to the people around you that have good biblical sense. Last thing I'll say is this. Thank God that when you choose wisely in accordance with His word, He will bless it. So I want to encourage you: don't be petrified in life, be decisive And be decisive for the glory of God. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, I pray that you'd help us to be a people who take decisive action. With the options that you give us in accordance with your revealed will. Help us to be men and women of integrity and wisdom. Help us to be people of principle. And I pray especially for our youth, especially for our kids, our teens. Help our young people to be someday men and women who make very wise and godly choices. Help them to be students of the word even as they are 12 and 13 years old. Help us as parents to guide our children in the ways of the Lord. To bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, to point them in a direction that honors you. I pray that you might take these words and use them for your glory tonight. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.