Well, good evening. Like to welcome each of you tonight to Anchor Baptist Church and hope that you had a good afternoon. Hopefully you're able to get a little bit of rest and looking forward to a one Wonderful evening tonight, singing praise to the Lord and sharing testimonies of his goodness and then digging into a very practical passage of scripture from the book of Ecclesiastes. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we'll get started with our service. Father, thank you again for the opportunity to have a day set aside, to rest, to reflect on the Lord. I pray that tonight you would speak to our hearts through the preaching of your word. Pray that as we sing these hymns of praise to you, that our hearts Would uh would glorify you with understanding and with passion. And I pray that all that is done tonight would uh point glory to you and strengthen your people. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, well, I am leading the singing tonight because my song leaders are both not available tonight. So if you could, let's take our hymn books together and we're going to turn to hymn three hundred The second and the third verses of three hundred and sixty-eight, a tender heart. Let's really sing it out. I know that the children know the song so I really want to hear especially our kids not that I don't want to hear everybody else sing it out okay but I really want to hear our kids sing it out because I know this is a song that they know well. Here we go. Take me now, Lord Jesus, take me, I would give my heart to To thee, thy devil servant make me only thine to be Savior, while my heart is tender, I would give thee every part. All my talents I surrender. I am thine for my heart on the second. Use me now, Lord Jesus. Excuse me as I tell of Calvary, may thy spirit move within me, bringing souls Savior while my heart is sender I would give thee Every part all my talents I surrender, I am thine courtiers Beautiful seeing, you can be seated, and let's turn to our second hymn, hymn three hundred and ninety-one, and the song is I am resolved no longer to linger. Verses one, three, and four. Of him three hundred and ninety-one, I am resolved. Let's really sing it out tonight. I am resolved no longer to linger charmed by the world's light Things that are higher, things that are nobler, these have allured my sights. I will hasten to him. Hasten so glad and free. Jesus straight as highness, I will come to thee On the third, I am resolved to follow the Savior faithful and to me. Kid what he says, do what he will, but he is a living way I will hasten to him Hasten so glad and free Kraet and highest I will come to I am resolved to enter the kingdom, leaving the paths of sin. Friends may oppose me, foes may beset me. I will hasten to him hasten so bad and free. Jesus great as highest, I will come to him Great job singing. And for our last song before we go to our testimonies and favorites, hymn 398. May the Lord find us faithful. Let's stand together again. Verses 1, 2, and 3 of 398. And ninety eight, may the Lord find us faithful. God has not given us the spirit of fear, but has given us the string with the Now what 's now why it must be unfairly time for me not ashamed of Every day through we live no mean die on the second, no man can seek it after things of this wife Is a soldier and says the test, be faithful, working, be running , deserving Jake is work on his press in the moon for thy dust space In his word we are held right, in the Lord find us And we didn't be with no be done. Think we saw the third, don't we? Here we go. Let's sing out the third. The big for nine honor be done from this wretched line loved and for you A life eyes on fire be only our husband, he faithful come down to the rain He will find us in all May his burn we are banned out In the Lord find us every day of being with Great job singing. You may be seated. And whenever I lead the singing, I get very focused on the songs and I don't think about where we're at in the songs. So all right. Well we'd like to take a couple minutes tonight to give you an opportunity to share testimonies of One day when heaven was filled with his praises One day when sin was as black as could be, Jesus came for to be born of a virgin Twelve among men, my example is he living he loves me, dying he saved me. Carried he carried my sins far away, rising he justified freely forever One day he's coming, oh glory us day. Chris thirty six in the blue book That would be Lord write your truth. Okay. Can you play through one time so I can hear this? When all was merely split Okay, let's sing that together. Here we go. Great author of the universe, you spoke and all was made Throughout the earth, your steadfast love and powers are displayed Your works are done in faithfulness. Your words are always true. My heart is full of reverent fear. I stand in awe of you. Please open now my eager eyes To wonders you impart, and write your everlasting truth upon my rest That's based on Psalm thirty-three. So look at that Psalm and that's what that song is written on. Adeline. Five forty eight. And the red book. Five hundred and forty-eight. Let's see what song this is Servant's heart. Okay? We'll sing that. We'll do one more after that. So Joel, I saw your hand. I'm going to take oh no, it's Nathaniel. I'm sorry. Nathaniel. I saw your hand, so I'll take yours after this song, and that'll be our last one. So let's sing this out, verse number one. Make me a servant like you do, Lord. Make me a serpent like you, dear Lord. Living for others each day, humble and meek, helping the we Loving and all that I say, give me more a servant's part. Here's my life. Take every part, give me more. Servance. Help me draw so close to you that your love comes shining through Give me Lord a service heart. Give me Lord a service heart Excellent song. Whenever I hear that song, it reminds me of when I was uh a a child at uh Penn School Christian Academy eating in the diet dining room and this would be one of the songs that they played while we were eating dinner and I just hear over and over and over again. So I just uh it reminds me of being a third grade Boy again. So all right. Nathaniel, yours is the last one. What what number? 47. 47 in the red book. 147. All right. 147. Let's stand together as we sing this one. 147. Amazing grace. Excellent. We'll sing the first and the last verses of Amazing Grace. Grace. Amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a ratch like me. I was lost, but now I'm found. Was white, but now I see And with their ten thousand years by shining as the sun We 've no last days to sing God's praise, and when we first we got Excellency. Triumph and temptation is the trouble anyway. We should never be disco Into the morning bread, can we find our friends so Next take it to the Lord in friend. Good, let's take our Bibles and let's turn together to Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes chapter 6. Ecclesiastes chapter 6, and we're looking at verses 7 through 12 together tonight. And the title of this message is Four Humbling Reminders. And I think that there are times in life that we need to be reminded that we serve God who is sovereign. We serve a God who is Lord. And we are not the Lord. We don't have the right to dictate our own lives, but the reality is we need to submit ourselves to God and his authority. And this passage is one of those passages that's going to emphasize that very important reality and it's going to remind us of several things that are gonna bring our hearts back in check, back into focus, where we will be thinking and acting in a way that we as God's creature should be thinking. So Ecclesiastes chapter 6, we're looking at verses 7 through 12 together. Here's what the word of the Lord says. All the labor of man is for his mouth. Yet the appetite is not filled. For what hath the wise more than the fool? What half the poor that knoweth to walk before the living? Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of desire This is also vanity and vexation of spirit. That which hath been is named already, it is known that it is man. Neither may he contend with him What is man the better? For who knoweth what is good for man in this life, all the days of his vain life, which he spent The section of scripture that we're looking at this evening Evening reminds us that God rules over our lives. And I think that there are times that we need to be reminded that God rules we don't rule. act and we think as if we do rule, but the reality is we are people that are supposed to be submitted as servants to our Our master, our Lord, our King, the sovereign over all things. And so the passage in front of us is going to remind us God rules over our lives, and since He is in charge, we need to live in two Simple ways, humbly and wisely. We need to make choices that reflect the fact that we are under God's authority, not our own authority. In order for us to to kind of see this from the passage, I want to begin with a very important passage, and that is Psalm 119, verse 71. In fact, it's probably a passage that you You're familiar with, I'm going to read it, and then I want to kind of comment on this kind of as an introduction. The verse says this: it is good for me that I have been afflicted. That I might learn thy statutes. Let me read that again. It says, it is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. Now I ask this question. Do we think the way the psalmist thought and expressed in these verses? Do we believe Do we believe that affliction is good? Do we believe that it has a good purpose? That God is able to use it in a way for our good? And the answer is we should The fact is that there are times that we get very proud. There are times that we think that we have all the answers. And so you know what God does? God in his own way brings us through circumstances. Circumstances that reveal to us some of the answers that you and I think we have, we actually don't. And so God forces us through circumstances circumstance to go to the Bible and to work through matters so that we think biblically, so that we think clearly. Sometimes people ask me the question, Pastor, why is it that after I trust the Lord Jesus Christ, Christ is my Savior, and now I'm a Christian, now I'm forgiven, now I'm cleansed. I go through life and I continue to struggle with temptation. Why is it that I continue to deal with besetting sins? Why is it that I continue to deal with trouble? And one of the answers that I will give people sometimes is I will say that is one of the ways God reminds you, you're human and you need to grow. Sometimes we get into a place Where we think we've arrived spiritually, you know what God has to do? God has to bring events, circumstances into our lives that break us down and bring us to our our knees and remind us again freshly that in fact we are not as strong, as wise, as pure as we think that we We are. Sometimes we need to be reminded of our limits. We are not self-existing, self-sustaining creatures. In fact, it's very interesting a lot of times we think about people in the world today as modern thinking people, people have become so attached to the the the the gadgets that we have and we have so so much ease of transportation and all these kinds of things, communication, that we kind of get in our minds that modern man is arriving at a different level that is far superior to those behind us. Let me tell you something That's not true. All it takes is one little thing, and all of these things that we're dependent upon, they can fall apart in just a moment. All of the infrastructure that we're dependent on, it can fall apart Fall apart in just a moment, and we will be reminded again. We are not in charge, we are not self-existing, we are not self-sustaining. God has to bring us back to our senses. Sometimes we need to be reminded that we're not on our own. So as we go through life, we can begin to feel as if God is not there. And what does God do? He brings us through Circumstances that are very tough. And he comes alongside of us and he strengthens us and he encourages us by his very presence. We're not alone. Sometimes we need to be reminded that we have The freedom to choose, but with that liberty comes responsibility. This morning we were talking about Romans chapter 1, and as we were dealing with with Romans chapter 1, we talked about the fact that there are times that God will let people who are resistant to him, who are fighting him, God will give them over to their own desires so that through the giving them over to their own desires, they will walk down the road that brings them to the point where they see the terrible Painful, destructive consequences of their thinking and their actions. And so sometimes God doesn't restrain us, sometimes God gives us over to what we want so that we will See how bad it is. This is what God has to do with the rebel, the fool, the scoffer. We see that sometimes God has to remind us that He's never taken by surprise. He uses all these circumstances to accomplish good in our lives. And sometimes we need to be reminded that We can't figure it all out. When I talk about the fact that God is sovereign and that God rules, yet you and I are responsible for our actions. And this God in heaven uses our actions to to accomplish his purposes. Even the poor decisions that people make, it doesn't stop God from accomplishing his purposes. You know, if we stop and we try to figure all this out in our mind, you know what it's going to do? It's gonna blow our brain. We're not gonna be able to figure all this out. How God is so big and so powerful that He rules and He manages and He governs, yet He really gives us the freedom to make choices. I bring all these things to our attention to simply say God sometimes has to bring us to a point where Where we see things as they are. And so this evening I'd like us to look at several reminders from this very practical passage of Scripture for us this week. The first reminder is this. We need to remember that wisdom only helps temporarily. Now please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I am in no way suggesting that wisdom Wisdom is a waste. I am in no way suggesting that we should ignore wisdom. The Bible is full of instruction to teach us and to drive us to the point that we will dig a hold of instruction and wisdom. I think about Proverbs chapter 2, where basically Solomon tells his son, son You need to seek wisdom. , You need to cry after wisdom. Like someone mines out treasure. You need to go and you need to search it out and it's the Lord who gives wisdom and out of his mouth comes knowledge and understanding. Obviously Solomon wants his son to be wise but in this passage Solomon reminds us that wisdom is good, but wisdom only counts here. Here's what he says in verse 7. All the labor of man is for his Mouth. And yet the appetite is not filled. What hath the wise more than the fool? What hath the poor that knoweth the walk before the living? You might say, well, what is Solomon trying to say? He's reminding us that we do not live forever. There are some people That as they go through life, they develop knowledge and they develop skills and they accomplish lots of amazing things. They get a lot of money and they become accomplished in what they're doing. You could say That the person has wisdom in the sense that Solomon is referring to here. But there's going to come a day that that wise man, that rich man, that accomplished man It's going to be laid to rest. And he's going to lay in a casket, and people are going to come to his graveside, and they're going to lay him to rest. And his Days are done on this side. Solomon's trying to make a point. Wisdom is good, but don't forget you You're going to stand before God someday. In fact, one of the things that we see in the book of Ecclesiastes is that he encourages us to remember the conclusion of the whole matter is fear God, keep his commandments. For this is the duty of man, for God will bring into judgment every single action, every single thought, every single word. So walk wisely and consider the limits of your life. Here, Solomon breaks it down this way. Everything that we do just fills our belly for a little while and then we're We're hungry again. Now I mentioned that my wife and I got to go to Boston this week. And one of the things that we're excited about and going to Boston was getting some of that really good seafood. NBA seafood people, I love seafood. I grew up on the water down in Florida. I love seafood. You know what's great about seafood? It tastes good when it goes in the mouth. But what's bad about the seafood is about three hours later you want to go back and get the same meal again. You know what I'm talking about? It's like the better the meal, the hungrier you get faster. You know what I'm talking about? talking about and this is what Solomon is saying. A person works so they can eat and they eat and guess what? They get hungry again. Then they work and then they eat and then they get hungry again. And And they work and they eat and they get hungry again. He says, this is this endless cycle, and he says, that's how our lives are. Everything we do just fills our belly for a little while and we're hungry again. And once Sense this wisdom doesn't give us any advantage. Now he's not saying in every single sense, but in one sense. His point is that we're all going to die one day. And the advantage Advantages that we gain in this world are at best temporary advantages. He's not trying to discourage us from working hard and seeking practical Wisdom. He's trying to remind us to be humble and remember who we are. This life is not all that there is. I asked this question to you Are you living in a way that is preparing for eternity? Are you ready to meet God? We do not know what's going to happen when we walk out these doors. We just don't know. And so every moment of every day we should be living with an anticipation of the return of Christ. We should be walking in an orderly manner, in an obedient manner, in a submissive manner, in preparation for the return of the of Christ. If we've never embraced the gospel and trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ, today is the day we need to resolve this matter and turn to God and trust in the finished work of Christ. Christ, so that we can live a life that is more valuable than just what we have for these few short years. That is the point that Solomon is trying to Get across. Your wisdom is only as good as the time you're given. The second reminder he gives us is to remember to be content with what you are given. You know, this is one of the greatest, one of the greatest lessons we will ever learn in life. It's interesting. I talked to my son. My son just gave And what he was alluding to, at least what I think he was alluding to, was a conversation that he and I had uh early in the week Before we went on this trip, my boys really wanted to go and stay with a friend, and unfortunately, there was a sickness in the family, and so they couldn't do it. And my boys were devastated. I will say, maybe a little angry. I don't know. We'll talk about that later. And so I go into their room and I sit down with the boys and I said, boys, let's talk about them I know you're upset, and it's okay to desire to do something, but you need to keep it all in perspective. I said, who's in charge here? You, me, or God? God's in charge. Okay. So if you're upset, who are you really upset with? God. Okay, let's Listen, son, God's way is best. If God wanted you to do this at this time, he would have made sure that it happened. But he chose out of circumstances outside of God. of your control, outside of my control, outside of everybody's control. He chose to not let this happen as you wanted it. And so you and I need to accept that reality. Again The next day I got to eat my words because I experienced the exact same thing. But listen carefully. You and I need to learn to be content with what God has given us. If we're taking a trip and God chooses that at this time your tires are gonna blow on the road and you're gonna be stuck on the side of the road and you're gonna to have to repair that tire and you're gonna have to drive to a place and your your whole schedule of what you wanted to do and what you believed you were entitled to, it all gets disrupted. Guess what? That's what God gave you. Make the best of it. Be content with it. I'm saying this to myself as much as I'm saying it to everybody here. And so this is the way that Solomon expresses it in verse 9. He says, better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire. This is also vanity and vexation of spirit. Now think carefully about what he's saying. What you see is better than what you want. What you see is better than what you want. What you see is what's in front of you. What you want is what you don't have in front of you, but what you want to get. You understand what I'm saying? And there are lots and lots of people that God's given them a good wife or a good husband or beautiful children, a sufficient job. They've put them in a place Place that is good for them. It's what God wants them to give their energies to, and instead of enjoying what God has given them and making the best of what God has given them, them and investing in what God has given them. They look at what's in front of them and they say, I would do better if I had this over here. And so they start wandering with the eyes and wanting somebody else's family and somebody else's circumstances and somebody else's house and somebody else's car and someone else's bank account and what Solomon says is remember you need to be content with what you're given We talk about the Ten Commandments. The tenth commandment is don't covet. And he mentions all these things. Why? Because that's the way They people are bent. If I've got a good car and you've got a good car, guess whose car I'm happy with? The one that you have, not the one that I have. And you know what's amazing? While I'm looking at somebody else's car, somebody around me is looking at my car. And this is the way it goes in life. We need to learn to be content with what God has given us. Given us. It's better to be content with what you do have than to be discontent with what you don't have. Discontented people are slave to their appetites. And this servitude is empty and troubling to the soul. That's exactly what it means when he says, it is vanity, it's empty. Vexation of spirit. It's going To trouble you. If you and I can't learn to be content with what God has given us, we're going to be people who live empty lives, frustrated lives, and it's not necessary at all. Reminder number three. Remember to keep your decisions in perspective. I think this is a really interesting and a very profound point that the scriptures make on this point. Verse Verse number 10 says it this way. That which hath been is named already. Think about that. That which hath been is named already. It is known that it is man. Neither may he contend with him that is mightier than he. Let me read that again. That which hath been is named already. It is known that it is man, neither may he contend with him that is mightier than he. Think of it it this way. Do you have the ability to do what you want to do? Well, some of you are saying yes and some of you are saying no and some of you are saying, well in some ways yes and in some ways No. Well, in one sense, yes, we do. You and I have the freedom to make whatever choice is available to us But we don't have the freedom to make whatever choice we want. Because there's a God in heaven who actually limits some of the choices that we would like to make A person that believes they can do anything they want to do is a fool. Can you jump off of a building and fly? The answer is no. Well, then you can't do anything that you want to do. What if you want to fly? Drinian's over here going, I wish I could do that. Well, listen, you are bound by the law of gravity. God put it in the universe. It's one of those things that you have to contend with in life. In other words, if you in your mind believe you can jump off of a building and fly, you're going to learn that that freedom that you chose was not as broad as you thought. The idea is that there are times in life that God does not give us the options that we want. In fact some of the most frustrated people in life Are people that are longing to make choices that are not available to them? And you say, what is the solution to such a place? It's to it's to learn to take the options that are available to them Allow me to explain it this way. God's sovereign will is set. What I mean is there are certain things on God's timetable that no matter what people think they're going to do, no matter what people say they're going to do There's going to be a day that the Lord Jesus Christ is going to return. And no matter how rebellious the people living at that Time are, no matter how much they think they can dupe God and they can go into eternity doing their own thing, they're gonna find out they're wrong. In other words, God is gonna set it straight. He is going to set his timetable in order, and nothing, nothing, nothing can stop what God's going to do. What you decide to do was known by God before you did it. We talk about the fact that God is omniscient. knows everything. And really the statement that he's making could really have two senses. When he says that which has been named is or that which hath been is named already, he He could be saying it this way, what you do is just a repetition of history. In other words, you can look down the list and you can say, hey, you know, what this generation's doing, there's a generation back Or he could also be saying, and this is what I think is more of the sense here, is that what he's saying is God knows before you act. Nothing catches God by surprise. God's going to use all of those details to accomplish his purposes. Yes, you chose. Yes, you had the freedom. And yes, God's hand was involved in the details. Number three, you can't overthrow God's purposes. Lots and lots of people think they can, but one day they're gonna find out they were wrong. We should walk away from this concept with a deep sense. Of humility and gratitude. You know, there are times in life that we make very bad decisions. And when we make those very bad decisions, if everything was left to change And God was not in charge, and God's gracious hand was not at work, our lives would fall apart miserably. Yet though we chose horribly, and though there are consequences for our Our good God comes alongside of us and in his grace he strengthens us, encourages us, he points us in the right direction, he continues to work in our lives. This is the way that God works in our lives. Those things should humble us and make us very grateful, thankful people. The fourth reminder that I want us to see tonight, and this is The last, and it's very important. As we need to remember to be decisive people. We've been reminded this this evening that wisdom only helps for a period of time. We've been reminded that we should be content with the options that we're given. We need been reminded to keep our decisions in perspective. The last thing we're reminded to do is be decisive to make good choices. And verses eleven and twelve he says, seeing there be many things that increase vanity. What What is man the better? For who knoweth what is good for man in this life? All the days of his vain life, which he spent As a shadow, who can tell a man what shall be after him under the sun? You might say, Well, what is Solomon trying to communicate here? What Solomon is trying to communicate Trying to communicate is this. You need to make decisive decisions because you don't know how God is going to use that in the end. There's another passage later on in the book of Ecclesiastes. I'm looking forward to getting to it. But basically what Solomon says is if you're the kind of person that goes out into your field and you look at the sky and you go, I just I just don't know if it's really a good idea to plant my crops today. Go into your house and you don't plant your crops, you come out the next day and you go, you know, I just don't know if it's a very good day today for me to plant my crops. You go back into your your house. You do that enough times and guess what's going to happen? While everybody's planting their fields and the rains are coming and everybody's crops are beginning to grow. When it comes time to Harvest. The people that were decisive and they planted their fields and they cared for their fields, they're gonna go out and they're gonna bring in a harvest. And all of those people that went into their houses every day Saying, you know, the circumstances aren't perfect for me to plant my field. Guess what they do? They starve. That's how a lot of people live their lives. They're not decisive. to take action with the opportunities that they're given. And so Solomon is reminding us that we need to be people who take decisions. There's no point in arguing about the way that things are. People who complain and people who bicker and people who want somebody else's opportunities. and people who are not content with the opportunities that are given them, guess what? Those people don't take the opportunities that they have available. to them. We need to learn to get over it and make the best of what we have. The job that you have, the family that you have, the opportunities God's given you, guess what you need to do need to do. Make the best of them. You say, well, I wish I had, get out of the I wish, make the best of what you're given. Invest in it. Do what's right with it. No one can tell the future of how something is going to play out. So be decisive and do the best you can with what you have. One of the things that I that I see a lot of times with young people, and when I say I see this with young people, I see it because when I was in this stage of life This is what I did. I was trying to read the fig leaves. You know what I'm talking about? Trying to figure out, you know, what is God telling you through this sign? I see this sign. Maybe this sign is is telling me what I'm supposed to to do. And so I kind of I kind of lean that way and then the sign seems to be pushing another direction and I get thrown off and I'm going to make this decision. And I'm just like boom, boom, getting blown back and forth over and over and over again. And I'm petrified by They can't make a decision. I'm sure nobody's ever been there. Nobody's ever been there, right? And you know what God wants us to do? God wants us to take principle And he wants us to look at what's in front of us. And he wants us to take biblical principle and apply biblical principle and do the best we can. That's not reading fig leaves or tea leaves or whatever leaves. That's not getting blown about by this sign and that sign. That's taking real biblical principles Godly instruction from the people around us who are not caught up in the situation saying, those are the options that are in front of you. Here's what God's Word says about this and this and this. And so So do the best you can with what you have. And people who do that, you know what happens? God blesses their labors. God's not going to sit back in heaven and go, I just can't wait to see you make a misstep. So I can crush you. That's not the way God is. God is good. God loves us. He's patient. He works through our decisions. Sometimes a person's pushing in the wrong direction and they don't have the sense to pull away from that direction. You know what God does? He closes the door. You say, why is he doing it? Because he's really kind to people. This person isn't trying to be rebellious, but the reality is they don't have the sense sense to realize they shouldn't go down this direction. And so God through circumstance pushes them away from that. God had to do that in your life probably when you were young. God had to do that in my life when I was a very young man. Why is he like that? Because he loves us. But God wants us to take the opportunities in front of us and take the biblical principles we learned, and he wants us to apply Apply them in a practical way for his glory. Remember, God uses our decisions to accomplish his purpose. In some ways I asked myself the question: why in the world would a God who knows everything, who has Unlimited strength, unlimited resources, knows the beginning from the end. Why does God choose to work through us mere more Through our decisions. Why does he do it? It's a pretty phenomenal thing to consider. Yet that's the way he operates. And that brings him incredible glory because it shows I want to pull this all to a conclusion with a very simple thought. God wants us to live humble, wise lives, be Because he's in control. The fact that God rules is not something that should say, oh, well, you know, because God rules, I'm just gonna let him do it all. That's not the appropriate response. Because God rules, I'm going to humble myself and I'm going to make wise choices for his glory. So, let's be a people who are humble, realizing That we will one day breathe our last breath on this earth. Let's be people who are content with what God has given us, knowing it's ultimately his right to do Let's be a people who realize that the choices that are available to us are limited by God, so we need to accept this reality and choose wisely. Let's be decisive. Since we do not know how God is going to use our decisions in the future, I really want to encourage our young people. Be a person before you are at that stage in life where you've got to make the decisions. These really big and tough decisions, be a student of the Bible. Be in the Word. Be reading the book of Proverbs every single day. Every single teenager in this room. You should be reading through the book of Proverbs every single month. Do I have the authority of God to tell you to do that? No, but that's good sense. Take the book of Proverbs. Read it through over and over and over again. Let God's word get into your heart. You say why? Because you need godly wisdom when you face the choices. in life. Every single young person in this room. Listen to the godly people in your life that have walked down the road. You know who that is? That's mom and dad. Dad. That's people who are an authority in your life. Listen to them. Do you know why parents have wisdom? Because parents made bad choices when they were your Is that true? Yes, it's true. Parents made bad choices when they were your age. And because they've gotten in a good church and because they've gotten in the Word of God, they've learned from those bad choices. And they don't want you to make those bad choices. So get into the word, listen to the people around you that have good biblical sense. Thing I'll say is this. Thank God that when you choose wisely in accordance with his word, he will bless it. So I want to encourage you, don't be petrified. In life, be decisive. And be decisive for the glory of God. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, I pray that you'd help us to be a people who take Take decisive action with the options that you give us in accordance with your revealed will. Help us to be men and women of integrity and wisdom Help us to be people of principle. And I pray especially for our youth, especially for our kids, our teens. Help our young people to be someday men and women who make Very wise and godly choices. Help them to be students of the Word, even as they are 12 and 13 years old. Help us as parents to guide our children. In the ways of the Lord, to bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, to point them in a direction that honors you. I pray that you might take these words and use them. Them for your glory tonight. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, I'd like you to take your Bibles, or your Bibles, take your hymn books, and let's turn to hymn number three hundred and eighty. And the hymn that we're going to sing for our closing is Is Your All on the Altar. 389 Is Your All on the Altar. We're going to sing the first, the second. Second and the fourth verses. And I want to encourage you as we sing this hymn, want to ask this question of ourselves. Do we really have a commitment? To God's ways. And I mean in all life. I don't mean like in some areas of life, in the easy areas of life, in all of life, the toughest areas of life. And this isn't just for So as we sing this song, let's reflect deeply and ask God, God, if there are areas in my life where my all is not on the altar, I am not submitted to your Let's stand together. Let's sing this song. And if God's convicting our heart, Right there in your seat and deal with whatever God's showing you. But let's sing it with honesty before the Lord. Hymn three hundred and eighty eighty-nine as you're all on the altar. You have longed for sweet peace and for pay to increase. Peace and have earnestly fervently prayed, but you cannot have rest or be Perfectly blessed until all on the altar is laid Is your all on the altar of sacrifice I slayed? Your heart has The spirit control, you can only be blessed and have peace and sweet rest As you yield him your body and soul. On the second, here we go. Would you walk with the Lord in the light of his word? And have peace and content always. You must do his sweet will To be free from all ill, unto the all to your all you must make Is your all on the altar of sacrifice laid your heart Just the spirit control. Oh, you can only be blessed and has peace and sweet Rest as you yield in your body and soul. On the last, here we go. Who can tell all the love He will send from above, and how happy our hearts will be made Of the fellowship suite, we shall share at his feet when our all on the altar is laid Is your all on the altar of sacrifice laid? Your heart does the spirit control You can only be blessed and have peace and sweet rest as you yield him Your body and soul. Amen. And I hope that that is really truly where your heart is. Um Brother Macaulay, can you close us prayer please and hope that you guys have a great week. Hope you'll be back on Wednesday night as we meet for prayer and we continue our study in 2 Timothy. Dear Lord, thank you for a wonderful day. We just prayed that you would be with us this week, that we would be decisive in your word, that we would heed your calling for our lives. Once again, we're so thankful how blessed that we are, that we live in a country that we can worship you freely. We pray that you would be with each and every one of us this week. In Jesus Christ's name we pray. Amen.