Good morning. My name is Brent, and I have known your pastor for I was thinking there in Sunday school twenty probably twenty-five years or so. When did you move when did you guys move down to Florida? When you were eight. So twenty five plus years. We be we became friends at least twenty years ago or or longer. And uh your pastor and I have gone through many things together and enjoyed many fun, fun times. And it's a great day to be here to be preach the word of God to you. Take your Bible and let's turn to Acts twenty-four as we get started. Let me begin by saying just a word about the revival. How many of you have been to revival before I asked this question in Sunday school, but how many of you have been to revivals before? Okay, a lot of us have. You know, revivals are one of those things that come around maybe once a year, maybe once every other year sometimes twice a year depending on what church you go to but they're important why because there's a special speaker who wants to come and he lets have people to preach to no not necessarily But because you and I need a chance in our lives to draw nigh to God. We need to stop what we're doing for just a few days sometimes and just draw nigh, re-examine, re-evaluate. And I realize schedules are busy I I understand that we have four kids. Number five's coming here in a couple weeks. And we understand busyness. But let me challenge each and every one of you to do your best to be here this week. I understand on a Sunday morning I'm speaking to some folks who you're only ever in church on Sunday morning. Can I challenge you? You know, our world challenged us to do funny things like dump ice water on our heads. That was a few years ago. I know that's a little bit Sunday night, church, what, huh? And then Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday night Yeah, you know, coming in these doors on a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday night. Some of you I know will be here. We praise the Lord. We're glad you're here, but some of you have never even thought about, yeah, I just don't know Sunday morning only That's the only thing we do. Can I challenge you this week to do something different? Different? We're Baptists. We don't do things different. How many Baptists does it take to change a light bulb? Change? Change? No, we don't do that at all. But in all sincerity, let me challenge each and every one of you to do your part to be here. And you know, I understand some of you have work, some of you men especially may have work uh you work a shift perhaps that you just can't be here. We understand. We're not gonna be counting noses and sending you nan We understand that. But the point of this meeting is for all of us corporately to come together as a church and to see what God would have for us to change. And to collectively change it and individually get help at the same time. That's the goal of these week this week. And so let me encourage each of you to make your plans now. And if you don't plan on coming, it's not gonna happen. I can tell you You ever said, Oh yeah, I want to come to that. Time rolls around, you're like, uh, it didn't happen. You got a plan. We understand plan So let me encourage you even this afternoon to plan to be here tonight. I understand the weather, and if you can't come because of weather, we understand that. But don't let that be an excuse that oh yeah, well the weather yeah, I can't get out of that one because of the weather. Don't let that be an excuse if it's it doesn't need to be. But be here tonight and think through what needs to happen to allow you and your family if you have one to be here every night this week. Some of you might think, well we got kids, we got school. We do too. Pastor Joel does his week Well, to that end, we are going to do our best, even starting tonight, to do our best to keep the services streamlined and focused on what the Word of God is. All the kids will start in here. The nursery will of course will go go to the nursery each night. But all the kids will start in here. When I stand to preach, we'll dismiss the kids program. And my wife, uh pray for my wife by the way, we're at thirty twenty-nine But she'll take the kids out to the fellowship hall each night and they'll have a special kids appropriate gospel centered time for them and our goals to be done at the top of the hour uh at least by the top of the hour each night. Now if you guys stick around and talk for fifteen, twenty, thirty four forty five minutes, an hour after that Don't blame me about that. But do your best to be here. Oh, what about meals? There's this wonderful thing called the drive-thru. Get them on your way. Well, homework. Well, even think about that this afternoon for those of you with T Teenage kids. Think how you're gonna do that. What I'm saying is this. Do your best. We've done our part on our end to try to eliminate as much many things as possible, but do your best to focus in what God would have you to do. Draw night of God. We looked at this in Sunday. And he will. That's a promise. Draw nigh to you. Our problem is that we get so busy. Yeah, yeah, we got this thing and this thing and this thing and this stop it all. Maybe get off of Facebook, YouTube Turn the TV off, which may be different for a lot of you us. But turn the TV off and for the next four days, concentrate on what the Word of God has to say. Clear the schedule so you can be in church. And if you'll do that, if you'll draw nigh to God, take an active step personally to draw nigh to God in your life schedule for the next four days, I can promise you, based on what James 4. 8 says, He will draw nigh to you. That's a wonderful promise. So let me encourage and challenge each and every one of you to do it. Some of you I know right now you haven't heard me preach it, so you're like, well, we'll see how you preach it. and then we'll decide if we come back. But it really isn't about the preacher. Obviously I hope to do my best to open the word of God and share truth with each and every one of us. Of you. But it's about what God does through His Word in each one of our hearts and lives. Some of the meetings I've come to where there's been a great, quote unquote, great preacher. I've gone away going, oh okay, that was that was good. Some of the meetings where the preaching wasn't all that, but the word of God was real and I came personally with the right heart attitude. Those are the meetings, the revival meetings that I remember. Those are the special meetings, even the search Services in church that I remember meetings God doing something in my heart. Why? Because the Word of God was there and I had the right heart attitude. And that's what I want to encourage each and every one of you to do. If you can't come and you can view on Facebook, do it like that, but I would encourage you to be here. I'm excited to preach the word of God to you this morning. My goal this morning is to share with you three stories. And each about four men, and each of these men actually lived uh once upon a time in history. Sometimes we come to the Word of God and I don't know where you're at in your background, but sometimes you come and you think, well, you know, some of these stories are nice, they're they're funny, they're they're engaging. I don't know how they relate to me. In fact, all four men we're going to talk about this morning have a Wikipedia page. So you could go home this afternoon and look up more secular history about each of these men. And each of these men is unique and interesting, not just because they're in the Bible, but in how they responded to truth. Let's begin by looking in Acts chapter 24, and I'm going to read a few verses, then I'm going to pray. Paul here is under arrest, and he's on trial before the governor feel it. And look at what it says in Acts 24, beginning in verse 24. And after certain days, when Felix came with his wife Drusilla, which was a Jewess, he sent for Paul and heard him concerning the faith And as he, Paul, reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come, Felix trembled and answered, Go thy way for this time when I have a convenient season I will call for thee. He hoped also that money should have been given him of Paul, that he might loose him. Wherefore he sent for him the oftener and communion with him. But after two years fest Portius Festus came into Felix's room, and Felix, willing to show the Jews a pleasure, left Paul bound. Father, as we come to your word this morning, I don't know backgrounds, I don't know hearts, I don't know the busyness of this week, but I do know that all of us come with Needs. All of us come with some difficulties, maybe perhaps her life. All of us come with a lot on our mind. And Lord, I'm asking that for the next few minutes you would help all of us to understand I don't know how many people here have already trusted Christ as Savior. I don't know who's here, who's maybe a visitor. This is their first time. But Lord, you do. And Lord, I pray that you'd help each and every one of us to be helped, to be encouraged, to be challenged by what the Word of God has to say. And this morning, as we look into your word at the life of these four men, Three rulers, governors, and one prisoner. Would we look at our own life through the mirror of the Word of God? And would we see where we're at in comparison to truth? Oh Lord, I need you. I can do nothing but fail. I pray that you'd help us this morning in this time understand your word. Would you be glorified in Jesus' name? Amen. The first person I want us to look at is Paul. If you've been in church for any length of time, you know the Apostle Paul. In fact, the earliest person I can remember being told about in children's class was the Apostle Paul. And for many of you this is going to be review. But perhaps you're here this morning and you don't know much about the Bible or it's been a long time. And you're not sure who's the Apostle Paul. I've heard about him. I've seen churches, St. Paul, the chur uh apostle church, whatever. But I don't know who he is. Well, Paul was an incredibly zealous person. Early on in his life, he was against Christianity. He was against what we now believe. He thought that they were a sect that needed to be put out, and so he spent his time, his life, going against Christians. In fact, he was on a trip one time up to the northern regions of Israel. area to hail people, to arrest people, putting them in prison. And as he later recounted, in fact, even in the chapters we're at today, he found that God was after him. God was on his trail. And there in the middle of the road, a blinding light came to him, and he looked up and said, What is it? Who is it? And it was Jesus. Jesus and from that time on Paul was a different person. He was a man who was sold out. He was an apostle, the heart set free. Before he was working, working, trying to earn a salvation. Now he was working not because he wanted to earn a salvation, but He lived an incredible life. In fact, the Bible gives us some inclination of the how many miles he traveled, and this is obviously the days before uh he of jet airplanes, of modern transportation, everything was walking. He spent five times, five times he was beaten by the Jews, as it says in 2 Corinthians. Corinthians. Three times he was beaten with rods, three times shipwrecked, one time stoned, a night and a day he spent adrift at sea. He spent most of his life in danger, in peril. Why? Because he was trying to prove something. No. But because he realized I have the truth, and the truth can set people free. Lived an incredible existence. Wouldn't it be great if you could go home this afternoon and look up on YouTube Wouldn't that be neat? Well, we don't obviously have that ability. Perhaps in the future in eternity we'll be able to go back in history and view what happened, some of the Bible stories that we believe now. But we do have here in Acts chapter 24, and I just read it, three of Paul's points. You know, three point Sermon that even happened back in New Testament times. Look what it says here in verse 25. Paul's preaching to Felix, and we'll talk about him in a few minutes. But Paul, as he reasoned, as he preached Preach of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come. There's Paul's three points. Can you say those with me? Righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come. There was Paul's three points from his sermon to Felix. He's in the courtroom, he's preaching to Felix, and he preaches of righteousness. What's that? Righteousness, he's speaking of the perfection that's required to enter into heaven. Revelation makes it clear in Revelation 21 that there in no wise shall enter into it anything that defileth. Friend, are you aware today that the The f the way that you and I get to heaven is absolute perfection. How you doing on that? Uh a little bit quiet there, wasn't it? I saw some of your faces and like perfection. Yeah, perfection. There's no lying in heaven, no stealing in heaven, no thievery in heaven, no newscasters who you really can't tell if they're lying or telling the truth in heaven. Amen to that. There's nothing that makes a lie. There's no issues, there's no problems, there's no sin, there's no evil, evil thoughts. That means that we have a problem. Because let's be honest. Can you be honest this morning? You're in church, you should be anyway. Who here has ever done something, thought something, said something that's against God's nature? Would you raise your hand? Okay. I think I saw most hands. Maybe you were asleep if you didn't. But we're all sinners. And Paul spoke of righteousness, the fact that in order for you and I to spend eternity with God in heaven, we have to be absolutely perfect. And that's a problem because We're not. In fact, that's the next point. Temperance. We'll talk about who he's talking to, Felix, in a minute. But he reasoned of righteousness, and he also reasoned of temperance. Temperance. Temperance is the fact that we're not just occasionally good and we occasionally slip up. No, no, no. We are wicked. God has set a command, He set a a standard, and every single one of us have broken, violated, woefully violated that. The Bible even speaks of the fact that we are born speaking lies. month old in the auditorium today. You may or may not hurt hear the little baby, but you know we have four kids, number five's on the way. And we can attest to the fact that all of my kids were born sinners. They take after their mother. Just kidding. No. They take after me. You know, you cute little babies. They're so cute and innocent and precious and angelic, right? You know, that you feed them You change them, you you get them all nice and comfortable and you put them down. And what do they do? And you pick them back up and what are they doing? They're lying. Right? That's what the Bible says. We're born speaking lies. You put them down. I'm dying, I'm dying, I'm dying. Oh, just kidding. I'm fine That's exactly what they're doing. And we're born speaking lies. And you know what we try to we well we we're moral people, we're upstairs. Let's be honest, friend. If God would display for everyone to see what's in our heart, what we think about, what we view, what goes on inside, we'd be mortified. Because truth be told, and always should be, we are sinners from the very core of our natures. We every part about us is inundated with sin. We are sinners. And Paul made it very clear. God demands and expects perfection, righteousness. That's what's required. Temperance, we're not temperate. We have enjoyed, we've indulged ourselves because we like sin. We are sinners. And then look at that third point that he preached: judgment to come. There's coming judgment. This is not just a, oh, you know, that's you know, you're kind of in bad, but you know, your goodness will kind of outweigh your badness, and God will just one day let you into heaven. You will never find that at all in Scripture. That is the idolatry of man. Keep your finger here and turn over with me a few pages to Acts 17. Here, Paul was preaching another sermon, and he says something very interesting. And I want you to see what he says here. Look with me in Acts 17, look at verse 30. Paul is preaching along and he's talking about this unbelief and he says, and the times of this ignorance, God winked at. That means that that doesn't mean that God's overlooked and allowed you to be, oh, it's okay, God's going to pass. It means that God's given you grace. He's given you space to repent. He's allowed you to come to understand the truth of Jesus Christ. But now God commands all men everywhere to repent. God commands all men everywhere to repent. Why does God command this? We'll come back to that in a second. Verse thirty one Because he hath appointed the day in which he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he hath ordained, whereof he hath given Assurance unto all men in that he hath raised him from the dead. He's appointed a man, Jesus, who will judge the world in righteousness. Judgment is coming. And the way we know judgment is coming according to this verse is because That Jesus Christ came out of the grave. Jesus is alive. So judgment's coming. If a bridge was out on a curvy, windy road and you came upon the bridge and you were able to stop in time, the bridge was out. It would be morally responsible, be right for you and I to walk back a little ways and put out some markers, put out some cones, maybe even put a sign and if we saw another motorist. Flag them down, get in the road and flag them down and say stop. Because the bridge is out. It wouldn't be right for you and I just to wave at them as they went on pie, would it? And that's exactly what the Bible does for us. Judgment is coming, friend. And the reason that we talk about the fact that one day we will be judged because we are sinners. The reason we talk about that, the reason we come To church, and the reason we open the Bible is because judgment is coming, because the Bible is true. The Word of God says so. Judgment is coming, the bridge is out. And those of us who know the truth need to share it. And that's exactly what Paul did. He was sharing truth. The judgment is coming. It would have been easy for Paul. He's speaking to a governor, he's speaking to a ruler, a man who has his life in his hands, literally Who could, if he wanted to, sentence him to death. But this man, Paul, as he preached to the ruler, the governor, said, Hey, God commands all men everywhere to repent. God commands you and I to place our trust and faith in God. What does repentance mean? If we're sinners and we can't get to heaven by our good works, by doing good or being good or living a good life, and we need somebody else to save us, how does that take place? What happens? Well, God commands all men to Everywhere to repent. We read that. What does that mean? It means repentance means change your mind, stop trusting and arresting in anything that's keeping you from Christ. You could be here this morning and you think that I'm going to heaven because Because I got baptized as a kid. Can I tell you politely, friend, that that's an idol and you need to repent of that? You need to reject that idol and place your faith and trust in Jesus. Christ alone. You may be here this morning thinking, well, I'm a good person. I live a good life. I'm not like other people. I don't kill people. I don't do bad things. I try to be nice. And I say to you, good, I'm glad you haven't killed anybody yet. But have you ever thought about it? You ever thought evil thoughts toward somebody? We're all sinners. And God commands all men everywhere to repent. To stop trusting our good works, our looking good, being good, doing good, our religion, whatever it is that's keeping us from Christ, and place our faith and trust in Jesus Christ alone for salvation. Salvation. That's repentance. Repentance and faith is what Paul preached in Acts 20. Repentance, rejecting whatever is keeping you from Jesus Christ and placing your eternal hope and your trust completely in Jesus. Jesus alone for salvation. That's what God commands all men everywhere to do. You may be here this morning, friend, thinking, well, Brent, that that's nice. That's your religion. That's your church dogma. That's your church way of thinking. And we live in a day and age now where, you know, you can just take truth and you can take it or leave it. We live in this buffet supposedly of truth. Well, uh, you know, that's just your religion. This is my religion. That's your truth. This is my truth. Suppose I went up here to the airport, BWI, and I went up to the ticket counter and said, hey ma'am, I'd like to get the flight that's going to LA. gate do I need to go to? And the man, uh the lady across the the counter looked at me and goes, Oh. Any gate you want No ma'am, no ma'am. No ma'am. I I want the flight going to LAX, Los Angeles International Airport. There's one flight, a nonstop, going from here, BWI, to LAX. I want As long as you're sincere and as you don't offend others, and as long as you're nice about it, any gate you want Once, sir. No. No, that's ludicrous. Would that ever happen? You probably told it's this case, sir, get going, please move. That's ludicrous. Because there's a definite way, there's a definite path, there's a definite route, there's one way on one flight to get to that place. Well, how How much more ludicrous is it is it for people to say, well, you know, I'll just figure out heaven on my own. I'll just do it myself. I, you know, that's your truth, my truth, it they're all equal. No, no, no, friend. They're not. God commands all men everywhere, from every religion, every tribe, every race, every culture, every demographic. To repent, to stop trusting their good works, to stop trusting their baptism, to stop trusting whatever they're trusting in, and place their faith in eternal dependence alone in Jesus Christ. Has there been a time in your life when you repented and placed your faith and trust in Jesus Christ alone? I'm not asking about the time you got baptized. Well, yeah, I I I made a decision. I went forward in church. I'm glad you went forward in church. But that's not salvation. I got baptized as a kid. If you didn't trust Christ as Savior, the only thing that happened to you was you got wet. Now, friend, hear me out. You don't know Me, you're just meeting men. I'm saying some pretty strong words, but they're from the Bible. God commands all men everywhere to repent, to stop trusting your good work. To start trusting whatever it is that you're that's keeping you from Christ, to reject all of that, to change your mind and place your faith and trust in Jesus Christ alone. Have you tried Done that. As a little boy, I was in a junior church setting, heard the gospel, the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus. I knew as I was a sinner. My parents reminded me of that a lot. I got a lot of reminders. You got it, can't call them anything else in the day, or it's politically incorrect. But I got reminded of my sin a lot. I knew I was a sinner. Didn't have to convince me of that one. And I heard that Jesus Christ Died for me and took my sin. And you know what I did as a little boy? I said something like this inside. God, I can't save me. Pretty honest little statement, but it's the truth. My good works, they can't save me. I'm a sinner. I deserve hell. I deserve separation. Judgment's coming. But I trust Jesus Christ. You know what happened in that moment? I was I was by myself in my room. The organ wasn't playing. The pastor wasn't there counseling. Nothing really major happened. But you know what happened eternally that moment? My name is recorded in the book of life. Life. My sins were washed away. Not only that, I got Christ's righteousness imputed to my account. And now God looks at me, He doesn't see my sin. He sees His perfection of His Son, His dearly beloved. He sees His sacrifice. sacrifice of his son. And why? Because I'm a good person? No. Why do I do what I do? Why do we travel around the country and even the world going to the Philippines and Vietnam here? In a few weeks. Why do I do that? Because I'm trying to earn my salvation? No. Because I know that judgment is coming. And like the Apostle Paul, I want to give my life for those who haven't heard, those who think they know the truth, but don't know it yet. And that's exactly what Apostle Paul was doing. He could have had freedom, he could have had anything he wanted to, he could have been in retirement at this point, but he knew that this is what God had for me, and he went bound to Jerusalem, knowing that the Spirit is going to that something's gonna happen there. He's bound now and he's gonna appeal to Caesar and he's gonna spend waste waste two or three years of his life in prison waiting for this whole legal uh monkey trial to take place and all the while he knows I'm gonna preach Jesus Jesus, I'm to preach judgment to come, that God commands all men everywhere to repent. That's the Apostle Paul. He's a prisoner here. He's in Chains. He's in bounds. But I want you to see the second man we're going to talk about today, and we've already mentioned his name here in Acts chapter 24. His name is Felix. Sometimes we think about Felix and we think about the cat, but this it actually is the name of a guy two thousand years ago who's a governor. History records a few interesting facts about Felix. Look what it says there in verse 24. And after certain days when Felix Came with his wife Drusilla. So who is his wife? Good, I'm glad you can read. Drusilla. Drusilla's interesting. Drusilla was married just prior to this, according to history, to another guy. And Felix had the other guy kind of maligned and had that marriage broken up because he wanted Drusilla. Drusilla, we're going to meet her brother and sister as the fourth man that we're going to talk about But Drusilla's a Jew, she's Jewish, and she was a pagan individual. She had a culture, but she liked sin. She's the only Jew that's recorded that died in the eruption of Mount Vesuvius when Pompey. Pompeii was covered. She is a person who likes immorality, but Felix is no different. You can see Just in the verses that we read, that he was kind of an unreasonable character. He wanted bribes, verse 26. He hoped also that money should have been given him. The history, secular history records that when Felix was ruling his area, that crime and corruption went through the roof and skyrocketed. Felix was a very corrupt individual. He liked his filth, he liked his sin he liked his money. He was a corrupt person. He liked his sin. And notice what the response that Felix gave. Look at verse 25 again. And as Paul reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come, Felix trembled. He shook. Because he knew this is true. He shook. He knew this is true. And he answered, Go thy way for this time. When I have a convenient season, I will call for thee. He hoped also that money should have been given him of Paul, that he might lose him. Wherefore he sent for him the oftener and communed with him. This man, Felix, was a wicked individual. He's on at least his third marriage. He lived a corrupt life, and history records later the Roman government finally got so fed up with him that they removed him and put Festus in his place. We'll meet Festus next. But Felix is a corrupt man. He likes his sin. He likes his passion. He's a slave to his passions. And when Paul reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come, he was nailing Felix's high to the wall. Felix Felix was shaking because Felix inside knew, this is truth, this is truth, I know it's true, but I like my sin. No, I like my sin. I have seen this take from I've seen the gospel confront people, the death, burial, and resurrection, the fact that Jesus Christ is the way, the truth, and life, and the people respond with, ah, no, I I like my sin. I've seen people grip the pew and say, No, I'm not gonna respond to that truth. No, I I like my sin. No. And they uh they may even come back to church. They may even walk out and say, Oh, that was a good message, that was good. Can I talk with you? Can I talk to you sometime, Pastor? Can I talk with you sometime, Brother Brent? But they like their sin. They're not willing to place their faith and trust in Christ because they like their sin. That's Felix. He liked to sin. And so when the gospel came to him, he knew it's true. He shook. Place. Felix trembled. Well, as we mentioned, history records that corruption and greed and filth went out of control and crime skyrocketed, and the Romans finally had enough with Felix and said, you've got to get out of here. And they replaced him with our third character, Festus. Festus is a unique individual. We don't know much outside of what the Bible says, and even secular history is somewhat quiet about Festus. But Festus came from Rome, and Portius Festus was a Roman governor. Evidently, perhaps even according to some historians, he had moved around fixing problems. He was one of those movers and shakers. And we can see that you can read the biblical account. Within a few days he's trying to work with the Jews. He's trying to establish why this guy's in prison. And notice how he describes Christianity Look what it says there in verse 19 of chapter 25. Festus is trying to describe Christianity to Grippin Bernices. He's like, there's this guy, and look what it says in verse nineteen, but had s certain questions against them of their own superstitions, and of one Jesus which was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be alive. We can see from right there that this guy by the name of Phaestus didn't believe in the supernatural. Felix, he believed it and he trembled. He knew it's true, but he liked to sin. Well, I'm not going to come to Christ. I'm going to keep my sin. Festus, uh, don't believe that stuff. There's this guy, you think he was alive, but he's dead, and you think he's alive. Uh your superstitions, your questions. And even later in chapter 26, as Paul is preaching and as he's He's giving the defense of the gospel, and he's telling about his testimony, why he's doing what he's doing. Look with me what it says in Acts twenty-six. Look at verse twenty-four And as he, Paul, thus spake for himself, Festus said with a loud voice, Paul, thou art beside thyself. Much learning doth make thee mad. Festus mocked. Paul, you're you're full of baloney. You don't even you're off your rocker. I don't need this stuff. He mocked. He said Slandered. He couldn't believe. He was a rational man who had been trained in the rationalism of the Romans, who was good at his job, who is there to help people get back into order. thinks risen r uh risen again? Ah no. And perhaps there's some folks here this morning who when you hear truth like this, you go, ah no no no no no no no no no it doesn't fit this and doesn't fit this and doesn't doesn't fit this, doesn't fit this. You can't believe it because it rationally can't fit into your mind. You're here this morning and you're like Festus. Inside you may be, you may be on the outside you may be polite, you may be nice, you may smile, shake hands, but inside you're going Whatever these people are off their rockers. You're like Festus. I've seen this happen too. I I've given truth to people and I've seen people sit in services or even talking to them and they shake their head and go go, pfft, whatever. I've seen them fold their hands and go, pfft, nah. You got another thing coming if you want me to believe that stuff. They reject truth. They know it's true because the Holy Spirit is speaking to them, but they callous up and they go, No, I I can't believe that that unnatural I have to be able to feel it, I have to be able to verify it, I have to be able to see with my eyes. I can't believe anything that I can't verify for myself And they reject it. Nah, I don't need that. I don't need that. That's festus. I want you to look at the fourth man. Look back with me in chapter 25, and we're introduced to him. Verse 13. And after certain days King Agrippa and Bernice. Now this is King Agrippa, and Bernice is his sister. Their other sister is Drusilla. We met her a few minutes ago. King Herod Agrippa II is the last of the Herods. If you know your Bible, you know about the Herods. This man's uncle, King Agrippa, his uncle was the one who had killed Excuse me, his father had killed James in Acts 12 and imprisoned Peter. His great uncle, Herod Antipas, had killed John the Baptist and tried Jesus with Pilate. His great-grandfather, Herod the Great, had tried to kill baby Jesus. You want to talk about a family coming face to face repeatedly with truth. Here's the Herod family. And Herod's he's kind of this nice guy, it seems like And Paul begins to preach to him, and he preaches to him more in depth and detail. Festus is there, and Festus is listening, and Festus just mocks. Ah, whatever, this is this is crazy. But Agrippa is gripping He's listening. He's hearing. He's a religious person. He believes the prophets. And Paul gets to the clincher. He comes down to the invitation. Look with me down in chapter 26. Verse number 25. But Paul said, he said, I am not mad, most noble Festus, but speak forth the words of truth and soberness, for the king knoweth of these things, before whom also I speak freely. For I am persuaded that none of these things are hidden from him. For the king, for this thing was not done in the corner. King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets? I know that thou believest. Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. Almost And Paul said, I would to God that not only thou But also all that hear me this day were both almost and altogether such as I am, except these bonds. Agrippa is this man who believes truth. He's a religious man. He believed the prophets. Paul said, I know you believe the prophets. He's a man who's studied, who's seen it, he's watched it, he's given his approval to religion. He's a religious, good, moral man, supposedly, from what we can find in scripture and history. He's a religious man. And Paul said, You believe. Oh man, I'm close. Almost. I've seen people listen to truth of gospel message like this I I've heard them give the gospel I've given the gospel to them and they say, Wow, that's interesting. That's good. I'll have to think about that. And they walk out Friend, having a knowledge of the gospel is not enough. You can even be uh pro-gospel. Yeah, yeah, I'm pro-church. Well, so are the demons. They they believe God, they know the truth, they they know that this is true. They tremble. But what needs to take place is repentance, a personal trust, a rejection of all the religion, a rejection of whatever's keeping you from Christ, and place your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And Agrippa was close. He believed the Bible. He believed the prophets. He listened to Paul intently. And no doubt the Holy Spirit was convicting. He said, Oh man, Paul, you're good. You're persuasive. I whew man, I I 'm close. Almost. Friend, I don't know where you're at with truth. Paul said I wish together You and everybody else in this room were like me, and that you jumped in, that you accepted it fully. Maybe you're here this morning and you're like Felix No, I don't I know it's true, Brent, but I like my sin. I I like my sin. I'm gonna keep my sin. No, no I'm keeping my sin. Maybe you're like Festus. You guys, I'm here because of I gotta be because everyone thinks I am, but inside you're like, you guys are you guys are full of baloney This this you guys are crazy. You want me to believe in this dead guy that he's the way, the truth, the life? The Jews require a sign, the Greeks seek after wisdom. But the foolishness of the cross of Christ is it's foolishness to some. But it is This is the saving power of God. God commands all men everywhere to repent. Or maybe you're here and you're religious. I'm here. Sunday morning, I'm in church. Yeah, I believe the Bible said, Yeah, I believe Jesus. Jesus Christ lived. Yeah, I believe in all that stuff, but there's never been a time in your life when you rejected your good works. You placed your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. We're living in an interesting day. I'm convinced more and more and more that many people who sit in Bible preaching churches Have never ever placed their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Yeah, they know all the words. They know how to sing the songs. They're even active in the But they've never rejected their good works, they've never rejected their what they have to bring, and they've never placed their faith and trust in Jesus Christ alone. What about you, friend? Has there been a time in your life when you rejected your good works, your religion, placed your faith and trust in God I was preaching in a little Baptist church in July. I was in a little village in Zambia. You know what I found Most of the church there in a Baptist Bible preaching church had never placed their faith and trust in Christ. So I preached a message very similar to this I gave the invitation. Most of the adults in the church responded. Say, oh well, that's Zambia. I think that may even be Here. And I don't want to cause anybody to question or doubt. But has there been a time in your life when you rejected what was keeping you from Christ and you placed your faith and trust in Jesus alone? Alone. I don't know you, you don't know me. But we see four men in scripture today. Paul, who when he saw the gospel, he said, Yes, Lord, what will thou have me to do? And his life was different. And he lived his life not trying to earn salvation, but because he had already had him. He was an apostle of a heart set free. He was trying to share with him, judgment is coming. We see Felix, who liked his sin. Oh, I'm not going to trust Christ. I like my sin. We see Festus, ah, that's crazy. We see Agrippa. That's good. Uh man, that's that's a good message. Uh almost. I I yeah, I I agree with you. I need some time to think about it What about you, friend? We mentioned at the beginning that we're talking this today about three prisoners, or excuse me, three rulers and a prisoner. But for the past two thousand years Years ago, 2,000 years, that , has actually been reversed. Because for the past 2,000 years, the Apostle Paul has been enjoying absolute freedom. And he's been enjoying freedom with God in heaven. And for the past two thousand years ago, the two thousand years, these three men have been in bondage and judgment. And wishing they had trusted Christ. Sin 's not worth it. Unbelief's not worth it. Religion's not worth going to hell over. Place your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Alone. He is the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father but through the Son. He is the only way. Friend, you can go to this church all your life and still go to hell. You can be sympathetic to the gospel. You can agree. You can sing the songs and still go to hell. You can be a good person, a moral person, get baptized, live a good life, help people out, serve soup in a soup kitchen, and still go to hell. Why? Because it's what you do with Jesus that matters. You must place your faith, trust, complete, total dependence upon Jesus. And I don't know you, friend. I haven't gotten to sit down with each one of you and find out where you're at spiritually. But as I travel, as I talk with people, as I preach, I find that there's a lot of people who are very confused about the gospel. The gospel is the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus that he can and I can't save me. The gospel's the fact that I can't transform myself. I can't do any better. But Christ did everything necessary to pay for my sin, and I'm going to trust him and him alone, not my good works, not my religion, not my baptism, not anything, not my sin. I'm going to let go of all that and place my faith and trust in Jesus alone. Has there been a time when you trusted Jesus? Maybe you're here and you say, well Brent, I I've heard this before. Well has there been a time? Can you take me back to a time in your life when you said, I realize that. And I trusted Jesus Christ. Alone. If you never have them, the gospel invitation to you this morning is place your faith and trust in Jesus. Let go of all that stuff that is keeping you from Christ. And place your faith and trust in Jesus Christ alone. Have you? Has there been a time when you trusted Jesus Christ for salvation Could I have every head bowed and every eye closed? I'm going to turn the service over to Pastor Joel in a minute. But I have a question. I want to encourage you to answer honestly God knows your heart. How many people say there has been a time in my life when I rejected all that was keeping me from Christ and I realized it's not my baptism, it's not my good works, it's not any of those things, but I have placed my faith, trust, completely Complete and total dependence upon Jesus Christ alone. And I know it. I know there's been a time like that. Would you lift your hand to that fact? Amen. Amen Thank you. Put your hands down. Now this is gonna take some honesty. And I'm not gonna embarrass anybody. And quite honestly, I don't know your name, so I I couldn't even call you out if I wanted to. But would there be anybody here this morning that would say, Brent, I as you were speaking, I don't know that there has been that time that you're talking about. Maybe you're here this morning. You've always thought that you well I I've been a good person. I go to church. I read my Bible. I live a good life. I do good things. I've tried really hard and I thought that was eternal I thought that was heaven, but what you're saying is kind of different. Or maybe you're here and you say, Brett, there's just simply put never been a time that I've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. Or maybe you're here and you say, I don't know. I have questions now. I'm not sure. If any of those three fit you that we just talked about, I'd like to pray for you. And again, I I'm not gonna call You out. I'm not going to embarrass you. But would you just simply lift your hand quietly so I can see it? I don't know. I have questions. I've never done what you've talked about. If you're here and you've never placed your faith and trust in Jesus, this morning is a great time to do it. Just as you are. Well, I gotta try to do better. No, no, no, you can't. Trust Jesus Christ alone. I'm gonna pray, then I'm gonna turn this. Service of invitation over to Pastor. Father, thank you for truth. And Lord, I don't know who's here. I don't know who has placed their faith and trust in Christ. Christ. But Lord, you do. And Lord, you've given us the stories of Felix and Festus and Agrippa to show us. That many have not responded to the gospel correctly. Lord, I pray that you'd work in hearts. If there's questions, I pray that they'd be answered Biblically. For those who have already trusted Christ, I pray that this week would be a time of growth, a time of God working in our hearts and lives. Lord, we need you. And would we all be clear with the gospel in Jesus' name