Let's turn over to hymn 478. It is well with my soul. We'll sing all four verses. What 's the Oh it is well when it might so it is well That is my soul and so that we call it my And my sweet with the world when all it is well. Well, well Get my soul in well, my so my spirit. My name is It 's held to deliver for us and I pray alone, pray alone. Oh if it's well with my soul if it is well I be able to Turn over to him 483. 483. Like a river glorious. My God will not. God perfect me all the victoria Stay up on the Sraist Babanya Sala. We may trust them nothing all for us to make us my help. Say , stay the course of all the. Great singing. Is Jesus my Lord Oh wonderful Savior received my Lord, a wonderful Savior to me. He I saw them quite above wherever I That measure I see He highlight my soul and the cloud above the shadows are trying to That problems we can Covers me now with this hand. Oh wonderful Savior is Jesus my Lord in taking my birth. And molding me up and thy salad be coming straight by. He high in my soul and that might not be the same. That covers me there with my mind That covers me there with his mind. With number less blessing these morality grasp and his forest divine. I sing in my rapture, oh glory to God, for such a requirement as my soul. In the cloud of the rock that shadows are trying to see my light in the world. And his right and transforted advice to be human in clouds and the skies. His perfect salvation is one. Wonderful love has found with a million hearts. He hiding my soul in the brother. Shadow was my first dream. In the last love in love, that covers me dew. Great singing, please be seated. Okay. No special. I saw that title screen pop off and thought, oh that's me. That looks familiar. Alright. We're going to open our Bibles to 1 Samuel 18, continuing our study of Saul and David, and we're going to pick up where we left off last week. Pastor covered much of chapter 17. That good, popular, uh, well-known chapter with David and Goliath. And we'll quickly review some of that as we dig in, but we're going to open our Bibles to 1 Samuel chapter 18. And we will look at the first several verses here. I'll start reading in verse 1. And it came to pass when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul. That the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David. And Jonathan loved him as his own soul. And Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to his father's house. Then Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul. And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him and gave it to David and his garments. Even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle. And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and behaved himself wisely, And Saul set him over the men of war, and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants. And it came to pass as they came, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women came out from the cities of Israel. singing and dancing, to meet King Saul with tabrats, with joy, and with instruments of music. And the women answered one to another as they played, and said, Saul hath slain his thousands And David his ten thousands. And Saul was very wroth. And the saying displeased him And he said, they 've ascribed unto David ten thousands. To me they've ascribed but thousands. And what can ye have more but the kingdom? And Saul eyed David from that day forward. Father, what a blessing and privilege it is to come to your house this evening. to open the Bible, to read it in our own language, to be encouraged, comforted, and convicted, to learn from the truths of your word That you would speak to the hearts and lives of your children that are physically here and those who may be watching online. May it be a blessing, may it be an encouragement, and Father, would Christ be honored and glorified this evening, and we come to you through the glorious name of your Son and our Savior's name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen Amen. So you probably see it in the back there, but friend or foe, how do you respond to one who takes a courageous stand for God? How do you view them? What do you think about them? We're going to see two different views of David here this evening. The first five verses we're going to cover How Jonathan kind of responds and views David to his success, his courageous stand. And then in verses 6 through 9, we're going to see how Saul viewed and responded to David's success. And as we go through this text, we need to ask ourselves, how do I view other people when they take a stand? Are we excited for them? Do we draw closer to them? Or do we have a bit of jealousy, envy, and frustration within? Usually it's one of these two things, so we're going to look at that. We're going to start here. With the first one, David and Jonathan become friends in verses one through five And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. David here, when it says he end up speaking, this was just after he had slain Goliath, one of the most memorable passages of all scripture. This short little guy, probably about that tall ish against the guy that was massive beast of a man. He had just slain him and took a courageous, wonderful stand And that is the conversation thereafter he's having with Saul right here. And Saul, as we ended chapter 17, he's like, wait a minute. Whose son are you? Who is your father? Where did you come from? What is going on? He wants to inquire a little bit more. So Saul, King Saul, is having this conversation with David And as that conversation is coming to a close, whatever all I'm sure there's more discussed there than what we have recorded. But there at the end of this, we can see when this conversation is now ended. As David has answered all of Saul's questions and talked to him. A result of that, what it says that David or Jonathan here Said he was knit with the soul of David and loved him as his own soul. Why would this happen? Why would Jonathan, after hearing this discussion and seeing this great victory, this great stand of courage from the God of Israel against this Philistine who defied the armies of Israel? Jonathan had seen what happened, heard something from this conversation, and something there just bound David or Jonathan to David. What is it? Yes, I'm sure it was the courageous stand he took. His explanation of why. Someone actually having the courage to take a stand, put your life on the line for God's sake. But also, I think that when Jonathan is looking at David, he sees he's not doing this for selfish ambition. David didn't see Goliath and go, ah, I've got my eyes set on being the next king of Israel. That's what I want. If I could just defeat Goliath, I can be the next king. I mean, after all, I was privately already anointed by Samuel. So this is my I don't think Jonathan saw that. We didn't see that. Instead, if we go back just a couple verses, just remind ourselves in 1 Samuel 17, verse 26. It says David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the men that killeth this Philistine? And taketh away the reproach of Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine that should defy the armies of the living God? Remember there's discussion amongst the guys, oh, the guy that defeats Goliath, he's gonna you know get the king's daughter and all this stuff will be given to him, he's gonna be a wealthy, well-known guy. You know all these things. But David's not concerned is the the position, the power. David's concern was that why is this guy allowed to defy the armies of the living God and no one take a stand? That took courage. Verse 29, a couple verses later. And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? This is the brothers questioning him. Oh, why how come we're not watching those few little sheep? That's an older brother coming in Oh, you insignificant little brother. Shouldn't you go and do what little brothers do? You're not even supposed to be here, you selfish, arrogant. You just want to look into all these things. You're here following yourself. That's not how Jonathan read it, I don't think. A couple verses later, 1 Samuel 17, 32, and David said to Saul, I think this verse is pretty key when we look at the life of David, and David said to Saul, let no man's heart fail because of him, because of Goliath. Thy servant will go and fight this Philistine. I think this is hugely important because when we look at the discussion was taking place just after the victory. It says, let no man's heart fail. I just want to point out here really quickly, let no man's heart fail. What was David known as? David was known as a man after God's own heart. What did David's heart not do right here? It didn't fail. It didn't quit. It didn't look at the circumstances and go, oh, that's impossible, can't do it. He looked at the challenge, and within himself, he made a decision, I will take a stand because it's the right thing to do. We see this all the way back to 1 Samuel 13, 14. But now thy kingdom shall not continue. The Lord hath sought him a man after his own heart. That's 1 Samuel 13, 14. And the Lord hath commanded him to be captain over his people, because thou hast not kept that which the Lord hath commanded thee. So there it is saying, the Lord has sought him a man after his own heart. Now God seeing the future knew what David would do, but David's heart was not one to fail when it looked at difficulties, when it looked at circumstances, when it looked at a Goliath in your life. Sometimes we see challenges in our lives and our heart begins to fail. We see the impossibility. We see the challenges. We see the trials. Instead of the potential victory, and instead of, you know what, I need to do what's right and let the results be up to the Lord. We see this several times throughout scripture in Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendago, hey, be it known unto you, we will not bow down. Whether he spares us or not. Me known unto you, we're taking a stand for what's right. So we've seen other passages like this, and that's David right here. I also want to point out a Psalm 138-1. This is the Psalm of David. And I think it's very significant to go with the 1 Samuel 13, 14. It says, I will praise thee with my whole heart. Before the gods will I sing praise unto thee. He says, I will praise thee with my whole heart. David here had a heart to take a stand, to make a decision, to do what seemed challenging. And as he's discussing this amongst the cap the camp, you see his brothers get jealous. Oh you wee little guy, oh you want to fight the big guy. That's nice, go home. But then he ends up doing it and then he takes the stand with great courage. Then here, after the discussion, some time went by, David is now talking to Saul, and something in that conversation, after this great victory, and taking this wonderful stand and having a heart to do it for the Lord. Jonathan feels knit and loved David. And I also want to point this out too. In verse 3, it says, And Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved him as his own soul. I just want to interject something here that I wouldn't normally do maybe 10-15 years ago. But people will use this very passage off that great victory of having the courage to do what God desired, what God wants, and people today will twist this scripture and make it say something it doesn't. Now to some of you this may be a surprise, but people will use this text and try and use it to say that this is the Bible supporting a homosexual relationship between Jonathan and David. Ridiculous. If you just read this, you would not see that. He is trying, he took courage to obey the Lord, take a stand for what God wanted, to defend his name, and God gave him the victory. This passage is not that. People will try and take scripture and twist it to their own preconceived ideas. That kind of thought could only come in if you have a If you have a preconceived idea or you have a thought that you're trying to cram, depressed into the Bible, and make it say what you're already thinking, and so you're trying to find a Bible that says what you think. Instead it's the opposite. We need to read the Word of God, understand what it says, and take that as truth and apply that to our lives. Not, well, this is what I think, and so I'm going to dig into scripture and find something that supports that. It's backwards. Backwards. I'm just pointing that out because people will use that and I don't want us to get confused or if you hear that or just to be aware of it. So Jonathan, he was knit, and he said he loved David there. And before I go back to verse 3, verse 2 says, and Saul took him that day. And let no more go to his father's house. So Saw saw this, and at first he's like, Saul's like, hey, this guy is going to be useful in my army. I'm kidding. You know what, son? I know your brother wants to go take care of your little sheep, but you're staying right right here, buddy. If you just did that, I need someone like that in my military. That type of courage, that kind of morale, and the troops charged in afterwards, that guy is staying with me. Because that makes Saul look good. And I can't help but think at this point, Saul is all about himself. He wants what makes him look good. Remember, he was chosen because he looked good. And he wants to look good. So Saul wants to keep him. Then we get to verse 3 here. When Jonathan and David made a covenant and he loved him as his own soul. This idea of being knit and loved. It's bound together, woven together. You think of knitting, okay, you're weaving stuff together. And it says, and obviously he loved him as his own soul. Why is this comparison that he loved him as his own soul? I think this is because the sin nature of man, our sin nature, because we love ourselves. It's our sin. And because of our sin, we love no one more. If we really boil it down, sometimes we just have to admit, I love no one more than I love myself. So much so that in Ephesians 5, how is a man to love his life, even as he loves himself or his own body? He cares for his own body. He's supposed to love so the example is that even in marriage, a man is supposed to love his wife as he loves himself. And our sin nature divide uh our favorite party of three is me, myself, and I. We love ourselves And so to compare a man's love for someone else as far as a closeness, I think it's using David was loved by Jonathan, and it says as his own soul. He loved him just as he loved himself. It's a great comparison there. This is a very unique bond, and I'll get back to that more later in the message with the rest of that. But in Ephesians five is what I refer to, it's verses twenty-eight and twenty-nine, it says so ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself. For no man ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth and cherished it, even as the Lord. church. And that's why I think we need a verse like Philippines two four. Because we have such a desire for self and to please me and to our uh take time find pleasure in our favorite party of three. In Philippians 2. 4 it says, look not every man on his own things. Stop looking at just yourself and what you want and what you desire. And as we heard this morning, it's hard to be disciple. The follower of Christ when you have self in the way. It doesn't matter what it is, friends, family, or yourself. We need to please and to follow the Lord first. So there in Philippians 2. 4 it says, look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others Paul is telling the church at Philippi, we need to be watchful for other things and look after others. I think that's what Jonathan is understanding. He just saw a man, he just said good courage and just took out this champion, this massive a man, this warrior, and encouraged others, gave them boldness. And that just drew him. Why'd it draw him? When someone takes a stand for the Lord It can do one of two things. With Jonathan, it drew him to David. As we're going to see with Saul, it drew him away. You're going to want to befriend that person, or is there going to be an enemy as a foe? Jonathan saw this and because his love for the Lord, I think Jonathan really loved the Lord, and I think he desired to see nation, his nation of Israel, be successful and have this great military battle that seemed almost impossible for 40 days. They listen to this guy yell at them and curse them? Because I think David uh Jonathan saw in David courage, they both loved the Lord. I think it drew them close together. So how can we as individuals draw closer together? Well, as sinners, if you have Jesus Christ and the Word of God as the center focus of your lives, it's what draws us together. In fact, it reminds me when I think of this joining together and with marriage and the Bible being the center, it takes me back about 20 years ago when Becky and I got married. The pastor asked us b asked us both to share what what brings a guy from Washington State and this girl from Maryland to meet in Florida and decide to you know get married and start a family. How in the world with all your different backgrounds, all these things, what what does that? And obviously it was first salvation in Jesus Christ, but it's standing on the foundation and the truth of Scripture If that's the foundation, that's what draws two sinners together. Now, if one of us didn't love the Lord or the Bible and we're trying to do things together, there would be friction. So it is the Word of God. Your love for your nation, your love for God, and it shouldn't be the other way around, your love for God and your love for nation, that's what draws them, I think, together. They had a mutual bond there. So much so that in verse 4, Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him and gave it to David. and his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow and to his girdle. I think what happened here is I'm kind of guessing a little bit my part with we know there was conversation and it came to pass and there was some time and we know Eliab was saying things about David earlier on in chapter 17. Why would Jonathan take his robe, his sword, this prince stuff, this uh the one who should be the next king? Why is he taking off this stuff? And giving it to David. There's some different possibilities, but I think one is the possibility of, you know, Eliab was good at running his mouth here at David and tell him to, you know, go off and you take care of your nice little fluffy white sheep and we'll we'll stand here and listen to this guy yell at us and you know, hope that something happens. But but in the midst of that, it's possible, I don't know, but it's possible that Eliab You know, when David was talking to Saul and saying, hey, we need to take this guy out. It's possible the live is going, pfft, look, this guy thinks just because he got anointed by Saul privately, he thinks he could be king now? Little skirt. I mean, what's he thinking? I mean it's possible that a live you know, just because he was such a man of just utter love oozing for his younger brother, he might just let it slip. Like who do you think you are? You you're not supposed to be king yet. And that was a private thing. I know what that is, Samuel. Don't let us go to your head, little boy Don't do it. It's possible that Eliad made him let something slip or one of the other brothers that was there. It's possible that one of them just let it slip Say something about this private money. It's possible. It's also possible that as Jonathan David were getting closer together I can't personally say I experienced this, but when you're on the battlefield, and I have heard from a couple of veterans that say there is no atheist in a foxhole. And when you're putting your life on the line for one another in the area of battle, there's a closeness that draws you're putting your life on your line for one for another. Because if you don't, they're going to take your life. So sometimes your life rests in someone else as you're battling and that draws a closeness as you go in and out from battle and you're staring deaf in the face and you're relying one with another, that's going to draw you closer. It's possible that Jonathan and David just had some of those experiences together because their common bond, their love for God, their love for Israel. And then it's that they're battling one with another. It's possible that they had one of those foxhole discussions, you know, and they're just talking one to another and saying, Yeah, you know, Samuel came one day and he was, you know My my brothers, and he went down the line and they had to get me out of that sheep and he anointed me to be a king. Now does it say that? I don't know It uh it's not in but you know what? Maybe something had that happened. But whatever happened, maybe those are all both wrong. But the point here is Jonathan understood David was special and if nothing else This guy should at least be a running for the next king of Israel. I mean, this guy is incredible. He loves the Lord, he's courageous, and he encourages others. Jonathan understood this. He saw what David had done, and it just drew him closer that he's giving of his own personal weaponry and in sense his own privilege of the son of the king, and he is giving that to David. So Jonathan understood that something was special about David. And then we see verse 5, and David, when he went out, whithersoever Saul sent him, he behaved himself wisely. So David here, in the midst of all this, he's still being obedient. I think he has a great attitude. He's just trying to obey those in authority above him. That's what got him in this situation to begin with. It wasn't that he was looking to pick a fight and to be a great king or this great military leader. No, he's just obeying his dad. He left the sheep To go to the take care of his brothers to see what's going on and r give a report, I'm assuming to good go back a report to his dad. But still he's obedient to Saul. He does whatever he says, but he's acting wisely. He's not being foolishly Because David, I think, at this point knows Saul doesn't like me very much. I'm sure that's going, that's probably between the verses there That's probably going so David is acting very wisely. And this is a little note here. We see several times in these chapters that David is going to behave or act wisely. No wonder his son was the wisest man that ever lived. It was just kind of, you know, passed down, and then God obviously stepped in and took that and made it uh even better. So it's Solomon had came from good stock there in David. All that to say so he's but he's being obedient, he behaves himself wisely, and Saul sent him over the men of war, and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants. well-liked guy. I mean who wouldn't like this guy that just steps up and like saves the day and encourages everyone to do likewise? Just incredible. It's wonderful. So first we've seen that David and Jonathan, they become friends. Now The second option, you have someone who takes a courageous stand to do something amazing for the Lord. It can draw people to you, but guess what it also does? As you take a stand for God, Guess what draws other people? People will like you and other people will pretty much hate your guts and treat you like an enemy So we're going to look at our guy Saul in verses 6 through 9. Saul sees David as his foe. And he ends up fearing him if you want another F. Alright. David sees David as his foe and ends up fearing David. So start in verse six. And it came to pass, as they came, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, that the woman came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet King with with tablets and with joy and with instruments of music. And the women answered one to another and played and said, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his tens of thousands. What is going on here? Well, one, they're obviously ascribing more deaths to David than they are Saul. And Saul as the king is not liking this. But I look at the bigger picture of this, I was reminded of this thought. We need to be very careful when we tend to praise men more than we're in the place of God. It can become a great problem to praise. I'm not saying you can't ever, and I'll get to that in a little bit. But here, have they been praising the Lord? And say, oh, it's wonderful that you know maybe they were saying, hey, that God used David and God is using Saul, what a great team we have. No, they're lifting up one and they're praising, basically giving all this extra credit and uh praise to David. They're having great national victories, he's becoming a great war hero, and what happens is because he's physical and man looks on the outward appearance and not the heart, people like that, and they're seeing all these great victories, and people are drawn to the man. Take warning. Be cautious. Be careful just to praise men. I'm going to give us some verses as we consider this truth. We ought to praise God for using men and putting them in places and the talents and the ways that He does In Psalm forty three, it says, And he put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God, and many shall see it and fear, and shall trust in the Lord. And some of these are right from David himself. In Psalm 66, 8, O bless our God, ye people, and make the voice of praise be heard. So they're praising him, and it's okay to let other people hear that you're praising the Lord. Sometimes we think as Christians, oh well, I'll do it on Sunday. Do you ever have those situations where you're talking to someone and you just want to say like, oh, isn't that great? Isn't God so good or praise the Lord? Isn't that such an answer to prayer? And you realize it's a lost person and you just have that moment of hesitation. Like, wait a minute, why why why did I just hesitate there? It was a very natural thing to me just as I was talking to anyone else, but there I I almost stopped and caught myself. It's probably good for them to hear that you're praising the Lord for what he has done. I like this passage in Psalm 67. It says, God be merciful unto us and bless us. And cause his face to shine upon us. Selah. Let's stop and think about that. That thy way may be known upon the earth, and saving health among all nations. Let the people praise thee, O God, and let all the people praise thee. Oh, let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for thou shalt judge the people righteously, and govern the nations upon earth. Selah, let the people praise thee, O God. Let all the people praise Thee. I'm sharing these verses because we ought to praise God first and foremost. He ought to be the subject of our praise. He ought to be the one, if we will, the priority of our praise. Is it? Because what we're going to see with King Saul is he couldn't praise the Lord for using and delivering through David and even himself. For allowing David to go out. I mean, do you think about that? I mean, David wouldn't have probably went out had King Saul not allowed him. But he must have been so convincing and there's a lack of options. Saul should have said, you know what, this young man encourages me, I'll go fight Goliath. Well we never know what happened, it didn't happen, so it's speculation. But the point is, I mean there's many things King Saul could have done, but he could have praised the Lord for it. But what we're gonna see is that's not what he did. Continue on with a couple more. Psalm 86, 12. I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart. Will I glorify thy name forevermore? In Psalm 112. 1, Praise ye the Lord. Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord, and delighteth greatly in his commandments. So we've seen several different verses talk about praising God, praising him, even as a nation, as individually, we ought to praise God for who he is and what he's done and using people in our lives. even privately here within this church or even nationally. And this last verse, just so you know, I'm not saying we can't ever praise men. I'm just saying it's the priority of praise. I like that it's that our priorities need to be praising God first. So this last one with praise is Proverbs 27, 2. Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth, a stranger, and not thine own lips. Well I think it's important about here is someone else is praising you because we love ourselves so much. Yeah, I did a good job there didn't I? Yeah, I did really good. I mean you gotta admit I would have did great, didn't I? Yeah. You're not supposed to praise yourself. If anything, you want to thank God and praise God and let someone else do the talking for you. You go much better in life. It's so much better if someone else does that. If you try and praise yourself, anyone could toot their own horn I can't even play a horn or a trumpet, but I could probably make a sound out of it. I mean we could all talk about ourselves. If you ever want to meet with someone or a lost person or just just trying to get to know someone better in church, you know what to get them to talk about? Ask them questions about themselves, their self, their kids, their grandkids. Ask them questions about them. They'll usually start talking up because they know themselves pretty well. And they're usually pretty comfortable talking about themselves. For the most part. I mean, I I do the same thing. People ask me, How you doing? Oh good, good, you know, I'm running here, this with the kids and they're excited and college and getting ready for school and all those things. I mean, it's okay. But let another man do it. But when they're praising you, you can from your heart recognize, thank God, and I'm going to praise God for allowing me to have that influence on others. Not that's right. You oughta praise me. I mean that's not the same story there. Okay I think you guys got the point. So Saul sees David as his foe. Let's continue moving on here in verses 8 and 9. And Saul was very wroth. And the saying displeased him, and he said, They've ascribed unto David tens of thousands, and to me they've ascribed but thousands. And so what can he have but the kingdom? He feels threatened. He is like, wow, this guy might as well just be king now. And it's frustrating him. It is blunt. One thing you don't do to a king. It's threatened to take his throne from him. Because while he's still king, he's gonna do everything in his power to make sure he stays the king and you don't We've seen this through our history, Bible or not. I mean how many heads have been chopped off and people have been murdered and people just disappeared because someone in power said, Oh, you want power? I'll take you out so that way you don't have to worry about it. You don't threaten a king. Don't threaten someone that's in power like that. Because you'll like very likely die before they will. We've seen it all throughout history. So King Saul feels like his throne is starting to and on top of that. This guy, he's trying to worm his way into my throne through my son. My son's giving him his stuff. And I don't like that because he's gonna be the next king, and you should be giving your stuff to that little squirt That's not good. I mean do you think King Saul is liking any of this? He's not, but why? You think he'd have excited to do this young man and his courage and his stand and his faith in God The whole nation was delivered. Do you think he'd be excited about that? You think you'd praise him? You'd think, man, that's great, young man. But he's not. Why? Because he doesn't have the same love for God and obeying God. That's what I think is bringing Jonathan and David together as friends. But for Saul, he's seeing him as the enemy and his foe. And then we see in verse nine, this is in Saul eyed David from that day for This is not like he's keeping his eye on him like he's sweet on him or he's thinking, oh, this is a good guy. He is eyeing him like I'm watching you with my eyes. And any moment's notice, I'm gonna take you out, buddy And we know this is gonna happen. This is very good. Let's look down at verses. Oh, I put some verses on it. Let's look down at verse 11. And Saul cast the javelin, for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. So he's throwing this thing hard. Saul is not a little guy himself. Saul's a big, strong guy, head and shoulders above everyone else. And he wants to smite this little guy through so his body sticks to the wall and he'd be like, got him! Like some little fly or something you swatted. Got him. I mean that's something that's what's so hard to do here though. I'm gonna get this little guy. I'm gonna fellow things so hard he's gonna they're gonna have to can't even pull the spear on the wall to get his body off And here's what's interesting. If you put your eyeballs with me at the end of verse 11, this is incredible. I just I get a kick out of this every time I read it. And David avoided out of his presence what? Twice! This is like this is starting to be repetition. You think one time, okay he got really mad, he's like, oh okay, but stop it! No, no, no. This is like this is becoming a habit, a routine. This isn't a one-time thing This guy is getting angry. Why is he so angry this guy loves God and wants us to take a stand for him? Because Saul doesn't Saul doesn't obey God. In fact, Saul we've seen up to this point, he makes excuses. He does his own thing, then makes excuses for it. David is like, you know what, I'm gonna take a stand though. It's hard and it's difficult. I'm gonna take a stand because it's the right thing to do for God And King Saul doesn't. So what does it do? It's driving him away from him. And then David had to continue to look at this in 14 and 15. He behaves himself wisely multiple times. He does this several times. But yet, Saul, if you read some of these other passages of scripture, he says that he feared him. put those verses on there? Oh, I must have took them off. I had several verses on there. Ah, here it is. Look at verse 14 through 16. We looked at them briefly, but I want to point out here. He behaved himself wisely, and here it is, verse 15. When Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he was afraid of him. Saul began to fear David. A quick, easy question. Who should Saul be fearing? This is your easy typical you know eight eight-year-old you know Sunday school classroom, all right. Who did it? God? Okay, good. It's like 80% of the questions are God. Okay, wonderful. Okay. He should be fearing the Lord. He should be fearing God himself. But instead, because he's fearing man, the fear of man bringeth a snare. He's ensnared and enslaved by his own sin of selfishness. And so when David takes a stand and do what's right for the Lord, King Saul cannot stand it and he wants to get rid of this guy and take his life because he fears him instead of fearing God. That's why I think Jonathan, I think he did fear God. I think he understood that this was great for the nation So when you look at the success of others, how do you view it? Do you get jealous? Do you get envious? Just this afternoon I saw a quick uh clip. I've been trying to follow the Olympics a little bit, and I guess one of our ladies got the world record in one of one of the trial runs. But then when it came to actual race of the medal, she lost by four, was it like hundredths? I think four hundredths of a second to the other American 'Cause she was a little bit slower than the record, I guess. And for a second there I thought, how's she gonna act like that? Like do you once they look up and see the screen and you look you you got you got she got silver instead of gold I thought, I wonder if she had that moment of But they they were right in the lane's head so they end up hugging each other. It was a great moment, you know, so silver and gold and whatever the uh race was there and swimming for the ladies. Like that was pretty neat though. But she could have got angry upset, she could have just got out of the pool and said, Oh man, that should have been mine. I got the record earlier. But no, did they hug each other? It was wonderful. They had a mutual respect. I thought it was very good. But when you see others being successful For the Lord or in life. Are you going to respond like Jonathan? I love this person. We can work together and I'm going to praise the Lord for this person. And I want to befriend them because of their courage, because they love the Lord. Or Or are you going to treat them like an enemy? Because you have a different purpose in life, to the point where you could almost begin to fear them. It's usually one or the other. Which one are you? How are you going to respond when someone takes a courageous stand for God? Are you going to treat them as a friend or as a foe? Father, we thank you and praise you for 1 Samuel 18 and getting to see the contrast We often contrast David with Saul, but this evening we're able to see the difference between Saul and his son Jonathan. Father, would we love you and desire to take courage and to fear you? We've seen the contrast, and yet we could find ourselves In the straight betwixt two of, yeah, that person did a great job, but you almost get jealous. Father, would we take delight in those that obey you and have the courage to stand? Would we want to befriend them, support them, and praise you for those individuals? Help us to fight the temptation, to treat them as an enemy, to be jealous. And to try and do what we can to eliminate them. Father, we just thank you for being a great, righteous God. Give us wisdom, discernment, to love what you love, to love others that do likewise. And we do this for the cause and for the glory of your Son, Jesus Christ. Whose name we pray. Amen. Scripture tells us to rejoice with those who rejoice and to weep with those who weep. The fact is that sometimes it's not hard for us to weep with those who weep. It's hard for us to rejoice with those who rejoice. And the truth is that we can really learn a lot from people who God's hand of blessing is on them. We should uh see their examples and be encouraged by that. And I I thought that the point that he made about um Praising other people was really important. It's easy for us to get focused on the advancement of other people. And the fact is we're all tools in God's hands. And we have uh we have a shelf space, okay? There's an end date on all of us. And uh God's going to work through us in this time, and then he's gonna work through others. And We need to be so cautious that we are humble toward one another and that we recognize that it's ultimately the Lord's work that He does through peace. So great challenges, thank you for that. Well let's go ahead and turn in our hymn books for our closing hymn. 495. Count your blessings. Well sing all three verses. Let's stand together, please, and sing it out. 435. Count your blessings. When upon life's village you are counting. best thoughts when you are discouraged thinking all this loss counter many blessings in them one by one and it will supply to what the Lord has Count your blessings, name them one by one. Count your blessings, see what God has done. Count your blessings, name them one by one. Count your many blessings, see what God has done. Are you ever burdened with the load of care? Does the crossing handy you are called to many? Count your many blessings that we now will fly And we 'll be singing as the days go by Count your blessings in them one by one Conserv blessings see what God has done. Catch and blessings in them one by one. Catherine blessings see what God has done. Amid the conflict, whether great or small, do not be discouraged, God is over all. Capture many blessings if you will attend. Give me to your journeys, and count your blessings in one by one. Count your blessings see what God has done. Count your blessings. Well, it's been good to be in the Lord's house. uh today and I hope that the word of God was a challenge and encouragement to you. I'd like to ask if Brother Tony Florio can come and close us in prayer this evening. And hope that you have a good start to your week. I know that we have some kids traveling to junior camp this week, so be in prayer for those who will be at junior camp this week. And uh I know that school starts up for some people before too long, so be in prayer uh for that. And uh just end of the summer travels. I know we have a lot of folks that are traveling back and forth these last couple weeks of the summer. So let's keep one another in prayer. Lord God, we are so grateful for today. Lord, we have heard tonight about David and Goliath. Father, we know that no matter what happens to us, that you always live with us because I know you were there with David when he s when he swung that that stone. So Father, we do thank you For tonight, I pray, Lord, as we go home, that you give us troubling mercies. And I pray, Father, that you guide and direct us always. In Christ's name I ask it. Amen.