Let's all take our Bibles together and please turn to the book of Ruth. We are looking in Ruth chapter one this morning, but actually we are going to look at the entire story of The way that God worked in this woman's life. And so don't worry. We're only covering an entire book of the Bible this morning. And on Mother's Day nonetheless. But I hope that as we work our way through this passage of Scripture As we look at the content, and there is so much really rich and uh I would say very emotionally rich content in this book. My prayer is that God will really minister to our hearts. Wherever you are this morning, whatever is going on in your life, God has something for you from this text of Scripture. I'm very confident of that. Let's go ahead and read verses one through five together, and we're looking at from brokenness To redemption. From brokenness to redemption, here's what God's Word says. Now, it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled. That there was a famine in the lands. A certain man of Bethlehem Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. The name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi. The name of the two sons, Melon and Chileon, Ephraithes of Bethlehem, Judah. They came into the country of Moab and continued there. And Elimelech, Naomi 's husband, died. She was left, and her two sons. And they took them wives of the women of Moab, the name of the one was Orpa, and the name of the other Ruth, and they dwelled there about ten years. Melan and Kileon died also both of them, and the woman was left of her two sons and her husband. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Our Father, as we have read this text of Scripture and as we work our way through this very powerful story, a very significant moment in human history. And the history of a family and yes, even redemptive history, I pray that our hearts would be richly fed. That we would understand the kind of God that governs in the affairs of this world, the kind of God who cares about us. Who does not abandon us when we are afflicted, but in fact he comes to us and he lifts us up even as we don't even see it. And so I pray that this text would minister to our hearts very richly today. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. The Book of Ruth is a fascinating little book. It is a wonderful story, but it's not just some well-crafted piece of fiction. In fact, if somebody was writing a story This story would be one that would really, really uh get people's attention. It is it is emotionally gripping It goes through high points and low points. There is sadness. There is joy. There is loss. There is redemption. There is so much to this story. But folks, this is not fiction. This is a real piece of the history of a people. It really happens. It's significant because of the way that it personally touched some people's lives. It is significant because of how it shaped a nation. In fact, it is important theologically because there is so much that hinges on these events unfolding exactly as they do. And in order for us to really appreciate what's going on here, I want us to look at how the book opens. And how it closes because this shows us the real story of this book. Here's what it says in verse number one. It came to pass in the days of the judges That there was a famine in the land, and a certain man of Bethlehem, Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab. That is dark. It's not the darkest it gets, but it's dark. And then in chapter 4, verse 14, it says, And the women said unto Naomi , Blessed be the Lord which hath not left thee this day without a kinsman. That his name may become famous in Israel. By the way, they had no idea how true those words would come to be. He shall be unto thee a restorer of your life. A nourisher of thine old age. And they called his name Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David. When it says he will be to you a restorer of life, they had no idea the rich implications of that statement. How does this story about a woman named Naomi Go from this dark opening to such a hopeful and encouraging end. It's one word. It's grace. We serve a gracious God. We desperately need that grace. And in fact, He is a good giver of it And we will see that this morning. So in order to do that, we're going to look at four scenes that we find in this story. The first scene, in fact, we find in chapter one, verses one through twenty-one, and it is a scene of brokenness. And it ends in bitterness. And so our story opens with a decision to uproot a family. There might be some people in this room that you do not like change. Is that anybody in this room like that you don't like change? My wife raises her hand I know that this is true. We do not like change in life. Now some people do like change, but let me tell you, a woman who has two boys who was living at a very tumultuous time in their their nation's history did not want change. But her husband one day said , We're moving. We're going to Moab. We do not have any prospects of survival here. There is a terrible famine in the land. There's more food there than there is here. Let's go. And she probably had nothing that she could Could do to stop her husband from doing what he did. It was about survival. Not a great way to start. That decision culminates in a lot of unforeseen compromises and personal heartache. And verses 2 through 5, notice the details. It says they came into the country of Moab and they continued there. It wasn't just a short little visit, but in fact they're going to plant their roots there, and then it's going to get even more planted when it says Elimelech, Naomi 's husband, died, and she was left with her two sons, and they took wives of the women of Moab. Now they're really planting their roots down. And by the way, now Naomi 's really feeling very isolated. She's living in foreign lands. Everyone around her doesn't worship the God of Israel. They are idol worshippers. We know that because of how she speaks to her daughter-in-laws a little bit later in this story. And her boys did what the Old Testament told them not to do, and that was marry people that did not have the same faith. She's an isolated woman. Her husband is gone. It gets worse. It says after they took wives of the Moab the women of Moab, they dwelled there about ten years. By the way, in that time neither of them had children. And Melon and Kileon died, both of them, and notice how he describes it. As the person who is writing this says, the woman was left of her two sons and her husband. What's emphasized there? This is a destitute woman. She has no children that are living. She has no grandchildren. Does not seem like a great candidate for a Mother's Day message. But it's going to change. In fact, even as this is being unfolded, unpackaged, God is working behind the scenes, but she doesn't know it. She can't see it, but we're going to see a little bit of a glimmer in an interaction that she has right before she chooses to go back. It says in verses 12 and 15. That this heartache turns into great bitterness and she is disillusioned with God. She doesn't believe that He's good. She believes that she has been dealt a hard hand. In fact, she had been dealt a very hard hand. But she believes that God has just left her to the side and he has nothing good to give her. Notice how she says it to her daughters as she's telling them to leave, her daughter-in-law. She says, Turn, my daughters, go your way. It grieveth me much for your sakes that the hand of the Lord has gone out against me. Could be that this morning there's someone here that you feel that way. And the fact that you feel that way does not in any way cannot be diminished by a change of circumstances in a moment, but I want you to realize something. Even though that's how she felt, there was a part of this story she didn't understand. And it was already happening. She says, The Lord's hand has gone out against me. Behold, your sister-in-law is going back into her people and under her gods. Return after thy sister-in-law. Do not call me Naomi. Verse number 20. Call me Mara. The Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me. I went out full, and the Lord hath brought me home again empty. You know, it's amazing if you stop and you think about it. We know that Naomi, at a minimum, was living in Moab for ten years because ten years passed after her boys married. And one would have to assume she lived there quite a few years before that as well, because they had to establish themselves well enough that families around them would be willing to give their daughters in marriage to these young men. And so a lot of time has passed between them leaving Bethlehem and her going back. When people are in their middle ages, not the middle ages, their middle years. A lot can change in 20 years, can't it? What do you think Naomi looked like when she came back? She looked like an old, hurting, broken, and angry woman And by the way, a lot of the things that she experienced were not the result of her choices. She did not choose to live in the most chaotic time in Israel's history. She did not choose to live through a famine where people were so desperate they would uproot their families and move to another place. She did not choose, well maybe she did support her husband, we don't know. But the reality is it was his choice to take the kids. She didn't choose to see her two boys die. She didn't choose to see them marry unbelievers. She was coming back with nothing. And she felt the weight of that. Let it sink in. Life can be that way. Sometimes life's even worse. And this was her experience. But there's a second scene that we find in these verses, and this second scene, in fact, it is a glimmer of grace. As we work our way through the text, really this is going to be emphasized from chapter 1, verse 22, all the way to chapter 2, verse 23. But There are some glimmers of grace that are actually in chapter one that I did not really reference that I want to bring to your attention in just a moment that show you that even though she is feeling the very deep weight of her circumstances. This woman, Naomi, does not know, but God is working in her life. She does not have the eyes to see it. But it's happening. The wheels of God's providence are turning. And so in verse number six, we see this first little glimmer. In fact, if you're reading through the passage, And you're reading very quickly, you might not even notice it, but it's fair, it's important. Here's what it says. She heard in the country of Moab how the Lord had visited his people in giving them bread. The very first glimmer of God's grace here is that she hears that God is working back in her homeland. And I find this very interesting. As she is struggling to survive in Moab as a very isolated person, people there said, your God, the God that you served, maybe doesn't even serve anymore. We don't know exactly. based on some of the things that she's going to say, your God is actually blessing your people back in Bethlehem. And she hears that. God is reaching to her even though she's not looking for him. And that's the way that God works in our lives. If it wasn't for God doing this, none of us would ever see him work. He comes to us over and over and over again. And that's that first glimmer. The second thing that we see is that despite her great bitterness at God Her daughter-in-law Ruth, who had absolutely nothing to gain, would not abandon her. I find this very interesting in verse number 16. As Naomi is telling her daughters-in-law, go back to your families, go back to their household, marry someone from your own Moabitus culture, your own gods. Stay within the culture that you were raised in. I'm going back as a broken person. You have a future with your own family and your own people and your own culture and your own gods. I can't help you in any way. This is what it says in verse number 16. And Ruth said, entreat me not, or do not plead with me to leave you. Or to return from following after thee. For whither thou goest, I will go, and where thou lodgest, I will lodge, and your people will be my people. And this point is very important. Your God, my God. The same woman who said, My God has dealt bitterly with me, and I am sad. For your sake that he has treated me this way, her daughter-in-law said, I want your God. That amazing. Why was that? The grace of God The grace of God in Ruth's life, but the grace of God in Naomi 's life, and Naomi didn't have the idea the eyes to see it. Third thing that I want you to see is the significance of the timing of her return to the land of Bethlehem. It's not an incident. It's actually very significant in the story. In verse number 22, this is the beginning of our section, he says, So Naomi returned and Ruth Emoabitis, her daughter-in-law, with her. And they came to Bethlehem in the beginning of barley harvest. Now you might say, well, why does that matter at all? Well that matters a lot because if they came back to Bethlehem At a time where the fields were not, we could say, being harvested, what are they going to have when they come? They don't have a house, they don't have a plot of land to farm. They have no way of making money. They have no way of feeding themselves. The only thing that they have working for them potentially is the mercy of people that Naomi has left almost 20 years before. That is their only hope, but they come during the barley harvest season because God has a plan for them and they don't even know it. And then we come to this fourth glimmer, which is very significant. A man named Boaz is introduced into the store who's going to be a very significant figure. In verse number one, it says, chapter two, verse one, and Naomi had a kinsman of her husbands, a mighty man of wealth of the family of Elimelech. His name was Boaz. Now notice that little statement, a kinsman of her husbands. I don't know if you remember those of you that were here on a Wednesday night, but several Wednesday nights ago We talked about a cultural custom in the Old Testament, one that to us seems so strange, so weird, but is actually a very significant custom that falls into several different stories. Actually, the story of the lineage of Christ, this This particular custom is significant several times in this story. And that is the custom that if you had a person who was married and then they died and their wife had no children. Someone from the family was supposed to step up and was supposed to marry the widow of one of their brethren And that person who stepped up to marry this widow, the whole purpose of it was that when they married, the very first child they had , That child would not be raised in the name of her second husband, but actually her first husband. And you go, that's so weird. But it's very significant. Because when God gave these people the land, he gave them very specific allotments to families. And that allotment of land was to stay in their family as a perpetual allotment from generation to generation to generation. And if a man dies without a child, who gets the land? And so God's plan was that they would have someone take the land through that particular system. There were other scenarios as well that could play out, but this is very significant. And so when it says that this man named Boaz was a kinsman of her husband, a mighty man, that's giving us a clue, something's going to happen later in this story. By the way, another detail that's very important to note, not mentioned in the book of Ruth, but mentioned in another passage in the New Testament in Matthew chapter 1, verse 5, we find out something about the lineage of this man Boaz. It says in Matthew chapter 1 verse 5, Solomon begat Boaz of Rahab. Did you catch that? This man Boaz, his mother, was a Gentile. His mother was the very well-known, very infamous person from Jericho named Rahab. By the way, Rahab the harlot. That was the way she was remembered. That was his mother. And the question is, how does that play into the story? Well, we don't really know the details, but I would guess that this is a big factor in the story. By the way, I know it's a big factor in how the story plays out throughout all of history. Because this individual, Boaz, is going to have a child through Ruth that is a part of the lineage of Christ. We see a fifth glimmer, and that is his field just so happens to be the very first place that she goes to glean. By the way, there was another custom in the Old Testament that we may not be super familiar with. And in agrarian society, one of the expectations for those who had land was that they were supposed to leave portions on the outside of their fields that they would not harvest for themselves. In fact, they were supposed to leave those situate those areas so that as people were walking down the road they could actually go and they could eat food right there as they're walking in the way. Some of you'd be like, don't walk across my grass and pick up after your dog And oh by the way, you can eat the grade out of my field as long as you don't go into it with a basket. That's what's going on. But there was another portion as well where they were supposed to leave sections that were un uh uncaught or they were supposed to not pick up after themselves if they dropped, and those who were very destitute amongst the people. Those who had no had no husband, those who were completely on their own. These could be outsiders from outside of the land of Israel who came to dwell amongst the people people, strangers, fatherless who widows, these individuals were to go into the fields and they were supposed to glean. That means they would pick up the scraps and they would pick up what was along the side and they did that so that they could survive. God is a gracious provider. God didn't say just take a handout. He said go work, but make sure that they have something they can get. And treat them kindly. Don't push them away. Let them go and get that grain. And so here is Ruth. Who knows this custom because Naomi, her mother-in-law, has told her this is our custom. And she goes into a field, and it just so happens at the very first place that she goes. Is this man Boas? Verse number three. She went and came and gleaned in the field after the reapers and her half. That's a funny way to put it. was to light on the part of the field belonging to Boaz, who was of the kindred of Elimek. Second time he states that. Why? Well it's telling you something about where the story's going. Do you see how these are glimmers of God's grace? God's doing something, but at this point, Naomi doesn't see it. Ruth doesn't know. But God knows what he's doing. The sixth thing that we see here is that Boaz extends great grace and protects Ruth. Verse number 8 and 9. Then said Boaz unto Ruth, Go not to glean in another's fields. Have I not charged the young men that they shall not touch thee? When thou art a thirst, go into the vessel, drink of that which the young men have drawn. Now, why don't you just pause for a moment and step back into this ancient culture and ask yourself the question, how do you think that these young Rough men who work in the field would treat a foreigner, a widow, like roots, especially having just lived through a famine. These are people that had survived some desperate times in their culture, some desperate times in their fields. And here is this foreigner, Ruth, a widow, she has no husband. She has no family save one person, Naomi. And the question is, why does she come here? Why is she in our field? We have all of these Jewish for these Jewish widows. We have all these Jewish people that Do not have a father figure. They're on their own. And here is someone from Moab who decides to come and take our grain from our own ladies of this community. Can you imagine that attitude I guarantee you it was amongst the people and their thinking. And by the way, she had nobody to defend her. Who's going to stop them from treating her the wrong way? She has no husband, she has no father-in-law, she has no brothers, there's no man to step in and say, hey, you're not going to treat this woman that way. Except one. It's Boaz. Boaz said, you will treat her well. Don't touch her. Make sure that there's a little bit extra drop to where she is, because she needs that for herself and her mother-in-law Hey, if she's thirsty, let her go and drink the water that you are gathering for the workers. Treat her well. If she had gone into another man's field, that probably is not what would have happened. But God's working in the details. The seventh glimmer is that Naomi, for the first time in the story, recognizes God is doing something here. To catch that? Have you ever had a series of situations in your life where it is desperate, it is dark? and you are being driven by your emotions and everything's falling apart in your life and then one little thing happens and for the first time in the whole situation you go hold on a second that's not a mistake That person that I just talked to and what they shared with me, not a mistake. The way that that particular circumstance played out, not a mistake. God's working here And all of a sudden, as you step back, you start realizing, hey, there's something that happened here. I didn't see that. And here's something that happened over here. I didn't see that either. And here's something over here I didn't T and all of the Sud and T It's not like the situation's been entirely resolved, but you see hope. For the first time in the story, Naomi sees hope. And notice what it says in verse 20. Naomi said unto her daughter-in-law, Blessed be the Lord who has not left off his kindness to the living and to the dead. Who is she talking about? She's talking about herself. She's talking about Ruth. She is talking about her dead husband. her dead son. You say, why? Well notice what she says next. He has not left off his kindness to the living of the dead. Naomi said, the man the one that you are gleaning in its field, he's a near kin unto us. One of our next kinsmen. Now again, Ruth doesn't probably understand their cultural the cultural significance of that statement. But it seems like for the very first time, Naomi says, something might change here. It's the first time that she sees that God has not completely abandoned her By the way, if you look back at the way that that Naomi talks about God earlier when she talks about how he has dealt a bitter hand, he doesn't call her the him the Lord. She says the Almighty. You say, well , who cares? Why does that matter? Well, because she has taken away the personalization from it. The truth is that when Someone living in this day referred to the Lord as Yahweh the Lord. They're saying, He is our covenant God. He is my protector. He is my defender. He is my covenant-keeping God. And she says, the Almighty One. The one who's been so hard on me. For the first time she says, No, it's the Lord. He's looking out for us. He's working even when she is shaken and doubting. And let me tell you something. When we get into a dark season of life, it's not as if God kicks us to the curb and says, when you're ready to come back, then I'll talk to you. He is so merciful. I know this from personal experience. I know that as I look at how he works in the lives of people in my pastoral ministry over the years, even as a missionary, God is a gracious and merciful God. And let me tell you, if everything was dependent on you and I making the perfect choices, nothing in life would work out well. If it was all dependent on you making the right choice on every single level, you would never do it. It's impossible. Even if you try. Even if you made a list of all the things you needed to do, you would fail. I would fail. God remains faithful. Third thing I want you to notice is that there was decisive action that God worked through to accomplish his purposes. What's amazing is that the emphasis of the second scene is that God in his grace is working despite a lot of poor choices. He is working through things that are outside of the control of the individuals in the story. But when we come to chapters three, verses one through four twelve, he's working through the choices of people. Not to say Despite, not against, through. And that is how God in his providence works. He works outside with with what is outside of our control. And he also works through the choices that we make. He does both. He can do it however he wants to. And we see that layout in these verses. And I want you to notice some of the decisions that are made. First of all, we see the decision all the way back in chapter 1, verse 16, where Ruth says, you know what? I'm going to leave my homeland. I'm going to go be with my mother-in-law. And more than likely, I'm probably going to die an old widow, no children, but I love this woman and and I'm not going to leave her. That's what Ruth is thinking in these verses. It says in chapter 1, verse 16, Do not entreat me to leave you. Do not to return from following after thee. Whither thou goest, I will go. Where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Your people will be my people. And your God, my God. You know, that that little statement and that little decision that Ruth made, it's gonna pay huge dividends in the future. She had no idea at that time time. You ever look back over your life and seen a choice that you made as a 17 year old, 21 year old, 32 year old, and at the time it just seemed like a kind of It didn't matter a whole lot. And then twenty years later you look back and you're like, wow, I had no idea it was writing on that particular decision. Have you ever had a situation like that? For good or for bad, sometimes. Ruth had no idea what was going to play out because of that one choice. I'm not leaving you. Second thing we see is that she was willing to work diligently for the survival and the support of herself and Naomi. And verses 11 and 12, she is no slacker. And we know that because of the way that Boaz talks to her, he says, It's been fully shown to me how what you have done unto your mother-in-law since the death of thine husband. How thou hast left thy father, thy mother, thy land of nativity, your come unto a people which thou knewest not. The Lord recompense thy work, and a full reward be given unto thee. of the Lord God of Israel under whose wings you are come to trust. I don't know if you've ever raised chickens. We chied when we lived in Ghana. Our dog killed several. At various ways various times along the way. But if you've ever raised chickens and you've actually hatched chickens, okay, that that's that's another key. You have this mother hen and you have all these little chicks, and those little chicks they are are so vulnerable. If it's too cold, they'll die. They get sick so easily. I mean any bird can swoop down, any bird of prey can swoop down and just pick them off one at a time. And so, what does that mother hen do? She does this instinctively. God's put it into her. That those little chicks they come right alongside of her and she puts her wings over them and they pull up right up under her wings and they're safe. And that's the picture that Boaz describes when he says, you have come to our people. You have nothing. You're a destiny. person, you're staying with a destitute person, and you've come to rest under the wings of our caring covenant God. That's what she did. She was going to work to survive. She was going to trust in the Lord. Even though her mother-in-law said, go back to your gods. God has been so hard on me. Those decisions are important. Third decision. Naomi had to guide Ruth in their custom. Verses 1 and 2 of chapter 3, Naomi, her mother-in-law, said, My daughter, shall I not seek rest for thee? That it may be well with thee, and now is not Boaz of our kindred with whom thou those maidens thou wast. By the way, how many ladies want to set somebody up? That's what that was. That was a setup, I'm telling you. But but but you know it it wasn't a blind gate. This was this is a Proposition to be married, okay? That's what's going on here. Basically, Naomi is telling Ruth, Ruth, we have a custom in our culture that you don't have in yours. God has provided a way for people like you who are destitute and vulnerable and have no chance of survival except from the pure mercy of the people. He has provided a way for you to be remarried, to raise up a child in the name of your deceased husband, and for that to be the allotment of land you live on to the day you die. Really? Yes But you gotta listen to my instructions, because this is how it works. That's what's going on in chapter 3, verses 1 and 2. And you know the Bible tells us in the next couple verses that Ruth does exactly what she tells her to do. Verses five and six, she said, All that thou sayest unto me, I will do it. And she went out and and she went down unto the floor and did according to all that her mother-in-law bade her to do. By the end of the story, we see that Ruth goes to Boaz and basically says, Will you be for me a kinsman redeemer? And the same way that I have come under the shelter of the Lord your God, can I come under the shelter of your wings? Will you follow this custom that God has established for my own well-being and protection? And Boaz says, yes, but There's a slight caveat here. There is someone who is closer than I, and they are the one who really is supposed to do this. If they are willing to do it, I will step back. But if not, I will do it. That's what he said. And in chapter 3, verses 10 through 13, we see how Boaz navigates a challenging situation with the near of kin. It says, Blessed be the Lord, my daughter. By the way, there is a gap between them, quite significant. Not unusual in those days, nonetheless, but true. He says, You have showed more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning. Now, my daughter, fear not. I will do unto thee all that thou requires, for all the city of my people doth know that thou art a virtuous woman. Now it is true that I am thy near kinsman, howbeit there is a kinsman nearer than I, carry this night, it shall be in the morning, that if he will perform unto thee the part of Of a kinsman well, let it let him do that kinsman part. But if he will not do the part of a kinsman to thee, then will I do the part of a kinsman to thee as the Lord liveth. And by the way, if you see how the passage breaks down, Boaz, being an older man, understanding how to navigate these situations, when he goes to the city, he knows exactly how to lay out the situation. Everybody knows about Elimelech. Everybody knows that Elimelech has died. Everybody knows that Naomi has returned. Everybody knows that his field is up for grabs. Will you take it? Sure I'll take it. Well, in the day that you take it, you'll have to marry his son 's widow Oh. Ruth and Moabite. Oh. Well, that's uh that's I'm not sure if I if I should do that. Okay. Well I'm willing to do it if you're not Okay, we have a deal. That's what they did. In fact, as we see in verse 6 of chapter 4, the near of kin chooses not to do the part of the kinsman redeemer. The kinsman said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I mar my own inheritance. Redeem thou my right for thyself. I cannot redeem it. And Boaz does it. And the seventh decision is that Boaz takes Ruth to be his wife. Verse number 13: Boaz took Ruth, and she was his wife. But there is a final scene here that is so very important because that's not the end of the story. That's the happy part of the story, right? Actually, it's not the highest point of the story. Because God takes this very broken situation and he redeems it. And he restores it. And he did something that only God could do. In chapter 4, verses 13 through 22, we see that this woman who had experienced the death of a husband, now God has made her a mother. Verse number 13: The Lord gave her conception and she bare a son. She experienced the death of a husband, Naomi did, two sons. But God did not abandon her. Verses fourteen and fifteen. The women said unto Naomi, Blessed be the Lord which has not left thee this day without a kinsman. That his name may be famous in Israel. It was. This guy is going to be the grandfather of David the king. She experienced deep pain, bitterness, disillusionment, but God restored vibrancy and joy. Verse number 15, he will be unto thee a restorer of thy life. And a nourisher of thine old age. The past could not be reversed, but the present could be made beautiful. And that's exactly what God did. He took this woman who had experienced so much heartache and he said, I can give you joy again. Because I'm that kind of a God. And God mercifully intervenes in a way that played an escapable part. Of her ultimate redemption. Verse number 17. They called his name Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David. This story is actually not just about somebody getting married and having a kid. This story is about God's plan of redemption staying intake. When it was on the line. So, what do we learn from this? Let me give you some lessons that I hope can really bless you this morning The first is that God worked with imperfect people in painful circumstances to accomplish his good purposes. We should always strive to do right. We should never presume against God's grace. But you know what we could take comfort in? The fact that it's the power and the grace of God that works despite our limitations. all the time. It's true all the time. Every good and good perfect gift comes from God, not because you made all the right choices, because God is gracious. Second lesson. Their perception of their circumstances fell short of the full picture each moment. is a piece of a puzzle, not the hole. You and I pick up the piece that we're living through and we say, that looks really bad. And guess what? It is. And God says, well, why don't you put that into the puzzle and see what it looks like when you step back? Because that's the way God works in our lives. He takes all the pieces, he arranges them in the right order, and then he says, step back and see something beautiful that I've created. The image of Christ stamped into your life. Every season is a scene in the story, not the whole. You know, we're little kids, we take pictures, or our parents take pictures. And we look at those pictures, that picture just captures one moment, but what it does is it kind of reminds us of an event and what's taken place. And as we get older, we start realizing how significant those events are in the story of our lives. And that's what this is. This is a piece of the puzzle. This is a scene in the story. But God's looking at the whole picture. Thirdly, God was mercifully working in the background long before they could see the resolution to their problems. Resolutions generally come during the greatest height of tension. Why do people like stories that are filled with drama? Because when you feel like it's about to fall apart, all of a sudden, here comes the resolution. And you're like. Wow, that was amazing. And then you look back over the store. You watch the movie a second or third time and you're like, well, they were kind of giving a lot of hints along the way. That's where it was going. Those weren't hints As God is working in all these situations, and you and I don't see it, it's moving to a point of resolution. And sometimes when when our back is into the corner and we feel like there's no way forward, God says, You don't know what I'm doing. It's gonna happen. I'm going to do it. The details that work together to accomplish that resolution are in motion in the background long before it is realized. Lesson four. He worked meticulously in critical moments to bring these purposes to pass. God knows how to care in our lives and how to how to step in and move exactly as he does at the right time. Proverbs 20, verse 24: Man's goings are of the Lord. How can a man understand his own way? Ecclesiastes 3. 11, he has made everything beautiful in his time. Also, he has set the world in their heart so that no man can find the work that God maketh from beginning to end. That's how God works. Lesson five. He has not changed, and the way he works in their lives is how he works in ours Psalm 19 verse 7 says that the testimonies of the Lord are sure and they make wise the simple. You know what a testimony is? It's somebody saying, here's what God did. A testimony is a proof that when God says a thing, he does a thing. And we have all this history from our lives. Our families, if they're believers and they know the Lord, the Bible, and all of those stories, what do they do? They say, God is faithful, God is faithful, God is faithful, God is faithful, and you're like, I don't feel it. God is faithful, and then he works. Hebrews 12, 1. Wherefore, seeing we are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and run with patience the race that is set before us looking in What witnesses is he talking about? Hebrews 11. All those people. How he worked in their lives. He says, Do you see what he did in their lives? Hey, he's the same God, he hasn't changed. Trust him. Lay aside that weight that's dragging you down and run with patience and look to Jesus and He'll give you the strength you need. The last and most significant is he restored her life in two senses. Naomi 's life was not just restored in the here and now. He was restored forever because her Savior came through that child. If Obed hadn't been born, there'd be no Jesse. And if there was no Jesse, there'd be no David. And if there was no David, the whole line up to Christ is gone. But God said before the foundation of the world I'll send my son to the cross, and he will come, and this is how it will happen. And what we are looking at is one little piece of that story. Isn't that incredible? How do we apply this? If you've never trusted the Lord as your Savior, I want to remind you of something this morning. Your life is not a meaningless, random existence. Now you may not believe in God. That doesn't change the fact that He's there and He's actually calling to you right now. Whether you have the eyes to see it or not, He is working in your life to draw Him to yourself. The fact that you're hearing this message is no mistake. If you're here, if you're on the live stream, if you listen to this five years from now on YouTube, I don't know. That's not a mistake, that you are hearing this information. Because God is calling you to Himself through His Word. And the fact is that that God who has worked in your life and who worked in this story provided salvation through Christ. Christ. He came and he died. He paid your sin debt. There's no way you could be saved outside of what Jesus did for you. He rose triumphant from the dead and he simply says this: repent and believe. Turn to me and trust in the finished word of Christ. Why wouldn't you do that? What's keeping you from doing that? For those who are believers here this morning, maybe that's everybody, maybe that's 98 %. I don't know. If you are weary and hurt in life, this sermon is for you, and it's for me. It's for all of us. God loves us, he's never abandoned us, and he wants us to see what he's doing. Just like he did in this woman's life His ways are merciful. He is working in our lives to accomplish good. Even if we don't see it. Even if we don't believe it, it's still true. It still stands. May God help us to walk by faith. I want to leave you some final closing scriptures so that it really captures well what I think We should walk away with this morning. Hebrews 11, 6. Without faith, it's impossible to please him. He that cometh to God must believe that he is. He is a rewarder of those that diligently seek him. Walk by faith. James 1. 3, the trying of your faith being more precious than of gold. The trying of your faith worketh patience. Let patience have her perfect work. That you may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally, and abradeth not, and it shall be given him. Let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. That's for us. First Peter 1 7. I skippement to this text. The trial of your faith, being more precious than gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found into praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. 2 Corinthians 4. 17. Our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us. A four more exceed far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory, while we look not at the things which are seen, but at those things which are not seen. The things which are seen are temporal, but those which are not seen are eternal. May God help us to understand the significance of this book and to live like we believe it's true. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father in heaven, we know that this text is filled with so much rich, emotionally intense information. That drives us to the point to recognize that you're a great God of grace and kindness. And so I pray that this morning you would minister to our hearts exactly where we need it today. May we not in any way deviate from what we have seen here today. Maybe it's just a word of encouragement. Someone needs to get back up, help them to do it. Maybe it's a word of encouragement. We need to keep pressing Forward. Maybe it's a word of encouragement. I need to turn to Christ and be saved. You know it. Minister to our hearts according to your perfect wisdom. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.