Let's go ahead and take our Bibles out and please turn together with me to Ecclesiastes chapter 7 again, and we are going to look tonight at uh the rest of the chapter. So we're looking at verses 19 to 29. Again, that is Ecclesiastes chapter 7, verses 19 through 29. Let's go ahead and read it together. It says, Wisdometh strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty men which are in the city. For there is not a just man upon earth that doeth good and sinneth not. Also take no heed unto all the words that are spoken, lest Thou hear thy servant curse thee. For oftentimes thou also thine own heart knowest that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others. All this have I proved by wisdom. I said, I will be wise, but it was far from me. That which is far off and exceeding deep, who can find it out? I applied mine heart to know and to search and to seek out wisdom and the reason of things and to know the wickedness of folly, even of foolishness and madness. I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands are bands. Whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her, but the sinner shall be taken by her Behold, this have I found, saith the preacher, counting one by one, to find out the account, which yet my soul seeketh, but I find not. One man among a thousand have I found, but a woman among all those I have not found. Lo, this only have I found that God hath made man upright, but they have sought out many inventions. Now, when we read these verses, we need to understand that these verses are different observations from living in a fallen world that really kind of fall under one main theme. And this theme is that life in a fallen world is frustrating. I'm sure that you could say that that is true. Okay? It's frustrating in the sense that a lot of times the people that are the closest to us The people that know the most about us and we know the most about them, the people that should be our greatest encouragement and our greatest strength are sometimes the people that we scrap with the most. They're sometimes the people that are the most vicious and the most hurtful to us. We think about working together, we talk about something like teamwork, we recognize that when we band together as a team, we're able to accomplish a lot more. But when people band together as a team, sometimes the egos get in the way. And what should work out well to the bearing of a burden together ends up becoming something that's extremely contentious We think about something as simple as if you grew up on a farm and you used an animal to go out and to plow your fields. That animal that you learned, that you gained so much strength and you accomplish so much through is an animal that you have to feed. It's an animal that when it gets sick you have to make judgment calls about how to take care of that animal. You have to muck the stall. There's all kinds of work that goes into that. What's the point? Well the point is that living in a fallen world sometimes is very complicated. Sometimes it's very frustrating. And the fact is that God allows us, He doesn't insulate us from, but He allows us to experience the difficulties and the struggles of living in a fallen world. And we might ask the question, well, why does God do that? Why doesn't God just insulate us from those things? Why does he allow us to experience interpersonal conflicts? Why does he allow us sometimes to experience the hurt and the frustration of other people? Why does he allow us to go through these kinds of difficulties? Well, one of the reasons And what we're going to talk about this evening is that God uses those frustrations to give us wisdom One of the ways that God builds wisdom, builds our character, is he allows us to go through the frustrations of life, and through that, he uses it to get us in a position to receive such wisdom So let me give you a simple summary of this passage, and then we're going to move our way through some of the things that Solomon talks about, and then I want us to kind of take it back to well, what is the conclusion of these verses? So here's our summary. Life is complicated and painful, but God uses this broken world to teach us some very valuable lessons. that will ultimately give us real wisdom. I'll say that again. Life is complicated and painful, but God can use this broken world to teach us some valuable lessons that will ultimately give us real wisdom. God wants us to cherish the gospel because the fact is the gospel is the only thing that gives us any real hope And real stability in a broken world that frustrates us and sometimes is very painful for us. Let me go through this passage and look at several truths or several facts that Solomon talks about when we think about the frustration of living in a fallen world. The first truth is this. Life is complicated, full of frustrating difficulties. He gives five facts, and I want us to move our way one by one through these facts so that we can see what he's illustrating under this truth. Fact number one, a fallen world teaches us that wisdom is superior to strength. Now notice what he says in verse number 19. He says, wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty men which are in a city. You say, well, what is Solomon trying to communicate by that particular statement? Well, first of all, it's important that we recognize that in the verses before, the passages that we were talking about, was the idea of understanding that we need balance in how we approach life. We need to make sure that we don't overthink things and we need to make sure we don't overanalyze things, over plan. We need to be reasonable, we need to be balanced in the way that we go about that. Well that balance is found in what we call wisdom. And so right after that, he talks about the fact that you can have a person that's very strong. You can have a team of people that are very strong. But that strength is not as strong as the wisdom needed to kind of harness those energies. You say, well, why is that a frustration? Well the frustration is sometimes what you expect to come out in life is not what you get. It's like when I was in high school or in college, I used to go to wrestling tournaments, and you'd see these two guys step out into the and onto the mat and they'd shake their hands. And you looked at this guy, you look at that guy and go, that guy, he looks pretty tough, he looks pretty strong. This guy, well, you know, a little mediocre. I'm not sure how this is gonna go out. He's probably gonna get crushed. And at the end of it all, you go, Well, I guess I was wrong. Sometimes that's the way it works out in life. And that's what he's communicating here. If you've got strengths and you've got wisdom, guess what? Be better to be wise than just to be brute strong. The second fact that we see under this section, and this is getting more into the frustration side of living in the fallen world, is that a fallen world teaches us that the best man is at best a sinful man. Let me say it again. The fallen world teaches us that the best man at best is a sinful man Now I know we all, well I don't know if we all, but a lot of us enjoy reading and studying history. We know what's interesting about studying history. There are two different ways that people can approach history One way that people can approach history is they kind of present only the good side of the people that they are studying and that they are talking about. So when you talk about a person that was very well known in the past, all you hear is the positive about them Another side is that a person says, I'm going to present the positive, but I'm also going to present the negative. So if you had lived with this person, if you had known this person, you're going to see their strengths and you're going to see their flaws. I mean, something as simple as talking about the founding fathers of the United States. You could take an approach to talking about the founding fathers that only shows the positives, and there are some incredible positives with a person like a George Washington. Incredible positives. I went to Mount Vernon and we went and we saw some of the things that he made. He was an incredible engineering kind of mind. Incredible guy. But there were also a lot of negatives about George Washington The fact is, you can look at all the strengths, but you can see these terrible flaws, these terrible weaknesses, these ways that they fell short of what is right and righteous. Well the fact is that when we study history, if we are to study history objectively, it doesn't matter who you pick out of history, the greatest man that you can find, you will find his flaws. You will find that this person was a sinful person. There are people in their history that they wronged, that they were unjust toward. that they took advantage of. There were situations where they fell short of handling it appropriately. And the truth is that when we though probably no one in this room will be remembered in history like some of these people of the past. The fact is that when we go and our lives are remembered down the road, people will remember the good and the bad Here's what it says in verses 20 to 22. He says, there is not a just man upon earth who doeth good and sinneth not. Also, take no heed unto all words that are spoken, lest thou hear thy servant curse thee. For oftentimes also thine own heart knoweth that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others. Now you might ask the question, why does Solomon talk about the fact that there is no just man on earth who does good and sins not? And then he talks about not listening too intently to the criticisms. And the bad talking of others about you. You say, why does he link those two? Here's the reason he links those two. When someone speaks evil of us , Especially when it's not true, or especially when it's imbalanced, especially when it's very hurtful. The moment that we start getting upset about what they're saying, we need to pause and ask the question. Is there somebody that could feel the same way about me? That's a tough question, isn't it? Is there somebody that with the exact same heart that I have right now, the pain that I feel, the frustration, the anger, is there somebody out there That would feel the exact same way about me because I have done the exact same thing to them. Now, why does Solomon say this? It's his way of saying gently but truthfully. You are also a sinner. I'm a sinner, you're a sinner. And we prove it in something as simple as our words So he basically says, just remember, when somebody's talking bad about you, don't think too much about it because you've done it before to somebody else. And somebody else is going to do it to you again. And in one of your weaker moments, when you're not thinking clearly, or when you're angry, or when you're with a certain group of people, you'll probably do the same thing again and again and again. We are all flawed people. We are universally broken people. And that is one of the greatest examples. There is no one that does not offend in word in some way. The third fact that we find in these verses. Is that a fallen world teaches us that the wisest man never scratches the surface of true wisdom? It's kind of an interesting statement, is it not? In a fallen world, we learn that the wisest man never fully scratches the surface of true wisdom. There is a statement that is something like this. I'm going to paraphrase it, but it goes kind of like this. The more you know, the more you realize how little you know. Isn't that the truth? So you know when somebody is young and inexperienced, in their mind they believe they've got it all figured out. And a couple years later they're like, what was I thinking? You know how many single people know how to raise kids? Every single kid, parent, child, every single adult knows how to raise kids. And then after you've had a couple, you start going, I don't know what I'm doing. I'm doing the best I can. I'm trying hard. But this is not easy work. There's so many questions and so many differences and if I do this and this happens and raising children is hard. Yet every single parent knows that when they were single, they criticized their parents and their grandparents and The people that they were watching the kids for in the nursery and all those kinds of things. Why is that? Because experience teaches us how little we actually know. In fact, one of the ways that you know that a person is developing real wisdom is they learn to be a little bit quieter. They don't give their opinion as much because they realize, you know, I don't know as much as I really thought that I knew. It's one of the ways that we understand that a person is developing wisdom. And if there was anybody that could speak to this matter and say, I know things, it's Solomon. I was doing some research on Solomon's life because I'm preparing for a message on Sunday morning. And I was looking at how old Solomon was when he became king. You know how old he was? He was 20 years old. You know how old he was when his father began amassing all of these resources and preparing and planning for his son to build the temple? Solomon was probably about 16 or 17 years old. In fact, when Solomon was 18 years old, you know the age that parents kick their kids out of their house. Well, some of them do, some of them don't, but 18 years old. You know what Solomon was doing? His dad was putting on his shoulders the incredible burden of preparing to build the temple. Like, go back to your own 16-year-old mind and ask the question, how would you have done with such responsibility? Boy, it's kind of scary how I thought as a 16-year-old. Yet here is Solomon getting ready to take on these responsibilities. And when God says, I'm going to bless you in any way, what do you want? He says, God, give me wisdom. Give me an understanding heart. I am a child for the task that's ahead of me. And this is the guy that writes these words. Listen carefully to what he says. All this have I proved by wisdom. I said, I will be wise, but it was far from me That which is far off and exceeding deep, who can find it out? I applied my heart to know and to search And to seek out wisdom and the reason of things, and to know the wickedness of folly, even of foolishness and madness. Solomon says, I gave my whole life. to knowing the depths of wisdom. And you know what I realized? There is depth there that I can never even begin to grasp. I've hardly even scratched the surface. It's like a person who looks out on a beachfront and they look out across the ocean, they go, there's this incredible mass of water out there. Yet what they see is nothing. It's nothing compared to what's actually out there. We're talking about miles and miles of depths in certain parts of the ocean You could take Mount Everest and you could sink it and it'd be miles under the sea in certain parts of the ocean. There are things out in the advance of the ocean. There is no way humans will ever know those things are there There are things out there, they'll never even begin to grasp or comprehend what is there. It's like a person who looks out into the stars and what they think is a star out there, it's another galaxy. That is full of stars and full of planets and full of moons. And the idea is that the longer you look and the more deeply you analyze, the more you realize there is depth that I can't even begin to grasp. And guess what? We live in that kind of a world. The more you know, the older you get, the more experienced you get, the more you just say, I don't have this all figured out at all. He gave all of his energies and he recognized I'm only scratching the surface. Fact number four, a fallen world teaches us that people of integrity are in fact very rare. It says in verse 26 to 28, he says, I find more bitter than death the woman whose heart is snares and nets and her hands are bands. I think that Solomon surrounded himself with a lot of opportunistic wisdom women in his lifetime, did he not? And you can kind of see that he is expressing that concept of frustration because of the kinds of people that he brought around himself. He says, I looked out at all these people and guess what? I couldn't find anybody. That wasn't a person who didn't have ulterior motives. It wasn't manipulative and dishonest and deceitful and taking advantage. I couldn't find anybody He says, I looked out across the men, and in a thousand I found one person who maybe, maybe could meet that criteria. What is Solomon saying? He's saying, you know what, there are very few people of any level of integrity in the world. If you have a friend who is truly a person of integrity, let me tell you something. You have something that's very rare. Very rare. When Solomon, or in the book of Proverbs, in Proverbs 31, where it talks about the virtuous woman, and he talks about how precious and how valuable the virtuous woman is, it's true. There are not many out there. There are not many men of integrity. And when you find a man or woman of integrity, whatever you find of integrity in them, is not the result of their own natural goodness, but it's the result of God's gracious work in them because of the gospel. It's all of God's grace. And so we shouldn't be shocked when people let us down. We shouldn't be surprised when people need accountability, because that's the nature of the world that we live in. Fact number five, the fallen world teaches us that people abuse God's best gifts. Verse 29, he puts it like this: This only have I found. God made man upright, but they have sought out many inventions. That word invention has the idea of people scheming. People plotting, ple people planning. And I think what he's trying to say is, you know what? God gives people a mind And God gives people a body, and God gives people opportunity, and God puts people around them, and God moves in circumstances. He gives people all kinds of gifts, all kinds of blessings, all kinds of strengths. And the tragedy of life is that people take those good gifts and they abuse them. They misuse them. They use them for destructive purposes. I remember when we lived overseas. I don't even remember how many times our family got robbed. It had been quite a few times. But there was one thing that really intrigued me about the nature of the kinds of robberies that we experienced. I was amazed at the level of planning. Scheming, skill, and strength that went into something as destructive as stealing out of my house. I remember one time we had our power our our internet go down. And so we went and we called the internet company. We said, we don't know why the internet 's gone down and this and that. Well we went through lots and lots of different hoops and eventually what we found out Is that there were people that were cutting section of the internet cables like a quarter mile at a time. They would cut them off at night. They would go up on on on ladders, they'd cut off the sections, they would wrap them up. Of course this is heavy, heavy wire, and then they would take it to a place where they would trip off uh the the outside of the wire and they would just go and they would recycle it uh at a at a place that took you know scrap metal And I asked myself, how much energy and how much planning and how much work goes into stealing a quarter mile of cable? Like Couldn't these people use the energy and the strengths and the skill sets that they have that go into doing destructive things into like maybe working for the internet company and putting these stuff back up instead of taking it down and stealing? You just hear what I'm saying. The point that I'm making is the the wonderful gifts that God gives to people, they they abuse them, they misuse them Well, you might be sitting here going, well, Pastor, that's a kind of depressing series of things to consider. And I would say, yeah, on some level it really actually is. But the point is this: that's the world we live in. That's the world we live in. There's nothing you can do, and there's nothing that I can do to change the way this world is. There's not You know how it's all going to change when God establishes his eternal kingdom? That's what's going to change the world as it is When we preach the gospel and people get saved and their lives are transformed by the gospel, even though those people are still sinners and they still have their complications, they still have their difficulties, God works through them and he accomplishes good in their lives and the lives of the people around them. But the fact is, this is the world that we live in. And so the second point I want us to see tonight is that God actually uses The difficulties that we experience in this fallen world to give us wisdom. I'll just give you a couple of examples. God allows us to experience frustration and difficulty and hardship so that it will humble us. Because humility is a prerequisite for wisdom. God allows us to experience hardship and difficulty because it will cause us to depend on Him rather than to be self-sufficient. And independent and ask act as if we have all the answers and we have all the strength. We don't need God and we don't need anybody. That dependence is a prerequisite for wisdom. God uses these hardships to reset our priorities because priority is a part of wisdom. You know, I was thinking about this issue of conflict. Did you know that conflict on some level is unavoidable? One of the things that we believe sometimes is that when we get married, we're going to marry somebody who we never get in conflict with. It's not true. The best marriages on this planet have conflicts. They do. You can have a person that you love, that you respect, that you think a lot like in many ways, that you still deal with conflicts. And the fact is that conflict is something that sometimes God allows to take place, and He allows it because there is the potential for a constructive rather than destructive kind of a conflict. Because you know what conflict does? It allows us to work through issues. It allows us to learn. It allows us to grow. It allows us to mature. It allows us to change. It allows our Perspected to be shaped God sometimes puts you in the company of people that you rub the wrong way and they rub you the wrong way. Because God is bringing to a head an area where you need to grow and where I need to grow and we need to mature. Or maybe we're getting a little bit too proud, we're getting a little bit too self-reliant. Our priorities are out of balance. And so you know what God does? He allows us to experience a challenge so that this gets back into the place where it needs to be. God uses conflict and tension and struggle and pain to accomplish good things in our lives. Proverbs 11, 2 says, When pride cometh, then cometh shame. A good God who is looking at you and sees pride, you know what he's going to do? He's going to allow you to experience something that'll humble you. Do you think God in his goodness would allow you and allow me to just continue our pride? Is that really what he would do? The answer is no So if if you see your kids are having an issue, don't you address those issues with them? Of course you do. That's what loving parents do. They help their kids mature and to grow. Well, what does God do with us? He allows us to grow as well. And so when we're proud and self-reliant, guess what he does He brings circumstances and situations that strip us of our ability or confront us in our arrogance, so that we'll be where we need to be. When pride cometh, then cometh shame. With the lowly, the humble is wisdom. I think about this issue of self-reliance. You know, America is a very independently wired kind of a nation. I mean, the pilgrims like got on a boat and they they they they they went to the New World and you know most of them died on the way there and died when they got there. Many of the people that traveled, they were strong, gritty people, they took an incredible risk. And those who survived were very strong, self reliant people. It's part of the DNA and fabric of our nation. We are a strong, resilient kind of a people. Yet God tells us that dependence on Him is a prerequisite for real wisdom. Says in Proverbs 1:7, it says that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Fools despise wisdom and destruction. We talk about the fear of the Lord. We're talking about us humbling ourselves, depending on God, and recognizing we don't have all the answers. We aren't in control. What does God do? He humbles us. He puts us in places where we have to depend on him. We all struggle with priorities. If we have five tasks, then the one that we're going to put on the top shelf is invariably the one that probably should have been three or four. You know what I'm talking about? Like, that's what we do. And so what does God do? He allows us to go through hardship and difficulty, so we see, oh, you know what, where I got three, that should actually be one. Because that's more important. It says in Ecclesiastes 7. 24, it's better to go to the house of mourning than the house of feasting. That's the end of all men, and the living will lay it to his heart. Sorrow is better than laughter. By the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools in the house of mercy. What's he saying? He's saying suffering is something that what? Gives us wisdom. Because it establishes right priorities. So that moves me to a final thought that I want us to think about tonight. And that is that the gospel and a gospel-centered way of thinking or worldview is the only thing that offers hope and wisdom in a suffering world. The Bible talks a lot about hope. Proverbs 80, or Psalm 85, Psalm 119, Psalm 143. In these passages, the psalmist talks about how God's word is his hope. How it revives him, how it encourages him, how it strengthens him. And the fact is that everybody, whether they are thinking wisely or thinking foolishly, all of us experience the challenges of a fallen world. I want to mention a couple of wrong ways to respond to it. Some of us can be unrealistically optimistic. What I mean by that is some people say, you know, everybody out there is basically good. Is that true? No. If that's the way that you operate in the world, guess what? You could get burned a lot in life. You could get burned a lot in life. People are going to let you down. You're going to get frustrated. You're going to get discouraged. Why? Because people are not basically good. People are basically sinful. People believe that, you know, in the end everything's just going to work out by chance. I just have this optimistic view. I can accomplish anything that I can imagine. Is that true? Well, if I could, I'd I'd bent 600 pounds. But I can't. If I ever tried, I'd probably die. And you would you'd hear about, you know, what happened to me. Just because you think you can doesn't mean you will and you can't. People say believe in yourself. That's kind of a dangerous philosophy, is it not? This is what we preach to our children. I don't say we, but our culture says believe in yourself. Be self-reliant. You're the master of your own faith. That's an unrealistic optimism. But there's another side, there's this hopeless pessimism. Oh, there's no hope Life is empty and meaningless. There's no point in enduring this ministry. That's the opposite side of a wrong response. The person that acts like everything's going to work out when There's no guarantee. And the person who thinks it's all negative and it's all dreary and it's all weary. Think about the defeated perfectionist who tries so hard To control and to manipulate and to plan and do everything perfect. That's what we talked about the last couple of weeks. And you know what happens to a person like that? Frustration, weariness. Guilt because we can never fully measure up. What's the right response is to be uplifted as a believer. Am I a sinner? Yep. Have I failed God miserably? Of course I have. Do I deserve God's wrath against sin? Yes. So then what's my hope? The gospel. There's a cross, there's an empty tomb. The righteousness of Christ can be accredited, deposited, given to me by faith alone in the gospel. God deals with my sin. He deals with my failure. He deals with my misery. His wrath is satisfied and removed. You know, we can cope with this world because of the gospel. I can have a sense of humility recognizing what the Bible says about my sin. I can depend on God because I recognize I am not a self-reliant person. When I feel the misery and the weight of my sin, I see forgiveness from God because of the cross. When I feel like I never measure up, I see that I'm accepted in the beloved because of the righteousness of Christ. When I see these failures, I recognize that the Holy Spirit is transforming me through the renewing of the mind, and gradually I'm growing into Christ's likeness. Though it's slow and it's up and down, God is changing me. The ability to understand God's love and his mercy, his grace, these things all come because of the gospel. And when I think about the frustrations of a fallen world, I'm reminded of something. Because of the gospel, I have the guarantee of an eternity with God that's perfect. That is really the greatest hope for the believer. When I experience all the nonsense, the frustrations of life, I need to sit down and go, you know what? God's using these things to give me wisdom and to make me look forward to the glory that is. to be revealed down the road. And that is how we cope with a fallen world. To put it very simply, God wants us to cherish the gospel because that alone is what gives us real hope. in a broken world. And I hope that that's what we we take home tonight with us as we think about this passage. Let's bow together for prayer and then we'll get out our prayer sheets and Go through these prayer lists. Father, I pray that you'd help us in the midst of the frustrations and the struggles of life to remember that you are in control. And that because of the gospel, there is hope and there is stability and there is strength. We look forward to that day with tremendous anticipation. When we will experience the glories that await us in eternity. Help us to endure as seeing him who is invisible. Help us to grow into Christ-likeness as we relate properly to you through the challenges of life. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.