Morning, and let's turn together to first John chapter two, verses eighteen to twenty-one. Today we're going to focus on verses twenty and twenty-one, but just to kind of get the context and remind ourselves where we were last time, let's pick up in verse eighteen. He writes, Little children, it is the last time. And as you have heard that Antichrist shall come, even now are there many Antichrists whereby we know that it's the last time. They went out from us, but they were not of us. If they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us, but they went out that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us. But ye have an unction from the Holy One, and ye know all things. I 'm not written unto you because ye know not the truth, but because ye know it, and that know lies of the truth Now when we come to this passage, it's important for us to begin with a simple summary statement. So as I normally do, I'll do that again today. Since John has started, uh has stated the sobering fact that Christians Are living in the last days, he wants to encourage them by reminding them that they're fully equipped to recognize and reject false teachings. Another way to put that is they're not just fully equipped to recognize and reject false teachers, but they're fully equipped to face the challenges of living in a very difficult and a very evil time period. You know, it's important for us to remember that Christians have always lived in difficult times. And God has always given believers everything that they need so that they can face those challenges, so that they can have godly discernment, so that they can persevere and they can overcome those difficulties. difficulties and be what God wants them to be. The days that we live in today are no different. We face troubling days, every believing, every, every part of church history, believers have faced difficult days times. But God has always given us what we need to face that. And today we're going to see that John reminds these Christians that they have what they need to overcome and to recognize what is true and what is false. So how does John point that, or what does John point them to to say, here's what you have that fully equips you to deal with these things? Well, the first truth we're going to see is simply the statement that they have what they need. In other words, you are fully equipped to deal with what you will face as a Christian. When false teaching comes, you'll be able to reject it. When you face pressure and opposition, you'll be able to overcome. Here's the way he puts it in verse 20. twenty and twenty-one. He says, but ye have an unction from the Holy One, and ye know all things. Now that word but is extremely important. He's just talked about the fact that there are people that are all around them, many of them were even a part of the church at one point, who he says have the spirit of Antichrist. These are people who are teaching doctrines that are in opposition to the truth. These are people who are antagonistic to the church and to the gospel. And that's a very troubling thing to think about. When we talk about the Antichrist, he's going to be a very evil person And so John's basically saying, look, it's true that you're living in a very difficult time period. It's true that some of the very people that you once worshipped with are not actually teaching the truth today. But it's also true that you have something that they don't have. You have an unction from the Holy One, and you know all things. So he talks about the fact that there's an equipping And he talks about the fact that there's a body of knowledge that they have that these other individuals don't have. And I'm going to kind of develop that a little bit more in just a second. What does he mean by an unction? And what is it that is fully equipping them and giving them that body of information that they need so that they can actually face these dishes. issues. Well that moves us to the second truth. God's Spirit, through His Word, gives us the only sufficient standard. And when we say only sufficient standard standard, we can also say the only fully sufficient standard. In other words, it's not just that the the scriptures are the only place that we can go and get real solid answers. But the scriptures give us everything we need to get those real solid answers. It reminds me of what Timothy says, or what Paul writes to Timothy and say 2 Timothy 3. He says that the scriptures make you fully equipped or thoroughly furnished for every good work. When he finishes talking about the scriptures, he says, you have a body of truth that gives you everything that you need so that you can know how to think as a Christian, know what to believe as a Christian. and knew how to live as a Christian. That is your source of authority. That's really at the background of what John is writing in these passages So let's talk about first of all this concept of the unction of the Holy One. He's emphasizing the fact that the Holy Spirit is present in the life of the believer. And we look at this word unction, it tends to have the idea of someone being equipped for some kind of an office, like an anointing for an office. So this is a term that would have been used if you were talking about a prophet in the Old Testament. Or term that you would be using if you were referring to someone who's entering into the priesthood or somebody who is a king. God would come upon that individual and he would strengthen and he would enable that individual to function in the role that God had called them to. So when God calls someone to be a priest, when God calls somebody to be a prophet, when God calls somebody to be a to be a king in the Old Testament, they would be anointed by the Holy Ghost, and he would come upon them prophet, and he would enable them for that service. Well, when we come to the New Testament, we don't have priests and prophets and kings like we did in the Old Testament. Yet the concept of the Holy Spirit coming upon a person and equipping them for service is still found in the New Testament. We come to 1 Peter chapter 2, Peter says that we, God's people, are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. a holy nation, a peculiar people, that we should show forth the praises of Him who hath called us out of darkness into His marvelous Light. So while we don't have a functioning priesthood like they did in the Old Testament, in one sense we do have a functioning priesthood. The Bible says that the church, and every individual in the church, every member of the body is an individual priest. In fact, this is one of the distinctions that we talk about. We talk about Baptist distinctives, is that every single believer has access to God through Christ, and we function in a priestly role as individuals and as So he's emphasizing the fact that one of the reasons that you are fully equipped to deal with the challenges of this world, this evil age that we live in, and the challenges of false teaching that come and bombard us from time to time is that you have an unction. You have been anointed by the Holy Spirit to function and a role that's extremely important. important, a royal priesthood. He then emphasizes a second thing. He says, you know all things. Now when he says you know all things, he's not saying that you know every single fact in the world that's possible to be known. He's not saying that you're omniscient. That's not what John 's saying here. What he is saying is that you know everything that you need to know as a Christian. In other words, there is a sufficient body of truth that has been given to you, and you hold that body of truth in your hand. And when you look at it, you have everything that you need. In other words, you don't need to be looking to other places to inform your thinking on issues of theological significance Now, one of the things that we see when we talk about John's audience is that those false teachers were people who were who were emphasizing the fact that that there was some knowledge about God and some experiences about God that these false teachers were aware of and knew, but these other Christians didn't know them. And so when we talk about Gnostic theology and how it was em it was something that was infiltrating the church and it was beginning to cause a lot of trouble in the church, that's emphasizing the fact that these people, the Gnostics, were Saying, there are things you don't know about God, and you need us to teach you. And John says, that's not true. That's nonsense. You have this body of truth, the scriptures. the word of God, and you know everything that you need to know there. It's sufficient. That's his emphasis. And so he's saying, look, God's Spirit, through God's word, gives you a fully sufficient standard that you don't need to go to other places to find. Find, you go to the scriptures. We then come to a third point that I think is extremely important. That third point is this: you have to take up the instruments that God's providing For you, or you will lack biblical discernment. Now, when John says that you have an unction from the Holy One, he's talking about how God has equipped When he says that you know all things, he's emphasizing the fact that God has given us in the scriptures a body of truth that is sufficient to help us get through this world and see what is true and what is not true. But one of the things that John doesn't say, and one of the things that he wants us to understand is is just because God's given you those tools does not mean that you're picking them up and that you're using them the way that you're supposed to use them. That means that if I have the truth, it's possible for me to be faithful with it or me to be and you know we see this principle all the time in life. There are some people that become very successful. Who had everything working against them their entire lives. They were born into a poor family, they didn't have a dad, maybe they they didn't have a good set of circumstances, they didn't get good education. There were a lot of things working against them. Every single step of the way. They had obstacle after obstacle after obstacle. But rather than that person giving up and saying, I quit, I'm just going to have to fall by the wayside and say, you know what, life's tough and I can't handle it. this that person didn't do that there was a tenacity there there was a persistence there they said you know what that's a challenge and that's a challenge but I'm gonna face that challenge And I'm gonna take everything that's available to me and I'm gonna press forward. And what does that person do? They seize and capitalize on every single opportunity that they have. They make ways where there aren't ways. Why is it that they're able to do that? It's because God has put in their heart this persistent spirit and they don't quit. And you know what? They end up becoming very successful. in life because through those challenges they become stronger, not weaker. You have another person who has everything going for them. They have a family that's very prosperous. They have a mom and dad who love them. They're constantly giving everything in their in their youth and as they get older they get used to getting this entitlement. I deserve this and that and all these things are given to them. And then at at a certain point in time they get to the place where they start facing obstacles too. Because everybody in life is going to face obstacles. You know what they do? Rather than taking those obstacles as ways to grow and mature and get stronger and they overcome those obstacles, they quit They don't take advantage of those wonderful opportunities that they were given to them. And that person becomes less than what they could have been. They don't become as successful because they drop the ball. They don't seize the opportunity. The truth is that what we become is not just what we're given. It's what we do with what we're given. And this principle is true in this text of Scripture. God has given every Christian everything that they need to grow. You know, as a Christian, I have the local church. As a Christian, I have the Bible. As a Christian, I have godly people who God has brought into my life who who want to pour and invest into my life. And they want to mentor me and they want to encourage me and strengthen me and pray for me. for me. I have all these tools available. And you know what? Some people take those tools and they just devour those things. And they grow and they mature and they thrive. And other Christians who have the exact same local church. They have the exact same opportunity to study the Bible. They have the exact same individuals who want to pour into their lives. They don't do it. They don't take advantage of what they have. have and their lives don't become what they ought to be and what they could have been. We as God's people have to take this fully sufficient word And we have to bring it in and we have to actually meditate on it and chew on it and let it nourish and strengthen our soul and shape us. I think of Hebrews chapter 5, where this is what the writer says. He says, for the time you ought to be teachers, but you need that one teach you again the first time. principles of the oracles of God. He says, you become such as have need of milk and not strong meat. Everyone that useth milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness. Strong meat belongeth unto them that are full age, even to those who by reason of use have have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. The writer of Hebrews is basically saying, look, you are at a point where you should be spiritually mature. You should be able to handle meat, things that are difficult. You should be able to be a mentor and a teacher. You've been given all these things, but you know what? You're not there. You've actually gone backwards. You've actually become less matured, less skillful in areas where you should be skillful. And the question is why? Is it because of a lack of opportunity? Nope. Is it because of a lack of time? No. It's because of laziness. It's because of an unwillingness to take what was given and to use it. And so when we come to this passage of scripture, we have to recognize we are fully equipped, but we have to do something with that equipment. So here's the question, how can we practically take these truths and just dig into them and how can we actually apply them in a practically unique useful way. way Let me give you a couple of simple things I jotted down this morning that I hope will challenge you and I'm gonna by God's grace reflect on these throughout the day and try to live in the light of them. The first thing is this I need to face the challenges of the Christian life with confidence and the tools that God has given me. You know, yesterday it was kind of a a down a down day when you think about it. He says, you know, the spirit of Antichrist is all around us. And yes, Antichrist will come, but there are many Antichrists all around us. We live in an evil age and there's so many challenges and so many difficulties. And that's discouraging, and you walk away and go, Wow, that wasn't very encouraging. Today we say, wait a minute, you have everything that you need to be able to deal with those things. God is not going to let you pass through something that that he's not given you the tools that you need to be able to handle those things. And so that's what we're reminded of. Face the challenges with confidence, not a self-confidence, but a reliance on the fact that God, in his goodness, has given us everything Everything that we need. The second point that stands out is I need to be in the scriptures regularly. You know, the Bible is here. It's sitting on my desk. How often do I pick it up? How much time do I spend reading it? How much How much time do I spend meditating on it and reflecting on it? How much time do I spend talking to others about it and digging into the content? It's here, it's available, but do I use it? Am I committed to the local church? We are now able to come back to church and gather together as a body of believers, but for three months we've not been able to assess The truth is that during that time, one of two things could have happened. Either one, my longing to be with God's people could have been strengthened, and I start to begin to realize how important and how significant the assembling of other Christians is. And I've been longing for that day that we can reconnect. And I say, I'm going to be more committed than ever never to be gathered with God's people. And the same time, over three months, we could have said, you know, I've gotten kind of used to being able to sleep in on Sunday morning. I've been kind of used to, you know, just sitting in my pajamas, you know, at ten o'clock and and you know drinking my coffee and leisure. And you know, I'll just watch it online. I don't need to be there. It's really not that important. The church And all that essential. I mean, as long as I'm hearing the word being preached, I guess it's fine, so I'll just go ahead and do that. Folks, it's not just the fact that we're hearing God's word is that we're hearing God's word in community with other Christians. And there is a mutual interaction, even within the assembling of the local church, that's extremely important. To our growth as Christians. And so I need to not only be in the scriptures regularly, but I need to be committed to the local church. A fourth thing that stands out to me is this: I need to guide people that are under my cable. You know, God has not only put people in my life who are the tools that He uses to strengthen me, but He wants me to be a tool and somebody else's tool life and the life of my children and the life of young people that God brings into my care. A young Christian. We that person may actually be older than I am, but they're brand new New Christian. It could be my spouse. God wants us to invest in the people that are around us. And God wants us to get around more mature Christians who can also invests in our lives. If this has been an encouragement to you this morning, I hope that you'll jot a note of encouragement and I hope that this has been a blessing. I'd encourage you to share it. If it's been an encouragement to you, it'll be an encouragement to you To someone else, and I look forward to seeing you next time. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, please. Father, thank you for the opportunity we've had this morning to study the word, to discuss it, and And then to internalize it. I pray that you'd help us to be not just hearers of the word, but doers also, so that we're not deceived. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Well it's been great to see you this morning, and I hope that you have a fantastic rest of your day. We'll see you like see you next time