Good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our midweek study prayer time and looking forward to getting into So let's go ahead and first of all start with a word of prayer, and then we will turn in our Bibles to Matthew chapter seven again tonight. Let's pray. Father, we're so grateful for the middle of the week and the opportunity to just pause and get into your word. Help us tonight to have a clear understanding of the truths that are in front of us. I pray that the things that are shared tonight would be very practical and helpful to each person that's here. I think especially of our young people as they are Think about decisions that they're going to make in the future, even decisions they're working through right now. I pray that as we talk about how to how to get godly wisdom and the things that we need to consider when we think about decisions. I pray that the things that are presented tonight will be a help to them. And then as we spend time together in prayer, I pray that we would have just a sweet spirit that as we lift up these requests that you would be at work in these situations. Bless our freedom. That last class also that will be meeting. And we ask that you be with the children in the back. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, Matthew 7 again is where we are. And what I'm going to do tonight is I'm going to kind of remind you about some of the things we talked about last week. And then we're going to keep working our way through this concept of getting godly wisdom and the importance of getting godly wisdom. So, Matthew chapter 7, verse number 1. And we'll read down to verse 8. It says this. Judge not that ye be not judged For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged, and with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you Why beholdest thou the moat that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the moat out of thine eye, and behold, a beam is in thine own eye. Thou hypocrite First, cast out the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the moat out of thy brother's eye. Give not that which is holy to the dogs, neither cast your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet and turn again and rend you. Ask, and it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. Now, just to remind you again, the focus of this passage is not so much about saying it's wrong for you to go and speak to someone about an issue of concern. That is not The point of this passage. Or the point of the passage is not to say that we as Christians are never supposed to make judgments about people's behavior, choices, viewpoints, all those kinds of things. And the reason we know that is because he says judge not, and then later on he says, first Cast out the beam that is in your own eye. First cast out the beam that is in your own eye, and then you'll be able to see clearly to cast the moat out of thy brother's eye. So the point of Christ's teaching is to help us to be in the right position to actually help other people. And that's so consistent with other things that we see in Scripture. God wants us to have concern for other people. But he wants us to not be hypocrites when we go to try to resolve issues with people. He doesn't want us to have blind spots. He wants us to see clearly. He wants us to be dealing with issues, having looked at our own lives first. And that's really the point of the text. But the focus of our study this evening, as it was last week, is verses 7 and 8. I want you to notice again what it says. Ask And it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock. And it shall be opened unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and he that knocketh it shall be opened unto him. The point is that God wants his children to walk in godly wisdom. And so we started with this question last week. How do we practically walk in wisdom? I mean sometimes when we're teaching or sometimes when someone is preaching, they'll make very general statements and then you just sort of like, well, how does that break down in a practical way? I I want to understand that. So That's what I'm trying to do for you in this section. I want us to really break this down in a practical way. And those three words, ask, seek, and knock, are going to be the focus of this issue of getting wisdom. And there are three passages that we're going to kind of lay on the side with this text that we're looking at in Matthew 7, because they really fill out a lot of these details. So the first one Psalm thirty-seven, we will touch on that passage a couple of times throughout the study. Proverbs chapter two, very significant text, and then James chapter one. And then last week we talked about the first truth, walking in wisdom, starts with asking God. And if I'm asking God for wisdom, then I understand that I don't have perfect wisdom myself. He's the one who actually is the source of wisdom. And he gives us this promise, this comfort. It shall be given you. Or in Proverbs chapter 2 he says, that you will ha then you will have the understanding, understand the fear of the Lord, and then you will find the knowledge of God because he layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. And then in James 1 it says that God giveth to all men liberally, or he's generous, and he abrateth not, and it shall be given him. So we talked about, first fact, if you want to get godly wisdom, you've got to ask God. And there's certain things that we understand are the driving behind why we ask God. And we have this comforting promise, he's going to give us what we need. The second truth, and this is where we kind of left off last week, is that those who ask God for wisdom must be willing to do their part to diligently seek it in the right places and in the right way. What this is saying is that God doesn't just give us wisdom and this this like you ask it and then just magically it pops into your head and now you have godly wisdom. That's not how God gives wisdom. In the same way, he doesn't give patience like that either. How do we develop patience? Well, we go through the trials of life. And then God uses his word, and the Spirit of God works in us, and through the course of our lifetime, God develops us in maturity in this way. In the same way he does this with wisdom. We get wisdom. through a process. And we have responsibilities in this process. And we see that in Proverbs 2. We mentioned this last week If thou seekest her as silver and searchest for her as for hidden treasure, then thou shalt understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. Notice the word if And then the word them, you have a responsibility, or Proverbs 2. 7. He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous Well, that's a qualified statement. If you're a person who is seeking the Lord's wisdom, you're the kind of person who's going to get it. And then in James 1. 6, he says, Let this person ask in faith nothing wavering Because the one who wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed. A double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. So we spent a good bit of time with that last week. And there were several observations that we made under that under that sub-point. First is this. Speaking implies there's a process. Second, we have to consider other scripture to understand what he means by this. And I want to remind you of what we mentioned last week. There are some common misunderstandings about how people get wisdom. And I mentioned them for a reason. I mentioned them because I have lived these things myself, okay? And I have lived through these things myself with other people. And I've seen the folly of them. I've seen the absolute tragedy of people who follow these very misguided, what they believe to be biblical principles, but are clearly not being taught in the Bible. And before we got to the, we could say the naive Christian approach, we mentioned a couple of things about the worldly approach. And I've seen this one too. A person that says, you know, just follow your heart. I was having a conversation, well, I've had this kind of conversation with people many times, and they say, if you're going to find a job that just you're passionate about, you probably never find a job. I mean, because it's work, it involves labor, it involves frustrations and sometimes we we have to learn to like what what is put in front of us. So that concept of following your heart is something that's really, really pumped towards our young people especially. But It's not true. Your heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. If you go on emotion, your emotions are high and they're low, and that is not a valid gauge to determine how to make decisions Some people just do what works. Just pure pragmatism. They don't care what God says. If it works, if I get what I want, then I'm going to do it. Some act as if they're the master of their own fate, and every every decision they make is ultimately what determines the outcome. Now, it is true that the choices we make are going to lead us somewhere. And it is true that the choices that we make are leading toward an end. There is a process of producing fruit. That's something that happens. But there is another side to this. Just because you say you're going to do something and you purpose to do something doesn't mean it's going to work out. I mean, look at what it says in James. He says, those who go to a city and they buy and sell and get gain, they say, you know, this is what we're going to do. He says, well, what's your life? It's even a vapor. It appears for a little while, it vanishes away. Instead you should say, if the Lord wills. And so when we make decisions, we have to recognize that there is a side to this where it's it's out of our hands. It's in the hands of the Lord. And that should actually be a great comfort to us. And then some that act as if, well, it's all about luck. It's like rolling a dice. Okay? So that's like the worldly approach. And hopefully we as Christians are not following these ways. Though Because of the media that we digest, because of the movies that we watch, because of the friends that we have in the world, and sometimes Christian friends, sometimes the popular things that are going on in our culture. We start taking some of these approaches to making decisions and we start grabbing a hold of them, or they become a part of this process, and they muddy the waters and they create a lot of problems. But here's the one that I'm probably even more concerned about. And that is the naive Christian approach. The first one that I mentioned last week is this: pray and God will give you some kind of mystical peace. Now I can tell you for a fact that is the way that I made decisions as a college student in a lot of ways. And I'm thankful that God was merciful to me in some of those situations and it didn't end up where it could have ended up. But I have seen the absolutely tragic responses of people who are looking for a mystical peace that's never going to come. And I can I can tell you that just knowing their personality. They're the kind of person they are never going to be settled in their heart about anything unless it is a self-willed kind of thing where they've hardened their heart and they said, This is what I'm going to do, and now I feel good about it. Or you see people that they make decisions that are just, they're truly crazy. I mean just that's the simplest way to put it. You pick up a Bible and you study what it says and you say, that is not godly wisdom, that is not biblical principle, that is following your heart just like the world does. But you call it the Holy Spirit. He's giving you peace. So just understand that if you take that approach, number one, it's not in the Bible, and number two, if you're the kind of person who You kind of vacillate a lot up and down. You're never gonna have a settled heart about the decision you're supposed to make. And if you're a stubborn kind of person That's like the two major personality types, right? Then you're gonna probably do a lot of things you want to do and God gave you peace and it's not the word giving you peace. You just you made up your mind and that's what you're gonna do The second is this. Pray and look for proof text to guide you in your decisions. I've done that one too. I've absolutely done this one. I mean I could I could probably pull out some uh documents that I wrote you know twenty-five years ago or something like that that has a whole list of these verses that were guiding me in making decisions. And this is my opinion about what I have done in that situation. I knew what I wanted, and I saw it in the Bible when I saw a text that gave me the impression that could be what it was And the truth is, if I was to go back to those texts of scripture and I was to work through them, I would notice that some of them gave principles that would have been very helpful, but some of them had absolutely nothing to do with the decision that I was making. I remember one time I was talking to somebody and they were talking about why they made a decision to attend a particular college that they went to. And this is not a joke. This really happened, okay? And my wife and I are having this conversation with this person. Very sweet person, very well-meaning. I know they love the Lord. No question in my mind about it. And they were reading some obscure text in Isaiah and it was something about gates. Something about gates, like the gates of Jerusalem, okay, the gates of Jerusalem got destroyed in a fire when the Babylonians came in and destroyed the city. And One of these obscure texts that had absolutely nothing to do with deciding where to go to college became the proof text for how they knew that college that they attended was the right one. Because they saw the gates. And I'm like, wow. Yeah, we kind of juckle at that, but it's actually pretty tragic. It's really foolhardy, just to be very frank about it. And I'm not saying that to be condescending. I'm saying that to say to our young people, please don't do this. Don't do this. When you go to the Bible, you need to read the text and interpret it within the context in which it's given. The third one I mentioned. Ask a lot of people and follow their advice. Now, I'm going to talk to you a little bit about a biblical way to get counsel. But if you just pick a group of people and you all ask them their opinion, you know what you're going to find out? On some issues, there will be zero consensus. And there will also be situations where you will just happen to have found an opinion poll that is sort of catered towards what you were looking for, if you know what I'm saying. You know? Like sometimes I hear these political polls and I ask myself the question, I'm like Okay, you asked a thousand people, but how many of them were of this persuasion and how many of them were of this persuasion? I mean, the percentage of people that you put on each side is gonna actually, it's gonna shift your data one way or the other. And when it comes to this issue of making decisions, there has to be some kind of principle that's associated with getting godly wisdom. And we'll talk about that. The last one I want to mention is another one that I have done, and that is to put out fleeces so God can give you some kind of confirmation. I have heard of people who uh went into a a place where lots of young people would congregate in college and uh they prayed that God would Just like he guided Abraham's servant to the right woman for Isaac to marry at the well that he would guide them at their college post office box to the right person to ask out to the uh fine arts series. And uh and they did it Sometimes it works out good and sometimes not so good. Is that how we should be making decisions? The answer is no That is not how we should be making decisions. If you're trying to judge based on all these things that you put out there, you're going to get really confused and really, really frustrated. So the question is, well, how does the Bible teach us to make decisions? And that's where we're going to spend a lot of time. So last week we first of all talked about the fact that we need to ask God for help. To help us to understand the implications of his word. And Psalm 119. 18 says this. It says, Open thou mine eyes to behold wondrous things out of thy law. James 1, 6, let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. Now, when you're asking God for wisdom in the sense of what we're talking about here, what you're really asking is this. You're saying, God, I know that your word is full of the truth that I need. I believe in the sufficiency of the scriptures And so as I study the Bible and I seek to understand the text accurately, correctly, not not what I'm trying to find there, but what it is actually saying for the people that it was written to. Two thousand years ago, I want to see the timeless truths that have bearing on this decision right in front of me or to have bearing on the worldview approach to this particular issue. And I want the Spirit of God to take the Word of God as I study it carefully. and to press it on my heart with conviction. That's really what we're talking about. We're talking about illumination. We're talking about the Spirit of God taking the truth and driving it home. so that we understand it and we feel the weight of it. That's the idea. Not that we just ask God, give me wisdom, and then all of a sudden we magically come up with this understanding of a text of scripture. That is not what we're talking about. The second thing is this. Regularly study the scriptures so that God's word is shaping thinking and refining our interest and motivating our passions. Now, each of those things is really, really important. Notice the word thinking. That's like how I generally approach things. Interest. Those are the things that I'm inclined toward Our passions, this is what motivates me, okay? So when we talk about a person making decisions, I mean to be very frank about it, you do what you do because you want to do it. I think that's just the honest truth. That's why people do what they want to do. And so what I want as a Christian is that the things that I would desire to do and the things that I'm motivated to do And the approach that I take to doing those things is all being shaped by the scriptures. And here's the thing that's important for us to realize about this. This isn't something that you do when the decision's in front of you. This is something you do every day. Does that make sense? Like every single day We should be in the Word of God so that our thinking is being shaped by the Bible. This is our worldview. Our interests are being shaped by the scriptures. And our passions that are driving us, motivating us, they are being moved by Scripture. So in Psalm 119, 105, he says that thy word is a lamp unto my feet, a light unto my path. What he's doing is it shows you the step to take one at a time. Or in Psalm 119, 130, he says, the entrance of thy word giveth light. It giveth understanding to the simple. And interestingly, as we work our way through the Proverbs, a lot of times what you're going to see is that the Proverbs are meant to not just say, oh, here's what I'm supposed to do right here. It's meant to shape your entire approach to life So that when you get in those situations, the way that you're inclined is shaped by the Bible. The way that you're motivated is shaped by the Bible. The thing that you would want to do is shaped by the Bible. And this is why we've got to start this out really, really young. We need to really put the Word of God in the hearts of our young people, put it in front of them, encourage them to study the Word of God. So this second piece is very, very important. And I'm concerned that what happens with a lot of people is they get into this tough situation, I've got a decision to make. And the fact is they haven't been in God's word for years. It's not shaping their passions in any way. It's not shaping their worldview. And they want God to just drop something into their lap so that they figure out what they're supposed to do. That's really the wrong approach. Third thing, we need to develop a thoroughly biblical worldview about lies. I mean think about what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 10. He says, whether therefore ye eat or drink or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God. Now if you're to look at that text, He's dealing with issues of debatable issues, conscience, those kinds of things. And what he basically says is: whatever you do as a Christian, you are to do it for the glory of God. Well, how do you know what glorifies God? Well, your entire worldview has to be shaped by the scriptures. This is something that happens day in and day out, over and over again as we're in the Word of God Or Philippians chapter 1, verse 20, he says, according to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but with all boldness as always, so now Christ shall be magnified in my body. Whether by life or death, for me to me to live is Christ and to die is gain. This is a fascinating thing about Paul. Whether he lived or died, i in some ways it didn't matter to him. Like it's kind of crazy to think about. It's not that he hated life. He loved life. He loved the opportunity to invest in people. He was passionate about being a help to people. He wanted the gospel to spread, but he wanted to be with the Lord. And he basically came to this point where he says, you know what? If I'm living, I want to live for God. And if it's my time to go, I'm ready. I'm just going to do this. I'm not worried about it. What an amazing thing. It's all about worldview A person he's not afraid to die, and he's not afraid to live either. There's a lot of people that are afraid to live, just to be very honest. Paul was ready for either one. Whatever God's will is, he's gonna do it. We need the scriptures to shape our worldview. Fourth, we need to consider the specific principles that have bearing on the decisions that we need to make. Now, this is very, very important. If I want to make good decisions in life, I need to ask God I need to be in the Word of God regularly so that this is shaping my worldview. And then I have to learn to develop the skills. And yes, that word skill is the one I meant to use. the skills to handle the Word of God and to understand what principles apply in this particular situation. Now what was a judge supposed to do in ancient Israel? A judge's job was to take a situation that was in front of them and they were to apply the law in front of them. Now a lot of people today would say, you know God's word is so restrictive, it's so overbearing, there's so many rules that you have to follow. And that's sort of the mindset. And there's like several hundred Old Testament laws. But do you have any concept of how many laws there are in the nation in our nation right now? Like if you were to walk into a lawyer's office, you just see like like books. And books. And books. And all these books. And you say, well, what are all those books? Oh, those are some of the uh some of the codes. If you're in the state of Maryland, you'd be like Are you serious? Yeah, every year there's new ones that come out. There's like a thousand pages to a new bill that goes through Congress. And the people that vote on it, they haven't even read the thing. They just have they're the people that are under them, they read them and they say, Oh, are you good with that? Should I vote for it? That's what they do. They have the aides that do that kind of work. But that's not the way God's law is. God's law was given very differently. It was given as a case type of scenario. So you would have this situation, and this situation would establish a principle. Okay? Like the principle may be something as simple as if you have an animal and the animal attacks someone, you have a responsibility to make sure that never happens again. And you know what that means? Put your animal down. That's what he's saying. Or your animal destroys somebody's property, guess what your responsibility is? To go and to pay for the damage that was done by your animal. Now a lot of people today don't think that way You know, they grow in the grocery store and their kid smashes something and they're like, let's let's get out of that aisle. We don't want anybody to see that. Well, I mean, a biblical approach would be, okay. My kid broke that. I'm gonna go get somebody and I'm gonna pay for it because I did the damage, okay? Well, the Bible never tells you to do that, technically. It doesn't give you that scenario, but what it does do is it gives you an established principle through these different case law situations. You say, well why does this matter? Well, this matters because a judge would know all of these laws in the Word of God, and they would have a situation in front of them, and their job was to sit down and to think, okay. Here's what's going on. Here's the basic problem. And here's what the Word of God says about this. Here's the principle. Here's the principle here. And these two principles can be applied in this situation this way, and this is how we're going to handle it. You say, well, how does somebody learn how to do that? Well, part of it is they are a student of Scripture. Part of it is experience. It's actually a skill. And so if someone is a good judge, they're making decisions about what is right and what is wrong based on what the scriptures establish in principle. And there are some things that, I mean, they're like straight commands. Okay? So we wouldn't even call this a principle. We'd say it's a command. So let me just I'll give you a scenario. Probably doesn't apply to anybody here at this point, but it will down the road. Okay? The scripture is very clear. You're supposed to be a Christian. Okay, how do we know that? Well, because in 1 Corinthians he says, be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. Now what's interesting about that example is I don't know that it's just bound to a marriage situation. That would be the most specific application. But you could even talk about somebody going into business with a person. And they they go into business with somebody, they got a totally different worldview, and they're trying to work this out together, and this person's thinking this and this person's thinking this and the question is why do they have these conflicts? Well, it's because one's a Christian, one's not a Christian. And so what's going on is they're locking horns over very significant issues about how to run their business. It's because one is a different series of principles that guide is decision making. Well, when we think about that situation, we could ask the question, well, how does that apply? Well, I mean, one way it would apply is never date a non-Christian. You say, well, it doesn't say not to date a non-Christian, it doesn't even talk about dating in the Bible. Okay, again, technically that's um, I guess probably true. But why do people date? I mean, okay, question. Why are they supposed to date? Do we need to go there? Well, hopefully the idea is they are hoping to establish uh a a relationship that is serious that they're gonna get married. That's kind of the idea. That's the whole idea. So dating course, whatever they want to call it. Okay, two people are getting to know each other because hopefully their desire is to get married and to do things the right way. So Why would you initiate such a relationship if you know it's forbidden? At the next level. Kind of makes sense, doesn't it? So the idea is that there are certain principles That if I understand them and I seek to apply them, then I'll know this is something I should not do. I should never do it. This situation, does it I could change this circumstance, I could put a different name, I could put a different state. Those things are irrelevant. The principle is established, and we should follow the principle. And so, Psalm 119, verses 59 and 60, this is what he says. I thought on my ways. I turned my feet unto thy testimonies. I made haste and delayed not to keep thy commandments. What is that saying? Well, the psalmist is saying that I pondered the direction I'm going. You can put it this way, the decisions he makes. In other words, the Christian isn't the one who feels his way through life. He's the one who thinks his way through life. And he makes choices based on what he knows are right and wrong. I'm going to choose the right path. So he says, I turned my ways after thinking, I turned my feet after thinking on your testimonies. Proverbs three five to seven Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways, acknowledge him. He shall direct thy paths. Be not wise in thine own eyes, fear the Lord and depart from evil. I mean we could spend a ton of time on this passage of Scripture, but first of all, in all of my ways. So, you know, sometimes in the Christian life we say, well These are the areas of my life that I'm comfortable letting God guide, and these are the areas of life that I'm not comfortable letting God guide, and these are the ones I'm kind of like 50-50. Sometimes I'm good, and sometimes I'm not. In all thy ways, acknowledge him. In other words, see what he says. He will direct your path. How does he do that? Well, the guidance of the scriptures guides the direction that you go, which ultimately leads to what? Him directing. your paths. Don't be wise in your own eyes. This sounds a lot like what we see in James chapter one. The double-minded man who is unstable in all of his ways. What does it mean to be double minded? It means that instead of me going, In all my ways I acknowledge him, I am being wise in my own eyes sometimes, and then I'm like, well, I want to see what God has to say. And this person vacillates back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. A lot of times young people find themselves in this place. But it's not just young people. It's not just young people. Proverbs 4. 26, ponder the path of thy feet. Let all thy ways be established. And so when we have decisions to make, hopefully, because we're in the Word of God and our heart is directed in the direction it should be going. The things that we're inclined toward, the things that we're motivated about, that the general approach that we're taking to these decisions is being guided by the scriptures. But there's still a need for us to sit down with an open Bible and dig into what it actually says that is pertinent specifically to that situation in front of us. Number five. Don't worry, there's only twenty-five of them, right? I don't even remember how many there are. We're just gonna work our way through it, right? Number five. Learn to dis to discern the difference between Oh, this one should be hopefully helpful to Learn to discern the difference between irrational fear, godly concern, and a troubled conscience. Let me say it again. Learn to discern the difference between irrational fear, godly concern, and a troubled conscience. Now, I've had situations where I'm talking to somebody, I know they're very well-meaning, they want to make the right decision, and I'm having this conversation, and they'll say something to me like this, you know, Pastor, I really feel in my heart that God has not given me a subtleness about this decision. I'm very troubled inside about it. I don't think I should do this. I don't just say, okay, well then don't do it. I ask them a question. What's causing that? I don't know. I'm just telling you how I feel. Yeah, well let's stop and let's consider why you feel that way. It's very, very important for us to do that. Because why we feel a certain way is telling you whether or not this is something that you're just fearful, which is, you know, it's sin. Let's be honest with you. If God tells you to do something, And he writes it down in black and white and you're afraid to do it. And you say, I just don't feel right about this. Well it doesn't matter how you feel about it. You need to do it, right? But then we have issues of conscience where the truth is that in my heart I think this is wrong. It violates God's commands. It violates biblical principle. And if I was to do this, I'd be violating my conscience. Well, the Bible says, don't ever do that. We talk about godly concern. The idea is that I feel the weight of this. It's not so much that I'm afraid, it's not violating my conscience, but I'm I'm sobered by it. You know there's some people when they get married They are terrified to get married? It's true. You almost have to like talk them into it. You're like I mean you told me that you really wanted to love marry this person, you love this person, you got all these reasons why this is the right decision to make, and here you are, you're just like, uh, I feel like I can't can't do this. And you're like, what's your problem? They feel the weight of that decision. And you know, that's not a bad thing. Is that a bad thing for people to feel the weight of like a decision that is for the rest of their lives? But it's also not a good thing for them to be unwilling to make what is clearly the right decision just because they feel the weight of that decision. And lots of people can find themselves in that situation. So let me take this one at a time. The first one is this, irrational fear. The Bible has a lot to say about fear. Proverbs 29, verse 5. The fear of man bringeth a snare, but whoso putteth his trust in the Lord shall be safe. So sometimes when a person has a decision to make, it's the right decision to make. Biblical wisdom would point towards this decision. They've talked to other people who love the Lord and have good sense. They have given them good godly uh, we could say, advice, they are still afraid And they feel the weight in their heart about it. And the reason is because they're afraid of what somebody might say about it. Or they're afraid of what the consequences might be for that particular decision. That's a big one for people. But I don't know that that's the biggest one. I'll give you a second one. The fear of the unknown. Ecclesiastes 11, verse number 4. He that observeth the wind shall not sow, and he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap. As thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit, nor how the bones grow in the womb of her that is with child, even so thou knowest not the works of God who maketh all. In the morning, sow thy seed. In the evening, withhold not thine hand. Thou knowest not whether shall prosper either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good. Now, this is a really interesting statement. What he's saying is there are some people that because of the uncertainty of the future, they do not make decisions in the present that they need to. Now I'm not going to mention this person's name. I have a very close friend who, I remember this very well. We were at a stage in life where we're trying to decide about There was this particular young lady he was interested in. There was no question about it. Like she and she was a very sharp girl. I mean he had he had his whole list of reasons why this was the kind of person he'd want to marry. And he and he gave me all these things and and he said, I just don't know if I'm supposed to do this. I was like, Okay , why don't you think you should do this? Well, I I just don't know how it's gonna gonna play out. And I don't I don't want to be hurt if it doesn't work out. I don't want to hurt them if it doesn't work out. And and he was going all around all these different kinds of things. things and I mean I didn't really have the grace of wisdom at the time but I just remember saying hey there's this verse I just read in my devotions not long ago it might apply here and this was one and we read through it and I was like I mean it kind of seems to me like can you just go ahead and do it and see what happens. Sounds like real godly wisdom doesn't it But but here's here's the simple fact. The simple fact is he was afraid of the unknown. There was no principled reason for him not to make that decision. There was no violation of conscience. He was afraid of the unknown. And today he's happily married and has as many children as my wife and I have. And he's really glad he made that decision. Because he overcame the fear of the unknown. A lot of people they find themselves in such a place. If there's no violation of principle, if God seems to be moving in this direction, then get over the fear and take a step. It's okay. He's not going to let you fall on your face and hurt yourself. He cares about you The third, godly concern. Proverbs 22, three. A prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself, but the simple pass on and are punished. This is something that often happens in a in a counseling, decision-making kind of scenario. Someone puts a situation in front of you, and you hear the situation, and you say something kind of like this. That's a great decision. That's that that that's that's a great potential situation. But here's some things that could could could potentially happen I'm not saying they're going to happen. I'm not predicting they're going to happen. I'm not saying I want them to happen. But I can see the potential for these things to happen. Now I'm not telling you this because I don't want you to do it, and I'm not telling you this because I'm telling you not to do it, and I'm not telling you this because God doesn't want And sometimes it makes people a little bit afraid. And they're hesitant to make that decision. They feel the weight of that. And it's okay. You're never gonna make a decision that plays out perfectly, and there's no trouble. It just doesn't work that way in life. This is a fallen world. You're going to encounter difficulties. You're going to encounter frustrations. You're going to encounter challenges. You're going to have times where you misstep and God still works through it. But then this last one, a troubled conscience, is important as well. Romans 14, 20. He says, For me destroy not the work of God. All things indeed are pure, but it is evil for that man who eateth with offense. It is good neither to eat flesh, nor drink wine, nor anything whereby thy brother stumbleth, or is offended, or is made weak Hast thou faith? Have it to thyself. Happy is he that condemneth not himself and the thing which he alloweth. He that doubteth is damned if he eat, because he eateth not of faith. Whatsoever is not of faith is said. Now, I mean, this passage has a lot that has to be explained, but I'll just put it in the simplest way I can. It's an issue of conscience. You have people that are making a choice to live a certain way here and people that are choosing to live this way over here, and they're both valid in the eyes of Scripture because it's an area of legitimate freedom. It's about foods that they could or couldn't eat. Okay? Let's just say eating shrimp. So a Jewish person grew up not being able to eat shrimp. Now they can, because they're no longer under the Mosaic Levitical law But even though they can, it's freedom. They don't have to do it. You don't have to go and eat shrimp. You don't have to go and eat crabs. It's it's freedom to do it or to not do it. And so if it violates your conscience, just leave it alone. You don't have to do it And so the point is that sometimes the decisions that we struggle with are issues of conscience. And I will say I have seen many a person. That is moving in a direction and they do not feel settled about it. And it's not it's not a fear of man, and it's not a fear of the unknown, it's conscience And they decide to violate conscience and do it anyway. And you know what that does? Creates a lot of problems. Creates a lot of problems. And so it's very important that when we are coming up to make a decision, we can discern the difference between these different things. I need to do one more. Because I think it's important based on the last one. Six, seek the input of several godly people. Proverbs chapter eleven verse four says, Where no counsel is, the people fall. In the multitude of counselors there is safety Proverbs 15, 22, without counsel purposes are disappointed. In the multitude of counselors, they are established. Proverbs 24, 6, by wise counsel thou shalt make thy war, and the multitude of counselors there is safety. Now I think it's important for us to understand something. Not all counselors are godly. Not all counselors are wise. And not all counselors are going to help you to make the right decision. But choosing to walk away and just do it your own way and ignore the godly counsel around you is absolutely foolish. Let me give you a couple of reasons why godly counsel is so valuable. God can use a godly counselor to reinforce your unstated concerns. So let's say you have a decision to make. And in your heart, you have some concerns, and you cannot figure out. You don't state them to the person you're talking to. But you have them in your heart. And as you're having this conversation, this person hears what you have to say and they say, you know, I have a concern about boom, boom, boom, and boom. And they give you some reasons why. And in your heart you're like, yeah, I knew that. Guess what that did? Confirmed. Stop sign. God can use them to help you work through your fear. Sometimes you have a conversation with someone and and you're you're really struggling your heart and you're you're wrestling and and you don't know how to make sense of the emotions that you're feeling. And as this person works it, they might say something like, you know , my sense listening to you talk is that you're just afraid of the un known. And they and with grace and wisdom they kind of burrow down a little bit into that. And as they start asking you a couple more follow-up questions, it becomes really cool, that's exactly what it is. And they say, if you're just afraid of the unknown, trust God, take that decision. You're okay. Don't worry about it. God can use them to help you see things that you're not able to see because of inexperience or blind spots. There are lots of decisions that we go to make in life, and the truth is we really don't know everything that's involved. There are almost every decision you make. I mean, there are so many things that you don't know are involved. Somebody's going to start a business. Somebody's talking about getting married. Somebody's talking about what they're going to study in school. Where they're going to go to school. what kind of job they're going to pursue. I mean you could just you could just lay out all kinds of different things. Buying a house. Should I buy a house? The approach that I take in the buying of the house. Well guess what? When you go to make those decisions, you lack a lot of experience in life. And there are people who have walked through that and they learn things the hard way and the good way and all that kind of stuff. And they can give you a lot of guidance. They can say, hey, I think this sound, you're taking the right course, but I do want to give you a caution here and a caution here and a caution here, just so that you're ready for this if it were to happen. Maybe it never happens. But you're ready for it. Maybe it does happen and then you're ready for it. This is what premarriage counseling is all about. It's about helping people prepare for Well, what's probably going to happen a couple of months after they get married, or maybe a couple of days after they get married, or weeks, whatever the situation, they're going to encounter some situations. And so a pastor, pastor's wife, godly person in the church, they share with them some things that help them when they come to that place. They're not just like totally shocked. They're like, oh yeah, I understand this. God can use these people to embolden you in a course that you are apprehensively pursuing. I think it's probably better in life, generally speaking, that people are slow to move rather than too fast to move. Just generally speaking. But guess what? Too slow could be a problem too. There is a time element in life And sometimes if a person is very apprehensive, they need somebody to kind of coax them along a little bit, push them along, say, hey, you know, you really should step up. You need to make this decision. Yeah, it's pretty obvious you're you're very apprehensive. You really shouldn't be about this And that can be very helpful. God can use them to prepare for potential challenges that are a normal part of life. This is why God gives parents to kids. If you have good parents and they've really invested in your life, you know what it really does? It really helps you in life. I'm going to give you a couple of warnings about counselors that are maybe not so good, and then we'll stop there. Do not seek out people who will tell you what you want to hear. Now I'm not telling you to look for people who you know will tell you what you don't want to hear, okay? Unless you really should hear that. But you do not select a counselor based on what you think they're going to tell you. You select them based on their character, their track record, the kind of person that they are. Go to marriage counseling from someone who has a good marriage, not a bad one. Get financial planning from someone who knows how to manage money, not someone who can't pay their bills. Why is that? Well, because There's a track record that establishes itself and should really determine the kind of person you go to. Do not seek out people who are less experienced than you. I remember when I was taking Hebrew and uh Hebrew was it was really uh it was really crushing me. I just remember sitting there in the class and I was like actually really crushing me. I think I was getting like a C in the class And I wanted to get my grade up. And I remember going to my teacher and talking to him and I was like, yeah, this guy's gonna help me uh study. And he looked at me and he said, I wouldn't go to him. He's getting a better grade than he is. I was like, really? He's like, Yeah. I was like, well that's not the way he projected it on me. I like, you know, got the impression you really knew what was going on. And he said, Now let me give you a couple other people you should consider reaching out to. Now, why do I bring this up? I think people love to talk to their friends about stuff, but not necessarily people that are older than them, more experienced than them. And so we really need to be cautious that we don't seek out people who really are our peers and less experienced than we are to get the sounding board to just do what we want. There's some pretty interesting biblical examples. I think of the story of Rehoboam. And the older men said, handle it this way. And all of his peers said, handle it this way. And he's like, I'm going with that. And guess what? Split the kingdom. Says he didn't listen to the older men. Is there something magical about being older? Well, not necessarily, but there's something called experience. Makes a difference. Be cautious about people who have a potential conflict of interest. This is something that we have to be very careful about. I'm going to say a word to parents here. Parents, I think it's great that your kids want your input. And there's a lot of kids that don't want their parents' input and they should. But I have observed that there are some parents that are not unbiased in how they present things to their children. It's just the truth. We have to be very cautious. There's a reason that if a judge has a conflict of interest, he's to remove himself from a case. It's because he will not judge rightly potentially. He may be too hard, he may be too soft, he may be inclined to go in a certain direction. And the fact is that when people give advice, they're the same way. And so I really want to encourage you, parents, be very cautious in how you advise your children. Make sure that what you're giving them is Bible, not just projecting into them the things that you wish you would have done differently. Okay, or what you'd like to envision them doing. Sometimes kids do what their parents guided them to do Sometimes they don't, and sometimes they're not doing it isn't a biblical issue, it's just a personality issue. Do not seek people like those who are warned about in Psalm 1. In Psalm 1 he says, don't sit in the counsel of the ungodly, don't stand in the way of sinners, don't sit in the city of the scornful. Three kinds of people he talks about. Sinners, scorners. Why does he talk about these kinds of people? Because these are people that have a biased kind of advice. A scorner is someone who is very proud and doesn't listen to anybody The person who just wants to give advice to everybody might be a person you should be cautious about. Why is that? Because they seem like they've got it all figured out in their mind, but they may not. Sometimes people who are good advisors are actually a little apprehensive to do it. They may not be real dogmatic about certain things because they recognize that there is some flexibility in that particular That is a preferential issue. And there'll be other things they are absolutely inflexible about because the scripture is so clear on it. Be very, very cautious about people who you go to for advice. So I'm going to stop there. These are some of the things that will help us to have godly wisdom. We need to ask the Lord to help us to apply what we've talked about. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, thank you for your word. Thank you for the principles and the truths we've talked about tonight. My desire is simply to help people. That your word would be what shapes what they love, what motivates them and drives them, how they think about life. Father, help us not to be naive and simple, but help us to be wise and prudent. Father, help us to seek out those who can give us good, solid biblical guidance. Help us to be cautious about those who are impulsive and are pushing agendas. Father, help us to be a people who walk carefully in a way that honors you. I pray for those who may be timid and fearful and they have a hard time moving forward because of the fear of the unknown. Or the fear of man. Father, give them boldness and help them to have that boldness strengthened as they talk to godly people who can encourage them in these areas. And I pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.