I'd like to welcome you to our midweek study, Bible time, and then prayer, and we are going to have an opening hymn 252, but before we do, let's go ahead and bow together for prayer. And then we will uh sing this song together, first and the last verses. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we're so very grateful that in the middle of the week we can pause, we can gather, we can get into the Word of God. And Father, I pray that as we look at this passage of Scripture, the things that we dig into would be something that really resonates in our hearts. Father, help us to understand how we acquire your wisdom. Help us to understand that we must seek it and understand exactly how we are to seek that. And then I pray that as we have time together in prayer and as we meet for Freedom That Last class as well, I pray that you would bless all of those things. Be with the children in the back as they have their classes. And be with those who are teaching them and guiding that time. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, 252 is where we are tonight for our opening songs. Let's turn there. We'll sing the first and the last. And Drinian is doing this for us. So go ahead and give us your intro. And wash away my. Nothing but the blood of Jesus What can it be for dead? Nothing but the blood of Jesus That cause it's that long that greatly might as well dust be much of one as be Because since all my forever needs, nothing but the Lord has been dust, since there's no by the first. And thank you, Drinian. I appreciate that. All right. Well, let's go ahead and turn our Bibles again to Matthew chapter 7 this evening, and we are looking at A passage of scripture that we've dealt with already a couple of times. And tonight what I'd like to do is I'd like to take the concept that we kind of closed out with last week. And I'd like us to dig into it a little bit more deeply. My desire is that this would be extremely practical and extremely helpful to you. And I think especially for our young people, but uh all of us, we desperately need to understand. How we acquire godly wisdom. So let's go ahead. We'll read the entire section together, verses 1 through 8, just so that we can get a good sense of the context. But then we're going to focus our attention on what's stated in verses 7 and 8. Here's what our Lord says, judge not. that ye be not judged. For with what judgment ye judge, it shall be judged, and with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. Why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye? But considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, let me pull out the moat out of thine eye, and behold, a beam is in thine own eye Thou hypocrite, first, cast out the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye. Give not that which is holy unto the dogs. Neither cast ye your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet and turn again and rend you. Ask, and it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened. Now the focus of our study this evening, and I I have a guess that it's probably going to go a little bit beyond just tonight, because I want to really dig into some practical things in relation to this issue of getting wisdom and what Jesus says in these verses. But the focus of our attention is going to be verses 7 and 8. Let me read it one more time just so that you can focus in on it. It says, ask And it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For Everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened Now, to kind of take you back a couple of weeks to remember what we talked about in this passage of Scripture, we saw that the reason that Jesus says these things is not to say that we should never make judgments as Christians. In fact, we see that because he starts out this way in verse 1. He says, judge not that ye be not judged. And then later on in verse 5, he says First, that word is important, cast out the beam that is in thine own eye, and then thou shalt see clearly to cast out the moat out of thy brother's eye. So what's really obvious to us about what Jesus is saying is that his per his point is, you isn't just, you know, let people do what they want, you never go and approach an issue. His point is before you address an issue, you have to make sure that you look at yourself first and make sure that you're addressing issues that may be going on inside your own life first. so that you have the ability to see clearly to help out another person. So Christ's intention is not that we just walk away and never address issues. His intention is that we address them the right way. That's really what he's focusing in on. Well then as we get down to verses 7 and 8, he's really focusing in on the need for us to have godly wisdom. And obviously the context is godly wisdom when we have to confront someone in an area of difference. Or maybe someone is going down a path. They need to be turned from that path. And so we have a duty. We have a responsibility to go and to speak with them. In that passage of Scripture is this need for wisdom. And so I'll summarize this little section we're going to look at tonight this way. God wants his children to walk in godly wisdom. Such a simple statement, right? If you're here tonight, God's will is for you to walk in wisdom. No exceptions. Everybody here tonight, that is God's will for you. If you're on the live stream and you're listening to this uh message tonight, or maybe you're gonna listen to it, I don't know, a week from now. Ten years from now, I have no idea unless Facebook takes it down, right? God's will is for you to have godly wisdom. No exceptions. And so over the last several weeks, we've talked about this concept of discernment. Discernment is the ability to determine what is right And what is wrong? And once we understand what is right and wrong, what is the best way, the most honoring to God way, with him being the standard, how do we address an issue? Or what decision are we to make in a very complicated situation? That is what discernment is all about. It's knowing right and wrong and then taking the action that God would have us to take. God calls us to be a discerning people. Again, no exceptions. He wants all of us to be discerning. His will is not for us to live our lives where everybody just tells us this is what you're supposed to do And our brain just kind of checks out and we never have to think things through. That is not the way God wants us to live our lives. He wants us to be able to pick up our Bibles. Read our Bibles, understand what it's saying, and then take the Word of God and practically apply it day in and day out in our lives. That's what the pattern for the Christian is supposed to be. He wants us to be able to look at difficult situations and approach them from a godly perspective and then do the right thing. Or advise people to do the right thing. So the question we should all ask ourselves tonight is, well, how do we do that practically? How do we practically walk in wisdom if this is what God wants us to do? And so the three words that I want to draw your attention to tonight are the words ask, seek, and knock. So I want you to say this with me. All right. It should be really easy. It's only three words. The first word is what? Ask, the second word is what? Seek, and the third word is what? Okay? Ask, seek, knock. We're gonna think about those three words and how they relate to this issue of godly wisdom. And then we're going to consider these three words alongside Psalm 37, Proverbs 2, and James 1. And you might say, well. Why did you pick Psalm 37, Proverbs 2, and James 1? Well there's a reason for that. Because what Jesus is saying uh in the Sermon on the Mount, in many ways, is it the exact same thing that we read in Psalm 37, Proverbs 2, and then what James writes in James chapter 1 about wisdom is really expanding what Jesus says in the Sermon on the Mount. And we find this a lot in the book of James. James is full of examples of taking the Proverbs and expounding them in the New Testament context or taking the Sermon on the Mount and expounding it in the New Testament context. And so it would be very helpful for us to see these concepts in these three passages of Scripture. So that's where we're going tonight. First truth I want you to notice from the Word. Is that walking in wisdom starts with asking God for it? Say it again. Walking in wisdom starts with asking God for it. If you do not begin with this understanding that you need wisdom and that God is the one who gives wisdom, And you need to go to him and you need to seek his face and say, God, give me your wisdom. If we don't start there, there's absolutely no way that we are going to walk in wisdom. In fact, when we read the book of Proverbs and Solomon is speaking to his sons, he says that the fear of the Lord is the beginning. Wisdom and the knowledge of the holy is understanding. If you want to have wisdom, it starts with knowing God. It starts with having a fear and a reverence for who He is. And so we've got to see this in the text. Notice what he says in verse 7. He says, ask, ask. The next statement is, and it will be given you. Ask it shall be given you. Now, turn with me in your Bibles to Proverbs chapter 2 so that you can see where this passage of Scripture Proverbs chapter 2 is linked so closely to what Jesus says in Matthew chapter 7. Let me read to you what it says. I hope you'll see it there in your Bibles. He says, my son, if thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandments with thee, So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom. By the way, that word incline has the idea of like lowering your ear to listen. So it's something you're giving great attention to it. Incline thine ear to wisdom, apply thine heart to understanding. Yea, if thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice for understanding Then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God, for the Lord giveth wisdom. Out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. The next passage I want to read to you is from James chapter 1, verse 5. I think you'll be able to see it up there on the screen. He says, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally. And that word liberal is not the way we think of it in a political sense, okay? It has the idea of he's generous. He gives it in great abundance If you lack wisdom, let him ask of God who giveth to all men liberally and abradeth not. The idea is he's not going to look at you in a condescending way. He is compassionate toward us. And it shall be given him. Now do you see some of the similarities between Proverbs 2, James 1, and Matthew 7? Ask, and it will be given you. So let me give you a couple of observations on this point. The first one is this: it's a command, and I know I've already stated that, but it's important for us to recognize that if we live life without considering God. The way that we would define this is we would say it is a life that is ungodly, okay? That means that we're living life as if God doesn't exist. As if his wisdom doesn't matter. If we live life that way, we are choosing to walk in disobedience to God's command. Observation two. This also starts with the assumption that we need wisdom from outside of ourselves. In fact, when we read the book of Proverbs, A lot of times when Solomon's talking to his s his children, he uses the word simple. He says it a lot. He talks about the simple man who is void of understanding, the young man. The idea is this is someone who's very inexperienced. They don't understand life yet because they're immature. Well the fact is if God doesn't give us wisdom, we're in trouble. We need it desperately. Third observation, this assumes that we understand that God's the source of this wisdom You see that? It's a command. We understand that we don't have it, and we understand that he is the one who gives it to us. The fourth observation is that it comes with a very comforting promise. So in verse in Matthew 7-7 it says, it shall be given you. In Proverbs chapter 2, he says, Then thou shalt understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. James chapter 1. It says that God giveth to all men liberally and abrateth not, and it shall be given him. So what does this tell us? If we do what God says, we should be comforted in the fact that He's going to give us what we need. So this really comes down to an issue of trusting God. Second truth I want you to notice, and this is where we're really going to spend some time tonight. Is that those who ask God for wisdom must willingly do their part to diligently seek it in the right places and in the right way. Let me say that again. Those who ask God for wisdom must willingly do their part to diligently seek it in the right places in the right way. Now, I don't know if uh any of you can identify with this, but when I was a kid growing up in school, I was um sometimes, you know, cut the corners when it came to doing my homework. Anybody like that in this room? Hopefully you're not doing that right now. This is great. So oh oh oh we had one down here. Sorry, mom drew attention to this, all right? So I was one of those kids that, you know, when I was reading the homework assignments, I mean I would read it, but I would like Really read it fast. And you know, if I was doing sometimes my work, I didn't do it quite as well as I should have. And sometimes we'd have these pop quizzes. And in these pop quizzes, they would You know, ask you all these questions from your reading, and if you just kind of skimmed over it and you didn't do a very good job, guess what? You're gonna get found out. And I think I can remember doing this so many times. I would be sitting there in my chair and I'd say, Lord, I know I didn't read this as carefully as I should have today, but please help me to remember the things that I would not naturally be able to remember. Anybody ever do a thing like that? Okay. I hate to say it, but I didn't just do it one time. I probably did that a lot of times And uh God in his mercy did not answer my prayer because the information wasn't there in my head. The truth is if if if you if you did the work And you study diligently and you say, God help me to remember the things that I've studied, that's a pretty appropriate thing to ask the Lord for. But if you're not going to put in the time and the effort, don't you think that's a bit presumptuous? Be like somebody who lays in their bed and they put their book on their face and they're like, I'll remember this in the morning. Actually you won't. You won't remember any of it because you didn't read it, you didn't think about it, you didn't study it. But here's the irony. The irony is that people understand that if you don't hit the gym and lift the weights, you're not going to get stronger. If you don't practice, you don't get better at some task like playing the piano or or learning how to do some kind of skill. If you don't study, you don't do well on your tests. But if we just ask God for wisdom, he just like magically pops it into our head. It's not how it works. God gave us the Bible for a reason. If all we needed was to pray, we wouldn't need the word. God gave us the word because this is what he uses to put into our heads. and into our heart the truths that we need to live the Christian life. If you just pray for people to get saved and you never give them the gospel, guess how many people get saved? Zero through your witness. Why? Because it takes the word to bring them to understanding so that they believe. Without them hearing the preached word, they're not going to have faith. It's impossible And so this issue of wisdom is something that we're to ask God for, but as we ask God, we should have in the back of our minds We have a duty to take the tools that he uses, that's his word, so that we can understand his wisdom We have the mind of the Lord right here. He gave it to us. Everything that we need. We have to read the book. We have to seek it. And so this is something that we see in verse 7. He says, seek and ye shall find. Now that word seek doesn't just mean ask and that's the end of it. It means ask and start getting in the word. That's what he's saying. And I want you to see how this is stated in some of the other passages. Go back to Proverbs chapter 2, and I want you to notice the way that he puts it. In fact, when I was reading through Proverbs 2, I actually skipped over a section, not because I don't want it to be there, but I want to come back to it. That's what I did. So verses four and five. Proverbs chapter two, verses four and five says this. Thou seekest her as silver, and searchest for her as for hidden treasure, then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. Did you notice that? If then What does that tell you? We have a responsibility. If you don't do what he says, then you should assume you're not going to get what you need. If you seek her as silver and search for her as hidden treasure, then thou shalt understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. Verse number 7, it says this, he layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. That kind of qualifies the statement. He's talking about people who know God, who've embraced his gospel, and are trying to live for him. That's what he's talking about when he says the righteous. James 1, 6 and 7, this really states it very, very clearly. He says, but let him ask in faith nothing wavering. He that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. Let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. A double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. Now that last little passage, James chapter 1, it's a really important one. Because what it tells us is that as we seek, we have to stay in the course that is laid before us. He he he talks about someone being um like like a wave driven with the wind. So it's driven this way and then it's driven this way and it's driven this way. Anybody ever met a person who What they tell you is based on what they think you want to hear what they want what they think you want to hear anybody like that, you know? And and you know you start realizing you're like, I can't trust what this person's saying. They'll never tell me what they think They're trying to tell me what they think I want to hear. This is like what politicians do, you know, check the wind and Alright, okay, it's blowing this way, so I'm gonna I'm gonna put my positions over here, and then well, you know, now it's going over this, so I'm gonna put my positions over here. And so what you can do is you can lay side by side, now that we have the technology to do this on the internet, you could have, well here is their position in twenty nineteen, and here's their position in twenty twenty, and here's their position in twenty twenty four, and here's their position and you know what you start you're like, they're not the same. Why who is that person? Nobody knows. Why don't they know? Because that person has no principles. They have no principles that hold them down the line. So if somebody's pushing them over here, guess what? They're still right here. If somebody's pushing them over here, guess what? They're still right here. They're not they're not over here. They're not over here. They're not getting pushed one one direction or the other. They're staying the course. Why is that? Because there is a standard that holds them in that place. And so what he's talking about here is he's saying, as you ask God for wisdom, don't deviate from that course as you seek the Lord's wisdom. And here's what happens sometimes. As we are moving down a path, sometimes we start feeling the pressure over here. You know we start doing we start giving in to that pressure. And we started going, you know, maybe God's path isn't exactly the path that I want. Maybe this is the way I should. And so we make some slight adjustments. And he says, don't do that. You are a double-minded man. That's what he's saying. Literally, the idea is that you have two souls. You have there's a part of you that wants to go this direction God and his wisdom, and there's one that wants to go this way. This is culture. This is the world system. This is the prevailing thoughts and ideas of the time that we're living in. He says you'll be unstable. You'll be driven back and forth. You'll have you'll have no consistency. No one will know what you believe. You're gonna go bounce this way and that way. He says, don't, don't, don't. do that. So what keeps a person from doing that? Simple word, conviction. The word conviction. In other words, I am convinced that God's wisdom is right, and that's the direction I need to go. And so this is a part of that concept of seeking God's wisdom. But I really want to break this down quite a bit tonight, okay? And as I said, I don't think I'll finish this tonight. First observation I have under this fact. Seeking implies there's a process that involves both time and effort. Catch that? Sneaking implies that there's a process that involves both time and effort. So if you're a 14-year-old, or you're an 18-year-old, or you're a 24-year-old, or you're a 55-year Or you're eighty years old, guess what? We go higher now. I know we have some beyond that, all right? No matter where you are in the process, you're still growing. You're still maturing You're still developing wisdom. It's an amazing thing. Whether you're a 12-year-old, a 14-year-old, or an 80-year-old, you're still on this path of growth into Christ-likeness. and growth in depth of wisdom and understanding and knowledge of God and how to live the Christian life. This is a process that doesn't start you doesn't stop. It's not like you get to the point where you say, I've been discipled and now I'm I'm good to go. We're disciples of Christ to continue to grow into Christ's likeness. This is a lifelong process of growth and maturity. And we see this in Proverbs 2. He says, seek her as silver. Search her as hidden treasure. Ask in faith, nothing wavering. What do those things tell us? There's something where you just you gotta keep doing it and keep doing it and keep doing it. And really, if you were to think about it this way You could almost look at your life as decades that you live through, and you have to continue, year after year, decade after decade, 20 years, 20 years, 20 years, whatever, you have to continue to walk down that path. And seek the Lord for his wisdom if you want that. And so I want to challenge you, this isn't just for our teens. Everybody in the room finds themselves in this position. Seeking implies a process that involves time and effort. Observation two, we need to consider other scriptures alongside If we want to understand what he means by this. Now, Jesus doesn't really break this down. He doesn't say, well, here's what I mean by seek. And he gives all these sub-points. And here's what I mean by you know ask, seek, knock, and he gives like you know fifty subpoints. He doesn't do that. Now, what what we should understand is that when Christ was teaching, I don't think he was teaching in a monologue. didn't teach probably a lot of the way that I would, where we get up and we preach a sermon. He would have made statements and then people would have asked him questions or most certainly he would have given instruction and then as he's walking away people start coming to him and they say, Hey, what did you mean by that? Hey, you gave that parable. Can you explain to me what that person was illustrating in the parable? What were you really saying? And he'd ask them a question, and then they'd ask him a follow-up question, and they would be back and forth. So there would have been some, we could say, further explanation. But there's also a sense in which Jesus, what he is teaching, has already been laid out in the scriptures. And so in some ways it's not like he needed to explain all this because it's there in the word already. And so I want to fill in some of those things for you. So let's talk about, first of all, a couple of misunderstandings about this issue of wisdom. Because I think before we get into the meat and the substance of what we find in the Word, it's important for us to recognize sometimes we come to these questions and these issues with preconceived ideas You say, well, why is that? Well, because we live at a time in history. We come from a family background, you know, lots and lots of things affect how we look at these issues. And so let me give you a couple of thoughts about this. First of all, a strictly worldly approach. And you know, when I mention some of these things, you might go, you know, I actually sometimes do that myself. Well then you have a strictly worldly approach to making decisions. When I mention some of these things, you go, I I I hear about that in our culture all the time. So let me give you some. First of all, follow your heart. You ever heard that? Follow your heart. Anybody ever thought something really bad in their heart? Like if you'd have done it, you'd be in jail right now? You don't have to raise your hand. But good thing you didn't follow your heart, isn't it? You wouldn't be married anymore, you wouldn't have any kids anymore, you'd be in jail. A lot of bad things would happen. Follow your heart. You want to talk about really bad advice? You want to talk about setting people up for a life of great misery? Follow your heart, and you'll do some really horrific things. Following your heart is what the world tells you to do. In fact, we live in a culture where people almost they they say, if you if you if you can think it, then do it. If you feel it, do it. And then celebrate it. Folks, that is a horrific way to live your life. I hope that you don't do that. Second, do what works. Now here's what this means. It's not about whether or not it's right or wrong. It's about whether or not in the end I get what I want. How many people live this way? You could even say something to them like, you know, uh you really hurt a lot of people in the process of getting where you are right now, and they say, well, but I'm good now So the means doesn't matter at all, I guess. Actually, it really does. Doing what works, just because it works. Doesn't consider that there are certain standards by which the universe is governed. And God is a holy and righteous God and holders accountable for the things that we've done. Third, do what makes you feel good. And that's kind of a little bit like follow your heart, but uh pretty similar I mean, if I'd have followed my heart when I was a 14-year-old, I definitely wouldn't be a pastor right now, and I don't think I would have finished school, and I most certainly would have made some really horrific decisions, and so would have you. Act as if you are the master of your own fate. Life is all about your choices and nothing else. Matters. You ever heard heard anyone say something to the effect of you can do anything you want to do? You can be anything you want to be? You ever heard those things? Yeah, it's not true. It's just not true, okay? It's totally not true. And if everybody around you pretends like it's true, doesn't change the fact that it's not true Or act as if the opportunities around you are just a result of luck. I've heard this many times from people. They'll say things like, yeah, I just was really lucky. uh you know really fortunate um and and it it sounds really good but you know what it's really saying it's saying Life is like rolling the dice. Like there's no order to it. There's no design behind it. There's not a God in heaven who actually works in the affairs of people, who cares about our life. These are very common ways that people make decisions. And I will tell you that if you seek wisdom from others, counsel, you're going to have people that you could go to. They're going to tell you all these things. And if your heart is set on one of these things, you can find people that tell you that. The second I'd like to mention is this, a well-meaning but naive Christian approach. Now this is everybody's probably okay with what I just said before, but this one might step on a couple of toes. And my intention tonight is not to step on your toes, but it's to really make you think about some things that I know are very common in Christian circles The first one is this. Pray, and God will give you some mystical peace about your decision. Now, first of all, I would challenge you, find a text of scripture that actually teaches that. I know of none. Go to the book of Proverbs and ask yourself how many times Solomon told his children, when you have a decision to make, just ask God to give you peace in your heart, and then you'll know what to do. Find one. I mean, that is a book that the whole reason it's given is to tell us how to walk in wisdom. Ask yourself how many times the Apostle Paul made decisions in such a way. Yet if I was to take myself back to the 18, 19, 20-year-old version of myself, you know, as a college student, this was the way most people that I interacted with made decisions. You know, should I date this girl or not? Well, I'm just going to pray, and if God gives me peace about it, then I'll know I'm supposed to do it. And then they do it, and then they break up with her six months later. Well what happened to the peace of the Spirit of God? You must have misread it or something, you know? Or you know, you got a decision, it's pretty obvious what you're supposed to do, and you just you gotta pray and ask God to give you peace, and he just didn't do it, and you're like Well the scripture is kind of clear on this issue. I don't understand why you're having trouble with this. Folks, that is a very naive way to make decisions. And it's not always gonna turn out the wrong way, but many times it will. And I I tell you, as a pastor, I've seen a lot of examples of people who this is how they made decisions in life, and there's painful decision after painful decision after painful decision. because the peace they had in their heart was contrary to the wisdom of Scripture. Pray and look for proof text to guide your decisions. Anybody ever done that one? Don't raise your hand, okay? But I uh I I can tell you I Definitely you've done this before. Okay, I have this decision to make. And so as I'm reading through my Bible, I am looking for a verse that gives me the insight I'm supposed to find. And when I find the verse and I write it down, I say, this is why I'm going to do it. If I go back a uh six months later, a year later, and I examine that passage, I would find something. It didn't have anything to do with the decision I made. I completely read into that scripture what I wanted. Very, very common. Proof texting. When we interpret a passage of scripture, we need to look at the words. in the context and understand that an appropriate application starts with words and context. And there are certain applications that would be completely inappropriate because the language does not allow for such an interpretation. Third, ask a lot of people and follow their advice. Now, anybody ever asked five different people what you should do in a situation? You got five different answers? Anybody ever had that happen before? I have. When you get the same answer, sometimes it's because you picked people that have the same view. Which just happens to be the one that you want to hear from people. You know what I'm talking about? I know that the Bible says the multitude of counselors are safety, but I want to address that a little bit more deeply. Just the fact that you ask somebody's input doesn't mean that you should follow their input. Another example is putting out fleeces so we can kind of get these confirmations of what God wants us to do. You know the story of Gideon? You know what really amazes me about that passage of scripture? What amazes me about the scripture is that God told Gideon what to do. And he told him what was going to happen when he did it. But you know what he never told him to do? Put out a fleece. And when Gideon put out the fleece, God condescended to Gideon. He really did. And sometimes God condescends to us in these situations, and we should be thankful that he does that. But the reason that Gideon put out fleeces is not because God's word was unclear. It's because he didn't trust God. That's really what it came down to. And so if we're going to try to like read the room and figure out how things are going to play out, and that's the way we make decisions, you're going to find out in life that there's a lot of things that you think are going to happen, they never happen. And the things that you never thought would happen, they do happen. And if you're trying to make decision on figuring out the future, you can be really frustrated in life. Okay, so what is a biblical approach to making decisions? I hope that I've whet your appetite a little bit for this. So I have quite a few of them, and I'm going to move through them one by one, and uh looking at my time, I think I might only get through uh the first couple. The first is this Ask God to help you understand the implications of His word. Now why would I have said that first? Well, because that's what's in the text. Ask, and it shall be given you. If you want to understand the Word of God, you need to seek the Lord as you read the Scriptures. There is tremendous value in reading the Scriptures in a prayerful manner. And we ask God for him to help us understand the scripture, understand that it's not so much about him guiding us magically to the correct interpretation, as much as once we understand what the scripture is saying. We begin to feel the weight of those truths in a very personal and a very practical manner. And so when we talk about the doctrine, of someone reading the scriptures and then we would say the lighty lights coming on where the the the Holy Spirit opens our understanding to help us to understand a truth of scripture. Illumination is the word that we often will use. This is actually what we're talking about. For instance, in Psalm 119, verse 18, he says, Open thou mine eyes to behold wondrous things out of thy law. What does the psalmist say? I can read the Bible. I can understand it in an academic sense. Or I can understand it where it hits me in the heart in a very impactful way, and I am motivated to actually do what it says. Or I'm actually moved in my heart so that I am moved to worship God as I should. That's what he's saying. Not you're gonna do all the work so I can figure out what it's saying. No, I'm gonna do the work to understand what it's saying, but you're gonna make it drive home in my heart. It's almost like I give you the example of giving the gospel to somebody. You give someone the gospel and you may ask them, tell me what I just said, and they compare it right back to you. Like with no emotion, no sense of conviction in their heart, no gratitude in their heart. And you could say, so tell me what God did for you. Well, the Bible says I'm a sinner. The Bible says I'm separated from God, and the Bible says that Jesus died for my sins and rose from the dead. Great. What do you want to do about that? Nothing. That's interesting information. Do you understand that? Sure, I understand that. I mean I can tell you what he did. Do you understand that in a personal and practical way? Well what do you mean by that? Like Do you feel guilty over your sin? No. Do you have any kind of gratitude to him for what he did? No What's the difference between that and a person getting saved? A person's hearing the same truths, and as those truths begin to connect with their head, their heart begins to feel the weight of sin. And you can see it in their eyes. They're like, oh, I'm in trouble. And as you think about the weight of their sin And you start telling them who Christ is and what he did for them, you can see just this like, really? There's this relief. There's this comfort. There's this joy. You say, well, what is that? That's what we're talking about. It's illumination. It's the word of God starting to actually take like personal implication in this person's life. Now, those texts, they they they personally apply to the person, but he doesn't feel the weight of it. And so this first part is, God, help me to understand the weight, the significance, the implications of your word. James 1, 6, let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. What's that telling you? That when you come to God, you have this conviction, this is true. I want it. I want to understand this. I want to know what I'm supposed to do. I would encourage you every time you open up your Bible to read it, before you read the Bible, not as a, okay, I'm going to say this because this is the thing I do every single morning, but God open my eyes. They behold wondrous things out of your law. Help me to understand the weight of these truths. Help my soul to be moved by your word. That's what we should pray every time we open our Bibles. Secondly, we need to regularly study Scripture so God's word is shaping our thinking. Refining our interests and motivating our passions. Did you catch that? We need to regularly study the scripture so that God's word is shaping our thinking refining our interests and motivating our passions. And and I think if you're if you're a believer and you're in the word and you've sat under decent teaching, you understand what this what I mean by this. You're sitting there in a sermon, and as you're listening to this sermon, or as you're reading your Bible, and you're taking notes in a journal Or you're listening to a sermon on a podcast, or whatever it is. You're listening to this, and all of a sudden there's certain things you go, you know, the way that I've looked at that's wrong. I've not understood this correctly and there's this shift in thinking. It's a shift in thinking. My view of God has grown In majesty and appreciation. I recognize his holiness differently than I did. I recognize his power, his might, his goodness, his mercy, whatever it is. And so my thinking is being shaped by that. That's your worldview. Refining interest means that the things that you want to do start changing. In fact, it's interesting in Psalm 37, when he talks about delighting in the Lord, he says he'll give you the desires of your heart. You say, well what does it mean Give you the desires of your heart. Like he, you know, if I want something, then I need to figure out how to like God enough so that I get what I want. Is that what he's saying? No, no, no, no, no. The idea is that when you delight in the Lord, there's things that are going to be byproducts of that delight. There's things that you're going to want. You say, like what kinds of things? Well, you're going to want to honor the Lord. You're going to want to live for Him. There's certain things you're just you're not going to be interested in them the way that you used to be interested in them. Certain things that the way that they used to draw your attention, they don't draw your attention the same way anymore. You say, well, why is that? Because as you delight in the Lord, He changes. your interests. And then there's a sense of motivating passion. What I mean by that Is that when you when you are sitting there and and we we've probably all experienced this. You know, you come to a service on a Sunday morning and it's like been a long weekend and you're just like, whoa I know I'm supposed to be here, but mentally I'm really shot, and I don't think I can really, you know, sit through all this today. And you feel kind of dull and complacent, and that's just really how you feel. But then people start singing around you and you start thinking about the words of the hymns that we're singing and you go, that's true. And all of a sudden your your soul is being uplifted. I mean I don't mean physically, I mean, but you are being lifted up in your spirit. And then the word of God's laid in front of you, and all of a sudden you start having this passion in your heart that wasn't there before. And when that when we call for the last hymn, and here's our closing hymn, you sing it different than the first hymn. Because the first one you're like, I don't want to be here, I'm tired, I mean I don't want to tell anybody I don't want to be here, but that's how I feel. And then you're like, oh, these truths are so amazing. What is that? The regular study of Scripture shapes our thinking, refines our interests, motivates our passions. Psalm 119-105: Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and the light unto my path. Psalm 119, 130, the entrance of thy word giveth light. It giveth understanding to the symbol. Now I'm going to stop there tonight because I got five more. Six more actually. And uh don't want to miss them all. But but I think these are some good things for us to think about. If we want God's wisdom, we've got to ask him. But if we want his wisdom, we don't just ask, and that's the end of it. We have to seek. And if we're going to seek, we have to know what we're seeking. We're seeking in the Word of God. And if we're seeking in the Word of God, what's he going to do? He's going to shape how we think. He's going to refine what we're interested in. And he's going to change our passions. And this is how we begin to get wisdom from God. And so may the Lord help us to do this. May the Lord help us to put ourselves in the place so that he works in our hearts in such a way. Let's bow for prayer and ask him to help us to do that, alright? Our Father, as we think about the truths that we have looked at from the Word, I pray that you will take them and really impress them very thoroughly in our hearts. Father, I pray that even what we've talked about tonight was done in the hearts of people as they sat here. That people were uplifted in spirit, that their thinking was shaped a little bit, their interests have been moved. Father, I pray that your Spirit will work in our hearts. And as we continue working our way through these truths that help us to develop godly wisdom, I pray that we would take to heart the things that we're hearing. And really take action upon them. We ask all this in Christ's name, Amen