And turn to Luke chapter 18 and this text is a very short text and uh it's a very simple text and it's one that I hope that you will, after the end of this service, understand the significance of this text and how it is related to the one that comes before it and the one that's going to come after it. Let's look at our Bibles and read together Luke 18, verse 15, and it says this. And they brought unto him also infants. That he would touch them. But when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them unto him and said, Suffer little children to come unto me. Forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of God. Verily I say unto you, whoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child Shall in no wise enter therein. Let's bow together for a moment of prayer. Our Father, I thank you for the word. As we look at this text, I pray that you would open our understanding. If someone here has never placed their faith in the finished work of Christ, as a humbled sinner, recognizing that they have no basis to come into your presence. But the work and righteousness of Christ, I pray that today would be the day that they get it. That this would be the day where the Spirit of God drives the truth home in their hearts. And they feel the weight of sin, the emptiness of false religion, and the simplicity of of childlike faith alone in the death, resurrection, and righteousness of Christ. the I pray that today the Word of God would be very clear to us and would come and would come with great power, and we ask it in Christ's name Amen. The text in front of us is an interesting passage. In fact, it's important for us sometimes when we're reading the Bible to not just take a verse and then ignore everything else around it. or to take a thought and ignore everything around it, but to actually take that thought and to take that verse and to look at it where it where it finds itself in the text that's in front of us. What's interesting about the book of Luke is that Luke was written as an orderly account of the life and ministry of Christ. And so as Luke sits down and he writes these verses and writes these chapters, he is obviously writing as one who is being guided by the Holy Spirit. So the very words that Luke is writing down are the words that the Holy Spirit of God. is moving him to right. But on the on the other side, when we come to the human side of it, Luke has sat down with eyewitnesses And he has gotten all of this information, all of this data, as one who is writing like a historian, and he sits down and methodically writes out this record of the ministry and life of Christ. And he's doing that to convince this man, Theophilus, that in fact the faith in the Lord Jesus Christ is valid. It is rooted in history. It was to convince him that in fact this faith in Christ is one that is logical. It's one that we are called to embrace. And so he's laying it out sequentially. Well, when we come to this passage of Scripture, it's really important to consider what we talked about last week and interestingly what we're going to talk about, Lord willing, next week. When we look back at Luke chapter 18, verses 9 through 14, we have this parable that is told to people who the scripture says trusted in themselves that they were righteous. And interestingly, when we come to verse 18, this is what we'll deal with Lord willing next week, it says, a certain ruler asked him, saying Good master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There is none good but one that is God Now interestingly, what we're going to read this morning is saying what's right between those two things. So here are these people That when they're listening to Christ's teaching, this is the way that they think. They say, you know, if I look good, if I be good, if I do good, I can prove to God that He should accept me. And so what does Jesus do? He says, hey, I'm going to teach these people, people who have a misguided trust, people who have a misguided view of righteousness. People who are so proud and so arrogant because they really believe that God should accept them, I'm gonna kind of just, I'm gonna knock them down at the knees. I'm going to say there were two men that went up into the temple to pray. And one guy said, look at me. I don't do that. I do this. Another guy says, God be merciful to me a sinner. You know what that is? That's repentance. That is a person coming face to face with the fact That I am unrighteous. I am undone. I am a sinner. And apart from the mercy and the grace of God, I have no right to come into the presence of God. You do not have Luke 18, 15 through 17 until you first have Luke 18, 9 through 14. A person has to come face to face with the purity of God's holiness, the greatness of his righteousness, the brokenness of a man's sinfulness before he can come to the verses that we're looking at this morning. Interestingly, when we look at the text next week, obviously the rich young ruler didn't get it. And so Jesus gave him, we could say, an opportunity to recognize that he didn't get it. I'm getting ahead of myself. We'll come there next week, Lord willing. But the passage in front of us could be summarized in a very simple way. Salvation is available to anyone who will humble themselves And trust in the gospel with childlike faith. Notice the word, humble themselves and trust with childlike faith. The gospel is available to whoever will repent and believe. But not everyone will And it's the mercy and the grace of God that helps people to see that very simple reality. To put it in the simplest way I can, God wants us to get back to the basics and trust in the gospel. And so let's look at the text in front of us this morning and see what the Word of God has for us. The first thing I want you to notice here is that we need to learn from ordinary things. And this is fascinating. Look at verses 15 and 16. It says, And they brought unto him also infants that he would touch them. But when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them. But Jesus called them unto him and said, suffer or allow the little children to come unto me and forbid them not. Now this is such a just a really simple, a really basic kind of situation. In fact, if you were to have sat there and you were watching this happen, you probably wouldn't have thought a whole lot of it. You know, here is this person, the Lord Jesus Christ. He is preaching, he is teaching, he's going into the synagogue, he's creating all kinds of controversies There are people that are bringing the sick and the lame and all kinds of infirmities to Christ. And he's touching them and he's healing them. And then there are some mothers who have little kids And they're like, hey, let's take the little kids to Jesus, and Jesus can touch them and bless them. That's what he means by when he says touch them. It's the idea is that pick them up in your arms. So we're talking about really little children And bless them. It's kind of like what happened when Simeon was there in the temple, and Mary and Joseph are bringing the Lord Jesus Christ. He's just a little kid, and they're bringing him into the temple, holding him. Mary's holding this little baby in her arms. And this old man Simeon walks up to her, says, Can I hold that baby? Okay. I mean he's an elderly man, right? He holds this baby, says Lord, you can now let your servant depart in peace. My eyes have seen your salvation. I mean, it's incredible. So I can now die because I have seen the Lord Jesus Christ and He blesses God. This is kind of the picture. These little children being brought to Jesus and he's going to lift them up and he's going to bless them. And the disciples are like, Jesus is a busy man. He didn't have time for that. These kids need to go away. They got snotty little noses and they're making lots of noise and they're they're they're attracting attention and Jesus has something more important to do than deal with the little kids. So go on, go on, shoot, shoot, shoot. Leave, don't come. It's like this guy who's he's on the roadside and he's begging. He's saying Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. And they're like, Could you please be quiet? He's like, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. Could you be quiet? And he's just like He's yelling. He wants Jesus to help him. The disciples have this mentality. He doesn't have time for them. And the question is why? Why did these disciples think Jesus didn't have time for the little kids? I think it's pretty simple. They're unworthy. They don't have the right to come in the presence of this very powerful and influential person. They're not worthy. You know what Jesus does? He takes the time to say, you can't enter my kingdom until you recognize you're unworthy. Isn't that pretty amazing to think about? He takes this little situation, and Jesus does this so often He'll take something that is ordinary, something that is simple, something that people have seen a thousand times. They've never thought about it once. statement that's made by a man or a statement that's made by a woman or response by a person. He tells a little parable, something that everybody understands. And then he takes that and he lifts it up and it's a teaching moment. That's what Jesus does. And the immediate example he's teaching, well-meaning people bring their small children to him. They want him to take up their kids in their arms and be blessed. Well-meaning people, I don't think the disciples are being knowingly rebellious. I mean, in their mind, they're doing the right thing. It's like if you have an event and somebody's posted at a door and they're given certain instructions and they're supposed to do something a certain way. And then somebody comes with a situation and rather than them thinking through the issue, they just kind of like robotically tell them, I can't do that, or yeah, I have to do that. Maybe it's like dealing with somebody in an airport. You ever had a situation like that? Like, could we like Use a little common sense here and maybe help a person out in need, but that's the way the disciples are thinking. They are very well-intentioned. But what they're doing is wrong. You could say it betrays the mentality. That needed to change. And so what does Christ do? He rebukes the ones who are driving away the small children. Please do not discount ordinary opportunities to learn the truth. Think about Deuteronomy 6. We know the Shema. Here Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, all thy soul, all thy mind, all thy strength. These things shall be in thine heart. And then he says, and thou shalt teach them to thy children. And he talks about it. When you get up, when you're sitting down, when you're moving in the way. Basically what he's saying is, as you live your life. Your love for God and His Word and His ways should be so central to your life that it is natural, it is normal, it is a part of life that you talk about Him with your kids That's what it's saying. In other words, it's not like this is this method, I've got to learn, so I gotta learn that. Okay, when I have a situation like this, I could use an illustration right there. And I kind of like force myself into that. It's a natural part of life. It is normal, it is natural to talk about truth. That's why Jesus did that. And think about some of the examples. I jotted some down. Nicodemus. This guy comes to Jesus and he says, we know you're a teacher come from God. Nobody can do the things that you do unless God is with him. And Jesus says, Nicodemus. Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And he goes, What does that mean? Can I and an old man go back into my mother's womb? And Jesus says, I'm not talking about that. In verse 8, it says, the wind bloweth where it listeth. And thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell where it cometh and whither it goeth, so is every one that is born of the Spirit. And so you know what Jesus does? He says, Salvation is a miracle. Regeneration, life given to someone who's dead. Here is this person who doesn't understand who they are. They don't understand the righteousness of God. And God, through the working of the Spirit, opens their eyes to see it. And you can't see what takes place in the heart of a person. When their heart is humbled and their faith goes from self to Christ alone, you can't see that take place. But you see when it happens by what it does in the life of that person, the change that takes place. And so he uses this illustration of birth. And he uses this illustration of wind. Very simple things. Everybody in this room has been born. Nobody in this room has seen the wind, but everyone sees what the wind does. Right? And so he uses a simple illustration. That is how people are saved. Then in the next chapter, he's talking to this woman, the Samaritan woman, and he says, hey. It's hot. It's dry. Can you give me some water? She's like, Why are you talking to me? You're a Jew. I'm a Samaritan. I'm a woman. You're a man. What is this all about? He says, hey, if you knew who I was. And you knew about the gift of God, you'd ask me to give you water That is everlasting water. Listen to what it says in verse ten. He says, If thou knewest the gift of God, who it is, that saith unto thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water. And she's like I want to know about this water. Well, go call your husband. Oh, I don't have one. You're right. He starts going down this road. What's Jesus trying to do? He's trying to draw her to see this issue of sin and brokenness and grace and how people are born again. Now was that a method Jesus used? Now that's called, that's the way he thought. That was his life. That was everything. Or then in Luke chapter 7 you have this centurion who has a sick servant, and the servant's about to die, and this man loved his servant. And he sends someone to Jesus and says, the centurion needs you to come to the house, but you don't even have to come. I know. Because I'm a man under a man of authority and under authority. Now all you gotta do is say the words, and he'll be healed. And this is what Jesus said. When Jesus heard these things He marveled at him and turned him about and said unto the people that followed him, I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no not in Israel. You know what that man was saying? I know who you are. I know your power. I know your authority. You don't have to come to my house. You don't have to see this man. I'm unworthy that you had come. This is just like a normal situation. Or here's this paraplegic in Luke chapter 5. Jesus says that you might know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sin. He said unto the sick of Paul of the Paul Z , I say unto thee, arise, take up thy couch, and go into thy house. Ordinary things. I give you two more. This one's really interesting. Jesus is invited to eat with cement. They're Pharisees. And when they're sitting down to eat, every single one of them, they follow these rituals. Now, you know, I tell my kids, you know, wash your hands in the bathroom become before you sit down, especially them and playing outside or, you know, doing something that involves their always say, hey Go wash your hands. My wife. Go wash your hands. I don't tell my wife to wash my hands. We tell our kids to wash our hands. All right. Yes, yes, of course. Actually, she probably tells them more than I do. But Jesus comes into the house and he doesn't do it You say, well, did he like want to get sick? No, he wanted to make a point. He wanted to make a point that the rules of the Pharisees, they don't matter. They don't apply. They're just man-made rules for people to build up their credentials before God, and those credentials have no value. It says, and when the Pharisees saw it, he marveled that he had not first washed before dinner. And the Lord said unto him, Now, do you Pharisees make clean the outside of the cup and the platter, but your inward part is full of ravening and wickedness? Pin drop. We tell you. Pin drop. Ordinary stuff. Matthew eighteen At the same time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? Jesus called a little child and set him in the midst of them and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except ye be converted and become as little children, ye shall in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven. You know, the truth is that Jesus takes very simple, very ordinary, just The normal stuff we deal with in life, and he takes time to teach through those things to point people to the truth. Do not overlook simple opportunities all around you to point people to the truth. Do not overlook simple illustrations all around you that demonstrate the truth. Do not overlook the ordinary. When it comes to evangelism, it's not about learning a program. It's about loving the gospel And loving the one who died for your sins and rose from the dead, and being so central to your life that when you are in conversation with people, it is very easy to pick illustrations. To come into conversations, it is natural because it's at the center of your life. That is what Jesus did. Second truth I want you to notice is the importance of mastering the basics. In verse 17 it says, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein. Now, the truth is that when he makes that statement as a little child, I mean he never really entirely explains that concept, at least explicitly, where he says, when I said as a little child, I meant this and this and this and this and this. He doesn't really do that. But then if you step back and you look at the things that he has already stated and the things that he's going to state a little bit later, you go, actually, I think he kind of already has explained what he means by as a little child. He is most clearly indicating that as a little child has a sense of unworthiness. It has a sense of simplicity. It has a sense that this is a person who doesn't come in because they've earned the right. They come in because they've been invited. If God didn't invite you, you couldn't come. Does that make sense? If he didn't make a way, you couldn't come So he makes a way, he invites you, and on the basis of his invitation, of what he did, so that you could come, you could come. And so basically what Jesus is saying by this statement as a little child, he's saying until you come to the place Well you realize you don't have the right to just walk into the presence of a holy and righteous God. And you don't have the right to look at your life and say, accept me because all these things that I've done for you until you come to the place where you realize it's the mercy and the grace of God, what he does for me and his invitation to me, that I can come into his presence. Until you reach that point, you cannot enter the kingdom of God. That's what he's saying. His teaching is simple. And the simplicity does not displace the need to dig a little deeper. But it is simply warning us do not lose sight of the basics. I'm amazed how many things in the Christian life that people argue and bicker about If you really were to step back and you were to look at like what is below the surface, you would find that it is very simple, it is very basic, it is very accessible, if you have the heart for it. The problem is, if you don't have ears to hear, you don't have eyes to see, and you don't have a heart that wants to submit, you won't hear. And you won't see. And you won't submit. Why? Because the heart has to want it. It has to want to see it. It has to want to hear it. It has to want to receive it And we've got to make sure we don't lose sight of the basics. The Pharisees were people who argued over minutia and they dogmatized theoretical things. I've mentioned this before, but it's kind of like when guys are in seminary. Well, seminary would be a good example, but also when guys are in Bible college. And here are these guys that are 18, 19, 20, 22, whatever. 24. And they're all sitting around the table and they're arguing about stuff. And if you were to like step back as someone who had a little bit more life experience, you'd go, what you're arguing about doesn't even matter. You don't know what you're talking about. The way that you're handling those text of scriptures like proof text, proof text, proof text. You don't understand the big picture. But they're arguing about these little things. And that's the way the Pharisees were. Things that they that the Scripture did not speak about, they dogmatized those things. Things that the scripture did talk about, but in the big picture, they were small things. They elevated those things. They loved their rules. They loved having this structure that they could bank on. That was the foundation of their confidence. It was a structure they had built for themselves. And we really see this come out in Matthew 23. It says this, woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You pay ten tithe of mints and anis and cumin and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith. These ye ought to have done, and not to leave the other undone. Ye blind gods which strain at a gnat and swallow a camel woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For you may clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full of extortion and excess. He's saying here are people that when it comes down to their tithe, they will go out into their garden and they will pick leaves off of the mint in their garden. So that they can feel good before God to say, I gave the right amount. I did it all. It's like someone who puts all this attention on something that is so small and so insignificant. I know this might be kind of a weird example. I hope I don't make anyone upset when I talk about this. But I want you to think about all the regulations they have in California. All the regulations in California to protect the environment from emissions I'm telling you, one volcano. What are you dealing with? Think about all the emissions from these wildfires. I mean it is tragic. And I'm trying to help us to realize something. You know, we get so focused on this little contribution that we have right here that is it is a drop in the bucket in the big picture. And so here the Pharisees, they got all this attention on these little little things that don't really matter. In the big picture, God says, well, what about the basic heart of the law? You don't care about that at all. The fact is it's very easy for us to become very self-righteous in our mindset and what we're doing. has almost no value at all. It is such an insignificant thing. It's like the scripture says, all of our righteousness is like a filthy rag. And so here are these people, they're they're cleaning the outside of the cup and he says, Do you know what's in your heart? Do you know what kind of filth and what kind of evil is there in the heart? And while everybody goes, Wow, that guy looks really good, God says, look at what's inside. Matthew 15. He says, why do you also transgress the commandment of God by your traditions? This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth and honoreth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. In vain they do worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men. And so here is this system that people thought they could stand on, and he says, it's sand It has no ability to give you access to me. And until you come face to face with a basic simple doctrines of what it means to be reconciled to God, all your traditions are nothing more than a wall to block you from coming to the truth. What are the basics? 1 Corinthians 15, 3. Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. He was buried, and he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. That text tells us about a person, Jesus. Who did something for us? He died for our sins. He conquered death. He rose in triumphant from the grave. It tells us why he did it. For our sins, we are sinners. We are unrighteous. We have no basis to come to God save through what he did for us. How are we to respond to this? Repent? Believe. Luke chapter 18, verses 9 through 14, that's the repent side. Luke chapter 18 verses 15 through 17, that's the belief side. Feel the weight of your sin, the unworthiness of your person. The complete unrighteousness that you can build up before God. Turn from that rubbish heap and trust in the work of Christ. That's the basics. Everything in the Christian life is built on that very simple foundation. Like the song says, I need no other argument, I need no other plea. It's enough. He died. He died for me. Truth number three. You gotta act on what's known. In verse 17 he says, Whosoever shall not receive But whosoever who does receive shall. You know, this is like this is like the watershed. It's kind of interesting. When we were years ago, my wife and I went to Colorado. And I remember we were we were driving on that uh what do they call it Rocky Mountain State Park Road or whatever that will most certainly be closed right now and will be closed for months, okay? Has been closed for months, will be closed for months. And we're driving up there, and you know, you just go higher and higher and higher, and then you kind of reach this plain area, and sometimes you see like these little signs. And you know, you get out and take pictures and this sign, it'll say something like, this is the continental divide. As crazy as this sounds, I mean the rain that falls on this side and the snow that falls on this side of that divide and the rain and the snow that falls on this side of the divide As it works its way down in the soil, it just becomes a part of the system that's all going out into either the Atlantic Ocean or all this that's going down into the Pacific Ocean And all of that snow that's on that mountain peak, where that continental divide is, it's all pushing this way or it's pushing that way. Crazy to think about it. About. This is the watershed of Christianity. What do you do with Christ? Why do you need him? What did he do? Who is he? We have to act on what we know to be true about the Lord Jesus Christ. He says that whoever does not receive As a child will not enter the kingdom. And the one who does receive as a little child will enter the kingdom. It's the watershed. This means that we've got to take action on what we have heard. There is no such thing as neutrality with Christ in the gospel. And what's interesting about it is you will know that is true when you get into a conversation with someone who tells you, I believe that Jesus is a good person. I believe that he may have existed, he may have lived on this planet 2,000 years ago. He may have been killed. by Pontius Pilate and the Romans and crucified. He most certainly did not rise from the dead. And they give you all these things and qualification about who he is and what he did. But he's a good person. And you say, but he said he's God. Whatever. Well, he is. He said, if you don't believe that I am he, you'll die in your sins. I don't believe that. Scripture says Jesus Christ is God in the flesh. And you start talking about the non-negotiable element of who Christ is. And what he did, and all of a sudden, when you start drawing that line, you see there's either a firm rejection or there's a humbling of self and embracing of the truth. You don't get a middle ground. You can't do it. You have to choose where you will stand. The grace of God works in the heart to humble the sinner. To point them to the truth. Acts 17, 30 and 31, it says, the time of this ignorance God winked at, but now commandeth all men everywhere to repent. Because he hath appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. Acts 3. 19 he says, Repent ye therefore, be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the time of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord. 2 Corinthians 6. 2 says, Behold, now is the accepted time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. 2 Corinthians, excuse me, 1 Peter 4. 17, the time has come that judgment must begin at the house of God, and if it first begin with us, what shall the end be of them that obey not the gospel of Christ? What do these passages tell you? You have to respond. You can't be neutral. You can't sit back and say, well, you know, I like Jesus, he's a good guy, he's not who he said he is, but he's a good guy. No, no, no, no. So you say you're a God, and you say there's no other name under heaven given among men whereby you must be saved, if that's what people are saying about you, and you don't say, oh, that isn't true. You say, that's true. Guess what? You've got to make a choice The scriptures are so clear. So the question I want to leave you with this morning is: well, how do we apply to what we've learned this morning? Simple message. Simple message. God uses ordinary things. Simple message. You've got to get back to the basic. Simple message. You have to respond. How do we apply First is this. God has mercifully left us with numerous witnesses to the truth. And this really can go in either one of two directions. It is pertinent to someone who's not a believer, and it's pertinent to someone who is a believer But it's pertinent in different ways. If a person is an unbeliever, it's pertinent because God uses all these things to call them to repentance and faith. What's amazing is as people live their lives, God gives them example after example after example That points him to the fact there is a creator, there is a sustainer, there is a sovereign lord over all, you are accountable to him, you have moral awareness, it's called a conscience. And you need to take seriously what the Word of God says about this issue of eternal life. And so what does God do? He uses all kinds of things. He uses good times, he uses bad times, he uses heartaches, he uses frustrations, he uses people, he uses circumstances, he uses all kinds of stuff. to draw people to himself, to confront people with the truth. And the fact is we as his people, we have opportunities to plant seeds and plant seeds and plant seeds and plant seeds. And that's all we can do is plant seeds. But God takes those seeds and he takes those situations and he draws people. He drives the truth home to them. And if you've never repented and believed, well God's doing that in your life. And he's not going to stop doing it. If there are people that are praying for you and praying for your salvation, God's going to keep working. He's going to keep working. I asked the question, how long are you going to fight it? When are you going to humble yourself? Come face to face with these realities and trust Christ like a child. I'm unworthy, I'm a sinner, I'm unrighteous. It's all what he did. This is also pertinent to the believer. In a different way. There are ordinary tools all around us. Let's use these tools to point people to Christ. I mean, here is Jesus sitting on a roadside, and there is water in that well, and he says, can you get me something to drink? Opportunity. A guy comes in and he says, Hey, we know you're a good man. You've done all these miracles. Hey, unless you're born again, you won't see the kingdom. I don't understand that. The wind blows, you don't see it, but you see what it does. Oh, you can't forgive sins. Oh yeah, let me prove it. Hey, take up your bed and walk. What in the world? You have all these examples. Hey, if you'd been born blind, you'd be able to see. Like this man. I don't just mean you'd see physically, you'd see who I am. You'd see the way of salvation. I mean, there's example after example after example. And God, when the gospel is at the center of our lives, and this so permeates who we are that we think often of it. We are ready to give an answer to the hope that lies within us. Meekness and fear. Secondly, We should never lose sight of the basics. It is our great privilege to dig deeply into the profound truths of Scripture. And you know, we need to dig into the Word. We need to know doctrine. And that's something we try to try to teach in our church. We try to do it in Sunday school classes. We try to do it in the preaching times in all kinds of different contexts. It's all about discipleship. It's about training the next generation. It's about helping young Christians become matured and strong Christians. We want to dig deep, but it is also our privilege to continue. To pursue knowing God the rest of our lives. And as we do that, as we grow in this knowledge of the Lord, a lifelong pursuit, Let's never get past the basic glorious truths that you have to embrace like a child to be saved. Don't get over the cross. I mean look at 1 Corinthians 1, 2, and 3. Paul just emphasized he preached the cross. He preached the resurrection. Don't get over the cross. Don't get over the resurrection. Don't get over the basics. Don't get over Christ died for my sins. Don't get over the basics. This should bring us joy and comfort and encouragement every day of our lives. We should never lose our ability to articulate the basics on the level of a child. The fact is if a pastor gets up and only people with convoluted minds and lots of education understand what they're saying, then they're wasting a lot of people's time. But when they're presenting truth in a way that even the kids they're getting it, that that's the kind of preaching that we need Basic truths that grip the heart, and the Spirit of God drives it down into the soul. Secondly , I think it's thirdly, actually, we cannot allow our access to the truth to become a source of comfort. Just because you have access to the truth doesn't mean you've embraced it. Doesn't mean that you're living in the light of it. Doesn't mean that it has saturated your heart. You do not become a Christian by attending a church, just like you don't become a car by sitting in a garage. Okay? You don't You don't become a professional athlete going to an Orioles game either. Just because you're in the environment where the truth is being expounded doesn't mean that it's impacted your soul There are people that grow up in church and they have so much access to the truth and they they conform to the culture of the environment that they're in. But that doesn't make you a Christian. And everybody around them may say, oh, it's a good Christian young person. Well, guess what? You're not a good Christian young person just because you conform to rules. Or just because you come to this place. You're a Christian because you've repented and believed. And the grace of God has opened your eyes to the truth. And you've been saved from your sins. And the fact is that there are lots and lots of people that can get lulled into thinking I'm good because I'm around the truth. But the truth's never gotten into their hearts. James 1. 22, be doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. Somebody says, I know that. He says, I don't care if you know it. Do you do it? Romans 2. 13. Not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified. And he says, Does anybody do it? He says, No. Romans 3. 19, we know that whatsoever things the law saith, it saith to them that are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped. That all the world may become guilty before God. Therefore, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. But now, the righteousness of God without the law is manifested. Being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe. You know what those verses tell us? Nobody keeps the law. Nobody's good enough. Nobody's righteous enough to enter the kingdom of God. And that's why there's a but God. But God has made a way. Not through your keeping of the law, but through Christ's sacrifice and his obedience and his triumph. You Can be saved from your sins. We cannot be neutral toward Christ in the gospel. First John 5, this is the record that God hath given us eternal life. This life is in his Son. He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son hath not life. John 3. 18, he that believeth on him is not condemned. He that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed. And the name of Jesus of the only begotten Son of God. This is so simple. Anyone can understand it. The question is, have you heard? Have you seen? Have you turned and believed? Let's bow for prayer. With every head bowed and every eye closed, before we close in prayer, I'm just going to ask a simple question. Is there someone here this morning that would say Joel, I heard this message and if I'm going to be totally honest, I 've not repented and believed. I'm not a Christian. I might have thought I was. I might have thought I conformed to everything that makes someone a Christian, but I've learned today that That's not what makes a person a Christian. It's what Christ did. His death, his resurrection, his righteousness. Not my good deeds. I need to trust Christ. Is there someone that would quietly raise up your hand this morning and say, that's me, I need to do that Anybody at all? There might be someone who says, uh I'm not gonna raise my hand, but I need to talk to you. No worries. Come on by. Say, Pastor, I need to talk to you about the message. I'm not sure if I'm saved. Can we get this thing settled? I'd be really happy to take a Bible and show you how you can be saved May God take his word and impress it on our hearts this morning. Our Father, thank you for the time we've spent together. May your word burrow deeply into our souls May we be humbled under the weight of the law. May we be comforted by the work of the cross and the resurrection. Father, may we feel the security that we have in Christ because of his righteousness imputed to us. May we be a people who are thankful and joyful. And settled because we are your children by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.