All right, well good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our midweek study and hope that your week's going well. And uh we're going to go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and then after that we're going to sing a song that has been picked out by Drinian. Because he's working on his piano and uh looking forward to that, and then we will get into our study tonight. So let's go ahead and bow together for prayer, and then we will sing. Father, we're so grateful for an opportunity to gather in the middle of the week. And I pray that as we dig into the Word of God tonight that you speak to our hearts. Father, as we have opportunity to share testimonies and share prayer requests, I pray that the things that are shared would really stir up our hearts. As we think about the needs in this congregation, as we think about needs around the world, as we think about burdens that are on our hearts, I pray that as we gather together to pray, that we would lift these things up to you with a heart that is anticipating your your work in these situations. And I pray you'll bless our fellowship together tonight. Bless the children in the back. Bless our freedom that last class that meets. Just pray that in all these things you would get the glory and that we would grow more and more into Christ's likeness. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, before we sing, I did want to mention uh a couple people have asked about uh Kingsley Gorman 's memorial service and we are still working out some of the details on that. However, Next Friday, I believe that that is the 30th of August, is when we're going to have the memorial service. And so From 10 o'clock to 12 o'clock, we're going to have the viewing here in the Narthex, and then at 12 noon we'll have the memorial service. And after that, uh there's going to be a graveside over at the Veterans Memorial Cemetery. And um we're still working out details as far as um A couple of things with that. I'm going to be meeting with Nathan tomorrow to work out some of those details, but I want to let you know that because It's not been totally nailed down. Uh we had talked about possibly doing it all at Branco's, possibly doing it all here, splitting between the two. And um I'm thankful that we're gonna have everything here. I think that that'll be really good. So if you're planning to come to that, make sure that you mark that off on your calendar. Um, not this Friday, but the following Friday, that's the 30th, is when we'll have that memorial service. And I think that'll be a real blessing and encouragement. Okay, 303 is where we're going to sing this uh evening. Weagle uh Wings as eagles. Wings as eagles. I just blew it all together right there. Let's sing it out. Alright, Jr. you got it? Here we go. When the ray still lies before me, and the wind is blowing strong. When the wetness is around me, and my strength is almost gone, when the happy bunch is sleeper, and my shadows all my And yes, my fear and wings God is written with me as you God is wings divine. When I leaves begin to get so my leaves begin to throw, I am not Let us run the race with Jesus, let us bring each way a side. But he all beyond these thoughts, he will be on a faithful eye. He has got the rainbow, he has got the bigger And also maybe to higher crown, not yet we will. God is being God is Allah, Allah , God is we 're not going to be a good one. timers And my dreams begin to start hold and my dreams begin to grow. I am not gone. Hi, good singing. Thanks, turning in. I appreciate it. Okay, well we've been working our way through the Sermon on the Mount on Wednesday nights, and we are in Matthew chapter 7 tonight, and this is Only part number three of the section we've been dealing with. But we are reading verses one through eight of Matthew chapter seven, and we're dealing with this issue of finding biblical wisdom. How do we practically get Godly wisdom from the Lord. So let's go ahead and read the text together. I'll remind you of kind of the focus of the study that we're doing or we have been doing over the last several weeks. And I'd like to pick up where we left off, and that is dealing with some of those practical truths about godly wisdom. So, Matthew chapter 7, verse 1. Judge not that ye be not judged. For with what manner what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged, and with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, let me pull out the moat out of thine eye, behold a beam is in thine own eye. The hypocrite first Cast out the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote from thy brother's eye Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast your pearls before swine, lest they trample underfoot, and turn you again and rend you. Ask and it shall be given you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. Now I know I've said this several times, okay, over the last several weeks, but the purpose of Matthew 7 is not to say It's wrong for a Christian to make a judgment about a situation that involves another person. That is not what the purpose of Matthew 7 is. In fact, we see that because when we look at this passage in verse 1, he says Judge not that ye be not judged. And then later on as we work our way through to verse 5, he says, first Cast out the beam that is in your own eye, and then thou shalt be able to see clearly to cast out the mote that's in thy brother's eye. So what that's telling us is that when Christ is giving this instruction, he believes and he's instructing us to recognize that it's actually a good thing if our brother has an issue that we go to our brother. But we will never be in the place to be able to help another person if we're going in hypocrisy. We will never be able to help another person if we don't deal with the issue personally ourselves. So we have the ability to see clearly. And so a lot of people make judgments about situations, and the first judgment should be a personal judgment, about their own heart and their own motivation. and what's going on internally. And once they've addressed that issue, then they're in the position to actually move forward in a productive way. So that's really the sense of what we see in Matthew chapter 7, verse 1 through 8. But now we've been focusing our attention the last several weeks on the last thing that Jesus says in verses 7 and 8. He says, ask It shall be given you. Seek, ye shall find. Knock, it shall be opened unto you. Everyone that asketh receiveth. And he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. Now, this is where we are practically digging into this question of how does a person have biblical discernment? Godly wisdom. Obviously, when Jesus is giving this instruction, he's talking about how to help other people. And so we we saw in this passage of scripture the importance of focusing in on asking and seeking and knocking and where we left off in our teaching was looking at the biblical approach to finding wisdom. And so this is actually if you were to look at our notes And I I'm starting to post those online, so if you want to go and uh find those notes, you can go to our website and when you click on the video right there under that you'll see sermon notes. Boom, you can get them right there, all right? Just so you know So if you are following along in those notes, we are kind of in the middle of this what we're dealing with, and we're looking at several principles about a biblical approach. So I'm going to work our way through that without some explanation because we've already done that and pick up on the last few. So the first of them was this. Ask God to help you understand the implications of his word. That is why he says, ask, alright? If we want God's wisdom, we've got to ask him. The second thing we saw is the importance of regularly studying Scripture so that God's word is shaping how we think. It's refining our interests, and it's motivating our passions. If you want to have godly wisdom, you cannot neglect the scriptures. You have to be in the Bible And as you're in the Bible, what's going to happen is your thinking is going to be challenged. That is what he's talking about in Romans chapter 12 when he says, be transformed. through the renewing of our mind. The idea is that your thinking has to change. And it changes when it's confronted with Scripture. And then what it does is it begins to refine the things that we're interested in. It actually shapes what we desire to do. And then that motivating passion. The fact is there are some things in life that the reason we do them is because We just constantly have this internal drive to do that thing. It's something that presses us constantly. Well, you want the things that are constantly driving you and motivating you to be things that come straight out of the Word of God. You want the Bible to be the thing that drives you and motivates you in life. And so that second piece is important. Regularly study the scriptures. The third Develop a thoroughly biblical worldview about life. What we mean by that is that when you have a situation in front of you, You want your most natural inclination on the issue, the way that you respond, the way that you react, you want that to be shaped By a biblical worldview. The question is, how does that happen? Well, it happens because you are constantly in the scriptures. This is what is shaping the way that you think about life. The fourth. Consider the specific principles that have bearing on the decision that you need to make. Now life is full of complicated situations. Some things are not complicated. There's some things that The problem isn't knowing what is right, it's the willingness to do it. There are lots and lots of things in life that would fall into that category. But not everything in life really goes into that category of Clear, I know what I need to do. Sometimes we have issues that are very complicated. Sometimes we have a hard time seeing the specific principles that have bearing on that decision that we need to make. And in order for us to be able to make the right decision, to have godly wisdom, we've got to learn how to discern what principles are directly applying to that specific issue. And by the way, life has a way, I say life, God in his providence has a way of using the circumstances of life. to force us into the word so that we have to think about what is right and what is wrong in order to make those decisions. And so we look at that fourthly. The fifth, learn to discern the difference between a rational fear, golly concern, and a troubled conscience And the whole point of that discussion that we had was the fact that I don't feel settled about a thing in my heart does not necessarily mean I shouldn't do it. I need to learn to understand why I'm having trouble in my soul about that issue. A lot of times the reason we have trouble in our soul is because we're just afraid. That's just the bottom line. This is something if you if you could look at it objectively you'd say, I know I'm supposed to do this. This is what God wants me to do. But there's a lot of risk involved. There's a lot of challenge involved. I don't know how it's going to play out. I don't know what people are going to think about this decision that I'm going to make. And all of those uncertainties that are going on in your life, they cause this internal turmoil, and that internal turmoil is called fear. That's what it is. And we have a really hard time pushing past that. And some people will say, well, I don't have a peace in my heart about that. And what they really mean is I'm afraid, but I want to call it fear. That's really what it is. And then we talk about this issue of godly concern. Well, there are some decisions that when we make them, we feel the weight of them. We recognize that they're heavy. We talked about marriage. We talked about the kinds of things that you pursue in life. You know, big decisions where there's a lot on the table with that decision. It wouldn't be normal for you to just jump into a situation without feeling the weight of that thing. That's not an unhealthy thing. It's not a bad thing. But we have to recognize if that's really what it is. I feel the weight of it, and that's why I feel this internal struggle. That last issue, a conscience that is troubled. Sometimes we have internal noise because we believe something's wrong, but we want to do it anyway And so we've got to learn to be able to discern between those three things. And you say, well, how can I make that discernment? Well Sometimes we just need to sit down with somebody who's a little bit wiser than us, a little bit older than us, and is not emotionally entangled with our circumstances, and just lay the issue out in front of them and say, what do you think about that? What is that? It's called godly counsel. So, six, seek the input of several godly people. And we talked about the tremendous value of getting godly counsel And we also talked about a couple of warnings that we are cautious about the kinds of people that we go to. We talked about certain kinds of people that You go to them, there's going to be a bias, and that bias could be because uh of their pride, it could be because they have some invested interest in that particular issue. But we talked about the importance of going to godly counselors Alright, that's where we've been. Alright? Tonight we're going to pick up on number seven. Number seven, hold your pursuits gently. Alright? I want to hear you say that. What is it? Hold your pursuits what? Gently. Hold your pursuits what? Gently. Alright? Now there are some people they don't have a hard time holding their pursuits gently because they don't really drive at anything in life, and then there's other people that they hold on to that thing with a death grip. And there's absolutely no way that they'll ever turn from what they have purposed to do. The question we should ask is, how should God's people look at the decisions that they make? Being resolute is a good thing. Being proud and overconfident is a sinful thing. And so we see this balance in James chapter 4, verses 14 and 15. Here's what it says. Ye know not what shall be on the morrow. What is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. You ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this and that. Now, in this passage in James, James is not suggesting that people are not supposed to go into a city with a plan. He's not suggesting that we should go into a city and uh just you know haphazardly go and do this thing or that we should never be ambitious about decisions we're to make in life. His caution is that when we go with a plan, we don't think that that's the end all. We understand that we are responsible to plan. We're responsible to make choices and we're responsible to trust God. And so when we go into a situation , Whenever we're holding on to it, we've got that plan. We've worked out the details in our mind, which is a good thing. We've gotten the counsel. We believe we know what is right. We move forward. We need to recognize something. God can ultimately say overruled. And if God says overruled, you and I need to submit to what God says. We need to be willing to let Him move us and direct us exactly how He wants us to go. I mean, I'd say probably most of the people in this room who are a little bit older would say there were things that I purposed to do in life, and God, in his mysterious work, did not allow me to do it. Or there are things I was convinced this is how it's going to work out and it just worked out a totally different way. And now when I look back, I'm like, wow, I mean God did all that. I could have never even dreamed this in my mind. This is how God works. We need to think and plan and reason and study, but hold our pursuits with a submission to the hands of God. The eighth and final thing I'm going to mention here is that we have to learn to trust God with what we cannot control. This is a really important detail. You know, in fact I'm going to develop this a little bit more in just a few minutes. But this is something that's really hard I think a lot of times Christians who are conscientious and they're driven in this way, and they really want to figure out the details and they really want to do the right thing in every single situation, and I think that that's a good thing. Don't get me wrong. But sometimes when a person's going to move forward on an issue, they want to know how it plays out before they take that choice. And guess what? That's not how God does it. He doesn't give you all the details. By the way, there's a lot of things in life we'd never do them if he did that. Probably almost anything that has any kind of value. We'd never do it. If God gave us all that information before we went, we're like, nah, I'm not in on that. No way. But whenever we make a decision, there are things we can't control. Lots of things we can't control. And listen to some of these verses that are so helpful. And I love it because they're all in the same chapter in Psalm 37. Psalm 37 is one of the greatest chapters. I say chapters. Psalms, I've told you the Psalms aren't technically chapters, but Psalm 37 is one of the greatest Psalms about this issue. Listen to what it says in verse 3. He says, trust in the Lord and do good. I'm relying on him, and I'm going to make some choices to do the right thing Verse number five, commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. Psalm 37:7, rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not. Whenever you're engaged in anything of real value that takes time , Your confidence in the Lord is going to get tested. You're going to get fearful. You're going to get concerned. You're going to get your eyes off of the Lord. In the same way that when Peter got out of that boat and he started stepping, it says And he looked around at all the waves around him. He's like, ah, took his eyes off the Lord and he started to sink. I mean, we do that in life too. We make the right decision initially and we start moving in the right direction initially, and then we start drifting and drifting and drifting and we got to get pulled back. And what it what does the scripture tell us to do? It says trust and commit and rest and wait patiently. And by the way, trusting, committing, resting, and waiting patiently for the Lord is not just sitting there. It's activity with a heart that's resting in what God is doing. So that eighth piece is very important. I'm going to move on to the next observation. I know we're kind of in the middle of something we were talking about, but I want to remind you again of what it says in this text here. The text in front of us in Matthew chapter 7 comes with tremendously comforting promises. In Matthew 7, 7 he says, if you ask And you seek and you knock, you will find. That's a promise. Proverbs 2, 4 and 5. We looked at Matthew 7. We looked at Proverbs chapter 2. We looked at several passages and the similarities between them. In Proverbs chapter 2, 4 to 5, what does he say? Then thou shalt understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God Well Proverbs chapter 2 verse 7, it says that he layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. So when a believer is willing to ask And to seek and to knock. If you're reading in Proverbs chapter 2, and he talks about asking and seeking and knocking, what does he say? He says You're going to find the knowledge of the Lord. You're going to get wisdom because he lays it up for the righteous. Or if you're reading in Matthew chapter 7, you ask and you seek and you're not, what are you going to do? You're going to find. Or you go to James chapter 1. He says, Let him ask in faith nothing wavering. Let not that man think he's going to receive anything of the Lord. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. But If you ask, he gives to all men liberally, and he abradeth not. So what's the point of this? The point of this is that God wants to guide you. He's not trying to trick you. He's not trying to scare you. He's not trying to hold the truth back from you. He wants you to know him and to walk with him and to do what's right. And so if you put in the work, ask, seek, knock, you have the confidence that he is going to give you what you need. The wisdom in that moment Truth number three, again, this is going to be a little disjointed because we're just picking up in the middle of this, but truth number three, godly wisdom compels decisive action Now if you go back to the Matthew 7. 7, he says, ask. And the idea is we need to ask God. Okay? I fall short of your wisdom. I need you to give me wisdom. You're the one who has the wisdom that I don't have. That's the asking. And the seeking means if there's some work that I'm going to have to do to find this information. And that was the whole point of us working through how do you get biblical wisdom, you get into the Word of God and all of those things. That's under the seeking part. Now we're to the knocking side. Knock. The idea is that you've got to take action. And that word knock also gives the idea that this is something you've got to do over and over and over and over and over again. So let me give you a couple thoughts under this under this heading of Godly Wisdom Compels Decisive Action. First observation is this. Wisdom is not just about knowing what's right. It's about applying that knowledge in action. So God doesn't want us to be a bunch of philosophers who like, you know, sit on the sidelines and talk about theology. Okay, I mean it's fun to talk about theology, but y guess what? Talking about theology isn't living a godly life. It's just talking about God. What does God want us to do? He wants us to know him, and he wants us to live for him. In other words, the theology is supposed to translate to action. It's not just about knowing what's right, it's about knowing what's right so that we will do what's right. And that is the emphasis here. It's not about just sitting back and being passive. Listen to this passage in Ecclesiastes chapter 11. I love this text Because I think it really hits home of the need for us to take decisive action when it comes to this issue of wisdom and trusting God. It says, he that observeth the wind shall not sow. He that regardeth the clouds shall not reap. If you're trying to look for the perfect set of circumstances before you take a decision in life, you'll rest. You will wait the rest of your life for the perfect set of circumstances and you'll die waiting for them. Okay? You absolutely will. The person who observes the wind is not going to sow. The person who looks up into the clouds and says, maybe it's going to rain today, they're not going to reap the harvest. He says, as thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit, how the bones grow in the womb of her that is with child, even so thou knowest not the works of God. Even so, in the morning sow thy seed. In the evening withhold not thine hand. Thou knowest not whether shall prosper either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike. It's a really amazing passage of scripture. Because basically what Solomon is saying in this text here in Ecclesiastes 11 is he's saying, if you live life trying to figure it all out before you do it. Try to figure out how it's going to play out. You're waiting for the perfect circumstances. You will do nothing in life. What you really need to do is. . . Make the best decision you can with the information that you have. Put it in the hands of God and see what he does through it. It's amazing what God does through people who are just willing to get involved in what he's doing. It's really amazing. You have no idea. And by the way, it's not for us to decide, you know, who's known and who isn't and who sees great things and who sees small things. It's not it's not our business to worry about that. Our job is just to get involved in what he's doing and let him work through us and see what he does. It's exciting to see what he does. It's a little scary to see what he does. What does it do? It reminds us that He's the one who works. And so we see that. Wisdom moves us to action. Observation two, the outcome of a wise decision rests in God's hands, not our hands. Ecclesiastes 11, thou knowest not the work of God, who maketh all. Proverbs 3:6, and all thy ways acknowledge him. He shall direct thy paths. Proverbs 4:26, let all thy ways be established. Who establishes our ways? It's the Lord. Psalm 37:5, commit thy ways unto the Lord. Trust also in him. He shall bring it to pass. Now what's the point? We've got to make choices in life, but the outcomes, they're in his hands. He's the one that does it. He's the one that accomplishes it. He's the one who works through these situations And so if we would get our eyes off of ourselves and get our eyes in the Word and be willing to trust God with what's in front of us, we would be amazed to see what He would do through those choices. Observation 3 under this point. Walking in godly wisdom is another way of saying walk by faith. That's what it is. Folks, walking by faith is not being flippant. Walking by faith isn't like leaping into the darkness and going, I don't know what's going to happen. We'll just see how it works out. Walking by faith isn't following our emotions. Walking by faith is living in a principled way, making decisions with the best information we have, and trusting God with everything else That's what it is. And sometimes the best information you have is going to lead you to make decisions that the world says don't do it, but God says do it. Because what the world prioritizes, what God prioritizes, they're not the same thing. There's this contrary, antagonistic relationship, if you want to say. The world doesn't like God in his ways And so sometimes walking in wisdom is doing things the world says don't do it. In fact, it's swimming against the stream all the time. I use this illustration often because it's such a great one. It's such a simple one. Dead fish float with the stream. It takes a living fish to swim against the stream. And so making decisions in godly wisdom is called walking by faith. We've got to lean on his instruction. We've got to trust in his providence. We've got to be willing to take steps without absolute clarity about the outcome. That's how we have to walk in life. So that leaves me to some final questions. Well, how do we apply this? I've talked about all these concepts. Real simple, how do we apply it? Let me give you these final thoughts. The first is this. We apply it by taking comfort in God. He's in charge. He's good. He's not trying to trick us. His word gives us the clarity that we need to make the choices that he wants us to make. Take comfort in God. Number two. Take your duty to be in the scripture seriously. If somebody says, I want to know what God wants me to do, and they won't pick up their Bible, I don't believe them. I do not believe them. I mean, am I going to be obnoxious about it when I tell them that I don't believe them? No, I'm not going to do that unless they're obnoxious. This was me, of course. But well then I might be tempted to, you know, get into that rum a little bit. Hopefully not as a pastor, but you know. But if you're gonna tell me that you want to do God's will and you neglect the Bible, then I say, well, where are you gonna get it from? Where are you going to learn it from? So take your duty to be in the scripture seriously. Number three, allow the scripture to shape your thinking To refine your interest and motivate your passions. I was thinking about this the other day as out walking and I'm just I'm reflecting on some of these things. And I asked myself, what is the value of the preach word of God, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. What's the value of opening up my Bible on a daily basis and reading through it? and jotting down some thoughts about what I've learned and then reflecting on those things. Like what do you liken it to? What do you compare it to? I compare it to eating food. Because that's what it is. Now, I eat the same thing every morning. It's a bowl of oatmeal, no sugar, some really good cinnamon, and some raisins. Every morning, same thing. Yes, it is born. I guess I do change it up every now and again if I go out to eat with somebody, all right? But if it's just me at home, that's what I eat every single morning. And I and you know, I don't get really fired up and excited about eating my bowl of oatmeal. It's just like a normal food. Like I do it because I'm hungry, okay? But that bowl of oatmeal gives me what I need to get to eleven o'clock. Or well hopefully twelve or one. It just kinda depends on the day. And then what do I do? Well, you know, you ask the guys in the office, uh I got my uh my garden soup. And it's smells really garlicky, you know, a lot of good stuff in their cabbage and everything. And uh why do we eat that? Uh so it gets me at a five o'clock. And then when I get home I get some real food. My wife makes some good food, right? But here's the truth. Most of the meals that you eat, you don't remember them? You just eat them and they get you to the next meal, okay? Because that's the way that our bodies were designed. We eat the food, we digest the food, we burn the food, and then we need some more And now if we stopped doing it, we stopped eating those not-so-memorable meals, we would remember the fact that we weren't eating those meals anymore because we'd start getting smaller and we'd start getting sick and we'd start having problems. And people are like, well man, when I read my Bible in the morning, I I want it to like, I want it to really hit me hard. I mean, I want it to hit you hard, don't get me wrong, but I just want it to feed your soul till the next time you do it. And sometimes it's really impactful. And sometimes it's just changing the way you think a little bit. Sometimes just calling you back to understand what God says. It's just reminding you of basic truths. There's some sermons that you hear, you're like, ah, that was okay. Get me to the next one. And so you go, man, that really hit me. Ooh. I can't I there's sermons I don't remember like I remember the text, but what I really remember is that that really is something I thought about for a long time. Enough that I can go back and remember that. And God's word is like that. It's shaping our thinking, it's refining our interests, it's motivating our passions. It's the consistency of being in the Bible that does those things. things, not the wow factor every time I open the Bible. Fourthly, don't walk alone I mean, I think it's great for people to be resilient. That's a good saying. But uh why don't we we be resilient together, why not? God created the church for a reason. He created the church so that we would grow up into Christ's likeness. This next Sunday, when we get into our freedom at last, we're going to talk about the role of the church in helping us grow. That's going to be the lesson that we're dealing with. And God didn't design for us to grow independent. He he designed us to grow in community. That's why he gave us the ability to talk and You know, gave us the ability to have relationship and all those things. That's why he said to Adam, it's not good that the man's alone. I'll make him a help meet for him. And he established the family. All those things. Why? Because God wants us to grow in community. Fifthly, or whatever number it is. Choose your influences wisely. One of the reasons people go wrong is that they do choose their influences, but they choose them unwisely They choose their friends very unwisely. The people that are influencing them, they call them influencers Okay? These are people who are just like sucking your energy by all your likes and stuff, right? They're using you to make themselves feel happy and make money. Don't let those people influence you. Let godly, mature, wise people let them be the ones that influence your thinking. Next, don't be afraid to take the critical steps that you're called to take in life. I think sometimes the value of a counselor is not so much to tell you what you need to do as much as to tell you, I think you're on the right track. Why don't you get the courage and go do that? That's really the truth. Not always. Sometimes somebody needs to say, that's a really bad idea. Don't do that. But for a lot of people, conscientious people, sometimes the counselor just needs to say Yeah, that sounds like a really good sensible thing to do. I think that's exactly what the word of God would tell you to do. Why don't you do that? That makes good sense. You can do that Last thing I'll say is this: leave the unknowns in God's hands. You don't have to figure it all out. You don't. All you need to do is work with the data God's given you in His Word. and make the decisions based on what his word says. And what's outside of your control, what you can't figure out, it's in his court. I look back over the course of my life, I'm amazed decisions that I made that uh looking back, I probably should have gotten more data than I did. But you know what? God in his kindness, he worked despite my very foolish and frail. My heart was in the right place. I was trying to do the right thing. But he still worked through it. I want to give you that encouragement. That's the God we serve. He's not sitting there going, man, you better you better get it perfect or I'm done with it. you. Ah, that's not how he is. He's a gracious God. He he is for us, not against us. It's important for us to keep that in our mind. Let's ask the Lord to help us to do that. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we think about the text that we've been working through for several weeks, the importance of asking and seeking and knocking. I pray that we would not forget that we have a great responsibility to get into your word. And if we will ask and seek and knock, we have this great confidence. Because of the promise you've given us, that you will give us the wisdom we need. So, Father, help us to rest in that promise and help us to move forward in our lives, making decisions. the very best way that we can, in accordance with your word, with godly counsel, and trusting into your hands the outcome of these situations. Take your word and use it in our hearts in a very special way tonight. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.