Well good evening. Good to see each of you tonight. I hope that you had a good afternoon and looking forward to our service. Let's bow for a word of prayer and then we'll get started. Father, we're so grateful for just another Lord's Day and the opportunity we've had earlier today to sit under the ministry of the Word and to fellowship together. And I pray that tonight as we sing these songs of praise to you, that we would think about the wonderful truths that we're expressing in song, as we share testimonies, I pray that these things would encourage one another. And ultimately, I pray that you will just strengthen us through the preaching of your word tonight. We ask all of it in Christ's name. Amen. Good evening everyone. Anchor Baptist Church. Cheer Pastor's voice. He he tried to hit a high G this morning in the singer in the in the uh ca song and that was the result. He just about blew it out. No. Just kidding. Anyway, but there was there was a G up there that tenors don't normally hit. And it was uh it was up there. Anyway, we're gonna start the song services out with page 312 Page 312, please stand with me, follow along on the screen. I want to be faithful. All three verses Oh, the tune on that just is fun. That's just a fun tune And the words are great to live by. Let's turn to page 433. Back to the back of the book. Page 433. Tell it to Jesus. All four verses. Telling you how it is. Okay, go ahead and have a seat, but just turn back a couple pages to page 430. Page 430 All both verses, uh Lord, I need you I know what you understand for my friend. One of the minute Lord help me to work my dream letters I was doing That's good singing, Pastor. Well, four eighty-two was the first number called, so Let's do 482. And let's sing the second verse first. And the first verse second. Alright? Okay, second verse first. First verse second. Alright? We'll have some fun with the kids. Alright, here we go. Second verse I play for the floor for my way and I heard a couple notes out the cord so we're gonna have to practice up on that one. Oh my goodness, page 628. That is wow right there Now. If they'd have said Jesus loves me, I wouldn't have known what the number is, but now I do. Page 628, first verse. Expelled and All right, now we're going from the very back to the very front. Page one. Rejoice, the Lord is King. First verse. Amen. That one's got some neat dynamics to it. Okay, page one in the blue book. Page one in the blue book, A Servant's Heart. And as well. Yo le digo a la hoja de condenamiento, no se ha pasado. Yo le dije, no, bueno, con el gran amigo, yo le voy a poner. Okay, I'm gonna check out the next two and see which one. Let's see And what is 603? But fast. Oh, okay. We'll do 603 right now, but we're gonna do it fast. Okay. How fast can you sing? The English language is a tough one to sing out on sometimes. Okay, obedience is The very best thing. First verse. I need to be a real. I think I was about to take off up here on that one. My goodness. Okay, page 155. Page in the blue book, 155. Christ is enough. On again Amen. Softly and tenderly, Jesus is calling. If you guys would, open me to open with me to your Bibles to Joshua 9. Joshua 9. When we pick up last time from our last message here, we were in Joshua chapter um Pastor Josh was talking from pass um Joshua chapter seven. Talking about how Ai and having to deal with Achan's sin. Well chapter 8, we're going to kind of skip over chapter 8, jump straight to chapter 9 of Gibeon's deceit. But I do want to make mention a few things during Joshua chapter 8. One of the things is that in Joshua chapter 8, Israel kind of repents of their sins. They go back, they wait on the Lord, they let him fall, and they go to battle, they unfold, and they conquer them. But one of the things that's really neat is the very end. And verse 30, so this is Joshua 8, verse 30, it says that Joshua built an altar upon the Lord of Israel in Mount Ebel. And he continues on here. He says, so he built an altar, giving praise to the Lord, and they start reading the scripture throughout it. And at the very end, it says that there was not a word of all that Moses commanded, which Joshua read. Not before all the congregation of Israel with women and the little ones and the strangers that were conversants among them. And that leads us straight into chapter 9. We see in chapter 9, I'm a beginning reading in verse 1. It says, And it came to pass when all the kings which were on this side of Jordan, in the hills, in the valleys, and in all the coasts, and the great sea over Lebanon, the Hittites and the Amrite, and the Canaanite, and the Perizite, and the Hivite. Pay attention to that name, the Hivite. And the Jebusites heard thereof, that they gathered themselves together to fight with Joshua and with Israel with one accord. And when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard Joshua what Joshua had done unto Jericho and Ai, they did work wildily. and went and made as if they were ambassadors and took out old sacks upon their asses and wine and wine bottles old and rents and bound up. And old shoes and cloudset upon their feet, and old garments upon them, with all the bread the provision was dry and moldy. Before we really get into this, I just want to kind of walk through a bird's eye view of chapter 9, or we can take a glimpse at chapter 9. One of the first things we see here is in verse 1 and 2, we have the gatherings of the kings. They have all these nations gathering together because they heard two things. Israel defeated Jericho and Ai. They were scared for what they heard there. They heard obviously what happened on the other side, but they were definitely fearful, and they seemed to focus on just Jericho and Ai. The funny thing is a lot of these nations, while they would have been somewhat relatives, they didn't get along. So you can almost say the enemy of my enemy is my friend for these guys. After the gathering of this kings, we have verses 3 through 5. We have Gibeon starts devising a plan. They start talking, they use the word wildly. You know that word wily is the same thing that we think about in Ephesians chapter six, about putting on the armor of God because the devil works wild um for the wiles of the devil, watching out for that. This craftiness. They started thinking of a plan. And then we have Joshua 9, 6 through 15. We have this deceives, their actual interaction with Israel and how they deceived them. But as I heard a preacher say recently, time is on the hands of truth. And then we have 16 through 21, Gibeon's discovered. We see what happened here. They are found out. And then the last part of this chapter, 22 through 27, is Gibeon dealt with. And we're going to talk about the very end with Joshua chapter 10. And on my words I would describe for Joshua chapter 10 is God delivers. So as we look through this, what's beginning on looking at a few things here, and the main thing I want us to remember is that God wants you to remember him and your decisions And allow God to work through your mistakes. Both of these are going on in this chapter. We see that they're going to make mistakes. We're going to see specifically that they didn't see God in making decisions. So the questions we could ask when we're presented with this content is, do we seek God when we are making decisions? And when we do make mistakes, as we are bound to fail , How do we handle those mistakes? How do we move forward? Do we allow God to work through them or do we play the victim card as it's so common today in this world? But when we see what's happening here, what ultimately is Satan starts working. He sees a good thing and he wants to attack. So when we see that Satan wants to attack, we kind of need to know what the tactics of the enemy are. And the tactics ultimately are to use God's blessings to be a curse. He wants to see anything that could be used for good to be evil, to be used for evil. And ultimately the first one we're going to see is previous in previous achievements. As I read at the very beginning, Joshua 8. Verse 30 says, Then Joshua built an altar unto the Lord of Israel in Mount Ebel. And then verse 35. There was not a word of all Moses commanded which Josh which Joshua read not before the congregation of Israel, and the women and the little ones and the strangers that were conversant among them. We see the very first thing is Israel has these previous achievements. They had won battles. This is actually very easily seen as we were to if we were to look at Joshua 1 through 8 at this point, there's a trend. Except for chapter 7. Chapter 1. Joshua waited upon the Lord. Israel learned to wait upon the Lord. God commanded them what to do. Joshua 2, they sent spies out. They acted upon waiting upon the Lord. They saw he was faithful. They acted upon it. Joshua chapter 3, before crossing the Jordan. They waited. They let things go on. Joshua chapter 4. They act upon what the Lord said. They crossed the river. Joshua chapter 5. This is where they had to get back to the basics. They before they had their first battle, they were waiting upon the Lord. Joshua chapter 7, or sorry, 6, they act upon the Lord. They go and they capture Jericho. But we see this trend stop in verse chapter 7. Rather than we should expect this to read wait. They act. They go up and they see, they say, AIs, they're little people. We just need to send 3,000. Their previous achievements start to puff them up with pride. They start having this problem of previous achievements. You know, chapter 8, they they wait, they they wait upon the Lord. The Lord commands them on how to go to battle. They do that. But they also act in the same instance there. Chapter 9, they end, or chapter 8, rather, they end with this blessing, this achievement of the Lord's been so good. And when all this goes on, they they get set back. They they forget they're good. I mean they they have this achievement, they build an altar, they pray together, they read scripture, they are I mean the Lord is working, the blessing. And how true is that sometimes when the Lord's working, the Lord's blessing that we almost forget to pray to him We get caught up in the busyness, the Lord's blessing the work. As we've been learning about through you know Sunday school and how the Lord's working and what the church is and church isn't. Some of those things there are that we can't get ahead of ourselves. We have to trust what the Lord's providing there. So the first thing is we're we're gonna see that the tactics of the enemy is they're trying to lift up our pride to make it where we get No Lord, you've been so good. Why don't you take a break? Let me work this time. The second thing that we're going to see the tactics of the enemy use is that they are going to attack the time. It's all about the timing. Verse 9, it says, And it came to pass when all the kings on this side of Jordan and the hills and the valleys and all the coasts of the Great Sea over Lebanon, the Hittite, and the Amrite, and the Canaanite and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite heard thereof. They gathered themselves together to fight with Joshua and with Israel with one accord. I find it hard to believe that Joshua would have been surprised that, oh, they're coming to attack. No, he would have been hurt ready. They would have been sharpening their stores, their swords getting ready. They just got done with one battle. And rather than them having to go seek the next battle, it's almost like the next battle is at their doorstep. Are you ready? And that seems to rush. And when things start moving too fast , We we don't pause and think about it. We just rush into battle. We rush into making decisions. I mean that's the whole point when you go to the gas or when you go to checkout, they have all these nice. little candies and they have everything there is that on your way out you don't think about the decision you just kind of grab it because it looks nice and then you don't get a chance to think about it because it's immediately scanned. The tactic there is to not to rush you into making a decision. You know, that's what's going on. We see this achievements. We see them rushing into battle. Proverbs 8, 12 through 21. It says, I, wisdom, dwell with prudence, and find out knowledge of witty invention. The fear of the Lord is to hate evil, pride and arrogance in the evil way, and the forward mouth do I hate. Counsel is mind and wisdom. I am understanding. I have strength. Be my reign and my prince, and my princes decree justice. By my rule and my nobles, even all the judges of the earth, I love them that love me, and those that seek me early shall find me. One of the few mentions where it says Scripture says it's like to find him early in the morning. Before we get busy in our day to take time, pause and find him. Not to rush in, my fruit is better than gold, yea, the fine gold and my revenue, the choice of silver. I lead of righteousness in the midst of the path of judgment. I will cause those that love me to inherit substance I will fill with their treasures. He's saying to pause, and there's going to be a blessing of having to wait and not rush into decisions. Similar, though, they rush in. Galatians 4. But when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son made of a woman, made under the law. Really, when we see this idea of time, it was not like, oh, he waited for this exact date. He waited for just the right time. God has a plan. I think it'd be foolish to think that God did not have a plan to perfectly take out each one of these nations. He could have caused things to delay them. But we see almost like this rushing, they had to get ready for war. They weren't waiting upon the Lord's time. Ephesians 5, 15 and 16. That ye walk circumsectly not as fools, but as wives, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. You know, the other side of that is to use time wisely, the time we are given, to be ready for battle. And then James 4, 13 through 16. Go to now. Today or tomorrow we will go into a city and continue there for a year and buy and sell and get gain. Whereas ye know not what shall be for tomorrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time. And then vanishes away. For that ye ought to say that the Lord if the Lord will, we shall live, and do this or that. But no but now ye rejoice in your boastings and rejoicing in your is evil. boastings. We're seeing this rush to go into battle. They wanted to make a quick, rash decision, not wait upon the Lord. And all of this timing is perfect because remember the dot the devil is waiting perfectly as a lion. To attack at just the right moment. It's the wiles of the devil. He's waiting, he's crafty, he's he's putting everything together for just the right weakness. And ultimately we see as we that's what really Gibeon's doing. They they may not have known everything that's going on, but the devil was going to start to use them for a purpose. And they appear before Joshua. They now have this sweet sounding words. Well the devil things like to do is it's too good to be true. Sweet sounding words. They're going to appeal several things to Joshua and them when they're waiting here and they're going to approach them and they want to make an appeal. And this appeal is going to cause empathy or sympathy to form on the side of Joshua that they're going to make a poor decision. They're going to try and hit their emotions. They're going to try and check all these boxes that make it sound like it's a good thing to do. Of course we should do this. But at the very end, they they make one mistake. The first one we're going to see is the appeal to innocence. And they went to Joshua into the camp of Gilgal and said unto him, and to the men of Israel, We become from a far country. Now therefore, make ye a league with us. We say, whoa, whoa, whoa, hey, don't worry. You don't need to wipe us out. You don't need to kill us. We're here to be your friends. Make treaty with us because we're not from this land you have to conquer. We're from way up yonder. They're appealing saying we have no, we are innocent with these battles. We have nothing to do with this But just as they're appealing with their innocence, Joshua starts asking, all right, so then where are you from? And that's what verse 7 is that the men of Israel said in the Hivites, Let's notice something right there. Said unto the Hivites. Now I don't think that they knew they were Hivites. I think this is God's words allowing us to recognize that if we look back at verse 1. Says the Amorites, the Canaanite, the Perizite, the Hivite. They were a nation to be wiped out and destroyed. God's giving you a little heads up saying, like, even if we don't know where Gibeon is yet in Scripture, they're not supposed to be here. They are supposed to be wiped out. Sorry, let's go back to where it says in verse 7. It says the children of Israel said unto the Hivites, Peradventure ye dwell among us, and how shall we make a lead with ye? And Joshua says, We are and they said, um, sorry. In verse 8, it says, So they said unto Joshua, We are thy servants. And Joshua said unto them, Who are ye? From whence come ye? They're trying to submit to Joshua here. They're trying to come underneath him and they're going to start appealing to submit to him. What sounded really, really nice. Hey, hey, we're gonna be your servant. It's a d it's a best deal for you. It's only you get a win. They're going to come right underneath them. But okay, Joshua asks, where are you from? Verse 9, and they said, I'm from a very far country, thy servants. They just skip right over. Don't worry, that's the details. Uh I think there's an old saying, the devil's in the details kind of thing. There there's a little detail there you need to be aware of, but he's just like, no, no, don't worry about it But one thing worth noting, and this is something that I had never really thought about, is they are almost quoting Deuteronomy 20 exactly. Deuteronomy twenty verse ten says, When thou comest nigh into a city to fight against it, then proclaim peace unto it, and it shall be That if they make thee an answer of peace and open unto thee, it shall be that all these people that are found there and shall be tributaries. So it starts off by saying, You come up to a city from a faraway land. So they are supposed to approach the city. They surround it and they say, make peace with us. If they open the doors and make peace with them, make peace with them. And if they make no peace with thee, but will make war against thee, then thou shalt besiege it. So God says in Deuteronomy 20 says, all right, so I've given you this land. I've given it to you. If you go outside of this land, that's fine. That's fine. He's not saying it's negatively. But he's saying that it's not going to be given to you. You need to walk through these certain check marks that I've given you that you need to walk through. And he says, attack them. If they give it to you, if they say peace, be peaceful unto them. If they say no, wipe them out. Kind of gives a little way of working through your. You know, Giveon here is quoting that. They're saying we're from a faraway land. Make peace with us. Make a league. We can make a treaty. We cannot have to worry about any of this. We're quoting scripture If you think back to Joshua chapter 8, they were just reading Moses. Do you think this would have been fresh in their minds? It says at the very end that there were strangers that were conversant among them. Whether Gibeon would have been among them, I find un But what we start to see is that people would have been interacting with them in the wilderness. That's something I've ever never really thought about before. I think this is very obvious when we think about Balaam and Balak. There was definitely some interaction that was going on with this another king And the nation of Israel. So how much more would have been that the other nations would have known some of the law that God had given them? Like I said, partly speculation, but they are quoting it. I think there's a little bit more going on that we don't really know that was going on in that culture, and they're just simply the Lord's working through it. They do try and avoid that question though. And they avoid that question by appealing ultimately to authority. In verse 11. It says, Wherefore our elders and all the inhabitants of the country spake unto us. We have to remember the time frame that they were, that they were very heavily looking back to their elders. that they were trusting in what was going on. If their elder said it, they were more likely to believe it. Say it this way. A kid comes up and says My parents wanted me to ask if it'd be okay if I could have a cookie. Would you like me to believe that? Whether you knew if the parent said it or not, you're more likely to believe it because the par the kid is appealing to his higher authority to say they can get away with it. In essence, that's what's kind of going on here. It's not a bunch of kids showing up and saying, we'd like to make a league with you, but it's saying these old men that are gonna be honorable, that cannot travel, they sent us as messengers to make a league with you. Would you please listen to us? By the way, that is exactly what they did. They're not lying in this situation. Their elders did do this. They set young men to go there. There's truth within their lives. There's sweet-sounding words. Verses 12 through 13, we end up seeing this appeal for sympathy. This our bread we took hot for our provision out of our house on the day we came forth unto you. But now, behold, it's dry and moldy. And these bottles of wine which ye are filled were new, and behold, they are rent. These our garments and our shoes become old for the reason of a very long journey. They start appealing to this sympathy. Will you please feel sorry for us? We've came all this way. Please. It sounds too good to be true so far But ultimately, all of these appeals are just sweet-sounding words that make us want to believe it. And even if they're sweet sounding words, their response should have been to appeal God. But instead we're going to see is they failed to appeal of a well failed to appeal to God. Failure to appeal. In verse fourteen, and the men took their victuals and asked not the counsel at the mouth of the Lord. They made a mistake. They did this action. And one of the things that's very worrisome here is that we're going to talk about later is can they go back on this? We know that they don't, but could they have? They they took this action and they need to deal with it. And it says that Joshua made peace with them and a league with them to let them live, and the prince of the congregation swear unto them. When decisions come our way, that's one thing I want us to remember from this passage here and this first thing. The tactic of the enemy is ultimately to use God's blessings. These previous achievements, time, time is a blessing from God and it can easily be used as a curse. And these sweet-sounding words, things that we're supposed to be using as a steward of God's blessing, we're supposed to be listening and making decisions. Because he gave us free will. A blessing, and it turns out to be a curse. We need to remember God. Take the time and seek Him even when distractions are coming around. But just as we have we have to do the best we can and when the mistakes happen, the question is how are we going to deal with mistakes when we get them? So, in the rest of this chapter, we're going to see dealing with the mistakes, letting God work through our mistakes. The first question I really want to ask when we get to this is: how do you deal with mistakes? I honestly want you to think about that. How do you deal with a mistake? Whenever you are whenever you mess up and you fail your spouse, your co-workers. Your children, family of any kind, friends, you fill in the blank. How do you deal with these mistakes when you fail someone? I know one of the first things that men you might relate to this, women, I'm not going to try and figure out how you do this, but as but as I get to I usually get mad at myself initially. And then it takes time and you kind of get this anger and then you kind of get this depression and then you kind of like it's like, all right, now I've dealt with all these emotions on both extremes. I have to meet with the Lord and say, how do you want me to deal with this? Ultimately we see here, it says it came to bat, so verse 16, and it came to pass at the end of three days. So after three days they gave the league. I don't know how long Gibeon made it back. I'm sure they made it pretty close to making it back after three days. And it says, after they made a league with him, they heard they were their neighbors. And that they dwelt among them. That should have been a red flag for Israel. They knew they were supposed to wipe out anyone that was in that nation. Once they heard their neighbors, they probably even figured out they were Hibites specifically. And they're like, oh the Lord said to wipe them out. Okay. And the children of Israel journeyed. Now the Lord gave them a blessing here of having to think about the time. If it would take three days, I'm just going to speculate and say it took three days to get from where they're at to Gibeon and then other cities around there, that means they had three days to kind of sulk and think through that decision and say, Lord, how do you want us to handle this? They took time. The one thing that they felt they didn't have at the beginning, they finally gave God. They took time to deal with it. But now they had to deal with the nation. And they've lost a lot of trust. I mean ultimately they had lost trust within themselves, with the nations around them. It says the children of Israel smote them not. Because the princes of the congregation had sworn unto them by the Lord God of Israel. They, you kind of wonder, couldn't they have just wiped them out anyways? One of the things that Israel was supposed to be was to be a light to the other nations. It says that in Ezekiel 42, 6, is that they were to be a light to the nations. Other nations were supposed to look at this. If the other nations, which we do know were watching them, we can tell through the wiping out of Jericho and Ai, they were constantly fearful. They knew they made a league with them. Do you think the other nations have been watching saying, oh God, their God made a league with the Gibeonites and took back his phrase? One of the first commandments is to hallow his name correct, having to honor it and protect it. If they would have gone and wiped him out, they would have not housed, they would not have respected or honored his name. They would have dragged it to the dirt saying he is not honorable. He was not trustworthy. They kept their promises. But one of the things is when we have to deal with responsibility of our mistakes, people are watching. Finish verse 18 with me. And all the congregation murmured against the princes. These leaders. The nation was watching them. They had just dealt with 40 years of mistakes led by their leaders. And they go, they did it again. Do we need to get rid of them? Do we have another 40 years stuck over here before we can capture this? What's going on? Why didn't they wipe them out? We could have what's going on? They're complaining. They're griping against their leaders. You know, they had to deal, they had that loss of trust. But when it comes to dealing with our mistakes, we have to answer it with responsibility. Verse 19. That's with exactly what they do. But all the princes said unto the congregation, We have sworn unto them by the Lord God of Israel. They say, We can't wipe them out because of what we promised through God. Now therefore we may not touch them. They had to own up to their mistakes publicly to everybody. As hard as that may have been , they had to take care of them. And then verse 20 and 21, we will do them. Sorry. This we will do them. We will let them live, lest wrath be upon us, because the oath which we swear unto them. And the princes said, let them live. Let them be hewers of wood and drawers of water unto all the congregation, as the princes had promised them. So we see the princes say, they publicly dealt with it, saying, We have a solution. Do you trust us? And the congregation went. Now this was kind of looking hindsight. This is not at the same time that they would have been dealing with the Gibeonites But when we look here in verse 22, it says, Now Joshua called for them the Gibeonites and spake unto them, saying, Wherefore ye beguiled us, saying, We are very far from you when ye dwell among us. They had to dwell with everything publicly, as I've already been saying. So Joshua now starts dealing with them, and they're going to be dealt with. Giving is dealt with here. And he starts saying, hey, we have a purpose for you. Will you be working? We you know it now that you've made a servant to us, that's what you said. Originally your league is to make a servant of us. Be a servant to us, sorry rather. We're going to make true for that. Your league, you're going to be a servant, but we're going to start adding a little bit because you lied to us We're going to add a couple stipulations to this league. We're going to change the rules because of how you lied, beguiled us You're not just going to be our servants. You're going to be amongst our people and you are going to be hewers of wood. You're going to start giving us wood, allowing us that allows them to build their cities. God starts working with the results and starts blessing the nation, saying, You're not going to have to work as hard to build your cities. They're going to start bringing the wood. When we start seeing the cedars from Lebanon later in the book, in the Bible, sorry. Could that have been Gibeon that was bringing them? Could they have been going to far lands to fetch that wood and bring it here? It doesn't say. Gibeon has very few references throughout after this. But when we start thinking about what God had commanded them, we can start thinking that you know God was working from here even at the end. He started thinking about how to use them. But this lie that Gibeon did was not just to Joshua and to Israel. It was also to the Lord. And Gibeon had to deal with that kind of directly. At the very end of verse 27. It says, and Joshua made them that day hewers of wood and drawers of water for the congregation. Notice his next part. And for the altar of the Lord. Gibeon was going to be interacting with the Lord on a regular basis now. Not only did they have to stare at Israel every day saying we lied to them, but they had to come into the tabernacle. Well, I guess the outer portion of the tabernacle. But they had to come in and say, Lord, we dealt with you wrongly. We lied to you and your people. And in the place which he should choose. The Lord started dealing with them. And just as the Lord was dealing with them, He wanted to make sure that they were there. You know, ultimately Gibeon they did show a sign of faith because There is this simple situation that Joshua, they say unto them, and one of the things that Gibeon does is they admit their faults They understand they lied. They knew the law and they still played it wrong. They knew they should have been destroyed. I mean, it says that they listened and they said, what you say is true in essence. We are, it says in verse 25, now behold, we are in thine hand. It seemeth good unto It seemeth good and right unto us, do unto us and do. He's saying, if it seems right, do go ahead and wipe us out. Do whatever is necessary. You're gonna be more, they're being in essence more than gracious. I see Gibbon here having to show this little bit of faith of saying, We lied to you, we're admitting our faults, and they say, We're going to give it in your hands. As I said, Gibeon's not really mentioned hereafter. Not sure why. They're not worth mentioning. But God was working in this situation. Just as we make mistakes and we are dealing with them, we have to figure out how we're going to deal with them. We must take responsibility for our mistakes and let God work through our So when we look retrospectively now at the very end of all this chapter. One of the things to look at is we have to leave the results to God. And I think when we look at the results of the God, we're going to see that God delivers in Joshua chapter 10. I'm going to take a quick moment having to work through here. If we look back, we remember the trend that we were supposed to see. We saw that they were supposed to wait, act, wait, act, wait, act, wait, act. They've officially waited upon the Lord in Joshua chapter 9. They waited, they dealt with their mistakes. The Lord said, hey, you kind of almost had to go deal with it. They had to act. But remember, Joshua chapter 9, verse 1 and 2, the kings were there. That pressure never left. God in essence was saying, hey, you've got to deal with this other mistake before you can deal with these kings. Because what happens is Joshua chapter 10 is all those kings that were already together said We're going to go attack Joshua with one accord. They saw what they did, and they said, Whoa, Gibeon, which is a mighty city. It says, verse 10-2, it says, that they feared greatly because Gideon was a great city, was as one of the royal cities, because it was greater than Ai, and the men thereof were mighty. Gibeon was mighty, but they needed Joshua's help. So they sent this letter to Joshua saying, hey. We're your servants. If we're your servants or your slaves, you need to protect us, this other nation. So because of this situation where they rashly made a decision, They had to go to battle maybe a little earlier than God had planned. Because now they have to go protect this people over here. They have to go and fight them. But guess what? God works mightily in this battle. You guys may notice the battle where Joshua points at the sun and says, stand still. And the sun stands still and they're able to fight and they're able to catch all five of those kings. They wipe out five cities basically in one fair swoop. Maybe not at the timing the Lord had originally designed, but God was still working. God was delivering saying, you know what? We're going to use this bad situation for good. We're going to take care of five nations at once. But they didn't rush into protecting those nations. Remember, Gideon may have said, hey, protect us. Joshua and them did not just run down there without waiting upon the Lord. Verse 8. And the Lord said unto Joshua, Fear them not, for I have delivered them into thine hand. We see this initial waiting Now we're getting back on our track where we're supposed to be at. They waited upon the Lord. Then they went to battle with those kings, wiped them out. If you finish chapter 10. It's battle after battle after battle after battle. And Joshua passed from Libnah, verse 31, verse 33, then Hormah. The King of Gizer. Verse 34. Then from Lachish, verse thirty uh then we jump down to verse thirty six. They went up to Eglon And Hebron. And they keep going. And verse 38. And they returned unto Israel with them to Devir and fought against it. And the king thereof, and the cities thereof, they smote them in the edge of the sword, and they left none remaining. As he had done into Hebron, so he did to Debure. If you read through here though, wait a second. They didn't wait upon the Lord. They said only deal with those five kings. They act in rashly. The answer to that is really no. If you are there, look with me at verse 40 through 43. Just as they waited in Joshua 10, 8, says Lord commanded not to fear them. In verse 40 it says, And Joshua smote all the cudges of the hills of the south and of the vale and of the springs and all that were kings. He left none remaining, but utterly destroyed all that breathed. As the Lord God of Israel commanded. They were already waiting. They did everything as the Lord commanded. And Joshua smote them from Cadesphrania unto Gaza and all the country of Goshen unto Gibeon. And these kings and their land did Joshua take at one time. And catch this. Because the Lord God of Israel fought for Israel. And Joshua returned and all Israel with him unto the camp at Gilgal. You know, I look at this, and part of me wonders, I said, remember, they had to rush off to battle to protect Gibeon. And it doesn't seem like they ever came back to Gil-Gal, which seemed to be normal up until this point. God said, because You did this mistake. You're gonna have some consequences. You have to protect them, but you're not gonna get to see your family for a little while. Doesn't say what time much time went by But the Lord was working. When we, each and every day, we need to pause and say, Lord, what decisions do I need to wait on you today for? When decisions come our way, the first application that we saw was we need to wait upon the Lord to remember God and take time to seek him above all the distractions of the world. Find him early in the morning. Not to let pride be there, but then at the end again. When we do make mistakes, because we're we're humans, we're bound to make mistakes. Let the Lord start working through them. We must take responsibility for our mistakes and let God work through the results. We can't Hold on to them and make them our victim car. We can't hold on to them and say, This is my mistake. But saying, Lord, I turn it over to you. Let you work. Lord, I need you. Let us pray. Dear Father, Lord, thank you for today. Thank you for how good you are. Thank you for this illustration of how we need to wait upon you, make decisions. But Lord, that you are so gracious yet still that when we do make mistakes, You are still loving to us and that we can turn to you and trust you and know that you are working in the background for your good. I ask the Father as we leave here that we be lights unto the Gentiles and to the nations for your glory. Praise fresh only in the Son's name. Amen. You know, when we look at this passage of Scripture, uh one of the things that really stands out Is that the way that the Gibeonites approached the whole issue was wrong. They lied. However, what we do see is that they recognized who God is. And they did humble themselves, and God chose to show them grace. And when we talk about grace, grace is not something we earn. something we deserve. And so God spared these people not because they earned the right to be spared. But because he is a gracious God. And actually, there are a lot of examples in the book of Joshua of God's extending grace. A lot of examples in throughout the Old Testament of God extending grace. And Israel clearly did not handle the situation the right way. They were too quick to make their decision. They didn't investigate the situation. We are often find ourselves in the same kind of position. But God still works through that. And that is a great comfort to us That we're reminded that even when we do stumble, God still has ways of using that to accomplish good. Does it doesn't make what we did right? It doesn't mean it didn't matter, but what it does mean is that God is able to work. Okay, let's turn in our closing hymn books to 391. I am resolved, and we will sing the first and the last verses together. Please let's stand. I am talking about the first. I 'm praised the greatest prize. I know that behind you is different and my voice normally is strong enough to just blast through it, but not tonight, so Anyway, uh Brother Eric Hudgens, can you please close us in prayer tonight and uh hope that you can make it back on Wednesday? Um we're planning to have our class on Tuesday night, so if you're gonna be able to come out to that, uh we will be meeting in the back fellowship hall. So looking forward to that. Let us pray. Dear Father, thank you for this evening and for the sound preaching that you provide us in this church, Lord. Lord, and we we pray that times when we make mistakes out of your will, Lord, that the that you will provide us grace according to your will, Lord. Thank you for everything you provide us. We ask for safe travels home for everyone. And that we'll meet again in the middle of the week. Thank you for everything you provide. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.