Father, we're so grate grateful to you and thankful to you for the the season that we get to enjoy. And while there are many festivities and many Many things going on to occupy our time. We also acknowledge that uh there's a great deal of sickness that is in our church and in our church families. And I pray you would be with each of those Those families tonight, um, even those who are here and still have members sick, I pray you would comfort them and allow these these illnesses to move swiftly and allow us to all be able to enjoy one another's fellowship once again soon. Lord, be with us tonight as we get into your word, and may you be honored in all that we do this evening. In Christ's name Alright, well we're gonna sing hymn number 496. 496, we'll sing all three verses of We Gather Together. We go Together to save the Lord's blessing, He chases and faith It's his will to make known, no wicked oppressing our cease from the stress Sing, sing praises to his name and forget not his own. Beside us to guide us our God with us joy Fordain, maintain his kingdom divide, so from the beginning of fight we are winning Thou Lord was at our sign of glory be thine, we all do extort thee, thou leader triumph And pray that still what he feature will be Let thy convergation. If you're wondering why um why I think that Thanksgiving theme while I picked the Thanksgiving theme for our song tonight. Full disclosure, the message that uh Prepare for this evening is in fact a Thanksgiving message. But I know that even though we're in the time of Christmas, it never hurts to stop and reflect on why we ought to So let's turn our Bibles to First Chronicles chapter 16 First Chronicles chapter 16. If you're familiar with the with the passage we're looking at tonight, you'll know that this is where David is overseeing the ark being brought into the city of Jerusalem. For the first time. And this event was met with great rejoicing and festivities because this is a monumental moment. The Ark of the Covenant, the symbol of God's presence with Israel, was being brought into what would later become the city of God, Jerusalem. However, in first chronicles sixteen, you have a something that's quite unique to this entire book. If you're familiar with first chronicles, you know that the first nine Chapters are very easy to read, right? Full of genealogies and very, very systematic um chronicling of uh the nation of Israel But in chapter sixteen we have what some would call David's Song of Thanksgiving. And I want us to look at it tonight and to consider it as sort of a template, a way in which We can seek to uh learn how to set aside time to give thanks to our God. Because whether it's Thanksgiving, whether it's Christmas, Christmas, whether it's Easter, whether it's the Fourth of July, whatever it is, God wants us to set aside time to thank Him. And we can do that by following, I say one way we can do that is by following the pattern that's given to us. In 1 Chronicles 16. Let's start by reading there just a few verses starting in verse 7. 1 Chronicles 16, verse 7 says, Then on that day David delivered first this psalm to thank the Lord in the hand of Asaph and his brethren. It says, Give thanks unto the Lord, call upon his name, make known his deeds among the people, sing unto him, sing songs unto him, talk ye of all his wondrous works. Glory ye in his holy name, let the heart of them rejoice that seek the Lord. Seek the Lord and his strength, and seek his faith. Continually. Remember his marvelous works that he hath done, his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth Now we'll be looking on through the a good part of the rest of the chapter, but as we go about looking at this pattern of how we can set aside time , to give thanks to God, we ought to first consider the means by which we can praise Him. We ought to first consider the means in which we can praise them. The first is this and it's interesting because You may not catch this initially looking at verse 8, where it says, give thanks unto the Lord, call upon his name, make known his deeds among you. the people. And I would say the first way that we ought to be able to praise God is through evangelism. Now, stay with me Because obviously David here is not going to people and telling them about the finished work of Jesus Christ. But if we were to simplify the term evangelism. A way we could define it is just persuading people to serve and worship God by declaring what He has done And for Israel, evangelism was really a national effort where they would declare to the nations around them to come and to see who their God was. We're reminded of this all throughout the Psalms, where the people of Israel were taught to sing and declare to the nations who their God was. Now, fast forward to the church age, us believers, obviously evangelism looks quite a bit different. You know, we don't have a temple that we point to and say that's where God is. We don't have a nation where we have God-given laws which we need to abide for which we need to abide by. Rather, evangelism evangelism is primarily an individual effort. We build relationships with people, we share the gospel whenever the opportunities arise, and if we were to be honest, it's it can be quite intimidating, can't it? Whether it's passing out tracts to strangers or speaking to family members. But maybe and this is kind of a You take it for what it's worth. But rather than seeing as a seeing it as a commandment, which it is, we are commanded to evangelize But rather than seeing it as a commandment, look at it as an opportunity. And not just an opportunity to share the gospel, but as an opportunity to praise God for what He has done through the Saturn Saving work of Jesus Christ. Declare the works of God through evangelism. Now that's verse 8, giving us one means by which we can praise Him. The other is probably one that we're a little more familiar with, and that's praising him through sin. Verses nine and ten say, Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him, talk ye of all his wondrous works, glory ye in his holy name, let the heart of them rejoice that seek the Lord. Now, i i this may or may not be true. I th this is more my perspective, but I would say that singing for ancient peoples is probably a little bit more natural for us modern day peoples. Would would you agree, disagree? I don't see people necessarily walking around singing songs as maybe you would even go to another country. And see people going about their business throughout the day singing songs, whether it be cultural songs or maybe songs that come from America, whatever it may be, people tended to use songs a lot more in ancient times. than even we do. And they would sing it in all kinds of different contexts. They would sing it at work, they would sing in study, they would sing at the temple. And for especially Hebrews, children and adults alike would sing all throughout the day with melodies put to the words of the Psalms or even the Mosaic Law. And then they would use those songs in whatever context they were in. Now, needless to say, people don't sing like they used to. We we don't need to get into all the ner numerous reasons why that is, but there is something to say about a heart that is thankful toward God. A heart that is full of gratitude finds it much Easier to sing praise. I like how Charles Spurgeon puts it. He says, a rejoicing heart soon makes a praising tongue. And how true that is. So looking at the means by which we can praise God, we can do so through evangelism, through song. And then what 's interesting is verse 11 gives us another way. And I would say that it would be praising God through pursuit. So seek the Lord and his strength. Seek his face continually. Now what's interesting is the word seek here appears twice. in our English translation, but in the Hebrew it is actually two separate words. Both are imperatives, both are commands. But the first seek carries the sense of seeking with care. There's a sense of diligence being communicated when we're told to seek the Lord and his strength. But the second Sikh is a different Hebrew word with a slightly different sense. Here it carries the sense of trying to get something one desires. There's a little bit more of an of a personal aspect to it. Now by seeking God with diligence and what I would call genuine desire, that that personal desire. We communicate that God is worthy of pursuit. And probably the most obvious way we do that is by setting aside that time. To thank God. And you know what? By setting aside time to thank God, we have to be in the habit of seeking God To know him. And only by knowing him can we have a genuine gratitude toward him. Can't be thankful towards someone unless you know them, right? At least in some sense. So we need to praise him through pursuits, through song. To evangelism. And then we're giving in another means in our chapter. Verse 12 says, Remember his marvelous works that he hath done, his wonders and the judgments of his mouth. We ought to then praise him through remembrance. When it comes to praising God through remembrance, we're given really three ways to do this in verse 12. And I don't want to want to confuse us because we're still looking at different means. By which we're praising God. And this is all under the fact that we're trying to set aside time to thank God. But if we're going to praise him through remembrance, Some of the ways that we do this, first of all, is by uh first remembering the works of God. Verse 12 says this, remember his marvelous works. Psalm 77, 11 says, I will remember the works of the Lord. Surely I will remember thy wonders of old. Psalm 143, 5 says, I remember the days of old. I meditate on all thy works. I muse on the works of thy hands. Psalm 111, 4 says, He hath made his wonderful works. To be remembered. The Lord is gracious and full of compassion. So the first way we praise Him through remembrance is by remembering His works. The second is by remembering His wonders. And in the Old Testament, this is often an allusion to the miracles that God performed. Really specifically when he delivered Israel out of Egypt. God said himself in Exodus 7, he said, I will harden Pharaoh's heart and multiply my signs and my wonders. In the land of Egypt. And a third way that we praise God through remembrance is by remembering his judgments. And this is a common reference to the Mosaic Law. as a whole. So praising God through remembrance in these three ways is really, in many ways, foundational to our understanding of who God is and why it is that we praise Him. Him. When we know and remember God's work throughout history, his providence through the nation of Israel from whom we have our Messiah, His law which reveals our depravity and his holiness, then we can be informed to show Him gratitude. Through any other means. And that's what we've been looking at so far, the various means given to us through David's Psalm in 1 Chronicles 16. In order to praise him. But this kind of leads into the second way in which we ought to set aside time To thank God. We ought to, of course, first consider the means, the different ways we can do this. But if we're going to set aside that time, we ought to remember his work throughout history. And we just touched on that. But look at what David does in the verses that follow. In verse 13 says, O ye seed of Israel, his servant, ye children of Jacob, his chosen ones. He is the Lord our God. His judgments are in all the earth. Be mindful always of his covenant, the word which he commanded to a thousand generations. Now, as David remembers God's work throughout history, he starts out by noting how God worked to establish the nation, the people of Israel. God chose Israel to be a set a set apart people for the purpose of Of bringing the Messiah into the world through the incarnation, which we read about in Romans 9. What's emphasized here is that God's covenant with the nation preceded the generation Which came after Abraham, which excuse me, what 's emphasized here is that God's covenant with this nation preceded the generations which came after Abraham initially received Now, if we were to look at Genesis, and I'll elaborate on what I just said further in a moment, but if we just look at Genesis, It is easy to see God's providence working all throughout human history to bring about this nation that in Exodus was finally established And just as Israel was chosen apart from anything that an anything than God's sheer will, it wasn't that God looked at Israel and said, Oh, you're you're you're a unique kind of bunch. I want to use you. No, God simply said, you know what? I'm going to use you. And it was his sheer will to do so. And just as it was just as Israel was chosen apart from anything, then God God's sheer sheer will and grace. So too have we, as God's people, the church, chosen been chosen by God's sheer will to be used for his means. For his purposes. We ought to remember that as we set apart time to thank him Now God worked to establish the people of Israel, and he did so, as David continues, by working in the lives of specific people Verse 16, he says, even of the covenant which he made with Abraham, and of his oath unto Isaac, and hath affirmed the say to Jacob for Allah, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant. Saying, Unto thee I will give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance. Now these verses refer to the direct interactions God had with the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and And Jacob. And sometimes when we see those names and we see them grouped together like that, they're kind of an abstract thought, and we forget that these were people of flesh and blood, just as you and I are. But what set them apart from others was how God worked in their individual lives to bring about something far greater than themselves. Now, I I don't want to belabor the point, but if we were to look at the history of the church, countless individuals were involved in God's work to build it. I mean think of just your life, how you came to know Christ. The fact that you came to know Christ because someone else who told you also came to know Christ. And the chain goes on and on throughout history. The fact that God would use individuals to lead individuals to himself. You are the direct results of those individuals being recipients of God's work in their lives. And you know what? Who's to say how many lives we have affected by God's work in our life Just that thought alone is worthy of giving God praise. So if we're remembering his work throughout history as we set apart that time to thank God Thank him. , We note that God worked to establish the people of Israel, that God worked in the lives of specific people, and then worked In the affairs of Israel as time went on. In verse 19 , says, but when when ye Excuse me, when ye were ye but few, even a few, and strangers were in it, speaking of Canaan, and when they went from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another people He suffered no man to do them wrong, yea, he reproved kings for their sake, saying, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm. Now clearly when we look at Israel from the time of the patriarchs to the time of the judges to the time of the kingdom to the time of the divided kingdom. To the ejection from the promised land to bringing them back. All throughout that time, we see a people who ultimately failed. To serve God and live in accordance with his laws. And even when their Messiah came and offered to them the kingdom that they had waited for. They rejected it. And they rejected, in doing so, they rejected the only one who would redeem them from their thousands of years of failure. You know, we could spend a great deal of time talking about how God's providential work in history led us to where we are today. But for now, let's just let's consider this nation of Israel, this tremendously privileged people Who possessed the knowledge of God for thousands of years and yet rejected Him for centuries. And yet was still used of God to give us his word and to give us our Messiah. And that reveals to us not the greatness of Israel. There's nothing great about Israel. Rather, it reveals the greatness of Of the God of Israel. And that leads us to the third way in which we ought to set aside time to thank God. After we have considered the means and the ways that we can praise Him in that time, reflecting upon the work that God has performed throughout history. We can finally come to this praise of who God is Himself. And I love this transition, this shift that David makes in verse 23. Note it here. It says, sing unto the Lord all the earth. Show forth from day to day his salvation, declare his glory among the heathen, his marvellous works among all nations. For great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised. He also is to be feared above all gods. For all the gods of the people are idols, and the Lord, but the Lord made the heavens. We'll continue there in a moment. But notice how David praises God for who he is. He first notes how God is strong to save all people. He says that in verse 23. He notes that God is omnipotent, capable of saving all people. And his point here isn't so much a spiritual salvation. He's not really making that point. His proclamation is that God is able to save people physically. David, being a man of war, was very intimately aware of God's capability. Of preserving him physically. And for that, he praised God for his power. Now, you and I, we have no idea idea to it to what extent God has protected us from physical harm. You know, we're not going out and fighting wars with swords and spears. And for the most part, we're not out there going with uh AK forty sevens or M nines. But have you ever considered from the time you got up, to the time you got ready for the day, to the time that you got in your car, went to work, came home, got ready for bed, and laid your head back The fact that through all that time, God had his hand on you, watching over you, preserving you, keeping You from physical harm. The reality is God has constant watch over really all people, if you consider it. He does so to preserve their lives out of an act of sheer common grace. An individual grace, particularly for the believer, because it's a demonstration. Of how powerful our God is. And that is a reality we should take some time to declare praise for. He is strong to save all peoples. He's omnipotent. But he's also transcendent over all creation. As David notes in verse 25 again, he says, For great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, he also is to be feared above all gods, for all the gods of the people Now, particularly in the time of ancient Israel, Jehovah, God, the God of Israel, was seen by the world as one of many gods. In fact, there were some nations that surrounded Israel that worshipped the God of Israel, but they had them among their other gods. Well, the gods that they had carved out of wood and stone. You realize pagan gods were merely attributed to parts of creation. We can read about that in Romans 9. As part of mankind's vain attempt to control their objective reality around them. Those gods and those people had no greater influence. Over their surroundings, their reality, then a stick figure has influence over the geopolitical landscape Yet the God of Israel is above all creation, for he is its creator. He is transcendent. And when we stop to thank God for who he is, we ought to remember his transcendence. We ought to remember that nothing in creation can change or influence God and his nature. We can thank God that He is above all things. Verse 27 then goes on to another attribute of God which we can praise Him for. Verse 27 says, Glory and honor are in his presence, strength and gladness are in his place. Give unto the Lord, ye kindred of the people. Give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Bring an offering and come before him. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. Fear before him all the earth, the world shall also shall be stable in that it be not moved. Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice, and let men say nothing, say among the nations. The Lord reigneth. In close relation to his transcendence, God's sovereignty, his rulership over his creation is also brought into view. But while David and Israel recognized that God was over ruler over them, they also recognized That all people in all nations ought to recognize God's glory and honor by giving to God the glory and worship due to Him Now it can be easy to be content knowing that God works in our lives and Christ is head of the church, and sometimes we acknowledge that God is still on the throne when we watch the And things are not really going our way, right? When was the last time you praised him for his sovereignty? The fact that literally every person and nation that has existed, that currently exists, that ever will exist, is subject to and accountable to their creator. We can thank God for this. Especially since we know we as individuals have been made right with God. through Jesus Christ. And because of all this, when we set aside that time to thank God, to have that thanksgiving toward hell. Well then we can with David note that he is worthy of all praise. In these last few verses, verses 32 to 36, I almost believe these verses speak for themselves. Would you mind r reading these verses with me uh through uh trying to think of the words Read in response, and we'll read the final verse together, starting in verse 32 and ending in verse 36. I'll start in verse thirty-two. Let the sea roar and the fullness thereof, let the fields rejoice in all that is therein. Oh give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, and his mercy endureth forever. Serious of our salvation can be hearing us to pray , can deliver us from the that we may be in Blessed be the name of the Lord God of Israel forever and ever. And all the people said Not bad for a Wednesday night. But you see here, this jubilant praise due to God. How can we not set aside And I think that's a truth even more pertinent outside of Thanksgiving, don't you think? In a time especially This time of year where we're thinking about gifts and buying and getting things for people, we ought to remember to set aside a time to Thank God. We can consider the means we can do that. We can reflect upon God's acts in history. But ultimately, I think the most important thing we should set aside to thank God. Him for is just who he is, because he is worthy of all praise. It's about for a word of prayer. Father, I thank you for this. This truth, though it was meant for her, a Thanksgiving message. We acknowledge that your truth is not bound to a single day, not bound to a single season. We acknowledge that we are an ungrateful people. And we cannot express enough gratitude for all that you have done. And all that you continue to do. Especially not for all that you are. Help us to set aside some time, Lord. In our day to day, week by week, our month by month, year by year, to give thanks to you. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.