Good evening. Good to see each of you. Hope that your week's going well. And uh I've got news. It's not gonna rain every day this week, I've been told. I can't wait until I see the sun again, right? But uh anyway, uh thanks for coming out on a It's been forty-eight degrees for four straight days and raining the entire time. That's ri that's really what we've had. So like it's like living in Ireland, right? So let's go ahead and pray and then we'll get started uh in our passage of scripture tonight. Lord, we thank you for this day and the opportunity to open the Word of God again tonight as we work our way through this passage and as we look at these very simple truths. about giving and how we should be motivated. I pray that you'll speak to our hearts. Help your word to really take root in our hearts. And we ask that as we spend time together in prayer, that our fellowship around the Word of God, uplifting one another in prayer, and just bringing our petitions to you. would be a time that is very sweet. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Matthew 6, verses 1 through 4, again tonight, and this is the last. of the verses, or the last of the uh uh parts that we're going to do looking at this section, Matthew 6, 1 to 4, we've been talking about giving. And I laid out a lot of introductory material. Well, tonight we're going to look at the main content of what we see in these verses. So, Matthew 6, 1. Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen of them. Otherwise you have no reward of your Father which is in heaven Therefore, when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have the glory of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth. that thine alms may be in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly. Now, the passage of Scripture can be summarized this way, because Christ understands the human tendency to misuse good things. He warned his disciples to reject several specific sinful misuses of healthy religious practice. So they would approach God with pure hearts. The whole point of these verses is to say, when you worship God, you need to worship Him from the heart. with a pure heart. It's not just the form of what we're doing, but it's the heart behind it. That's really the the the main focus of the verse in front of us. So let's just jump right into the content. The first truth I want you to notice tonight with me is that Christ's teaching assumes generosity. Now when I say it assumes generosity, we see in the verses, the way that he states it, It's assuming that people are being generous. They are giving. In fact, that word alms has the idea of a mercy gift. You see a person in need and you you give to them from the heart. So in verse 1 he says, Take heed that ye do not your alms. Obviously he's assuming that they're doing this. In verse 2, he says, when thou doest thine alms, do not. Again, he doesn't say if, he says when, because he's assuming this is a regular part. of these people's lives. Verse number three, when thou doest thine alms. The whole point is as you look at these verses, Jesus is assuming that these people are generous. They are giving. And there's more to it than just what we see in the actual verses themselves. We need to think about what we talked about the last couple of weeks, this concept of giving. In the Old Testament, there were lots and lots of laws regarding the kind of giving that was expected of the people. So we talked about the different Levitical tithes. We talked about the fact that when they had a field, they were supposed to give the first fruits of the field. They were supposed to leave the corners uncut if they were working, and they dropped some grain, they were supposed to leave it there so that the fatherless, the widows, the strangers to go into the field and they could glean. And so we see that these people were supposed to be giving regularly as a part of their worship to God. And we could summarize the Old Testament giving system in the following way. It was reminding Israel that everything that they had both belonged to God and was from God. And that is really the sense of a tithe. A tithe is a portion of how God has blessed you. So if it's $10, you give one. If it's $100, you give ten. It's a proportionate kind of an increase. And so what he's basically saying is as God blesses you, there should be an increase of what you're doing because there's proportionality there. Every time a person is giving in such a way, they're saying, I know that this belongs to you, and so I'm giving this to you. And I know I wouldn't have the strength, I wouldn't have the ability, I wouldn't be in this position if it wasn't for your provision. That's really what it's saying It was providing for the physical needs of the Levites who had no physical inheritance like the rest of the tribes. And so these are people, their job was work in the tabernacle, work in the temple. They're a part of the priesthood. They're teaching the law to the people. They're they're functioning in these capacities where rather than working on a farm like the rest of the nation would have been, they were teaching the law of God because everyone needed their hearts and minds to be It provided food and drink for their festivations. And so God made it so that the people had to pause from their labors, not just on a weekly basis. Okay, they had a Sabbath rest every week, but they also had to pause from their labors for festive occasions. And a festival a festival wasn't one day, like some someone might say, Well, you know, I took off Christmas. I took off this one day of the week. because of Thanksgiving or something like that, and then they go straight back to work. It wasn't like that on the Jewish calendar. We're talking about chunks of time. The the month of July uh not on they didn't call it July, but that that there were several festivations at that time of the year. And they were all throughout the year. What does that do? Well, it focuses people's attention on the Lord. It tells them work is not the end-all to life. It's more than how much you make. It's about living a life that is vibrant and centered on the Lord. It provided assistance for the needy and the strangers in Israel who were defenseless. And no matter how you govern a society, there will always be defenseless people. There will always be people who are vulnerable. There will always be people that struggle to make ends meet. That's just the nature of living in a fallen world. And so God provided a way that people could find help, but they wouldn't be lazy. They would actually have to work. And there would be dignity in what they were doing. And it provided a way to care for the poor, to worship God, to live humbly with a dependence upon Him. That's really the summarizing of the Old Testament system. And so when he says, when you give your alms, he's assuming that all of this is going on with these people. Christ's contention isn't with the what they're doing. It's the how they're doing it and the why they're doing that. Do you understand? They're doing the right thing. The question is, why are they doing it? What is the form that they're taking and how they do it? And then we think about what we talked about on the New Testament side. Where to put God first, Matthew 6. Seek first. The kingdom of God is righteousness. We should plan and give from the heart, 2 Corinthians 9. Every man as he purposeth in his heart, let him give, not grudgingly or of necessity, the Lord loveth a cheerful giver, and we're to be faithful and consistent. To give proportionate to our income, to be generous. The conclusion of all this is that we cannot excuse disobedience because we struggle to do it the right way. And this is something that I sometimes hear people say. And I don't know if this is a newer mindset or what the deal is, but someone will say, hey, you know, I really don't want to I don't want to be a hypocrite in what I'm doing, so Rather than giving as a hypocrite, I'll just not give at all. Okay? Or, you know, I don't really feel like going to church today. I don't want to come to church, be a hypocrite, sit in the seat over here, pretend like I'm happy when I really don't feel like being here, and everybody's, you know I'm putting on this air, so I just won't come. Okay? Sometimes people will take that kind of a mindset. Now if you take that mindset into the workforce, guess what? You'll get fired. You will not be doing your work very long, all right? There are times in life that we just have to do what is our duty, even though we're really struggling in our heart to do it the right way. I had this conversation with my kids a lot about school. And I'll sit down and I'll say, okay, I know you're tired this morning. I know you're weary. I know you don't feel like doing this. But you need to ask yourself a question: What is your duty? Well, I'm supposed to do school. Alright? So whether you feel like it or not, you need to do the right thing. And ask God to help you to get your desires in check and get them where they need to be. So the point that I'm trying to make here is that while Jesus is addressing the heart And he's saying you need to be properly motivated. He's not saying, well, if you really struggle here, then just don't do the right thing. That's not what he's saying, okay? We need to do it, and we need to also do it the right way. So the idea is that we need to look at both aspects of it Okay? Second thing I want you to notice in the passage is that he commands us to consider our motives. Verse number one, do not your alms before men to be seen of them. Two phrases The first one talks about the way that people are tempted to give. Now, Jesus is not saying that if you give and somebody just happened to see what you did, that you've sinned. That's not what he's saying, okay? He's saying don't go about this in a way that is purposefully drawing attention to yourself. And your motivation is that you are giving so that somebody will look and say, wow, you're a generous person. Wow, I really appreciate what you did. The point is that not that someone sees it, but that you are doing it so they will see it. And doing it so that when they do see it, they will be impressed with you. That's the sense of the statement there. Consider your motives When a person is doing the right thing, they need to stop from time to time and ask, am I doing this the right way? Am I doing this for the right reasons? That's the sense. Let me give you an example. And I I I even kind of hesitated to give this example because of the severity of it, but I do think that the principle is being uh presented here. And that is the uh the example of Aninais and Sapphira. Now, please listen carefully. I am not suggesting that if On Sunday, you you go about doing something with wrong motive that you're gonna drop dead on um uh in church on Sunday. I am not suggesting that at all. This is a very specific situation that there was more at play than just the fact that they gave and just the fact that they were being dishonest about it. One of the things that's that was going on when Ananias and Sapphira did this is that you had lots and lots of people who are suffering in the church. The church is just being birthed at this time. And they see that there are people giving sacrificially for others' needs, and they said, you know what, these people are being looked at in a very positive way. Maybe we should get on the bandwagon and do this. And what they were doing was was was very, very proud and very, very dishonest. And so God did strike them in this situation. But I want you to notice what we see here. Acts 5. 1. He says, A certain man named Ananias With Sapphira his wife sold a possession, kept back part of the price, his wife also being privy to it, and brought a certain part, laid it at the apostle's feet. And Peter said, Ananias Why had Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost and keep back part of the price of the land? While it remained, was it not thine own, and after it was sold, was it not in thine own power? Why hast thou conceived this thing in thine heart? Thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God. Now, just pause here for a second. He was These people in a nice sense of fire were not commanded to sell everything and give it to the poor. That wasn't given. There would have been absolutely nothing wrong with them choosing not to sell land and not to give anything. That would have been totally fine There would have been nothing wrong with them selling their land and taking a portion of it and saying to Peter, we have given a portion of this to help other people. No problem with that at all. Here's where the problem came in They sold their lands, they gave a portion, giving the impression they were giving everything because they wanted to be seen of the people And they wanted to be honored. And Peter's basically saying, you think you can dupe God? It's not just the people, it's God who you're lying to. Holy Spirit Himself. But what we can see in this illustration is that what was ultimately going on with these people is that they were trying to present themselves as doing something that they were not doing. Their motive was not worship. Their motive was to use worship and use giving and use generosity to build themselves up. And that really is at the heart of what Jesus is dealing with here in Matthew chapter 6. Third thing I want you to notice here. We're moving quickly through these. He commands us to not give like worldly people. Now, here's how he puts it in verse 2 He says, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogue and in the streets. Now, I'm just trying to like picture in my mind here what was going on, okay? So here's this guy, and he's like Gonna blast the trumpet. Like, hey everybody, check this out. God has blessed me so much. I see this poor person in great need. I just want you to know that today, from the bottom of my heart, I'm going to be so kind to this person and give them their need. And I want you to know that I'm a great example of what you guys should do. I mean that's kind of what I picture in my mind what's going on here. And Jesus is saying, don't do that. Don't give the way that worldly people give. You say, well, worldly people, these people They're in the synagogue. These are people who are religious. Well, there's religious people who are worldly, and there's irreligious people who are worldly. The whole point is that the mindset is I do what I do, because I'm trying to get something material from it. And so we see those phrases. Do not sound a trumpet. Do not be as the hypocrites. They have done this so they get glory from man. So the way that we give should be totally different. The way that we're motivated should be totally different. We should not do these things as we did formally before we knew Christ. Or as those who are our peers who do not know Christ. Or those who maybe know Christ but are not thinking biblically. There should be a very distinct difference between the way we approach these areas and the way that others do. Fourth truth that we see in these verses is that he commands us to not use generosity to inflate our own egos. Now, what there's a difference between Verse 2 and verse 4. Notice carefully, in verse 2 it says, Do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do. At the end it says, that they may have the glory of men. So he's saying that a person is giving so that someone else will pat them on the back and say, great job. Well done. I'm impressed. Verse 4 is a little bit different. He says, When thou doest thine alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth. Now Uh do your hands have minds that remember things? Like, what is Jesus talking about? He's speaking metaphorically here Well, his focus in verse 2 was don't give so that somebody else pats you on the back. In verse 4, he's saying, don't give so you pat yourself on the back. That's what he's basically saying. In other words, a person may say, well, the reason I'm doing this is because it makes me feel good. And it makes me feel like I'm doing a really good thing. Now now by the way, this would be a great uh a huge trap for someone who has a very legalistic mindset about salvation. Okay? If I want to go to heaven, I've got to earn my way by by doing good, being good, keeping the commandments I've got to present to God all of these virtues that I have established over the course of my life, and then He'll accept me. So if that's your mindset then this is going to be so easy to have because you're almost, you could say, justifying it by making yourself feel good to say, I'm actually doing this for God so that he'll accept me. But the fact is it's not just people that have a wrong view of the gospel that do this. We all can fall prey to this. In fact, I'd say maybe there's probably a time in all of our lives that we've probably done this. To just be honest. I could say there have been times that I've given in the back of my mind I was like, boy, that was really generous, Pastor Joel. And you know what? That's exactly what he's saying not to do. That's exactly what he's saying not to do. You say, well, I don't do it with my money. I do it with my time. I do it with my resources. I do it with my energies. We could actually do this in a lot of different ways. Sometimes people say something kind of like this, you know, you really should try giving. It's kind of like a therapy. Makes you feel better. Now, I actually think that's true. I think that when you give, it does make you feel good, especially when you see a person that is benefiting from it. But if that's why you're doing it, you're really not doing it for them. You're doing it for yourself. And you're using them as a tool to do it for yourself. Does that make sense? You're not really doing it for God. You're doing it for yourself. And you're using God as a tool to make yourself feel better. Or sometimes somebody will say, well, you know, it'll really make you feel good about yourself. Now I'm not suggesting that when we give we should feel miserable and That's not the point. But the point is that we're not giving because we're trying to get something out of it. Sometimes people will use giving as a form of leverage. In fact, I think this is a really, really common thing Well, since I gave this, I expect you to do the following. Okay? Any teenagers here ever bargained with your mom and dad before? I see some smiles over here, all right? So, you know, this is a concept that just doesn't just go into the money realm, okay? It's like, okay, I do this for you, I expect something back. I expect some kind of a return for my investment of time and energy and resources. And that's the way the world thinks. And by the way, when somebody has been generous to us, we do feel somewhat indebted to them. I mean, it's the truth. But the bottom line is Jesus is saying that's not why we give. You should know another way that people might do it is, hey, you know how much I give. If you want that to disappear, you better watch out. You better watch out. It's funny, I you know I work with uh nonprofit ministries, and one of the ministries that I work with, they do not take government funds at all. None. Now if they took government funds, it would it would really help them in a lot of ways. It would also hurt them in some ways too. Because as soon as that money comes, guess what? Well, you took some money. Here's our expectations. Well, but we we we run our organization this way because we have these biblical convictions. Hey, you took the money. We have some expectations. You understand what's going on there? So this can happen in a lot of different contexts. But the idea is that when a person is using giving for leverage, they're thinking a lot about what they're doing. I want to influence this situation. I'll plant some seeds, but I'm going to get my return back. And I think that that's the kind of stuff Jesus is talking about. Don't give to pat yourself on the back. Don't give because you're expecting to get some kind of kickback. Don't give because you want to really leverage a situation. You give because you love God and you want to be a good steward of what He has entrusted to you. His point is do not give and then dwell on it. Do not give so that you can bring it back up to yourself or to somebody else down the road. Truth number five. He promises that God is going to reward genuine generosity in the best way possible. Notice verse number four. He says, Thy father which seeth in secret shall himself reward thee openly. Let me read it again. I actually misquoted it. Thy father which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly. Now When God decides how he's going to do something, he doesn't ask your opinion and your input. Okay, when you read that verse, it's not like, okay, God, this is what I did, and here's how I expect you to bless me back. Here's what I expect you to give me. Here's what how I expect you to do it, when I expect you to do it, and all those kind of details. You don't see that. He simply states God himself will reward you openly He's going to take it at the time that is best in the best way possible, and he's going to bless that gift. And you know the scriptures are filled with all kinds of promises and observations about how God blesses those who are generous. And not just those who are generous, but they are generous without being self-centered in their motivation and how they do it. For instance, in Malachi 3. 10, this is an interesting verse. He says, prove me. Now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven and pour out to you a blessing, that there shall be no room enough to receive it. Now I know full well that this is an Old Testament text, and I know that it is within the Mosaic Covenant promises. Okay? God promised that if the nation followed his commandments and expectations, he would bless them. And if they rejected his commandments, there would be leanness that would be sent to them. So I understand that this verse is in that kind of a context. However, I also know that the Bible is very clear that God rewards Generosity. Proverbs 11, 25. The liberal, so by this one of those verses that This is one of those verses that in our in our current modern English we uh we we may we may miss the Saga read the verse and I'll tell you what it's saying. The liberal soul shall be made fat. And he that watereth shall be watered also himself. Solomon was not making a political statement several thousand years ago about liberals and conservatives. That word liberal means he's generous. And notice he used the word soul. Okay? This is a person who is generous from the heart. And when he says he'll be made fat, you know, we kind of think, well, I want to become fat and overweight. Well we're talking about the fact that a person's prosperous In fact, I know when we lived in Ghana, if we traveled to the United States and we came back, we always weighed more than what what we weighed when we went when we came out uh came back to the States. And the first thing people say is, Oh, Pastor Joe, you're looking so fat today. And I'll be like, Thank you. And then and there's this big smile, like, You're looking you're looking healthy, man. Well, what's he saying You know what? God has ways of taking a generous person, a person who really from the heart is generous, and he blesses them. He adds to their life things that are truly rich and rewarding. This is not a prosperity theology. I'm very much against the prosperity theology. Okay? This is not a tool to manipulate God. But God is sovereign. He blesses people. And he can send leanness to us. There are people that make a lot of money. But they just throw it in a trash can by the decisions they make. And there are people that they don't make much, but you know what? God just he he he blesses it He absolutely blesses it. Proverbs 19, 17, he that hath pity on the poor lendeth unto the Lord, and that which he hath given will he pay him again. Now that he is not the poor person. It's not he's not saying well you lend to this per this person who has nothing. Well they're gonna pay you back down the road. No, you're lending to somebody and you know they probably won't be able to pay you back because financially they can't. But what does he say? God's going to pay it back. God will, in his own way, bless that generosity. Proverbs 22, 9. He that hath a bountiful eye shall be blessed, for he giveth of his bread to the poor. A person who's generous. Proverbs 28, 27, he that giveth unto the poor shall not lack, but he that hideth his eyes shall have many a curse. I could have read a lot more verses than what are there. But the simple fact is that God blesses generosity. And the ultimate blessing is not the temporal side, but there's a day that we're going to stand before God, and we're going to give an account for the way that we stewarded the resources that are given to us. And I want to kind of End with that focus. There are three verses I want to draw your attention to. The first one is in 1 Corinthians 4. Here's what it says. 1 Corinthians 4, verse number 2. It is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. Now, a steward was someone who is entrusted with resources. I guess maybe an equivalent in our own situation is if you have a financial advisor who tells you, here's how you should manage your money. And they say, here, here, here are the mutual funds that you should invest in, and here's how you should divide up your assets. And here are some financial decisions you should make when you're in your fifties and some you should make in your sixties, and here are the adjustments, and you literally pay that guy to give you advice. So that when you're at a certain point, you will not have lost what you have accumulated over the course of your working years. Well, a steward was someone who managed resources. Not just he told you this is where you should put your money, you gave him the resources, and he managed it on your behalf. And Paul is saying God actually has put us in this position. He has given us resources. He's given us strength. He's given us abilities. He's given us financial resources. He's planted us at a time and in a place in history. He's given us families. I mean you just you go through all kinds of different ways that God has blessed us. He has given us resources that we are to manage, we are to steward. It's required that a steward is found faithful. And then he says this, with me it is a small thing that I should be judged of you. Almost sounds a little like, I don't care what you think. That's kind of the way that Paul puts it. In other words, Paul's like, I'm not doing this for other people. I'm not managing resources so that You know, someone at the church of Corinth or somebody at the church at Ephesus or somebody at the church of Rome goes, wow, Paul, you're really doing a great job. He's like, I'm not doing this for you. I'm not doing this for your applause. I'm not doing this, I'm not going to get turned off base because of your criticism. That's what he's saying. It's a small thing if I should be judged of you, or of any man's judgment. He says, I judge not even my own self. I know nothing by myself, yet am I not hereby justified. He that judges me is the Lord. Now here's where it gets important. Not that that wasn't important, but this is where it's really important to notice. He says, Therefore judge nothing before the time until the Lord come. He will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the hearts. Then shall every man have praise of God. Now, you can see what I do, and I can see what you do, but you can't see why I do it, and I can't see why you do it. Now, I may be convinced I know why you do something, and you might be convinced you know why I do something. But here is the simple fact. You don't know. You don't know, and I don't know. And and even when it comes to the actions that we take, uh you ever had a situation where the way you started out really wasn't the best, but by the end of it you finally got on track in your own heart. You ever you ever been in that place? I've been there. You ever start outright and it ended up getting off the rails as you got going down the way? Yeah. You ever been in a situation where you've vacillated? Where your heart's in the right place, but then it, you know, your flesh kind of gets in the way, and then you pull it back, and you understand what I'm talking about. What Paul is saying is God knows not just what we did, but why we did it. And he is going to make a determination about how faithful we've been, based on what he knows. He says, then shall every man have praise of God. So what Paul's saying is, when I serve God, that's what I'm most concerned about. I'm concerned about what he says I'm supposed to do. I'm concerned about how he says I'm supposed to do it. And I'm concerned, I'm most concerned that my heart is pro Properly motivated when I do it, and he knows one day I'm gonna stand before him So that's the first passage I want you to notice. And that's why Jesus teaches what he does in Matthew 6 Because you can give and you can be generous, but if you're doing it for the wrong reason, you can stand before God one day, and that's going to come to light. He's just going to lay it out before you God can even use us and work through us, and it doesn't mean that we'll receive a full reward on that day for what we've done. There may be times that we've done the right thing and God took it and he blessed it, but our motives were wrong, and that's going to be considered on that day. We're not talking about salvation, heaven and hell. We're talking about the reward for faithfulness. Second passage, 2 Corinthians 9, 7. We should give as an overflow of love for God. Every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give. Not grudgingly or of necessity, for the Lord loveth a cheerful giver. That's a great verse. He says, when a person gives, number one, they purpose in their heart. You know what that tells me? That tells me that we should give having considered it. And one of the things I actually kind of think is a good thing, that we have a little box in the back, and that's how people in this church give, instead of us passing a plate. I'm not saying that passing the plate was bad and wrong, but there's a little dynamic that I really like about the box versus the plate. When you pass the plate down, I guarantee you there's some people that are sitting in chairs, they're like, you know what? I got ten bucks in my pocket, and that thing's gonna go by me and I don't want to put anything in it, but I don't want people to think I'm stingy, so alright, I'll just put something in there. Well guess what? You know if everybody puts 10 bucks in there because they feel like doing that, it's going to add up after a while. But when you put that money in the box, guess what? You thought about it before you came to church on Sunday, and you know the box is there, and you said, you know what, I believe in my heart, this is what God wants me to do. And I've purposely do it. I'm going to write that check or whatever, and I'm going to stick it in a box. And there it is. Purpose in the heart. That means there's some conviction behind it. And then he says, not grudgingly. I could think of some lots of examples of how we give grudgingly. You know, I'm in the middle of working on something. One of my kids comes up, hey dad, I uh my my shoes is all knotted up. Can you untie my shoe for me? I'm like, I'm getting something done Dad, can you get this? It's it's not it. I gotta go outside and it's all right, fine, fine. Alright, give me the shoe. Like picking away at the thing. Can you go get me like a little fork or something so I can you know what I'm talking about? Yeah, to like really make that thing tight, right? And you're like working on it in the old time. You're like, I wish, I wish I didn't have to do this, you know, but all right. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. Grudgingly. We've been there, right? Necessity. Alright, you twist my arm. I have to do it. I know I'm gonna do this. No, he says God loves a cheerful giver You know what I'm doing is because I love God and I want to I want to be faithful. It's an overflow of a love for God. That's how we're supposed to serve Him Third passage. 1 Timothy 6. 17. We need to invest our material resources in eternity. He says, charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded, don't be proud. Okay. What what is what does wealth give people? It gives them it gives them power. I mean you can do stuff other people can't do, okay? It's just it's the truth. Okay? You have a person that doesn't have a lot of means and they they get sick and they're like, should I go to the doctor or not? I don't have the money to go pay for this. You got a person that's very wealthy, they're like, drop everything, I'm going to the most important doctor that I can. And they're going to give me the best care that they can, and if I'm not happy, I'm going to somebody else. Because money's not an option to this person. So when a person has material resources, guess what? It's very easy to trust in those things. And so he says, warn them. Charge them that they be not high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who richly giveth us all things to enjoy. That they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate. Now, Paul is clearly saying that there's nothing wrong with someone being financially prosperous. It's not a bad thing. We shouldn't feel guilty if God blesses us in those ways. He says he gives us these things richly to enjoy, but he tells us don't trust them. They're uncertain. Don't let them replace God. And then he says, let a person in this position be ready to use what God has blessed them with for the good of other people. Ready to distribute, willing to communicate, and then the last little statement's important, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come that they may lay hold on eternal life To put it really simply, we can spend resources on things that are going to rust and wear out and end up in a dump someday, or we can spend our resources on things that last forever. Which one is a better investment? What lasts forever. When you invest in a person's life, that person's going to spend eternity somewhere. When a person doesn't know Christ, and then they come to place their faith in Christ, and maybe it's because we've supported a missionary for 20 years on the field, guess what? We have in some part contributed to that person being on the field. to reach those people. That is an eternal investment. And so we need to think in these terms. God didn't just give us resources so that we could waste them, so that we could just spend them on ourselves. He wants us to steward them well. So my final thoughts are this. I'm going to take you back to those three words we learned last week. Prioritize, see I don't normally do this, but they're all peace. Prioritize proportionality and purity Those three words. Prioritize. We must put God first in every area of our lives. And how we use our money is one of the surest ways to see what we prioritize. Proportionality. We must give in proportion to how God has prospered us. And the principle of the tithe seems to be well established in Scripture as a pattern. And then purity, this is the focus tonight. We must give with pure motives. Examine the way you approach giving. Be faithful, but resist the temptation to use generosity for self-promotion. Be discreet as possible when you give. Do not allow yourself to become overly preoccupied with how you use your resources. Trust God to determine the most appropriate way to reward faithful, joyful stewardship. That's the challenge this evening. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the opportunity to study it tonight. Please take it and use it for your glory. Help us as your people to use the resources that you give us in a way that truly honors you and advances your kingdom. And I pray that we would not be those who are grudging or just doing it out of duty, but that we would be giving from the heart with great joy and gladness. Realize in the privilege we have to invest in eternal matters. We ask it all in Christ's name, Amen.