Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new year and a new anchored in the word morning reflection. And so this year we are in season three. And we had 250 episodes last year for season two. And my goal this year will be probably to do about the same, uh give or take how things go. But if you joined us last year, I hope that you enjoyed all of those different sessions that we had, the different episodes. And to kind of give you an idea of what we do. Each week, what I do is I take this Sunday morning message, and there are a few exceptions to this. Sometimes I might take the Wednesday night message, sometimes the Sunday night message, but as a general rule I take the Sunday morning message and then I break down that message into five different episodes. And what that does is that allows us to kind of digest the material of our Sunday morning message a little bit more deeply. It allows me sometimes to elaborate on concepts that I didn't have the time in the morning message to be able to dig into those things, to expound those things. And it gives us something to think about throughout the week. And I I think it's so important that we don't just hear a sermon and say, well, that was a really great text of scripture. Um I appreciate that illustration. Uh that was a great point. Uh didn't agree with that point, different things like that. Um, but what I hope we do is that we take the Word of God and we just chew on it throughout the week. We meditate on it. And that word meditate um has the idea that we take the truth And we digest it, we think on it, we ponder on it, we allow the truth to settle into our souls, and we allow the truth to grip us, and the Holy Spirit takes truth and he drives it home into our heart. as we reflect deeply, as we ponder the truths of Scripture. And so that really is the sense of why I do these anchored in the Word morning reflections. My desire as a pastor and as a friend, um some of you uh you're I'm not your pastor, you live in a different part of the country, or you you live in this area but you go to a different church, I hope that as a friend I'm giving you something to think about, to ponder on, and that the Lord is able to build your life on the truths of Scripture, not on the preferences of your pastor or me as your pastor, but that your life is built on truth and that the word of God gets into your soul. So what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like us to begin by setting the tone, reading the text that we will reflect on this week, and then just give you a couple of introductory thoughts. about this passage that I think is a very deep and rich and profound text of Scripture. It is full of such such tremendous content. And my prayers that the Lord will use this to be an encouragement to you. Here's what the text says. First Chronicles chapter 29. And I'll begin in verse 9. It says, Then the people rejoiced, for that they offered willingly, because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the Lord, and David the king also rejoiced with great joy. Wherefore David blessed the Lord before all the congregation, and David said, Blessed be thou, Lord God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty. For all that is in heaven and in the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all Both riches and honor come of thee. Thou reignest over all, and in thine hand is power and might, and in thine hand it is to make great and to give strength unto all. Now therefore, our God, we thank thee and praise thy glorious name. But who am I? And what is my people? that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort, for all things come of thee, and of thine own have we given thee. This is a really great passage of scripture. And it it describes God in some very profound and very personal and very rich ways. What I want to do this morning is give you kind of a summation of what I think the text is communicating, and then I'd like us to ponder one very simple point. that comes out of the introduction. So first of all, the summary statement. 1 Chronicles 29 is perhaps one of the greatest and most comprehensive statements. regarding the incomprehensibility of God's greatness in all scripture. This eruption of praise was the outworking of a series of events. That culminated in David's life when he comes to the point of charging his son Solomon regarding the construction of the temple As we reflect on these things, I think that the Lord will press our hearts to have a joyful reflection on how great he is, and we will recognize we have a tremendous need to express that glory that is due unto his name. Now, a couple of things I want you to notice in verse 9 that I think will help set the tone for what we'll look at in the rest of the week. In verse 9, he says The people rejoiced for that they offered willingly, because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the Lord. There's a word that is mentioned twice, and that is the word willingly. Obviously the psalmist is indicating, or I say the psalmist, the writer of 1 Chronicles, not the psalmist, but David being the psalmist. The writer of the Chronicles is emphasizing the fact that these people have gathered together for a reason. And the reason is that they have given for a project. And this project is going to be the future building of the temple. And when these people gathered, their heart was passionate about the gift. It tells us that they rejoiced. And then we see the words, they offered willingly. And then later on it says that David's people offered willingly. So twice. He mentions, the the the writer of the Chronicles mentions that this was something that they did without force, without manipulation. They were internally motivated because they believed in the greatness of this project. And so when David said, let's gather together resources for the building of the town of the temple, the people didn't sit back and say, why? The people said, let's do it, and let's do it with all of our might. And so we see the passion behind the gift, we see that it was not by force, it was not through manipulation. But there's a third piece that I think is also extremely important here. And that is that they gave as a body. They gave corporately. It was a team effort. It wasn't I'm going to give what I want to give and another person says I want to give what I want to give and I want to get the credit personally. No, these are people who are contributing to something where their gift is lost in the magnitude of all of the people's gifts. They're just a piece. They're like a brick in a wall. This is the way that that they had that that it's stated. And we see that because it says with perfect heart not hearts, but with perfect heart, they offered willingly to the Lord. It was as if the people lost themselves in the greatness of the project. And they were just pieces in a puzzle, just a small part of what God was doing. And I want to encourage you as we enter into this new year that the spirit that these people had, one of rejoicing, one where there's a willingness of giving, and one where a person is just a piece of this big story. They're not looking to be recognized. They're not looking to present themselves as being a huge contributor. They simply are lost in the big picture. I think that we need to have such a spirit. A spirit that is humble, a spirit that is grateful, a spirit that is willing to give of self and to contribute to the Lord's work. And as we see this spirit, we're going to see what really is at the heart of that spirit. And what's at the heart of that spirit is a big view of God. seeing him in in all of this greatness. And under the surface of that big view of God is a heart that is appreciative of the goodness of God, this great God who is so uh magnificent that we can't even fully comprehend or describe him is also a God that is very personal and he's very good and he's very kind. And that is why these people are so grateful and why they are so passionate about being generous. And so I pray that as we enter into the new year and as we start out this year today , we would bring such a spirit into the new year. The Lord bless you as you think about these things and Lord willing tomorrow we will continue to unpackage this text of Scripture. as we shift from the attitude of the people to the foundation for that attitude, and that was their view of God. Have a blessed morning. Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.