Well, good morning. Uh glad to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church this morning, and I hope that you've been having a great week and we're looking forward to a great service. Pastor Chris is going to come with a couple of announcements, and then this morning we're going to be doing the Lord's table. So if you're planning to partake this morning, please make sure that you pick up elements in the back during the first hymn. Alright, good morning. one up yet. We got a few things going on next couple weeks. We got the ladies' luncheon on May 7th at 11 a. m. So please if you haven't had a chance to look at the sign-up sheet in the back, please do that. We got our teens sing next Sunday after the PM service. It'll actually be hosted by the pastor at their home. So teens plan accordingly We also got the rescue mission uh the following Tuesday on May 10th at 630 p. m. If you haven't had a chance to come out to the rescue mission, we go to both the ladies' side and the men's side. And it's a great opportunity to uh just Minister to these folks who are really in a rough spot in life and it's a great opportunity to to minister to them and to talk to them and they definitely enjoy uh having the company. We also got for two trackers on the 11th. That's just two weeks from uh no one week, one week from Wednesday. We got the face paint night, and that will involve both you coming to Truth Trackers with your face paint on. And we'll have some stuff set up as well to maybe give you face paint or to add to what's there. So we're excited to see what you guys come up with. on that night and then we got a teen and parent meeting after the AM service on the fifteenth. Uh just giving you two weeks' notice so that you can plan to be there. That will be for both our current teen parents as well as parents of uh young people moving into the youth group. So please plan on being to uh being there for that. We'll put out a lot of uh important information as well as the uh schedule for the remainder of the year. With that, I'll give it over to Pastor. Okay. Uh do a men's breakfast once a month and during the summer we do a men's grill night and the way that works is on Saturday at four o'clock uh we gather, we fire up the grill, and actually Hugh fires up the grill. And it's bring your own meet and uh we'll also sign up for some sides. But it's a great time of fellowship. And uh basically we do the same kind of thing we do in our morning, um, except it's with meat instead of eggs. So um I guess I guess sausage is meat, at least some of it is. Uh so It's animal product. But uh anyway, we really, really enjoy that. So I hope that you can uh join us for that, man. But uh make sure that you sign up for that If you could take your Bibles out, and we're going to have our opening scripture reading from the book of Hebrews, and this will be our passage that we'll focus on as we prepare hearts. for the Lord's table later on during our morning service. Hebrews chapter 2, verses 6 through 11. Here's what the scriptures say. What is man that thou art mindful of him, or the son of man that thou visitest him? Thou matest him a little lower than the angels, thou crownest him with glory and honor, and didst set him over the work of thy hands Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet, for in that he put all in subjection under him. He left nothing that is not under not put under his feet But now we see not yet all things put under his feet, but we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, for the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor. that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man. For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things In bringing many sons unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through suffering. For both he that sanctifieth and they that are sanctified are all of one. This morning we're going to focus our attention on the blessing of our future inheritance. In fact, we're going to be looking at the fullness of our salvation. And so we will be looking at justification, sanctification, which was the focus of the Sunday school class this morning, and also glorification. We're going to see in the 24th Psalm. that all of those parts of our salvation are laid out and I I believe it'll be a very rich and Christ-centered time. So let's all gather together for prayer and ask the Lord to bless our time. If you're visiting with us, we Are very glad to have you. And I don't know if you received a welcome packet and gift, but if you didn't, I hope that you'll get that before you leave at the end of the service. So let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, we are so grateful that this morning we can be gathered as a body of believers, and we can focus in on the tremendous weight of the sacrifice of Christ. We can together reflect on the fact that because Christ has died for our sins and he has risen from the dead, we are forgiven right now and forever. Of every sin, past, present, and future, we are justified because of the work of Christ. His death on the cross that canceled our sin debt, his righteousness that's imputed to us. And we look forward with tremendous anticipation to the day when we'll experience the last and full benefits of our salvation. Glory with you forever. I pray that this morning our hearts would be richly blessed as we sit under the ministry of your word. I pray that as we sing praise to you, our hearts would just erupt in praise, and that these truths would really resonate within our hearts, would stir up our affections. Father, I pray for those who are not able to be with us in person but are joined with us in the live stream, whether it is sickness or whether they've traveled, I pray that those who are sick would be strengthened. I pray for those who have traveled that you'll give them travel mercies as they head back home. And Father, I pray that as we look at these truths, that you would work in our hearts in a very powerful way. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning. Let's go ahead and arise. And we're going to stand and uh turn to 299. Arise, my soul, arise. We're going to sing the first, second, and fifth. I'm a small. There you go, no , he made with an old in his hands, he ever is all. And freak for now for race. Oh I know and recon. We're converted by nice for Turn backwards to one thirty-four. One of the very first songs that I memorized, and when I found out there was a fourth verse, I was even more glad. And can it be that I should gain all four verses? To his birth be all the free. The whore Oh my God, is my needle if that 's the first. I need you somewhere. I fought it over. I walk with our holding my change back once. No contemplation, she has all Oh my big unit, and still you did one just me. Amen. You may be seated. Turn forward to two hundred and fifty-eight. The first, the third, and the fourth of there is a fountain. And who can do the way and the total boy away with my heart and now? They all learned things that you want to tell me , stay, and say common life. We are here to mine my praise in one shall never lose his ball. These things I know , powers of God, these things I am. There since my faith points mostly my words and And shall be taken by Lord, and shall we tell my door? This morning's Bible reading is going to be found in Psalm 24, verses 1 through 10. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and they that dwell therein. For he hath founded it upon the seas. and establish it upon the floods? Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? Or who shall stand in his holy place He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart, who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully, he shall receive the blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salvation This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek thy face, O Jacob. Salah. Lift up your heads, O ye gates, and be ye lifted up, ye everlasting doors And the King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord strong and mighty. The Lord mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O ye gates, even lift them up, ye everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of glory? The Lord of hosts. He is the King of glory. Salah Let's open our hymnals again to 156. We'll sing all three verses of How Can It Be? I am doing no battery and I had to take the Oh can you go as I call my only found and gaze up on my corn from ground. And you 'll see the micro stand on my something was for me. I'll panic me , I'll can endeavour the word graceful and print components of the four involving. Kindness found his gold, don't say all body wine. As we change hymnals to the blue book, let's go ahead and stand to or one Well good morning. I'm quite mapping every and I don't have me to be just a fine fall And for a fine I too shall be completed and need one to one And no one thing to me deny, since thou my portion lord will be, I am no more comes in thee, Justin Fine. And for it might I too shall be What I'd like to do here on the last We'll sing uh a cappella the fourth verse and then the uh instruments can join us on the chorus. Everyone together, a cappella here, here we go. Dear Savior, when before the prophet, all tribes and tongues assemble are Among my chosen will I be at that right hand complete Indeed , in your blessing for salvation on thy God and called it all for me Amen. You may be seated. Okay, our children who are uh junior church age can be dismissed to the back. And the rest of you I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together. To the 24th Psalm. We're in the 24th Psalm. We're going to look at the entirety of this Psalm this morning, and this passage of Scripture will be the passage that we focus in on. as we prepare our hearts to partake of the Lord's table at the end of our service time. What I'm going to do is I'm going to read the text one more time. We're going to bow together for a word of prayer and then we're going to dig into a very, very powerful text of Scripture. Psalm 24, verse 1 says, The earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof, the world's, and they that dwell therein. For he hath founded it upon the seas and established it upon the floods Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? Or who shall stand in his holy place? He that hath clean hands and a pure heart, who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully. He shall receive the blessing from the Lord and the righteousness from the God of his salvation. This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek thy face. O Jacob, Selah. Lift up your heads, O ye gates, and be lifted up ye everlasting doors. And the king of glory shall come in. Who is this King of glory? The Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. Lift up your heads, O ye gates, even lift them up, ye everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord of hosts, he is the King of Glory, Selah. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to really help us understand this very rich passage of Scripture. Father, we're so grateful that we can gather as a body of believers. We are so grateful for the gospel that gives us forgiveness of sin. A righteous position in Christ, and the guarantee secured in Christ of eternal glory. Father, I pray that this morning you would open our eyes to the significance and the weight and the treasure of these truths. Father, help me to be able to communicate this passage in a very simple and clear manner. And I pray that the Holy Spirit would take these words and impress them upon our hearts. Stirring up our affections, bringing conviction of sin, righteousness, and judgment if necessary, bringing comfort and encouragement to the weary saint who is discouraged in their daily walk I pray that you would take these words and use them to accomplish your purpose in our lives this morning. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The text before us is a wonderful text. I'll give you a summary statement of it. Psalm 24 is a joyful reflection on the future reality of Christ. Taking his rightful eternal place in the New Jerusalem and it reflects on the current character and the future glory of God's people. Now I know that was a very simple statement, but there's a lot that's packed into those verses into that statement that I just made. It's very joyful, it's very jubilant, it's a hymn of praise to the Lord. And as we look at this, it talks about the fact that there is a people who are called the people of Jacob, and we're going to talk about that in just a moment who are righteous and they have a righteousness from God. It even talks about that in these verses. It also talks about the fact that these are people who have a destination that is a glorious destination. This is an eternal destination. And he mentions it twice in the end of these verses. Lift up your heads, O ye gates. and everlasting doors, the King of Glory is going to come in. And he's referring to Jerusalem, not the Jerusalem that you and I could go and visit today, but an eternal Jerusalem, one that has everlasting doors on it. And then he talks about the character that is so distinct and so unique about these people who have a righteousness that is from God. He is called their Savior. And who are anticipating this future glorious time when they will see the King of Glory, the Lord of hosts, the Lord Jesus Christ enter into this city forever. That's a lot, isn't it? That's a lot to unpackage. That's a lot to reflect on this morning. And we're going to try to do that in just a few moments together. I believe that as we look at this text in front of us, God wants us to understand the glory of the fullness of our salvation. I think that there are times when we present the gospel that we need to emphasize our justification. If someone doesn't know the Lord as a Savior, he needs to know about forgiveness of sins. and what Jesus has done for them and how they can be redeemed and forgiven and cleansed forever because of the work of Christ But when we talk about the gospel, we need to recognize there are lots of different elements or aspects to the gospel that affect us in so many different ways. I'd like to kind of start by talking about that for just a few moments. But before we do, I want to kind of give you a glimpse into the background of these verses. We don't know when these verses were actually But we know that they're a psalm of David, and it would appear, and a lot of older pastors and commentators would say that it is most likely that these verses were written during the time of 2 Samuel chapter 6. Now if you're to read in 2 Samuel 6 you will see that it's when God's people were all gathered together in Jerusalem, and the Ark of the Covenant, which had not been in Jerusalem for quite some time, was being brought back into Jerusalem. Not to go into a temple, because the temple had not yet been built. but to enter into the tabernacle. In fact, it was a very joyous time. And when we read those verses, we see that David was overcome with praise at the glory of that moment. The presence of God is entering back into Jerusalem, and it's going to go into the tabernacle, and God is going to dwell amongst his people at that point. It was an exciting time. But as David is going through that moment, he's thinking about a far more glorious time. And that's what we'll talk about a bit this morning. I also want you to notice the flow of the psalm. It really falls into three different sections. And the word sila, which is kind of pause and stop and reflect. and meditate. That's what that word sila really means. It kind of shows us the progression of these verses. And verses 1 and 2, the first section, talks about God being the absolute ruler of his creation. He owns it, and we'll talk about why he has the right to own it and what that means by implication. The second section is that his people have a very distinctive position and character. And I want us to talk a little bit about those two different aspects, the positional side of the believer's position in Christ, and then the practical side, the implications of that position, their character. And then in the last section, he talks about the glorious future that awaits God's people. Verses 7 through 10 is really the culmination or the crowning moment of this psalm. I kind of want to move from that flow of the psalm though to talk about this concept of our salvation being seen in three parts. The scripture talks about our salvation in three basic ways. And I think it's important for us to just take a moment to kind of review in our minds some very basic theological truths about the gospel, because as we think about these truths, we're going to find them all in the text that we're looking at this morning. An Old Testament text, not a New Testament text, an Old Testament text. First of all, our immediate salvation When we talk about our immediate salvation, we are saying that a person, when they place their faith in the finished work of Christ, his death, his burial, his resurrection, his righteousness, when a person turns to the Lord, places their faith in Christ, They are immediately by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, forgiven of every single sin, past and present and future. This salvation is rooted exclusively in the work of Christ. Our work plays zero part in us being justified in the presence of God. There is no work that God looks at in your life or in my life and he goes, on the basis of that good deed or that good desire, I will accept you. This is entirely the work of God. This is entirely of God's grace. His shed blood on the cross alone. cancels our sin debt. His righteousness alone gives us a righteous position in God. And so God accepts us because Forgiveness of sins has been dealt with at the cross, and he sees us as righteous in the righteousness of Christ. What's very interesting is we're going to see Though this is not the primary focus of Psalm 24, we will most clearly see that in these verses, and I'll draw your attention to it in a minute. We see that immediately at that moment we are regenerated. That means made alive in Christ. We are permanently indwelled by the Holy Spirit. spirit. In fact, he refers to it as our down payment or the earnest of the future glory that we will enjoy. And there's a lot we can say about that, but time won't allow me this morning, unfortunately. Forgiveness of sins, past, present, and future, declared righteous, and I love this next statement, accepted in the beloved God accepts us because of Christ. Not because of us, not because of something in us that he sees, but because of the work of Christ on our behalf. And we receive the benefits of that by faith alone in the finished work of Christ. We are declared righteous, accepted, called saints. Amazing to consider, and secured forever in the Father's hand. That is the first aspect of our salvation that we read about in the Bible. And when we are giving the gospel to someone, we're talking about justification. Are you saved from your sins? And we talk about how a person receives that salvation. But when we move to the second part of our salvation, this is what God is doing with those who He has saved already. So sanctification isn't a discussion that you have with an unbeliever, because an unbeliever does not have the capacity to grow in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus because they're spiritually dead. They're incapable of growing in Christ. But once someone is saved, justified by God, God begins at that moment a work that he will continue until the day that they die and enter into glory. And it's called sanctification. God is daily shaping us into the image of Christ. And by the way, we will never perfectly look like the righteousness that we received when we were justified. We won't. Because our righteousness always falls short. Sanctification is always incomplete on this side of our glorification. But this aspect of our salvation is something God is continually doing in us day after day after day. For instance, think about Romans 12. He says that we are transformed through the renewing of our minds. A sanctification. Where he says, faithful is he who calleth, he who also will do it. What's he talking about? He's talking about sanctification. Or he says, We with open face behold as in a glass the glory of the Lord are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. What is that? Sanctification Romans 6, like we were talking about in Sunday school this morning. He's talking about sanctification. This is a daily work. of the indwelling spirit through the scriptures to confront what is wrong in the way that we think. That's what repentance is. Repentance is my thinking has to change about these issues. As God confronts those wrong thinking, I begin to submit to God's word in those areas and I say, I want to think biblically. That's what repentance is. He begins to confront wrong thinking. He begins to uproot those things. He begins to replace it with godliness, and he begins to cultivate in us a totally different character and disposition. God does this until the day we're glorified. His word takes root in our hearts and it transforms us. And if you've trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, wherever you are on this walk to the final day when you will meet the Lord, God is maturing you a little bit more and a little bit more and a little bit more into Christ's likeness. He's making you look more and more like Jesus. But then there's a third aspect to our salvation. And that is what we call our future glory. We are looking forward to receiving the full benefits of our eternal inheritance in Christ. Now I don't want you to misunderstand what I'm saying. When a person places their faith in the finished work of Christ, he is kept by the power of God unto salvation. He doesn't lose that position. So there'll be days that the believer struggles and he falls and he stumbles and he's not what he needs to be. His position is safe in Christ. He has not experienced the fullness of glory yet, but it's guaranteed. And so we talk about our salvation as something that's finished. Our salvation is something that God is working in us, and our salvation is something we're looking forward to. Future glory, a glorified body, a restored creation, eternal communion with God in the New Jerusalem. When you think about the gospel, all of that is a part of this package. When you trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, Whether you understood all these other things or not, and I'm sure probably nobody near when you trusted Christ as your Savior understood sanctification and glorification and all those things. But your salvation was something that God had accomplished and something that he was working in these other areas in your life. Pretty amazing thing to consider. So with that in mind, let's begin by looking at the first truth we find in Psalm 24. This statement that we're going to find is actually something that's very similar to what we talked about last week as we were looking in our Luke series. And then the first truth we find in verses 1 and 2 is that the earth is the Lord's right now. This is God's world. You know, there's a song that we sing. This is my father's world, and to my listening ears. All nature sings and round me rings the music of the spheres. This is my father's world. This is God's world. This is his world. And he's going to state that in these verses. Verses 1 and 2. He says, The earth is the Lord's. and the fullness thereof the world and they that dwell therein. For, here's the reason why, he founded it upon the seas and established it upon the floods. These verses are telling us this is God's world. The earth is his, and those who dwell therein are his. And it rightfully belongs to him, for he founded it and he established it. Another way to put that is God made this world and he upholds this world. If it wasn't for God's providential care in this world, there would be chaos unimaginable. Colossians 1, 16 and 17 states the same thing in the New Testament. Here's what it says. By him, and he's referring to Christ here. were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, All things were created by him and for him. That's an amazing statement. God made it, it belongs to him, and it exists for his glory. And then he goes on. He says this. He is before all things, and by him all things consist. And that statement, all things consist, means he providentially cares for his creation. This is God's world. I know there's a lot of chaos and a lot that goes on that's a little bit complicated in the world, but it does not change the fact that God is ultimately in charge. And I want to kind of break this down just a little bit this morning, though I can't unpackage it fully. How God mediates his reign today. And how he will mediate his reign eternally does not change the fact that he rules today. What I'm saying is that God allows evil to unfold in the world today, though he is sovereign. There's going to be a day there'll be no evil in the world. He will deal with evil finally for good. Today God allows it when he can use it for his glory and his purposes. For instance, let me give you a couple of scriptures that tell us this. Psalm 76, 10, the wrath of man shall praise thee. The remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain. Amazing statement, isn't it? 1 Samuel 2, 3, it says that the Lord is a God of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed. Daniel 4, 35, all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. And he doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven, and amongst the inhabitants of the earth, none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? Even James 2. 19 says that the devils believe and tremble. They understand who Jesus is. They understand his right and his authority and his power. Last week when we were in the book of Luke, we saw that Jesus casts out demons, and when he does that, he demonstrated his sovereignty even over the realm of darkness. Even the devils tremble in his presence. In eternity, he's going to rule a redeemed creation without evil. And we see the statement in verses 1 and 2. I want you to move to the second thought though. God 's people have a very distinct walk right now. Now I didn't say that God's people are perfect. They didn't say that God's people don't sin, but God's people have a very distinct and different walk from the walk of the worlds around them. And he's going to talk about that in these verses, verses 3 to 6. Listen to what he says. Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? He's asking a question. What kind of people are going to inhabit that day, that final place, the New Jerusalem? What kind of people are going to be there? Who will stand in his holy hill? He answers the question. He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart, who hath not lifted up his soul into vanity nor sworn deceitfully, he shall receive the blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salvation. This is the generation of them that seek Him, that seek Thy face, O Jacob, Selah Now you may be sitting here this morning going, okay, clean hands, pure heart, not lifted up my soul in the vein. Is there anybody that meets this criteria? Well, if we want to talk about whether or not we are sinlessly perfect, the answer is no, nobody does. He's talking about a very general view of the believer who has been changed. and is being sanctified. And I want to talk a little bit about that from the New Testament side in just a minute. He's not suggesting a sinless perfection here. Never in Scripture do we read that the believer, when he places his faith in Christ, stops sinning and he becomes this person that doesn't sin anymore, doesn't struggle with faith. the difficulties of life. There would be Romans 6, Romans 6 in the Bible. I mean it talks about this is how we're supposed to live and this is what we're supposed to reckon, but we don't always do that, do we? But there is something very distinct about the believer. It is suggesting a distinct walk that's rooted in a living position and a future hope. And he describes these people three ways. And I want to draw your attention to these three ways, because these three ways are exactly what we talked about before when we talk about justification. And sanctification and glorification. The first way is these are people that have an immediate salvation. Look down with me at verse number five at the way that he words this. He shall receive righteousness from God of his salvation, and then he refers to these people as Jacob. Now what's very interesting is when we talk about the descendants of Abraham God calls them the children of Israel in some places, and he calls them the children of Jacob some places. That word Jacob means trickster. Many, many times when we're reading through the Old Testament and we see God referring to his people when they are being stubborn and they are being difficult, he talks about them as Jacob and He reminds them that you're just like your father Jacob was, the trickster. These are people that had once been viewed as Jacob, the tricksters, but now they have a righteousness from God, the God of their salvation. He's referring to immediate positional truth in these particular this particular statement. These are people who have been declared righteous. And one day when they stand in the presence of God, God is going to say, not guilty because of the finished work of Christ. They don't deserve that position, but they're called that position because they've placed their faith in the Savior. You say, well, how did Old Testament saints do that? They were looking for the Savior to come. They believed that God was going to send that Savior. They anticipated. They trusted in it. David and Abraham were just two people that were like that. But they have a future hope. These people are going to receive the blessing of the Lord. Whoops, I just skipped a little section there. They've been saved and will enjoy the fullness of their salvation. In that day. But I love this next thought. They needed a savior. And if they needed a savior, that means there are people that needed to be saved. And if there are people that needed to be saved, and they needed a savior, but he speaks of them as people who are saved, you know what that means? Their savior has accomplished the work for them. This is talking about their position. These are people who have a righteousness from God They have been saved by God. They were once viewed as Jacob, people who rejected the truth and now embraced the truth. And so the first way he describes these people as people who've been justified. There's a second way he describes them. They are people who are being daily sanctified. Now I'm going to walk through the statements that he makes, but before I do, I want to draw your attention to a New Testament text. That I think will really help us to understand what he's communicating in these verses. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 9, and then we'll read verse 11. I think you're familiar with this text. Let's remember this is written to Christians, believers at the Church of Corinth, who were a really messed-up group of believers. When we say we want to be like the New Testament church, I hope we don't mean the New Testament church at Corinth. But the reality is that when God speaks to these people, He calls them saints, He calls them beloved in Christ. Listen carefully to what he says about them. 1 Corinthians 6 verse 9. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? And he begins by laying out very specific kinds of lifestyles that God says, these are not my children. And then he says this. And Such were, that's an amazing statement, such were some of you. So the people that he's talking to had lived in the kinds of ungodliness that he talks about in the text there. The unrighteous who will not inherit the kingdom of God. You used to be this, but you're not anymore. What changed? He says, but you are washed. He's cleansed them. These people have lived such wicked and ungodly lifestyles when they place their faith in the finished work of Christ. He says, You've been washed. He doesn't see them that way anymore. He sees them as cleansed by the work of Christ. You are sanctified. Now, this means that positionally God declares them his children, righteous. Holy. Saints aren't just like the best of the best. If you trust in Christ, you're a saint. You're a holy one. You have been washed. You are sanctified. And then I love this next statement. You are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. Declared righteous. So that means a person who has lived in absolute wickedness. And God says the unrighteous won't inherit the kingdom of God. That person by placing their faith in the finished work of Christ can be washed and sanctified and justified. God can view them as not guilty. God can view them as clean. And in these verses, he's going to talk about the transformation that's going on in the lives of these people. This is the kind of transformation God's working in your life and in mine, when we place our faith in Christ. The first way that God's transforming them is through what they do. He says that they have clean hands. That means that these hands that were once used for wickedness and ungodliness, they have been cleansed, and God is beginning to use them for his glory, like Bruce is talking about. Not servants of unrighteousness, but servants of righteousness unto gods. Walking in a newness of life, being transformed in the way that we live. The second area he mentions is being transformed in why. They do it It. It's not just that the believer's walk changes, but the believer's motivation changes. God begins to change why we do what we do. I'll give you a really simple example. Let's say that you're a person that does not know the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, and you're starting to get really concerned about your standing with God. One of the first things you may want to do is start going to church. Because by all means, if if I want to be in you know accepted by God, I've got to go to the place where God accepts people. I've got to go to church. And so Well, I've got to start carrying a Bible and I I better start learning those songs and I better make sure that I know what I'm doing and I'm I'm starting to go here. Man, I should probably start giving a little bit and is there anything else I'm expected? And they start asking, can I do this and I can do this and I do this and I do this and I do this. If you were to ask them why you're doing that, they would probably say something like this. I don't want to end up in hell. I want to be saved. So the motive for all those things is I've got to earn God's favor. I've got to build up a case that I should be accepted. But when a person hears the gospel, they realize Christ did it all. He paid my penalty. I can stand righteous in him. I'm forgiven. I'm cleansed. I'm declared his child. I'm secured in Christ. And all of a sudden, I'm not coming to church because I'm trying to build a case for my goodness, but I'm coming to Coming to church because I recognize, you know what? This is where the people who've experienced God's grace come. I'm not giving because I'm earning God's favor. I'm giving because I love Him. The change that's going on in the life of the believer is motivated out of a pure heart, out of love for God. If you believe you're earning eternal life by the things that you do, there's no way you can serve from such a motive. It's impossible Possible. Because the more you recognize the standard, the more you'll hate the giver of the standard. Because you fall short. And so he transforms the heart, the motive. He transforms their values. This is really interesting. Not lifting up the soul into vanity. What do people live for? Money? Power? Acceptance A good reputation, building something that I can pass on to a generation and they can remember my name. That's the kind of stuff people live for. Building their kingdom now. What does the believer live for? A kingdom that they can't see. A kingdom that's eternal. And all of a sudden, what I live for doesn't seem to matter like it did. Now what I want to live for is totally different. That's one of the effects of sanctification. Not lifting up our soul unto vanity, not living for things that have no value and weight in the eyes of God. He transforms people into being trustworthy, not swearing deceitfully. The idea is when a person gives their word, it's true. I mean what they say is what they mean. There's no duplicity here. God takes a person that doesn't have that kind of a character and he transforms them. He makes them a new creature. That's what sanctification does. And then I love this next one. He transforms their affections. This is the generation of them that seek Him. These people love God. You know the world doesn't love God. It doesn't The world might love what they've made of God, how they imagine Him to be, a God that serves their purposes, a God that gives them what they want, a God that accepts them how they are. They don't want a God who is holy and righteous and just. And he says there's no undername under heaven given among men whereby you must be saved. It's Christ in Christ alone. They don't want that kind of a God. The world runs from that God. But when a person is transformed by the gospel, you know what they do? As the heart pants for the water, so their soul longs after Him. We love God. He puts it in our hearts. We love Him because He first loved us. Our love is something that we grow in the more that we understand the depths and the riches and the weight of His love for us. So as he gives these examples, he's talking about these people in terms of one, their position, and in terms of how they're being changed, the sanctification that's taking place in their lives. Third way is they have a future hope. He shall receive the blessing from the Lord. He doesn't say he hopes to receive the blessing from the Lord. He might receive the blessing of the Lord. He says he shall receive the blessing of the Lord. How can they have such confidence? Maybe they're going to mess up along the way. Maybe they're going to fall short at some point. He says, it doesn't matter. Secured in Christ. Kept by the power of God. That's what the gospel gives us. A secured position. There's a third truth I want you to see this morning. And that is that future glory awaits the redeemed. Verses 7 through 10, he says, Lift up your heads, O ye gates. Lift up ye everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of glory, the Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle? Stop And then he says it again. He said, I thought I just read this. Lift up your heads, O ye gates, and lift ye up ye everlasting doors. The King of glory shall come. In who is this King of glory? The Lord of hosts. He is the King of glory, Silah. And by the way, this is not the primary intent of the text, but clearly he is saying that the Lord Jesus Christ, the Messiah, is the Lord of hosts. Okay? That's a Trinitarian statement right there. Who is the king of glory? He's so Lord, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D, of hosts. He's talking about God in flesh. And he says it twice. David turns from the glory of the event that he's describing in 2 Samuel 6, or living through, and he remembers there's a glory coming that's far better. That's what he's saying. And he emphasized it by stating it twice. And I want you to notice that the scripture actually gives us several different glimpses of this. There are lots of truths in Scripture that what we see is God will make a statement at a moment in time, and as the people are living through that, they get a little bit of a taste of what's coming. And then that generation comes, and the next generation comes, and the next generation comes, and another generation comes, and they're in the midst of something very similar. And you know what God does? He reminds them of what he stated earlier. And he gives them a promise of something to come. And they can kind of get a better sense of this. Even when we talk about God promising to send the Redeemer, we see that God unfolds this story all throughout the Old Testament. And so in lots of different texts, you see these pictures pointing to the finished work of Christ, coming to the substitutionary death of Christ. You see these over and over and over again. You also see these when it comes to this moment that David describes in Psalm 24. Because not only did David experience the Ark of the Covenant coming into Jerusalem. And all the joy that was associated with it. And the tabernacle, this tent that the Ark of the Covenant was going to be housed in. But when David was gone , His son Solomon built the temple, and that generation saw the same thing. And I want to read it to you. Second Chronicles chapter 7, verse 1 says the following. When Solomon had made an end of praying, the fire came down from heaven and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices. And the glory of the Lord filled the house, and the priest could not enter into the house of the Lord, because of the glory of the Lord had filled the Lord's house. And when all the children of Israel saw how the fire came down, the glory of the Lord was upon the house, they bowed themselves with their faces to the ground upon the pavement and worshipped and praised the Lord, saying, For he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. So when David experienced the joy of the ark coming into Jerusalem, he was excited. When his son Solomon saw the Ark of the Covenant being brought into the temple and all that was accomplished in that moment, the people fell on their faces and said, This God is good and his mercy endureth forever. But those don't compare to what he's describing in these verses. Think about the triumphal entry in John twelve. We talked about this uh just a couple weeks ago. The people took branches of palm trees and they went forth to meet him and they cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And as all the people are excited, it gives us another little bit of a glimpse into this future-coming moment. But let me read to you what the scripture says about the fulfillment that is to come. You've got to turn in your Bibles to Revelation 21 and listen carefully to what it says. Because what we read about in verses 7, 8, 9, and 10. Is what John describes in Revelation 21, 1 through 4. And there's going to be a day that you and I will see this. Can you imagine? He says, I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. And I, John, saw the holy city, new Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them and be their God. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. He that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. These words are true and faithful. Folks, when we read Psalm 24, that's what he's talking about. He's not talking about the Jerusalem that they were walking into that's going to burn up and be replaced. He's talking about the new Jerusalem that is to come. And if you place your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, that is where you will spend eternity with God But here's the final question I want to ask this morning. How does this text inform us as we come to take the Lord's table? How does what we read about here and all these truths that we've thought about for a few moments together? How does that inform us when we take the bread and the juice and we remember his death until he comes? I jotted down a couple of things that I hope will help us to think as we prepare hearts to partake. They remind us of the fullness of our salvation. I hope you don't take lightly the position you have in Christ. It's a glorious position, secured by the incredible sacrifice of Christ and his triumphant resurrection. They remind me of the weight of the payment that was made, that made these blessings ours. They remind us that the cross canceled our sin debt and paid it in full. They remind us that the righteousness of Christ gives us a full acceptance in the beloved. They remind us that we were dead in trespasses and sins, but have been made alive in Christ. They remind us that we are the temple of the Holy Spirit and real communion with God is ours not only in the future but now. But there's a lot I can say about that. You know what little verse that says, where two or three are gathered in my name, I'm in the midst? When the church is gathered. He not only inhabits us individually, but he is with us. His presence is here with us as we gather. As we gather, he is with us. The joy and the communion that we enjoy are his good gifts to us. Do you enjoy fellowshipping with other Christians? You know, people say pastors only work on Sunday. That's not true. I don't work on Sunday. I just don't. This is the greatest blessing you could ever imagine. Joining up with God's people, the fellowship is so sweet. It's a gift from God I want to encourage you, let's prepare our hearts partake of the bread and the juice. Let's remember these precious truths. As we take the bread in a few moments, as we drink the juice that pictures, memorializes the body of Christ broken, the blood of Christ that was shed. Let's remember that all of these things that we have just spoken of, we have them because of what he did for us. Let's bow together for prayer and then we'll turn to First Corinthians as we prepare to partake. Father in heaven, thank you so much for the tremendous weight of Christ's sacrifice May we never get over it. May we be deeply moved in our hearts as we think about it. Thank you for declaring us righteous. Thank you for forgiving us. Thank you for beginning that work of sanctification in us though incomplete. You are doing it day by day. Thank you for the future glory that awaits us as your children. Thank you for the communion we enjoy with one another because of the gospel and the presence of the Spirit. I pray that this morning we would leave this place with a much fuller sense of these great realities. We ask these things in Christ's name, amen. I'd like to ask you if you could turn with me to pro uh Proverbs. Near the cross Our prayer should be that we always keep our hearts close to the cross. Let's stand together. First, second, and fourth verses, please. Jesus keep me near across precious house. We do all the same Till my toes are on the second I don't know how this may draw me. To my On the last Tell I least of his friend, just be on And the cross, and the cross, give me my glory Tell my lecture so shall I press me on the Okay, thank you can be seated. I'm gonna ask if Hugh, you can close us in prayer, but there are a couple of announcements before we close. Uh first of all, uh tonight uh Pastor Josiah Kennedy will be preaching, and if you are in Sunday school with us, uh Uh Pastor Josiah was able to share a presentation and uh he is from Ghana and uh Pastor Kennedy, I met him in 2008, first time I I went on a missions met him trip to Ghana. I got to stay with his family and his father and uh other family members. Um, also wanted to mention that uh the Lewis family uh had A little boy, James Eric, and uh we're thankful that uh mother and baby are doing well. And I know that uh we have another uh lady in our church who's Coming close to delivery as well. So be in prayer for uh her as well