Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our Sunday morning service and I hope that you've had a great week and uh looking forward to just a great time focusing our attention on the Lord. We have A couple of announcements and then we will open up our service with our first scripture reading. All right Good morning. Uh this morning, following the morning service, we have a Sunday school teacher meeting. This is going to be in the double door room just down the hall. So the room that we have the junior church in, that's where we'll have it. So uh So following the morning service, if you're looking to head down that way. This evening, we do have the opportunity to have a Hensing Fellowship. So that will actually be in the fellowship haul this evening. We'll have some hamburgers, hot dogs, and the like. Be excited to bring something. But Hemp Sing Fellowship, it'll be a great opportunity to uh I guess end the summer more or less. This Wednesday is True Trackers. I know I'm excited, me, the kids are excited for another Wednesday to start off. We're kicking everything off this week. With True Tractors kicking off, there's also the teen PE. So Pastor Josh is coordinating that, so if you have any questions, talk to him. But that is the teens are having PE in chapel at 4. 30. Later this week on Thursday, there will be a ladies' meeting as well as a little baby sprinkle for my wife, um Danielle. Uh we'll that'll be at 7 p. m. Uh they'll be working through Remind me of the book? Gather and give. If you're curious, I believe talk to Miss Deanna as well as there are copies of the book in the bookshelf or in in the bookstore. Next Sunday, there is a nursery workers meeting and there is a teen synspiration in the evening. So that's everything we have for at least the next week. Look forward to worshiping with you guys today. Our opening scripture reading is found in Psalm 40. We'll start in verse 1. I waited patiently for the Lord. And he inclined unto me and heard my cry. He brought me up also out of an horrible pit out of the miry clay and set my feet upon a rock and establish my goings And yet put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God, many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in the Lord Blessed is the man that maketh the Lord his trust, and respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies. Our theme for worship today is for us to reflect on God's abundant mercies. I also want to remind you that this morning we are going to be uh celebrating the Lord's table at the end of our service. So If you are planning to partake, please make sure that you pick up your elements in the back during the first hymn. And I also want to draw your attention to the hymns that we're going to be singing. You see them there in your uh bulletin. Uh our first hymn is going to be Praise to the Lord the Almighty, and that song is a really a majestic hymn. And so as we sing it I just really want to encourage you to really sing with passion and think about the greatness of our God and his almightiness And then the second hymn is going to be a bit more reflective, and since this morning we are focusing on the Lord's table, the body of Christ that is broken for us and his blood that is shed. This is going to be a more reflective hymn, When I Survey the Wondrous Cross. And then the third hymn that we're going to sing before we have our next scripture reading will be Complete in V. And that Him is going to be talking about what we have because of what Christ has done for us. And so we're to go from focusing on the greatness of God, focusing in on the cross. And then focusing in on the position that we enjoy in Christ. And so I hope that as we come to sing as a congregation, you'll think about that very, very deeply. Let's bow together for prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our service this morning. Father, we are so grateful that we serve an Almighty God, the God who is holy and righteous and good. A God who is kind and a God who is patient and a God who is rich in mercy. And this morning, as we reflect on the mercies of God, I pray that our hearts will be warmed. and deeply encouraged by what the Word of God has to say about our great God. And Father, I pray that you would minister to our hearts very richly. Father, each person that is here this morning is gathered with some great needs, some great burdens, some weariness, and I pray that the Word of God would minister to every single need. And Father, I pray that you would instruct us and open our eyes to behold the wondrous things that are in your word this morning. Help us to sing with a passion for you and with an intense love for you. And I pray that as we partake of the Lord's table together, our hearts should be knit together, as we remember the body of Christ broken, the blood of Christ shed. and the communion that we enjoy as your people because of the gospel. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Acre Baptist Church and esteemed guests. Good to see you out with us in person. And if you've joined us on live stream. Thank you for joining us there as well and taking advantage of the technology that we can nowadays. As we start off our song service, please stand with me. It's page 26 in the hymnal. If not, follow along with us on the screen. Praise to the Lord the Almighty. This is just getting started. Christ already all my God. Take a morning , help when you 're in the hotel. No let all that we are knowing. We are quite come out. For him, let me a man if people again gladly for are we adoring? Alright, we're gonna go to page two hundred and forty-three. Page two hundred forty-three. When I survey the wondrous cross. I survey the wonder My richest game, I can draw. But more can it on my pride for it? Lord that I should save in the desert Christ. I got all the things that charge I sacrifice. See from his head, his hands, his Person Such love and suit for words come with That were oppressive. Ezek Soréban. Demand my soul, my life my life is seated. Now we'll go to our blue book , page 192 in the blue book, all the way to the back. Go to the back and come forward. Page 192. Complete in thee. Complete in thee, no work of mine, they take the Lord the place of mine, thy blood hath hard in mind for me. And how can we justify a blessed part? And take it right salvation brought by what? I truly shall be complete in thee. No more shall sin. My grace appeared within. The voice shall be the gentleman and I shall complete thee They justify your blessing for Salvation what thy blood have caught in large for me Thy glory, I too shall be complete in thee. Each must apply and no good thing to me than I Since now my portion would be I asked no more completion They just if I don't bless it, but say it for salvation, but I call it that bard in God for me. Thank God. For my I too shall be. Amen. And amen. Now for the reading of the scripture, we go back to the book of Psalm. The book of Psalm, verse or chapter 41 this time, right after chapter 40, and we're going to read the entire chapter, verses 1 through 13. And the Psalm says. Blessed is he that considereth the poor. The Lord will deliver him in time of trouble. The Lord will preserve him and keep him alive. And he shall be blessed upon the earth. And thou wilt not deliver him unto the will of his enemies. The Lord will strengthen him upon the bed of languishing. Thou wilt make all his bed in his sickness. I said, Lord, be merciful unto me. Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee. Mine enemies speak evil of me. When shall he die, and his name perish? And if he come to see me, he speaketh vanity. His heart gathereth iniquity to itself. When he goeth abroad, he telleth it All that hate me whisper together against me. Against me do they devise my hurt. An evil disease, they say, cleaveth fast unto him. and now that he lieth, he shall rise up no more. Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, which did eat of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me But thou, O Lord, be merciful unto me, and raise me up, that I may requite them. By this I know that thou favourest me, because mine enemy doth not triumph over me. And as for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and settest me before thy face forever. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from everlasting and to everlasting. Amen and Amen. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of His Word. Friend Thank you for that. For our next song, Like a River Glorious, page 483, and please stand with me on this. It's got three verses at the end of the second verse. At the end of the second chorus, please shake one another's hands, greet one another. And uh welcome each and every one. Like a river glorious. Like a river glorious. God's perfect kings over victorious in his light. Perfect get it. Lower every day, perfect, yet it grows deeper all the way. State upon Jehovah Finding as it comes perfectly. Peace and rest hidden in the hollow of his blessed hand never broken far. Not a surge of worry, not a shade of care, not a The blast of berry touch the spirit there Stay upon your hova parts are fully black. Finding as a promise Perfect peace and rest. Greet one another. Okay, start making your way back. Okay, this is a chorus, but we're gonna start on the last verse. You ready? Sing out, make that joyful noise. Every joy or cryo follow it. From above Christ upon our dial by the side of God. We may trust him fully. All for us to do they who trust him wholly find him fully true stayed apart Hearts are fully blessed , mining as it promised, perfect peace and rest. Amen. You're sounding very n you're sounding very heavenly this morning. Page 478, I'm going to have you remain standing for this song. Can't sit down on It Is Well with My Soul. The third verse, we're gonna sing it a cappello, okay? Third verse, a cappello. When peace. Like a river I tendeth my way when sorrow like sea builders roll. What however my large thou hast caused me to say it is well it is well with myself. Oh it is well with my so it is. Is well, it is well with my soul though say not try. Shall come that this bless the show and control that Christ has regarded my I have blood this state and hath shed his own blood for my soul it is well With my soul it is well, it is well. With my soul on the third, my sin of the bliss of this glory star. My sin, not in hearts, but the whole Is nailed to the cross and I bear it no more. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Lord oh my soul it is well with my soul. It is well, it is well with my soul. And more is the day when my plate shall be sighed, the clouds be rolled back. The trump shall resound, and the voice shall descend, even so it is well. Well with my soul it is well with my soul. It is well, it is well with my call. Amen. Please be seated. I don't know. My shell dwell In past just rest, he makes me feel He signed the living string. He brings my wandering. And leave me for his life 's sake. Intense of truth and great truth. When I walk through the shades of death , I pray. And that 's in my case, the word of thy supporter. I saw my fear. I had inspired up all my foes. Just till my table spread my cup with blessing over. Person, my noise my head. The show provision. We are my taste. Oh may thy house be mine above All my work there was my rest. While this comes, no more strange shall I can But shall that nor astray Injured yes, but like a shell. Madrid go. You are junior church age can be dismissed to the back for your class. And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the 41st Psalm. Psalm 41. And this morning we are focusing our attention on the mercies of God. And I hope that you've seen that come out in the different hymns that we've sung as a congregation. Yeah, the scriptures definitely Let's go ahead and read the Psalm together. Again, that's Psalm 41. Here's what the scriptures say. Blessed is he that considereth the poor. The Lord will deliver him in time of trouble. The Lord will preserve him and keep him alive, and he shall be blessed upon the earth. And thou wilt not deliver him under the will of his enemies. The Lord will strengthen him upon the bed of languish that wilt make all his bed in his sickness. I said, Lord, be merciful unto me, heal my soul For I have sinned against thee. Mine enemies speak evil of me, and when shall he die, and his name perish? If he come to see me, he speaketh vanity, and his heart gathereth iniquity to itself. When he goeth abroad he telleth it. All that hate me whisper together against me. Against me do they devise my hurt. An evil disease say they cleaveth fast unto him. And now that he lieth, he shall rise up no more. Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, which did eat my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me But thou, O Lord, be merciful unto me and raise me up, that I may requit them. By this I know that thou favorest me, because mine enemy doth not triumph over me. As for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and settest me before thy face forever. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, from everlasting and to everlasting Amen and amen. Please let's bow together and ask the Lord to really help us to understand the text in front of us. And to ask the Lord to help this text prepare our hearts to partake together of the Lord's table. Let's pray. Father, as we've read this text of Scripture, I pray that the Holy Spirit, who indwells each believer here, And who will move for sure in this congregation this morning, I pray that the Holy Spirit would take the Word of God and impress upon our hearts these glorious truths about our Savior. Father, help us to understand the intent of the passage. Help us to understand how this points us to Christ. Help us to see how it. elevate certain aspects of your nature and it puts them in front of us and it celebrates them. Help us to see how it practically applies to our lives every single day. And Father, I just pray that you would meet with us in a very special way today, that we would understand that in fact you have moved in our midst, and you have strengthened us through your word. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. First thing I'd like to do before I give you kind of a summary of these verses is I'd like you to notice the structure of the psalm that's in front of us. And sometimes Especially when we're looking at the Psalms, it's helpful for us to understand that when David or Moses or Asaph or whoever wrote the psalm When they arrange the movement of that psalm, there are certain themes that they flow together in a way that's helpful to us if we notice that. And so I want to draw your attention to that. As we look at this psalm, there are actually four pieces or four movements to the psalm in front of us. And if you are reading through your Bible, you may notice that at the end of Psalm 41 it says, end of book one, beginning book two. And the reason for that is that the way that the Psalms were arranged is actually in five books. And the first book is finished with Psalm 41. And the way that it ends , blessed be the Lord God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting. Amen and amen, is actually a pattern that we see at the end of all of the books of the Psalms. So this Psalm is very significant because it's sort of closing out the thought that has been presented In that first book of Psalms. And so I want you to notice the way that he moves through this Psalm. The first part of the Psalm is in verses 1 through 3. And this speaks of God's kind providence. God gives mercy to the merciful. What we mean by his providence is we're talking about the personal way that God works and moves in our lives on a daily basis. He is kind, and we see that drawn out in these first couple verses. The second part is a little different. We see the harsh providence of God. No one is immune to suffering, not even godly people. And there's a popular theology today called prosperity theology, and in some churches they present this concept that if you were a godly person or you belong to the Lord, God would never allow you to experience heartache. and suffering and frustration and pain. But in fact that is not true at all. And this psalm will show us that sometimes God's hand of providence Appears in the moment to be extremely harsh. The third piece of the psalm is in verses 10 to 12, and that is God's wisdom. When the godly suffer They wisely turn to God. And so you see this movement. You see God's kind providence, God's harsh providence, and then the way that the believer is to respond. in wisdom turning to God and asking him to work in their lives. The last part of the psalm That's what we'd say is doxology. It is our interaction with God that should cause us to worship him. And so in verse 13 we see this eruption of praise, which is not just Psalm 41, but it's the closing of the first book of the Psalms. And so that leads us to the following summary statement. Though godly people suffer, God relates to them in mercy. Which causes them to cry out to him in trouble and to glory in him as they experience his merciful hand. Let me say it again. Though godly people suffer, God relates to them in mercy. Which causes them to cry out to him in trouble and to glory in him as they experience his merciful hand. You say, well, what does God want us to do? It's very simple. He wants us to look to Christ. And he wants us to see that he is a merciful redeemer. And this psalm is going to point us directly to Christ. And I think it's so very important especially when we're reading Old Testament passages, to ask ourselves, how does that passage of Scripture direct us to the cross, direct us to the empty tomb, direct us to the work and of the redemptive work of Christ? In fact, this psalm very easily does this, and you'll see why I say that towards the end of the psalm. So that's what the text is all about. Well, let's begin, first of all, by looking at this first piece. And seeing the truth that we need to take great comfort in God's kind providence. Look down in your Bibles again at verses 1 to 3. Here's what it says. Blessed is he that considereth the poor. The Lord will deliver him in time of trouble. The Lord will preserve him and keep him alive. He shall be blessed on the earth, and thou wilt not deliver him unto the will of his enemy. The Lord will strengthen him upon the bed of languish. Thou wilt make all his bed in his sickness. Now this statement begins with an assumption. And here is the assumption that God is merciful to people who are merciful. And when I make that statement, God is merciful to the merciful, I hope there are a lot of scriptures that actually come to your mind. There are Proverbs that teach this principle. We think about the Beatitudes. He says, Blessed are the merciful, for they shall what? Obtain mercy. Okay? So there's this principle in the Bible. God is merciful to the merciful. God blesses those who consider the poor. That's what we see in verse number one. It also assumes that there's a reason that they are merciful people. Have you ever thought about this? Not everybody is merciful in the world. You say, what causes a person to be merciful? Well, there are two things that come to my mind. One is something that is true about everybody to some extent. And that is because we are created in the image of God, we are moral creatures. There is a sense in which we understand in our souls, even though we don't do it well, even though we don't do it consistently, we know in our hearts that we are to treat people with kindness. We understand that. In fact, interestingly, when we talk about the Sermon on the Mount, the text that we're going to deal with coming up is it talks about the golden rule, and he says, Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. Well, there's a reason that Jesus said that It's because he assumes that within our conscience we know that we need to treat people kindly with respect, treat them well, because that's what we desire ourselves. You say, well, where does that sense come from? That sense of conscience? The answer is in Romans chapter 2, verse 14. Here's what it says. The Gentiles, which have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, which show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness So every person, whether they're a Christian or they're not a Christian, has this sense of moral understanding And a part of that sense of moral understanding is they know I'm supposed to treat people well. I'm supposed to do good to other people. Doesn't mean that they do it well. Doesn't mean that they obey God's laws. It simply means they know in their soul that in fact they're supposed to do these things. Think about when you give the gospel to somebody. You open up the law of God and you begin you been begin reading what it says. Thou shalt not do this, and thou shalt not do this, and thou shalt not do this. Well what's interesting is you may have a person that says, I don't believe in the Bible. I reject God's authority, but when you read those things to them and say a God in heaven who you say you don't believe in, who wrote a book that you say is not his word, he says to do this and not to do this, and you can see in their eyes. They know that it's true. Why is that? Because we're image bearers. We're made in the image of God. So there's a sense in which this is true, that there are merciful people because we have this moral sense about us. But there's a second piece that is far more significant than just the fact that we have a moral conscience. And that is that there's a clear distinction, a practical distinction. Between the way that the world approaches life and the way that God's people approach life. I could go to lots and lots of scriptures to lay this point out, but I just want to draw your attention to one text. Just so that you can see it. And that's in 1 John chapter 4. Look down in your Bibles at 1 John 4. 11 if you have them there in front of you. And if not, you can look up on the screen and it may be there. Here's what John writes. He says, beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. That is responsibility. And as soon as John says this, the people know it. They feel the weight of it. They feel the guilt of it. As soon as the text is read, they know that's true. He then goes on to say this. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. Now this is interesting He's saying people know they're supposed to do this, even if they're not Christians. And if they are Christians, they know it even deeper than the person who's not a believer. But when a person does it, it is an evidence that God dwells in them and his love is being perfected or it's being matured. in them as a person. So as this person grows into Christ's likeness, practically speaking, their life begins to look more and more like Christ and less and less like the world. He says, God is love. He that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God and God in him. And so when he makes this statement about people who are merciful, he begins with the assumption that there's a sense in which everybody understands right and wrong. But there's a very particular sense in which the believer who knows God, especially the one who walks with God, is going to live in a way that has compassion on other people. Third thing it assumes. The context of sins that mercy is warranted. And we're going to get into this in just a minute But if I'm showing someone mercy, there's a reason that they need mercy, okay? And so we see a couple of reasons mentioned in these verses. For instance, in verse 1, he says, the Lord will deliver him in time of Trouble. So why does this person need mercy? They're in trouble. Verse number two: the Lord will preserve him and keep him alive. Why is that significant? Because this person's life is in danger. Verse number two, thou wilt not deliver him unto the will of his enemies. What does this tell you? Well, there are people that wish ill on this individual. They want to hurt him. They want to see him die. They're wishing the worst on this person. So we have opposition. And then in verse 3 he says, the Lord will strengthen him upon the bed of language. that will make all his bed in sickness. And obviously he's saying that this is a person who is gravely ill. And so we see that when he says these are people who are merciful, that means there's people after like that. And when he says they're going to receive mercy, that means they're going to find themselves in places where that's what they need, trouble, danger, opposition, sickness. And by the way, this morning you may find yourself in one of these places. You may have just barely been able to get here because of a physical issue that plagues you constantly. Or there are people that would have loved to be here this morning, but you're not here because You're physically ill and you're not able to be here. Or maybe there are external pressures that you're dealing with, and these pressures weigh very heavily on you, and you say, I need God's mercy in this situation. Fourthly, it presents a timeless comforting principle. Blessed is he who considers the poor. He will experience a rich quality of life that rises above circumstances. That's what he means by blessed. When he's vulnerable, God will intervene for his good. That's why he says he will deliver him in time of trouble. God will protect him amid the numerous troubles that surround him. That's why he talks about being preserved. And God will develop him through what he permits. That's why he says, strengthen him on his bed of sickness. So this timeless principle is something we need to grasp. As soon as we open up this psalm, one of the things that we read is that God blesses the merciful when they have time of great need. And that really leads me to a question. How do you treat people that have great need? I mean, are you a cold and callous person? When you see a person who's struggling and going through hardship, do you kind of gloat a little bit and say, yeah, they probably had it coming? Or is your heart moved with compassion? You say, well, are you talking about a friend or an enemy? Because that might determine the difference between how I relate to them. How do you relate to people? Truth number two, we should never rage against God's harsh providence. Now, this principle is extremely important for us to understand. There are some contexts where Christians don't want to talk about concepts like this. But it is in the text of Scripture. It's very important for us to consider it. And so I say it again, we should never rage against God's harsh providence. God is under no obligation to give anyone in this room a life of complete ease and comfort. He is under no obligation to remove every single struggle from our lives. And it's important for us to recognize this. When we go through heartache and difficulty, it's not God being cruel. It's not God being harsh. It's not God being unjust or unrighteous. And there are some Christians And most definitely people in the world that when God for some reason allows them to experience some level of heartache, whatever it is, they immediately run to this mindset. God is unrighteous. God is not fair. God is unkind. God is cruel. God hates me. He's doing this to punish me. And that's the wrong way for us to think about God. Notice what he says in verses 4 to 9. He says, I said, Lord, be merciful unto me Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee. Mine enemies speak evil of me. When shall he die? In his name perish. That's kind of an interesting thing to hear there. And he come to see me, and he speaks vanity. His heart gathereth iniquity to itself. When he goeth abroad, he telleth it. All that hate me whisper together against me, saying, Me do they div against me do they devise my hurt. An evil disease say they cleaveth fast unto him, and now he that lieth, he shall rise up no more. He, my own familiar friend, and in him in whom I trusted, which did eat of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me. Now I'd like us to kind of break down this section and notice the pieces of what he's saying. The first thing you should notice here is that the following section is reflection on the past. He says, I said. So in some, in fact, when you're reading through this passage, it's hard to know, is David talking about something that happened a long time ago? He's reflecting on it. Is he something that is happening right now and he's kind of reflecting on the past? He's living in the present and he's kind of going back and forth. It's a little bit hard for us to really notice, to know that. But I think what David is doing is he's in a present situation reflecting on his past experience in this area. But notice the pieces, verse number four. He recognized his sinfulness and the possible connection to suffering. Verse number four: Be merciful unto me, heal my soul, for I have what Sinned against thee. Now, it's fascinating to notice this. David talks about his sin against God, but then he talks about his righteousness. And his uprightness and how good he is. And you say, well, which one is it? Is David a good man or is David a bad man? Is he a righteous man or is he a sinful man? The answer is he's both. He's a man who is righteous in Christ. He's a man who is to the best of his ability trying to live according to God's principles. But he's still a flawed man. He's still a sinful man. There are times that he stumbles and there are times that he contradicts God's law and there are times that he's a horrible example and so he lives this life of a mixture I'm righteous but I'm still a Sinner. And so he acknowledges this in verse 4. He laments his enemy's dismissive attitude. Look down in verse 5. He says, My enemies speak evil of me. When shall he die and his name perish? Now what is he saying? That as I lay on this bed and I'm suffering There are people that are not in front of me right now, but they're back in a room and they're just sitting there going, I can't wait till he's dead and gone I can't wait till we don't have to deal with David anymore. Maybe this is the last time he's sick and we won't have to see him anymore You say there are people like that? Yeah, absolutely. You might work with them. There might be some people that you've become estranged from in life, and they love it when something bad seems to be happening in your life. And that was David. David is lamented the fact that he has people he knows that when they go away from where he is in their minds they say, I can't wait till David's dead and gone He lamented their plotting to use his weak condition against them. In verse 7, he says, All that hate me whisper together against me. Against me do they devise my hurt. So there are some people that they're thinking about David and they're like, I can't wait till he's dead. And there are others who are saying, How can we use this against him? How can we exploit his weakness? How can we exploit his suffering? How can we take advantage of him? You know, especially a person in authority, a person who has power, a person who has means. There will inevitably be people, but this is the mindset that they have Any weakness, they're going to jump on that weakness and take advantage of that weakness. And David's experiencing this The third example, he laments their plotting to use, excuse me. The fourth is he laments that some who he had once counted his friends explained his vulnerability. In verse number nine, he says, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted Which did eat of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me. Now, this verse is a very important verse in appreciating the fullness of this psalm. So in the back of your mind, just tuck this away. We got to come back to verse number nine because it's important for us to understand a little bit of what David is saying. But what he's saying is here's a guy that He was my friend, he was my companion, he was somebody I trusted, someone I moved around with. I felt safe in their presence. And now what is he doing? He's lifting up his heel, he's kicking me. That's what he's saying So when we think about this section, what are we saying? We're seeing David reflect on misery. But there's another thing we see: David reflecting on misery with the right perspective. There's a couple things I don't want you to miss before we move to the next point. First of all, notice that he uses the word mercy. When David thinks about God, even though David is living through a very harsh season of life, he has enemies who want him dead. He has people who are trying to take advantage of his weakness. People that he had considered close friends, who he trusted, who've turned against him. Even though God has allowed this to happen, David's view of God is still correct. He uses the word mercy. When he thinks of God, he realizes that God has compassion on him in that situation. I can't tell you how many times I have conversations with Christians who are going through heartache, and in the back of their mind, they are convinced God is trying to get them. them. There's a little book in our bookstore. It's called Gentle and Lowly. If you struggle with the belief that God is good to you and loves you, you should pick up that book. And I guarantee you, if you struggle with that concept and you read that book, you will doubt it's true. Yet it will talk about so many scriptures, it will talk about so many concepts. And it's not an infallible book, okay? It's an imperfect book. It's not scripture, but it's full scripture. And as you read it, you'll say, God really looks at me like that? He really loves me like that? He really has such compassion on me like that? And the answer is, of course he does. Say, well, why do I doubt that? Because our view of God is very twisted. Our view of God is not what it ought to be, and it will really affect us. at times when we are like David in this place. So he begins with understanding God has compassion and kindness toward him. The second thing is he acknowledges that he's a sinner. He recognizes, you know, God has the absolute right to allow my misery. In a sinner, I look at God and say, you have no right to allow me to experience hardship. You need to stop and think about something. You're a sinner. I'm a sinner. But for the grace of God, we'd be condemned to eternity in hell. But God in his mercy and his kindness sent the Lord Jesus to die for our sins and rise from the dead. And because of what he did for us We have eternity, but we don't deserve that. We don't deserve goodness in this life. We don't earn goodness in this life. It is all 100% the grace and kindness of God. And so when David speaks of his sin, it's his acknowledgement that I'm no person who deserves God to be kind to me. The third thing is he humbly appeals to God. He didn't have an attitude of entitlement. When you have a great heartache in life, how do you pray to God? Do you get on your knees and say, God, I'll believe in you if you take away this illness? God, if you're really good, you're going to do what I tell you to do here. Please don't do that. If that's the way that you think about God, you have a serious problem. He's not your peer. He's not your little brother. He's your creator. We should be humble in his presence. We shouldn't come in in prayer to the Lord with this attitude of entitlement. It is one of humility and one of thankfulness and one of appreciation and one of anticipation, not because we deserve, but because he's kind. Whenever God moves kindly in our lives, it's because He's kind, not because we deserve. And so David's attitude in this text is correct. Third thing I want you to notice. Is that we should flee to him when we experience his harsh hand. Now, some of us may say, well, hold on, if if life is hard and God could have stopped it, then why would I go to him? The answer is, well, there's a reason that God has permitted something. You may not understand it now, I may not understand it now, I may not be able to give you a good answer, and you may not be able to give somebody else a good answer. But God has reasons for the things He permits. And so in verses 10 through 13, we see it this way. He says, Thou, O Lord, be merciful unto me, raise me up that I may requit them. By this I know that thou favorest me, because mine enemy doth not triumph over me. As for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity and setteth me before thy face forever. Now when David uses this statement, By this I know that thou favorest me because my enemy doth not triumph over me, he's really simply saying, If I don't die, which is what my enemy wants right now, I will know that you've been kind to me. I mean that's really what David is saying here. But I want to break this down a little bit so we think about it. The first thing about why David flew fled to the Lord is because he, as we should understands the principle that we find in this text. Verse number one, the Lord will deliver in time of trouble. The Lord will preserve. and keep him alive. The Lord will bless him upon the earth. That principle is what should drive us to God. He is the deliverer. He is the preserver. He is the one who blesses the infirmed and the weak and the vulnerable. Secondly, we look back with a clear perspective In verse 4 he says, I said, be merciful unto me. And as David recounts it, he looks back over his life and he says, God said this over and over and over and over and over again. So I come to him over and over and over and over again. Thirdly, we know he is compassionate. He says, Thou upholdest me in mine integrity. And settest me before thy face forever. Now this is a fascinating statement. And there are a couple of questions that are just pop in my head when I read this. The first is, well, when does that happen? You're gonna set your face that uh you're gonna you're gonna uphold me and you're gonna set me before your face forever? When will that take place? Does he literally mean he's gonna do this forever? How is this even possible? I want to address that in just a second. When David was thinking about God , He was comforted because this text has both a near-term side to it and a future side to it. You say, what do you mean a near term and a future to a future to it? Well I want you to notice a couple of details. When David writes these verses, he's being moved by the Spirit to record his experience. And so when you and I read this, there are times in life that we can identify with what David is saying. We read the text and we say, the way that David felt, that's the way I feel. The way that David responded, that's the way I should respond. And we see this pattern side to it. It's learning from him in that moment. But that's not the only reason that God moved David to write what he did. He also moved him to predict a future event that would be the significant, that would be significant for him in two ways. The first is it would provide the comfort that God understands what it is like to physically suffer. And the second is that it would provide the basis that established an everlasting fulfillment of this promise. And you say, well, where in the world do you see that? Where do you see comfort that God understands by experience? Where's God in these verses? And what do you mean, a basis for an everlasting fulfillment of this principle? Where is that fulfillment coming in this text? If you want to understand it, you need to go to the book of John. And let me read to you what it says in John chapter 13, verse 18. And by the way, this text is so practical for the Lord's table because this was actually written about Christ when he instituted the Lord's Supper. Listen to what it says in John 13, verse 18. He says, I speak not of you all. I know whom I've chosen. But that the scriptures may be fulfilled, he that eateth bread with me hath lifted up his heel against me. Let me read that again. I speak not of you all. I know whom I've chosen, but that the scriptures may be fulfilled, he that eateth bread with me hath lifted up his heel against me. You say, well, what's Jesus talking about? Well when Jesus makes this statement, he has just he's sitting down to eat the Passover with his disciples, and as he is dipping that bread and passing it, he says, Tonight, one of you is going to betray me They said, Really? He said, Yes. One of you will betray me. And they all got really uncomfortable. And they said, Well who's gonna do this? And what's going on? This is what Jesus says. I speak not of you all. I know whom I've chosen. But so that the scriptures are fulfilled, he that eateth bread with me hath lifted up his heel against me. He's talking about what David wrote in Psalm 41. What's the point? The point is that as David experienced this, and he wrote about it in the moment, he wasn't just writing about it in the moment. He was writing about an event that would take place. thousands of years later, that would fulfill this particular statement here that was going to bring comfort to him that there is a Redeemer who understands what it is like to be in my shoes. And he's going to provide a way for me to be before his face forever. That's what Psalm 41. 9 is all about. We have a New Testament application of this very principle. Listen to what it says in Hebrews chapter 4. He says, we have naught in high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. But was in all points tempted like we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly before the throne of grace and obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. What is the writer of Hebrews saying? Jesus knows by experience. Jesus has compassion toward you and me and our misery. Because he knows what it's like to suffer in a real physical body. He knows what it's like to be betrayed. He knows what it's like to suffer. He knows what it's like to be treated unjustly. He knows all of those things. And he knows them because he allowed himself to be in those places. And so he invites us into the presence of Almighty God to receive a daily supply of grace so we can handle the sa the troubles of life as a blessed person. That's what he said. Truth number four. This is the last truth. God's nature and ways should cause us to praise Him. Look down in verse 13. He says, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from everlasting and to everlasting. Amen and amen. From And two. What does that tell you about the Lord God? He is from everlasting to everlasting. And all creation should proclaim his glories with all their might forever. You say why? Because of what this passage of Scripture tells us about his character. This passage of Scripture emphasizes his righteousness. Psalm 11, the righteous Lord loveth righteousness, his countenance doth behold the upright. Psalm 199, the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. Psalm 116, 5, Gracious is the Lord and righteous, yea, the earth is full. Yea, our God is merciful. What do these verses tell us? He's a righteous God. This text shows us he's a righteous God. These verses show us he's a righteous God. He's a wise God. Psalm 104, 24. How manifold are thy works, in wisdom hast thou made them all. The earth is full of thy riches. He is good. Psalm 31:19. Oh, how great is thy goodness which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee. Which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men. Psalm 33, 5. He loveth righteousness and judgment. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. How do you view God? I hope you say he's righteous. He's wise. He's good. He's kind. Psalm 36, 7. How excellent is thy loving kindness, O God. Therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings. He's faithful. I think of Malachi 3. I am the Lord, I change not. Therefore, ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. What does that mean? As wicked as the nation of Israel was, God did not change in his promises to them. He says, the reason I don't destroy you as a people is because I promised I'll never do it. I don't change. And he's our redeemer. First Peter 118. Ye were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold. From your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. Who verily was forordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you. What is the point of all this? The point of all this is that we need to think correctly about God when we suffer. And the way to think correctly about God when we suffer begins with knowing who He is as the scripture presents. Him. How do we apply this? First thing I'll say is this. Allow scripture to shape your view of him. He is righteous. He is wise. He is good. He is kind. He is faithful. Is that how you view God? Because that's who he is. Secondly, allow these unchangeable truths about his nature to cause you to take comfort in him. If indeed God is righteous, wise, good, kind, and faithful, why would I doubt him? Why would I distrust him? Why would I become angry at him? Thirdly, realize that since he is good He will at times allow what he hates when it is an inescapable part of accomplishing what he loves in your life. Now that's a really deep statement. Realize that since he is good, he will at times allow what he hates when it is an inescapable part of accomplishing what he loves in your life. This was true when Christ took on humanity and suffered in the incarnation. This was true when Christ suffered humiliation and betrayal. Do you think that the father enjoyed seeing the son suffer in a physical body? Do you think the father enjoyed seeing the son be humiliated and betrayed and mocked and scorned and despised? Blasphemed? Do you think he enjoyed that? Of course not. But he permitted it. This was true of the sufferings of Christ on the cross. Do you think the father enjoyed seeing the son hang in agony on the cross? No, it pleased the Lord to bruise him because of what it accomplished. There was no joy in the suffering. There was joy in the redemption. And this is also true in what God must do to cause us to grow in spiritual maturity. You will not mature in life without suffering. You will not mature in life without some struggle. You will not mature in life if God were to always insulate you from every potential heartache. and frustration and vulnerability. God in his wisdom permits these things because that is what causes us to grow. This is true of the tests that provide opportunities for future eternal reward. Do you want to stand at the judgment seat of Christ and hear well done? Well then you're gonna need some places where it's not easy. You're gonna have to go through some heartache, you're gonna have to go through s through some challenges. You're gonna have to experience some resistance. And so when those things are happening, it's not God saying, Oh, I hate you and I want to destroy you, it's God saying, I want to mature you It's God saying, I'm testing you. I want you to pass the test. It's true because this is the path to intimate knowledge of God. How will you know God is kind and merciful and gracious? Unless there's a context for that. You and I have to go through things that are hard. And in God's kindness and wisdom, he causes us to pass through these things because it's an inescapable part of what he must accomplish in our lives. Let's rest in his kind providence as he actively manages every trouble and directs it toward his intended good. Please let's bow our hearts as we prepare ourselves to remember his body broken. And his bloodshed for the remission of our sins. Let's celebrate our Savior and His sufferings. And let's do it in a way that is worthy, a manner worthy of the sacredness of this remembrance. Because let's start together in prayer. Our Father in heaven, as we think about this passage, there are some very difficult and there are some very deep truths that are in this text. And Father, I pray that you would help us to reflect very deeply on them and help us to especially think about how this text drives us to Christ. How it reminds us that He can comfort us because He knows what it is like to suffer. And he knows because he loves us enough to permit such suffering on himself to accomplish redemption for us. And so, Father, as we remember the body broken and as we celebrate the blood that was shed for the remission of our sins, may we do it with joy and humility. And a firm conviction that we should walk consistent with the position we have in Christ. May we be very comforted in this time. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.