Let's turn together to the 49th Psalm this morning. Psalm 49. And for those of you that uh maybe you're not a regular part of our church, on the first Sunday of each month, We are going through the Psalms, and so you can see we've been at it a while. 49 months we have spent working our way through the Psalms. It's a little over four years. And one of the things that's a blessing about doing a study through the Psalms like this on the first Sunday of the month is many times we come to the Lord's table, you'll see that The theme of that particular psalm really hits home with the theme of the Lord's table. And this passage that we're looking at this morning is not going to uh be any different than many of those that have been like that. So Let's go ahead, look down in our Bibles. We'll begin reading in verse 1. We'll read our way through the Psalm, and then we're going to work our way through the content. of this psalm as we reflect on the Lord Jesus Christ and what he has done to redeem us to God Here's what God's Word says. Hear this, all ye people. Give ear, all ye inhabitants of the world, both low and high, rich and poor together. My mouth shall speak of wisdom, and the meditation of my heart shall be of understanding. I will incline my ear to a parable. I will open my dark saying upon the harp Wherefore should I fear in the day of evil, when the iniquity of my heel shall compass me about? They that trust in their wealth and boast themselves in the multitude of the riches. None of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him. For the redemption of their soul is precious. It ceaseth forever, that he should still live forever and not see corruption. For he seeth that wise men die, likewise the fool and the brutish person perish, and leave their wealth to others. Their inward thought is that their house shall continue forever, their dwelling place to all generations. They call their land after their own names. Nevertheless, man being in honor abideth not. He is like the beast that perish. This their way is their folly, yet their posterity approved their sayings. Selah Like sheep, they are laid in the grave, death shall feed on them, and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning, and their beauty shall consume in the grave from their dwelling But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave, for he shall receive me, Selah. Be not thou afraid when one is made rich, when the glory of his house is increased. For when he dieth he shall carry nothing away His glory shall not descend after him, though while he lived he blessed his soul, and men will praise thee when thou doest well to thyself. He shall go to the generation of his fathers. They shall never see light. Man that is in honor and understandeth not is like the beasts that perish This is a really interesting psalm. What's really interesting about this psalm is there are portions of this psalm that are kind of like reading the book of Proverbs. There are also portions of this psalm that are like reading the book of Ecclesiastes. And there are other portions that are like reading the book of Romans. And what I what I love about this passage of Scripture is that he's going to take the wisdom of a Proverbs and the wisdom of an Ecclesiastes and the theology of a Romans and he's going to put them all together in a way that will really point us to the finished work of Christ. So let's bow together for prayer. Ask the Lord to really help us to understand this text and to see how we should live in the light of it. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, thank you for your word. It is truth. It is given to us for our good, for our edification, but ultimately to point us to the Lord Jesus Christ and what he has done for us. Father, may every one of us in this room come under the Spirit's work. As the Spirit of God takes the word of God and presses it on our souls, I pray that whether we need to be be drawn into the way of wisdom, or whether we need to be warned because we're living in folly, or whether we need to just rejoice in the Lord Jesus Christ who has purchased our redemption. And who has given us every blessing that we have, I pray that this morning the word of God would speak to us, that we would be challenged, that we would be made wiser that we would worship you in spirit and in truth. And in fact when we come to the Lord's table, that time of remembrance would be so sweet and so impactful and so strengthening of us in the inner man as we think of the great work of Christ for us. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. I'll summarize the psalm in front of us in the following way. True wisdom rejects all misplaced objects of trust. And glories in God's redemptive grace. Notice in that statement, there is both a negative, we reject certain things, and there is a positive. It's not just that we know it. That we're aware of it, that we say it's true, but in fact we embrace it and we glory in it. That is what this psalm is all about. It is turning from folly and embracing true wisdom, God's wisdom. And so as we dig into this text, I think what we'll see is the need to resist the deceptive pull of the things of this world and glory in the gospel alone. That is what this passage is all about. And it really emphasizes the negative, and there in the center of the psalm is here is what we are to delight in So in order to do this, let's work our way piece by piece through the content of this psalm. The first thing I want you to notice is the wisdom of the psalm in front of us. And we see that in verses 1 through 4. We must Pursue true wisdom and a world that is filled with distractions. This morning some people said, how was your week this week? And I'm like, it was really busy. I had so many things that were going on this week. We took a week off a week ago and we come back and there were so many things that we were working through this past week. And the truth is that I almost need to just sit down and drink in all the different things that I've experienced, thought about, talked about, been a part of. We had a wedding here yesterday. We have a newlywed couple right down here in the front. Did you know that? That's right. I didn't come to church after my wedding, but we're glad that you guys did this morning. And that was one part of the week and uh got to talk to the interns about various things that were going on. This is Alyssa's last Sunday. before she goes back home before college, so make sure you spend some time with her. We've really enjoyed having her and John. John's gonna be with us just a little bit longer. And then Anna and Julia are back from working at camp And we are so glad to have you guys back. And that's just like scratching the surface of some of the different things that went on this week. And the reason I bring this up is maybe to make you aware of it, but the truth is we have so many things that we deal with on a day-by-day basis. We don't process what's in front of us. We don't process what we're living through. A lot of times we're just like we're just getting pushed by experiences that are going on all around us. And that's a really dangerous position for us to be in Because the truth is we need to stop sometimes and think about what's going on around us and ask the question, am I walking in true wisdom? That's what this Psalm begins with. True wisdom and verses 1 through 4. And the statement that really captures this is the following statement. Hear this, all people, give ear, all inhabitants of the world. This statement rings like the book of Proverbs. Everybody needs wisdom, no exceptions. That's why we see words like all. And words like low and high, rich and poor, it doesn't matter who you are, it doesn't matter what life experiences you have had that are very positive Or that are very negative. It doesn't matter how much money you've made or how much money you haven't made. It doesn't matter any of those things. You need wisdom. You need to walk with God. You need to know Him. And this psalm is going to draw our attention to rejecting what is folly and embracing what is wise. It's available to anyone who's willing to seek it with a genuine heart. In fact, look what he says in verses 3 to 4. He says, My mouth shall speak of wisdom. I will open my mouth in dark sayings upon the harp. A couple of words in verses 3 and 4 that tell us that wisdom is available, but we've got to want it. We've got to desire it. We've got to be willing to pursue it. Words like meditation, you've got to reflect. on what's going on around you. When you read the Word of God, you've got to reflect on what it's saying. It's not just give me the information so I'll know what I need to do. It's give me the information so I can process it. And if I process it, then I can walk in the way of wisdom. That's what he means by meditate. Or then we see another word, incline. That means you gotta humble yourself to listen to what's saying. You know why a lot of people don't have wisdom? Because they're so proud that they won't listen to anything that anybody around them has to say. It's not that they don't have the ability to get wisdom. It's not that there isn't an opportunity to come in contact with wisdom around them. It's that they do not want to lower their ear to those around them who have godly wisdom and say, what can you say about this situation that would help me to think correctly about it? Incline. And then there's a third statement, dark sayings. Anybody here like riddles? Anybody here not like riddles? So people that like riddles are the ones that like to give them and just laugh when everybody's like, ah you can't figure this out. And people that don't like rid riddles are the ones that are always on the other side of the riddle and they're always like, okay, I give up. And then they tell them they're like, oh Man, I wish I knew that. I'm usually on the other side, right? I'm not the one giving the riddle, I'm the one hearing the riddle. But use the word dark sayings because you're gonna have to take time to process. What's in front of you? A lot of the book of Proverbs is written, not just straightforward, like here's the information. It's here's the negative, here's the positive. Work it out. Here's one aspect of it as a generalization. Here is a specific implication of that. Work it out. Here are two things that seem like they're opposites, but when you put them together side by side, they actually give you true wisdom. In fact, we look at the book of Proverbs and we look at the Book of Ecclesiastes and we set them side by side, they give us God's wisdom, but from different angles. And in fact, if we're going to have wisdom We're going to have to be willing to sit down, submit ourselves, reflect on the truth, work through the dark saying that is there, and as we work through it, it becomes a part of us, and we will walk in it. The question is, are we willing to do the work? Where do we find this wisdom? Well, negatively, we've got to reject the deceptive substitutes that are all around us. Positively, we have to embrace what is true. It's not just positive, it's negative, and it's positive. It's not just negative. I've got to say no to this and I've got to say yes to this. And the standard is scripture. So the first thing we see here is the need for wisdom. The second is that folly is all around us. Look down in verses 5 through 9, and the statement that really should capture our attention here says the following. None of them Can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him. Amazing statement. None can by any means redeem his brother nor give to God a ransom for him, that he should still live forever and not see corruption. In fact, I would say that probably the whole heart on the positive side of this statement or in Psalm 49 is what we're looking at in verses 5 through 9. This is where the heart of it is. And so he talks about the folly of trusting and wealth and how this is a fatal strategy for people to follow. Now, before we actually look at the content, I want you to think about this concept of wisdom. Wisdom comes on a lot of different levels There's a side to wisdom that we could say is just straight being shrewd. You know what I'm talking about? People who know how to navigate life. They have a lot of common sense. They seem to be able to read people. They seem to have a good work ethic. They have this rugged sense about them. But there is something missing. No God. Is that real wisdom? No, it's not. There's another side of wisdom, and we see a lot of this in the book of Proverbs. This is the wisdom that relates primarily to a good quality of life. So we could talk about wisdom in relation to our work ethic, how to get along with people, how to make good financial choices, how to get along with other people, our personal habits. And there's a lot in the book of Proverbs that talks about work and relationship and finance. and personal character and habit habits. And that's really good, but there's something that falls short in this. We're all going to die one day. And so if you have a great quality of life, what's a man top it if he gains the whole world, but he loses his own soul So a person may be very shrewd in their financial choices. They may have a very good work ethic. They may get along very well with people. They may have great personal habits. But they do not deal with the most important issue of how am I reconciled to a holy God? And guess what? Their wisdom falls short. But there is a third, and this is the focus of what we see here. A wisdom that relates to our eternity. How is a sinner reconciled to a holy God? How does a redeemed sinner live a life of true value? That's real wisdom. Not to say that the first is not a type of wisdom and the second is not a type of wisdom, but all of those two fall short of this third. How do we find real security before a holy God? There are five problems. That are kind of implied in the text in front of us. And we see them in verses 5 through 9. Notice what he says here. He says, Wherefore should I fear in the day of evil when the iniquity of my heels shall compass me about? They that trust in their wealth boast themselves in the multitude of their riches. None of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him. For the rep The redemption of their soul is precious, and it ceaseth forever, that he should still live forever and not see corruption. Now, the psalmist is indicating several problems that every single person encounters. And he's going to do this in the context of something that everybody in this room can kind of understand this on some level. We know that people that have money have, we could say, some security. Let's say you live in a foreign country as an American. Can you go to certain doctors that other people can't go to? Oh yes, you can Can you navigate difficult situations that other people can't? Oh yes, you can. Or let's say that you're living in a city and you're the guy that is the strongest. You're the guy that has the most power and authority in that particular community, and everybody that's doing business in that particular area has to answer to you. Do you have more power than the people around you? Oh yeah, you do. Or let's say you're a kid on the bus and you're riding to school and you're the biggest kid on the bus and everybody that's around you that kind of makes you uh irritated or something like that, you say I'm going to take your yogurt and I'm going to take your banana and I'm going to take your apple and I'm going to take your sandwich and I'm going to take your chips. If you don And so the point is this. He says in life, whether you're a kid, whether you're in the workforce, whether it's in your family dynamics, whether it's in your community. W whether it's in the government, whether it's one nation versus another nation, we see these pecking orders in life. People that have power and people that have money seem to be able to get away with anything they want to do There's a price and they pay it and they move on through life. But this is what the psalmist is saying. There's one person you can't buy off. You know who that is? It's God. That's the whole point of what he's saying in these verses He's reminded, like in verse 6 he says, Wherefore should I fear in the day of evil? He says, you know what it's like to be in a situation where you have these oppressors who are taking advantage of other people. Maybe you're the guy that's being taken advantage of, or maybe it's your brother, or maybe it's your cousin, or maybe it's somebody that you care a lot about and you see it and it frustrates you and he says, hold on a second Everybody dies one day. Everybody dies. Whether you made a lot of money or whether you made nothing Whether you had a lot of power or whether you didn't have any, whether you were the guy that could force everybody to do what you wanted, or you were the one that couldn't. Everybody dies. We see a second fact. In verse 60 says, When the iniquity of any heel shall compass me about You know, he knew what it was like to watch people who when somebody came to them, they could pay them off. They could buy them out. They could get somebody off their back. He said, but not everybody can do that He said, but there's somebody you can't do that with. That's God. All of us have sinned and will face the judge. And you won't buy him off. Verse 7, he says, none of them can by any means redeem his brother. He knew what it was like to see someone who was indebted. And they didn't have the power to be able to free themselves. So they appealed to a family member and they said, can you pay this debt for me? And somebody said, I will pay that debt for you. And they came and they paid that debt and that person was freed from that obligation and they were able to go out and not have to deal with that matter anymore. He said, but nobody that you know can do that with God. Your brother can't do it, your mother can't do it, your dad can't do it, your pastor can't do it. Nobody can do that with God. None of them can by any means redeem his brother. None of us Can settle our debt with God for ourselves or for another person. And verse 7 he says, Nor give to God a ransom for him. God will deal justly with our sin. That word ransom has the idea of paying a price, and a person is freed from some form of indebtedness because a price has been paid. And we don't really seem to have this concept in our culture so much. But that was a real part of the world that these people lived in. Maybe one of the closest examples would be if you have a loan on a car. or on your house or on the school or something like that. And you're always you're paying it off month by month by month. And you're watching that principal come down and you're thinking about, man, I'm paying all this interest so that I have the privilege of paying them so I can live in my house or I can drive this car or whatever it is. Like that's the closest thing that we have to this. Or maybe in the back of our minds we think about going into the store and and um I uh I had this happen when I was a kid. I broke something and my dad took me up to the counter and he's like, my son just broke such and such. What do I have to pay to get this settled? And they're like, oh don't worry about no, they didn't do that. They said, well, what did it cost? You get to pay for it, right? And then my dad paid for it so I didn't have to pay for it, right? So these are like the closest concepts we have to this. But he's saying this. God deals justly with our sin. You can't pay anybody off when God is involved here. The next thing we see is in verses 8 and 9. The redemption of their soul is precious. And it ceaseth forever that he should still live forever and not see corruption. You say, what is this getting at? He's saying this. He's saying there is nothing that can rise to the level that is needed to pay such a debt. And the fact that you cannot pay such a debt means that the consequence that you will deal with is forever. It is not temporal. It's not for a few years. It's not for a few decades. It's forever. And so the whole point of this section is to simply say this You cannot find the security that you need before God and anything you give God and anything that somebody gives to God for you, you're in trouble. And so anybody that thinks they can somehow bribe God, they're fools. That's what he's saying. And that's harsh, but that's true. God isn't like, all right, give me a back payment and I'll be good with you. He doesn't do that. He's holy and righteous. And then he goes to a third thing. This is the emptiness of the way that the world lives. Misplaced confidence leads to irresistible irreversible loss. And we see this in verses 10 through 12. He says, Man being in honor abideth not. He is like the beast that Paris. Now this little section is a fascinating section because like the first part reads a lot like Proverbs, the second part reads a lot like Ecclesiastes And so when I'm reading what he says, I'm like, this sounds a lot like something I would be reading in Ecclesiastes. For instance in verse ten. Wise men die, likewise the fool and the British person perish, and leave their wealth to others. Doesn't that sound like something we'd read in Ecclesiastes? Why is he saying that? Everybody dies. Everybody leaves their wealth to others. Verse 11. Their inward thought is that their house shall continue forever. They call their lands after their own names. Everyone lives as if they will somehow escape the certainty of that end And so here these people, they're pouring all their time and all their energy into building something huge, and they're living for that, and they're literally dying because of how much energy they put into that. And guess what? They're not even going to enjoy it Their children are gonna have it. Or maybe somebody's gonna seize it who they didn't even want to get it. But they live as if they're gonna live forever. You know the story that Jesus tells of a rich man? Who is building his barns and he sits back and he says, I have laid up goods for many, many years. I'm going to sit back and I'm just going to enjoy an easy life. And what did Jesus say? That night, that man died So at the pinnacle of his life, the pinnacle of his strength, the pinnacle of his ease, the pinnacle of his power, he said, I've given everything to this. And I'm just going to relax. God said, you're going to die. And what you didn't prepare for was that. And what does he say? A man who lives for material possessions alone is a fool because he can't take any of it with him. He can't give it to God. He's not going to choose who gets it in his absence. He will soon be forgotten. Everyone has a tendency to live in such a way. It's true. Why is that? It's because life pushes us. And we don't think about what's going on around us. We don't stop and think it's the grace of God that causes us to do that. But there's a third thing that's even more tragic to think about. Verse 12, he says, Man being in honor abideth not. He's like the beast that perishes. And he's not saying that people are animals. He's not suggesting that non-Christians are animals. No, it's not what he's saying at all. What he's suggesting is this a person who has so much opportunity So much access to blessing. Who lives a life of folly and dies not understanding what he has? And dies not understanding what he's losing and is not made right with God, that man dies in an absolutely tragic, empty life. That's a lot to process, isn't it? If our physical life is everything, we're no different than animals. And it's sad but true, a lot of people have that worldview. I'm just an animal. Doesn't matter what I do. Doesn't matter what I say. I'm not gonna answer anybody. When you're dead, that's it. That's the end. You're just dirt. You don't have to worry about it anymore. I remember listening to Mike Tyson give an interview to this 12-year-old girl on YouTube. And this girl was all excited. She's like, Mike Tyson. I want to ask you if you could give us some wisdom about legacy. I don't know if anybody knows what I'm about to say. He looked at this girl and he said, legacy's nothing. I can't say everything you said. Certainly can't say it like you said it. But what he basically said is this when you die, that's it. You're just dirt. And it's this girl, she looks so uncomfortable. It's like this like twelve, thirteen-year-old girl, she's like, uh how do I follow up with that right there? But you know what? So many people, that's how they live their lives. You're not just dirt. You have an eternal soul. And you're going to stand in the presence of God, and you will either be condemned or you will experience eternity with Him. There's a lot on the table. The fourth thing we see is the word hope. God's gracious redemption is our only hope. And notice what he says in verses 13 to 15. There's a statement that really stands out. He says, but God will redeem my soul. You catch that? He's talked about how the world thinks and how they live and the tragedy of it. He says, but God Will redeem my soul from the power of the grave. How is God going to do that? It's called Jesus Now what's amazing is here's a guy writing this psalm thousands of years before the fulfillment of it. God's going to redeem my soul. He's looking for the Savior. And Jesus came and he did it. God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave. He shall receive me. That's an amazing statement. He's gonna do it and he's gonna receive me. Death without God is unspeakably tragic, but the opposite is amazing He talks about this in verses 13 and 14. Death without God. Theirs is the way of folly. Living this life is tragic and empty. As people are dying, it says their posterity approved their saying. Literally, these people are going. I'm glad that you heaped up a lot of riches because when you're gone, I'm getting it. That's terrible, but it's true You know how many people as they're as they're dying their children are just chomping at the bit to get everything they can? Or they're the most disreputable of all of their offspring or cousins or whatever. They're just waiting for this person to die so they can swoop in and take it That's what they're doing. That's tragic. If that's everything you've lived for and that's all that you have left, you die and people take your stuff and they're gonna waste it. What a tragedy Their bodies will literally rot in the grave like an animal, like sheep. They are laid in the grave. Death will feed on them. Their beauty shall consume in the grave. But that doesn't have to be your end. There's an alternative, and it's what God has done for us. Verse 15, but God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave. He shall receive me. Listen to this word. But God, you know what that is? That's grace. God looks at us in our misery and in our brokenness and our sinfulness. We are separated from a holy and righteous God, and He says, I love that person. I'm going to redeem that person. I'm going to bring them to myself. I'm going to do everything necessary for them to be my child for God. And he does it through a payment of price. He says, he will redeem my soul. Redemption. Wasn't free. It's free to you, it's free to me. It's a gift. But gifts are paid for by the ones who give them. They don't cost anything to the one who receives them, but the one who gives the gift, they pay for it And then we see from the power of the grave, he talks about the resurrection. Yes, everyone's going to die physically, but that's not the end. And then I love this next statement. He will receive me. Reconciliation. So God Pays a price that gives me power over death and the grave, that brings me into this position of being received and accepted by him. What is that? That's the gospel. That's the gospel. God's grace. His undeserved kindness. Listen to some of these verses. Romans 5, 6. When we were yet without strength, In due time, Christ died for the ungodly. But God commended his love toward us while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. Being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. That is what he's talking about in Psalm 49, 15. That's the Roman side or Ephesians 2. 4. But God who is rich in mercy. For his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace we are saved. That in the ages he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are ye saved through faith, not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, thus any man should boast. What is that? That is Psalm 49, 15. That word redemption, it's through the payment of a price. Listen to these verses that talk about what Christ did for us. They are so explicit 1 Peter 1. 18. In fact, this one really captures this psalm so well. Ye were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver and gold. That's Psalm 49, folks. From your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers. It wasn't because of your pedigree. It wasn't because of your money. It wasn't because of your goodness. It was all because of Christ. You were redeemed with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. If he didn't go to that cross, if he didn't shed his blood, if he didn't die in our place. We'd have no hope. Second Corinthians 5, 21, He hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, so that we might be made the righteousness of God in Him. What is that? Psalm 49, 15. 1 Peter 3:18, Christ hath suffered for sin, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God redemption. Colossians 1:14, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. Hebrews 9:12, by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place. having obtained eternal redemption for us. When the psalmist is writing in Psalm 49, he says that the redemption of their soul is precious. But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave. This is what he's talking about. Resurrection. That can never be taken away. Listen to these verses. Romans 8. He that spared not his own son. Who sent Jesus to the cross? Was it Pilate? Was it the Romans? Was it the Sanhedrin? It was the Father. Why did he do it? Because that was the only way. Why did Christ cry out to the Father, if it is possible, remove this cup from me? Why did he say that to him? Well, because he's the one that was pouring out the cup. Why do you use the phrase, if it's possible? Because he knew it wasn't possible, but if it was, he hoped. Why did he say, not my will but yours be done? Because it was worth it to redeem us to the Father. 1 Peter 3. 18, Christ suffered once for sin, the unjust for the unjust, to redeem us to God. Amazing statements. He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? God doesn't give us part of our salvation. He gives it all. And just because you don't have all of it right now and you're not experiencing heaven and eternal glory, doesn't mean it isn't coming. He says, who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? Nobody can come up and say, oh, that person who you've redeemed, actually, here's another sin that you didn't pay for. And here's something that you didn't take into account. Nobody can do that. Why is that? Because it's God who justifies. Who is he that condemns? It is Christ that died, is risen again, and even at the right hand of God making intercession for us. Every time in your heart you feel condemned as a Christian and you feel like I fall short, you do, but that doesn't matter. Because the Lord Jesus Christ is there at the right hand of the Father saying, Remember my sacrifice. As if he forgot. He didn't forget. But there is that testimony there in the presence of the Father that Christ has died for my sins. He has paid that penalty. I've been freed through the payment of that price. And there's nobody that could say, look what he's done, including my own conscience. Because a lot of us have a conscience that condemns us, do we not? And we know the sacrifice. And we feel the grief in our hearts when we stumble. The Lord's table is here to remind us that his wounds were for our redemption. And his blood was shed for the remission of our sins. And when we feel that brokenness and we feel that guilt, we look at Jesus and say, thank you for what you did. That's what the table is all about. He says, who shall separate us from the love of Christ? So tribulation Distress? Persecution? Famine? Nakedness? Peril? Sword? He says, I'm persuaded that nothing. Not height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. What's he saying? If God saves you, he finishes the job. That's what he's saying. Ephesians 1 resonates the same way. In whom also, after you trusted, after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and whom after you believed you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession. Why does God give us the Spirit? Some of you say to convict me every time I do wrong. Actually, he's there to comfort you. He's there to remind you that you belong to God. And he's there to remind you of the significance of that relationship. And he's there to remind you that in fact God completed, will complete absolutely everything he has started. And then we have that word reconciliation. He brings us into a right position before God. Man, there's some amazing verses here, Ephesians 2. But now in Christ Jesus, you who sometime were far off. are made nigh by the blood of Christ, He is our peace. Man. He abolished And his flesh the enmity. Even the law and the commandments that contained ordinances, that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross. Having slain the enmity thereby, through him we both have access by one spirit unto the Father. Now therefore you are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints of the household of God. Nobody in this room deserves such a position. But we have it. When we were enemies, we are reconciled to God by the death of his son, Romans 5. 10. 2 Corinthians 5. 18, all things are of God who has reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. Colossians 1. 20, having made peace through the blood of his cross, you who sometime were alienated in enemies, now hath he reconciled in the body of his flesh through death, to present you holy. And unblameable and unreprovable in his sight. That's true about every person in this room who has placed their faith in Christ The last word is the word comfort. This redemption preserves us from an empty death. In verses 16 through 20, he basically says this: don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. Don't be confused. Don't be deceived. Christ is your one and only hope. And if you've embraced him, he has taken you as his own And you belong to him and he keeps you. That's what Psalm 49 is all about. Now, how do you apply such a fascinating, such an amazing Psalm? Well, you glory in the cross. I think the Lord's table is uh where this drives Negatively, don't embrace any empty substitute. There might be somebody here this morning that you thought going to heaven was about what you do for God. That's why you're here today. That's why you're going to put money in that box back there. That's why you try to keep a good show in front of other people. Because in your mind, God accepts you through what you do for Him, or what you give to Him, or maybe what somebody does for you. That's why your mom's praying for you. Or that's why you went through some pastor and he helped you. Don't embrace a substitute. Don't treat his work lightly. Trust in him and be saved. If there's anyone here this morning who's never placed their faith in Christ, don't leave here. Without getting this issue of salvation settled, you might say, well, I think I might need to talk to somebody so I can kind of work through this. Fine, do that. I'm here I'm gonna stand at that door and you come through and say, Hey Pastor, I want to talk to you. I'll sit down however long you need and we'll sit down and go through it Or my wife can talk to you if you're a lady. We would love to take a Bible and just work our way through the scriptures and show you what Christ has done for you, show you why it matters, and show you how to respond to the gospel. Turn to him and be saved. Don't trust in riches. Don't trust in status. Don't trust in your works. Don't trust in the church. Trust in Christ. Rest in him and be comforted. This is for the Christian. A lot of Christians are afraid. A lot of Christians get confused. A lot of Christians, honestly, they have embraced lives. And they followed a pattern of thought, whether it's because somebody has fed it to them. Whether it's because they read a passage of scripture and out of context they interpret it to mean something that it doesn't, or whether it's their conscience is plagued by struggles, or whether they're just naturally very introspective, whatever the cause. Many believers are afraid, confused, and deceived. Let the truth of Scripture speak clearly to you on this issue. God saves, He promises, He keeps, you're his Delight in him and worship. I love the statement, but God who is rich in mercy, that he might show the exceeding riches of his kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. How could you leave this place without having warmth in your soul? There's no way. If you're alive in Christ, these truths are going to hit you in the heart this morning. Remember him and rejoice. Rejoice in what he's done. Rejoice in why he has done it. Rejoice in what he's given you. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Prepare our hearts to remember Christ's death on our behalf. With every head bowed and every eye closed before we come to the Lord's table, I want to ask a simple question. If you don't understand the gospel, do not partake of the table. This is a time for believers, those who understand what Christ has done for them, who've embraced it, can delight in it. In fact, it brings them great comfort. But if you've never trusted Christ, this is a great time for you to realize now's the time to do it. Now's the time to turn to Him, place your faith in Christ. Maybe there's somebody here this morning that's never trusted Christ If that's you, I really want to help you. I want to talk to you. I'd like you to reach out to me. Don't hesitate. It won't be a scary conversation. It'll be as long as it needs to be. Let God work in your heart through his word. If you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, please do not leave this place without reaching out and getting that matter settled. I also want to say to all of us here who are Christians, believers, who have trusted Christ, we're going to come to the table and we're going to eat this bread remembering the body of Christ broken for us. We're going to drink this juice, remembering the blood of Christ shed on our behalf. Don't let this time be a time of misery. Let it be a time of great warmth and encouragement. As much as you feel deficient, you are. As much as you feel you fall short, you do. And you know what that should do? Remind you that he is not deficient. His righteousness doesn't fall short. His sacrifice didn't fall short. He did it all. And we are secured in him. And that should bring us great delight and strength and comfort. As we reflect on this sacrifice, let's do it with great humility and joy