All right, yes, we'll get started by first turning in the back of our red book to page 518. Page 518. Please stand with me and we'll sing three verses of, oh, isn't it is not isn't it? It is wonderful to be a Christian Oh, it is wonderful to be a Christian. Life has purpose now it never had before. There is meaning to each every day and more. For a joy and peace I can explain Since I found your life in Christ my Lord divide Oh it is wonderful to be a Christian Oh it is wonderful Wonderful to be God. Oh, it is wonderful to have since forgiven. Oh, it is wonderful to be justified forever recognized. I go directly to the Lord in prayer. He has told me I may boldly enter there. And he lifts in that promises I by mercy. Oh, it is wonderful to be a Christian. Oh, it is wonderful to be a God. Oh, it is wonderful to have a sin. Again, though it is wonderful to be redeemed, justified forever, magic, and the hope of heaven's glory will be so Говорит, Майкну, Сірочка, Говори , Любосы , Говорит, Господи , Господь, приговорила. Over just a couple pages to 524, saved by the blood. No entiendo que la cara. . Go ahead and have a seat. But turn a couple more pages back. And we'll sing all four verses of there shall be showers of blessings. Not the drizzle we're getting right now, the real shower. There shall be showers of blessings. In the world of the house, there shall be the same. But for the shower and winning, there shall be shallow. Mercy that is everyone , I would have everything else , very dangerous , more than the law. Amen. Testimonies and faith. Jean, you and Chris been col uh collaborating here? You're 154. Or Chris was 154 and you're 155. So 155 in the blue book. And John may be Okay, let's see. Uh play through for me once. Okay, that uh second measure there's got a very low note. I'll see if I can hit it. Let's let's see. Okay, I need some basses to sing out and help me out on this one okay. That that's a that low way is hard. You were lucky. This this was a good night that I could hit this Alright, now we'll go to page six hundred and twenty-two in the red book because the blue book only goes to two hundred pages. So six hundred and twenty-two. Well we're Back there in nosebleed seat, 622. Thank you, Lord. Amen. Peace. The doors will break. Okay. That's an excellent song. Now page one hundred and fifty-four, and I left the red blue book up open at page 155. I was thinking ahead. Almighty, unchangeable God, and it's got that glory again. So okay, here we go. Pero nosotros no. The sequel to Genesis. I like to think of it that way. Because as we looked through Genesis, we really saw God working in the lives of the patriarchs, giving to them the promises That ultimately their descendants would become a nation, and that from that nation would the hope of all peoples come From. And now in Exodus, we're seeing the fulfillment of those promises. And it's remarkable to see God use this man Moses. And the way that he did, I I find Moses to be one of my personal favorite uh figures in the Old Testament. More so I feel an affinity for his impatience and his uh shortcomings. But there's something about Moses, the fact that God used this imperfect, impatient man to fulfill his promises to his people. I'm excited about this. As we look tonight at the first two chapters, we're going to see that God wants us to be confident that He will keep His promises. And it's remarkable to see that God doesn't just use Moses, but He uses a whole slew of people just in these first two chapters to ensure that his promises are fulfilled. Let's begin by just reading a short portion to get ourselves familiar with where things are at as we move from Genesis into Exodus. Verse 1 of Exodus 1. Now these are the names of the children of Israel which came into Egypt. Every man in his household came with Jacob. Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulin, Benjamin, Dan, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher, all these souls that came out of the loins of Jacob were seventy souls, for Joseph was in Egypt already. And Joseph died, and all his brethren, and all that generation, and the children of Israel were fruitful and increased abundantly, and multiplied, and waxed exceeding mighty, and the land was filled with them. Now there rose there arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph. And he said unto his people, Behold, the children the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier mightier than we. Come on, let us deal wisely with them, lest they multiply, and it come to pass that when there falleth out any war, they join also unto our enemies. and fight against us, and so get them out up out of the land. Therefore they did set over them taskmasters to afflict them with their burdens And they built for Pharaoh treasure cities, Python and Ramses. But the more they afflicted them, the more they grieved because of the children of Israel. And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigor, and they made their lives bitter with hard bondage. In mortar and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field, all their service wherein they made them serve was with rigor. When we see God fulfilling the promises that he had made to the patriarchs in Exodus, we really see God overcoming a great uh uh a tremendous amount of challenges that we would probably see in an earthy sense as impossible to overcome Now, when I use the word overcome with God, we know that with God overcoming isn't really that challenging. Because when God overcomes, it is an utter decisive triumph. And it is an unquestionable inevitability. So, two areas of challenge that we're met with in these first two chapters To fulfilling the promises that God would eventually fulfill. The first is the challenges brought on by Egypt. Now, Egypt, as we've just read, tried to diminish Israel through slavery. At some point, the dynasty of Egypt that was familiar with Joseph and his people Were taken out, and this new dynasty was set up. Some argue that this dynasty were a people group completely foreign to the nation of Egypt. And when they came in, they saw these Hebrews as ones who had a deep relationship with the dynasty prior, and they were afraid that they would rise up with the great number of people that they were. and overthrow them. So what did they do? So we're going to essentially wipe them out. But we're not just gonna do it, you know, we're not just gonna go out there and just slay them. We're going to get some use out of them. We're going to literally work them to death through slavery Now, of course that's not what ended up happening. They were enslaved But what's interesting is in verse 12, the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew. It's almost as if God intended for this nation to grow. And despite Egypt's attempts to diminish Israel through slavery, God ensured this nation would thrive. So then when that didn't work, when slavery didn't work, Egypt tried something different. Notice what it says in verse 15. It says, and the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives, of which the name of one was Siphra, and the name of the other Phuah. And he said, When you do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women, and see them upon the stools, if it be a son, then you shall kill him, but if it be a daughter, then she shall live. Now pause there because this was actually a fairly common tactic in the ancient world. They would wipe out the men of a people group. And assimilate their daughters, bring them into society, and essentially make their children the dominant people group. For the Egyptians, that meant wiping out the Hebrews. Now how that would have played out for Egyptians who kind of didn't like Hebrews in the first place. But they were certainly attempting something to destroy these people. But I love how God intervened in this circumstance, some unsung heroes of the Old Testament. Notice in verse 17. But the midwives feared God. And did not as the king of Egypt commanded them, but saved the men children alive. And the king of Egypt called for the midwives and said unto them, What why have you done this thing and have saved the men children alive? And the midwives said unto Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew women are not as the Egyptian women, for they are lively and are delivered ere the midwives come in unto them. Therefore, God dealt well with the midwives. And here again, Egypt's attempts were thwarted. It says the people multiplied and waxed very mighty And it came to pass, because the midwives feared God, that he made them houses, essentially creating even more families among the people of Israel. They tried so very hard, these Egyptians, to destroy this nation. But God was going to assure that the promises that he made to the patriarch. Essentially, the promises of a coming Messiah would be fulfilled, regardless of what Egypt would try to challenge God with. But what about us? You know, obviously God made these promises to Israel, to the patriarchs. But if we're going to cling to promises that God made in our own lives, what are the promises that actually apply to us? Well we're reminded in Matthew 16, 18 that the Lord Jesus Christ, as he said, would build his church. And what did he say about opposition to that growth? He said the gates of hell will not prevail against it The promise is that God, that the Lord will build and protect his church. And that is something that has been proved time and time and time and time again. You look at just the first 300 years of church history, and we saw one of the most powerful empires in world history trying to wipe out these people called Christians. And what happened? It ended up becoming the state religion of that empire. Why? Because God intended for his church to thrive. And as we go all through church history, from the very first martyrs in the book of Acts to the present day. We can see man constantly trying to stamp out the church and failing because God was going to To ensure his people would not be wiped out. I love this promise because as we in our own times look around us and see the foundations of our nation crumbling We can rest assured God will always have His remnant, our future as a church, while temporal in the earthly sense Is eternal and assured in the heavenly sense. God overcame the challenges Of Egypt, this nation that sought to wipe Israel off the face of the earth. But that's not the only challenges that God was met with. In fact, he met some challenges from the very man he would rise up to leave his people. And we see that In chapter two, when we're introduced to this young man, this infant named Moses. To kind of set the scene, we start in verse twenty-two of chapter one and move into chapter two. It says, And Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Every son that is born you shall cast into the river, and every daughter you shall save. Now in the midst of this, here's something that happened. Chapter 2. And there went a man of the house of Levi and took to wife a daughter of Levi. And the woman conceived the bear 's son, and when she saw him that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months, and when she could no longer hide him, she took for him an ark of bulrushes And dawbed it with slime and with pitch, and put the child therein, and she laid it in the flags by the river's bank. And his sister stood afar off to wit what would be done wit to him. And the daughter of Pharaoh, the very man who sought to destroy these Hebrews, came down to wash herself at the river, and her maidens walked along by the river's side. And when she saw the ark among the flags, she sent her maid to fetch it. And when she opened it, she saw the child, and behold, the babe wept, and she had compassion on him. And said, This is one of the Hebrews ' children. Then said his sister, the baby's sister, to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call to the inurse of the Hebrew women? That she may nurse the child for thee. And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go, and the maid went and called the child's mother. And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away, nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages. And the woman took the child and nursed it, and the child grew, and she brought it, brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son. And she called his name Moses. And she said, because I drew him out of the water. Now, right off the bat, Moses is in circumstances that present incredible challenges in an earthly sense to the preservation of his very life. This baby boy is really surrounded by death, people who would have sought him out and thrown him to drown in the Nile River. So as he was hidden for three months, he providentially was kept safe, but at some point it came time for him to have to be hidden somewhere else. I'm thinking of our young parents right now with infants, and uh they know something about the lack of quiet with a three-month old. They uh this mother had to do something. And so she took some reeds as they would normally do in Egypt to put together baskets. or even rafts or boats. It's a great uh technique that they use. And assured this infant was going to be protected within that ark, within that basket. But of course, where he ended up being hidden was anything but safe. If you're familiar with the Nile River, it is actually considered one of the most dangerous Rivers in the world. Snakes, crocodiles, hippos, mosquitoes would have all been dangers, even to a full-grown adult. And now a three-month-old was being left defend for its self, essentially, against these things. Yet God, in his providence, knowing that this baby would eventually be who he would use to lead his people out of Egypt , protected him in an amazing way. I mentioned he brought the daughter of Pharaoh, the man who wanted him dead, to find him to Essentially pay his mother to help him grow, and then she would bring him into Pharaoh's household to live a life of privilege and protection. The daughter of the one seeking to destroy this life is the one God used. To preserve Moses' life. The river where Pharaoh sought to destroy life was the place where God brought this daughter to preserve life. And all of this was so that God in his providence would use Moses to preserve the lives of his people and fulfill the promises that he had made to establish them as a So Moses was providentially preserved for life. Yet as he grew and became a young man, well, forty years old, um, young man. We see him making some decisions that would also pose a challenge. When he was fully grown, we read about it in verse 11. It says, And it came to pass in those days when Moses was fully grown, that he went out unto his brethren and looked on their burdens, and he spied an Egyptian smiting in Hebrew, one of his brethren. And he looked this way and that way. And when he saw that there was no man, he slew the Egyptian and hid him in the sand. And when he went went out the second day, Behold, two men of the Hebrews strove together, and he said to them that did the wrong, Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow? And he said, Who made thee a prince and judge over us? Intendest thou to kill me as thou killest that Egyptian? And Moses feared and said, Surely this thing is known. Moses, when he was fully grown, had by this point lived a life of privilege. She had received a great t deal of education, no doubt. But nevertheless At some point, he developed a sense of allegiance to his people who were forced to be slaves while he enjoyed the benefits of the royal household And when he saw this man of his people being physically assaulted by the Egyptian. He decided rather than to allow God in his timing to bring about deliverance, he thought, I'm going to deliver this man. Myself. And he murdered this Egyptian and tried to hide the very acts. Of course it didn't work. Moses ' actions eventually reached the ears of Pharaoh, the one who no doubt tolerated his presence. And now had heard that Moses had killed one of his men. And the rightful punishment for that would have been death. Moses, of course, flees to the land of Midian. But we can't help but see God providentially. Preserving him from death at the hands of Pharaoh. Now, no doubt, Moses deserved death. We know this because Genesis 9:6 had already established That whoso sheddeth man's blood by man shall his blood be shed, for in the image of God made he man. Yet God in his merciful providence would allow Moses to escape the wrath of Pharaoh to later be used of him to deliver his people. God would use a man who, by all human standards, should not have even been a leader due to his sinful actions that deserved death. So we've seen two challenges in the person of Moses, which God triumphantly overcame to fulfill his promise. And as we read on verses 16 to 25, we see that Moses was providentially preserved to deliver his people. For forty years he dwelt in the land of Midian, and while he was there, God allowed him to have a family and to have a job and to thrive in that land until later we see him being called. to deliver God's people. When the time came, God, of course, initiated his plan for their deliverance. But in all this time, you imagine a man living to his eighties who would ultimately be used of God to do what great things we know Moses did. By all human standards, this should not have been possible. But with God, we can only look and see That this was his promise being fulfilled in a way that only God could do. Now, oftentimes our own lives are filled and characterized by challenges by all human standards. That should prevent us from being used of God. Yet when God makes a promise, he intends to keep it Sometimes he does so with incredible mercy and grace toward those who really have no business being a part of his In fact, I would go so far as to say he always does so with mercy and grace toward us because as sinners against a just God, none of us, not a one of us, deserves Any part of in his plans except to be recipients of his justice. But that justice has been administered to the Son of God. On our behalf. And we are now free to be beneficiaries of the wonderful promises that God gives to his people. Now of course we've been speaking a lot of the promises that God made to the Israelites. And we have to understand, biblically speaking, that those are distinct and unique to them. But that's not to say that there aren't promises that God gives to us as his people, as his church. And that's what I want to close with. I want us to look at some of the promises that God has made toward us that God will keep. If we were to look through the New Testament, we would see such promises as the one found in Romans 12, 19. Where Paul writes sterily, Beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. God will stand up for you when you're truly wronged. Then there's the promise found in Ephesians 6, where it says, Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor thy father and mother, which is the first commandment, with promise. That it may be well with thee and thou mayest live long on the earth. God will grant the blessing of life when you honor your parents and the Lord. Hebrews 13, 5 reiterates a promise that's made all throughout the Old Testament. It says, Let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things as ye have. For ye hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. I will never leave or forsake his children. Proverbs 3:12 provides a promise for us that's of course reiterated in Hebrews 12 as well. It says, For whom the Lord loveth, he correcteth, even as the Father, the Son in whom he delighteth. This This concept is reiterated by the writer of Hebrews who says, For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. God will provide correction when his beloved go astray. 1 Corinthians 10 13 provides yet another promise. There hath no temptation taken you, but is such as is common to man. But God is faithful. Who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that ye may be able to bear it? God will provide an escape when you are tempted to sin. This is, of course, not an exhaustive list of the promises that God made. has given to us. But I wanted to remind you of them because as we've seen God fulfill the promises that He's made to Israel, despite the tremendous challenges Brought against him in the first, just the first two chapters of Exodus. That same God who fulfilled those promises will fulfill the promises he has given to us. Let's find confidence in a God who is faithful and promise keeping. Father, thank you For who you are, a faithful covenant-keeping, promise-keeping God. Despite all the challenges that surround us, despite the challenges that we often bring about ourselves. We know they have no effect against you, other than to show the true glory of your ability to overcome them utterly And decisively, in order to keep the promises you've made. Lord, encourage us in that truth tonight. In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, we pray. You know, when I think about what we just looked at this evening. Uh the thought that really pops into my mind is in the midst of the situations we deal with in life, we need to be focused on being faithful and letting It play out. Just be faithful and let it play out. And um, I mean who would have thought that when uh Moses was born? And um his life was preserved and they were able to keep him hidden for a period of time that um when they Said this is our last chance. We're just gonna put him in this ark and see what happens in this little basket. Um literally they had no idea that God was gonna preserve his life and that um ultimately uh Moses might Mother would be paid to take care of her own child, and then he'd end up in the palace. But then at a point when you would think this is when God would use him to deliver the nation of Israel. He ends up killing someone and he's running for his life. And for 40 years he's he's a shepherd. It's like, what in the world? And then God brings up And I'm looking forward to next week as we talk about when God says I'm going to use you to deliver my people, he goes, No, I don't think I could do that. But the thing that really stands out is be faithful and let it play out. You don't know what God is doing. uh in the circumstances that you face. And uh he is in control. He is faithful. And we see that in this passage. What a great reminder. Let's go ahead and let's turn in our hymn books for our closing to hymn 530, rescue the perishing. 530, rescue the perishing. A great great hymn for us to think about when it comes to evangelism. Let's stand up and let's sing this out. All four verses. Rescue the perishing, care for the dying, stab stem in pity from sin and the grave. We for the erring one, lift up the fallen. Tell them of Jesus the mighty to save. Rasped up everything, get for the guy. Jesus is perfect. Jesus will save. Though they are fighting him, still he is waiting, waiting on sea. I hope it's been a blessing to gather together with other believers. Uh this morning the singing was really, really wonderful. And the fellowship was great. And so wow. Now you can really hear me. Uh I'm gonna ask if uh Bill Fle Few, if you can close us in prayer, and uh just good to see each of you. out tonight and uh hope to see you on Wednesday as we continue our study uh on family issues. And we're talking about family worship. So go ahead, Bill. Dear Lord, thank you for thank you for bringing us here this evening safely in the rain. I pray that you'd give us safe journeys when we go home tonight as well. Um I pray that you would help us to keep in the forefront of our mind. Really Your faithfulness throughout all of history, as this passage was such a great example of. Um the promises which you keep and will keep, uh the firmness, even compared to the so many human companions that we have that can for Be forgetful or misstep, Lord. Please help us to never take that for granted as we seek to honor and glorify you in our daily decisions and to trust you in the way that we go. In Christ's name. Amen.