Well, this morning what we're going to do is we're going to see how God is both a refuge and a strength in time of trouble. And so I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to Psalm 46. Psalm 46, we're going to read the entire psalm together and then spend some time really digging into what I think will be a very, very encouraging, comforting, helpful concept. For us to consider this morning as we prepare our hearts to partake of the Lord's table together as a body. The text says this: God is our refuge and strength. a very present help and trouble. Therefore will not we fear though the earth be removed. And though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea, though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof, Selah. There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the Most High. God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved. God shall help her in that right early. The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved, he uttered his voice, the earth melted. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah. Come. Behold the works of the Lord, what desolations he hath made in the earth. He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth. He breaketh the bow and cutteth the spear in sunder. He burneth the chariot in the fire. Be still and know that I am God I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah. Please let's bow together and ask the Lord to really help us to understand his word this morning. Our Father, as we dig into this passage of Scripture, our desire is that the Spirit of God, who indwells every heart of every believer in our midst, would take the word of God and minister richly to our souls. Father, you know every burden, you know every care, you know every fear. You know every sense of injustice that may rest in the hearts of people this morning. And I pray that as we dig into this passage , That every single one of us would see the glory of our Savior, who is a refuge, who is a strength, and who is a very present help in trouble. Father, help us to think about the continuity of the things that we have sung about, the scriptures that we have listened to as they are read, and this text that will be expounded this morning. I pray that our hearts would be richly fed, that we would be strengthened. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a fascinating passage, and I think that what I love about this passage is that some of the hymns that are written actually have a lot of the same content that was written in the hymn the psalm in front of us. In fact If you read church history, you'll find that the reformer Martin Luther would say that the 46th Psalm may have been his absolute favorite of all of the Psalms. In fact, many times When he and some of his closest associates were experiencing deep discouragement. And by the way, Martin Luther was a man that was very very prone to depression. He was extremely introspective. In fact, I would say that he was a man who was tormented in his soul if you read about his life. And many times when he found himself in these very dark seasons, he would go to the 46th Psalm and he would sing the psalm. In fact, there are a lot of parallels between this psalm and one of the hymns that we sang this morning in Mighty Fortress is Our God. I want you to notice the things because I think that they're very profound. The first stanza says the following, a mighty fortress is our God, a bulwark never failing. God is a mighty fortress. He is our refuge at all times. And it sounds a lot like God is our refuge and strength. a very present help in trouble. Secondly, we see our our ancient foe to seek to work his woe, his craft and power are great, and armed with cruel hate on earth is not his equal. Satan is a strong and evil foe. He hates us. He wants to destroy us. And the reality is that you and I do not have the power in and of ourselves to overcome Satan. Another statement in the song is, did we in our own strength confide? Our striving would be losing. We're not the right man on our side. The man of God's own choosing. We cannot overcome him and our own strength. We need Christ. I love this statement. That word above all earthly power. No thanks to them abideth. The Spirit and the gifts are ours through him who with us sighteth. God, not Satan, is sovereign. And when we find ourselves in very dark seasons, we have to come to that simple fact That the true sovereign over this planet and over all of creation is God. And we must flee to Him and find our comfort and our refuge and our strength in Him. I love this other statement. Let goods and kindred go, this mortal life also, the body they may kill. God's truth abideth still. His kingdom is forever. And what Luther is describing here is the fact that it is not our day-to-day times when God brings us comfort and God brings us strength and God brings us a place of refuge, but it is our ultimate salvation. It is the fact that our future is unshakably certain That is the greatest thing that should give us comfort and hope and strength in this life. And so when you think about the themes of a mighty fortress is our God, You see a lot of parallels to the Psalm that we're going to deal with this morning. I'd summarize Psalm 46 in the following way: God's people should trust him in glory in his unchanging protection. We must rest in his care and glory in our future hope. And so with that in mind, let's work our way through this psalm and find these very comforting truths that are in the text. The first truth that we find this morning is this. He is with us no matter what we encounter. He is with us no matter what we encounter. In fact, in verses 1 through 3, the phrase that I really zeroed in on is the statement that says, God is our refuge and strength. A very present help in trouble. Therefore, we will not fear. Notice the statements, very present help and trouble. The key pieces to those verses are in the statements of the words refuge, strength. And then the phrase, very present help and trouble. When he says that God is a refuge, what he means is this. He is a place that we can find protection. He's a place that we can run to. When the Bible talks about him being a fortress or a rock, what people in those days would have thought about was the fact that a city was walled And that was a place of protection. And people who lived out in the countryside, if an army was coming, they would flee to that fortress, they would go into those walls. And defense. And so as the psalmist reflects on God, he says, God is my refuge. I flee to him for protection. But then that second word, strength, has a very different sense to it. And that is the sense of an internal comforter. The fact that you're in a fortress that puts walls between you and your enemy does not mean that you feel safe. Okay? Protection is the place that you hide. Strength is how you feel about the position that you have. You know lots and lots of Christians. People have placed their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ in moments of weakness. Moments where they get disturbed and troubled in their hearts. They look a lot at their uh at the difficulties of their experience, they begin to waver in their confidence in their position in Christ, or their confidence that God loves them, or their confidence that God is with them. And that word strength is indicating that when God is protecting you, he is strengthening you while he does it. In fact, it's interesting in our freedom that last class we we're having a discussion about the time of the Passover And one of the comments that was made, I thought it was a great comment, was that, you know, when they put the blood on the doorpost, everybody who did that, their family was safe. But not everyone who was safe slept well that night. You ever thought about that? There might have been some people that are like, we put the blood on the doorpost, but we're not sure if it's gonna work. And they were afraid. They were safe, but they weren't confident. And that's where some people live their Christian life. That might be where you are today. You are safe, but you're not confident. God is a strength. But this third statement is really, really important. He is a very present help in trouble. He is literally with us. In all circumstances. In fact, this is probably the main theme of this psalm. Because in verse 1, he says he's a very present help in trouble. And verse 5, he says God is in the midst of her. In verse 7, it says, the Lord of hosts is with us. And in verse 11, it says, the Lord of hosts is with us. Again, he says this. Think of that little verse that says, I will never leave you. I will never forsake you. I think about Roman 8, it says nothing can separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. It doesn't matter what you're facing in life, it doesn't matter how tumultuous the period of time you might find yourself in is, that does not change the fact that God is with you right now. If you belong to him, he is with you, and nothing can change that. And so how does the psalmist respond? He says, therefore will not fear. Because I know he is a refuge, and because I know he is strength, and because I know he's with me, I will not fear confidence. And then he describes some crazy stuff to think about. Look at these verses. He says, We will not fear though the earth is removed, though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea. Though the waters roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof. Selah. What in the world is the psalmist describing? And the truth is I'm not a hundred percent sure, but as I read that and I look at it, I think he's describing some of the most terrible things you could imagine ever happening in c in in nature. I have lived through several hurricanes having grown up in Florida. And I remember during one of them, Hurricane Katrina, my brother and I decided to do something that was not advisable, but we did do it. And what we did is we got in my pickup truck and we drove as far as we could to get close to the bay and then from where we parked the truck we waded through water all the way up to the bay and the water was like chest deep And we climbed up in these trees and we took videos of the wind howling all around us and the trees shaking and just massive waves driving into the side of the bay. And I remember that very well because it was an awesome experience. It was not smart, not advisable, and kids don't do this, but we did it. You know what I'm saying? I know what it's like to see massive waves destroy things that you think it's impossible that could ever happen Hurricane Ivan when I was in college literally took massive sections of the I-10 bridge that crossed uh where you could cross over the Escambia Bay where I grew up. Massive chunks, threw them into the bay. You couldn't drive down that bridge for almost a year. Waves did that. So what is he describing? He's describing the things that happen in an earthquake. Can you imagine what it's like to have the earth shaking and you're like, what's about to happen next? Or think about mudslides where literally chunks of a side is just falling into the sea like it happens in California during mud season. Or think about a volcano where literally this mountain that's been standing there, it's got all these animals living on it It's got all this vegetation and literally the top blows off of the top of it and lava spears down the side and it destroys everything that's around it. He says, no matter what happens, I'm not afraid. Could you say that You should be able to, but that may not be our experience. The fact is he's with us no matter what we encounter. Despite the unthinkable misery of circumstances, we can trust God. The person that really comes to my mind is Joseph. Despite betrayal and enslavement, in Genesis 39-2, it says, the Lord was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man. Genesis 39, 21, despite being imprisoned by false accusations, it says, but the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the gate. Or think about Daniel in Daniel chapter 1 verse 9, despite being ripped from his homeland, now God had brought Daniel into favor and tender love with the princes of the eunuchs. Nobody in this room would want to trade places with Daniel in Babylon. Nobody in this room would want to trade places with Joseph being sold as a slave. by his brothers to his cousins and serving in Potiphar's house. Nobody would want to trade places with Joseph as he was there in prison, having been clearly falsely accused. Could you imagine what was going through the minds of these men? But what does it say? God was with them. And he caused them to prosper in the places where they found themselves. First comfort in the text: God is with us no matter what we encounter. Second. Is this, his purposes cannot be overthrown. I didn't say his purposes can't be resisted. I didn't say his purposes cannot be troubling for seasons. I didn't say that his purposes are never appearing, it never appears that his purposes will fall apart, but his purposes cannot be overthrown. Look down in verses 4 through 7, and the phrase that stands out to me is this, God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved. Now I think one of the most interesting portions of this psalm is actually the portion we're about to dig into. And as we dig into this portion of the psalm, notice what it says in verse 4. It says, there is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God. Kind of an interesting statement, isn't it? The place of the tabernacles of the Most High, God is in the midst of her, they shall not be moved, God will help her, and that right early. Now, as we look at this little section of the Psalm, verses 4 to 7, what we see is that the psalmist looks forward to something in the future And then he looks at his current situation and then he looks back at what he's lived through. He's literally looking at this panorama. Here's what's gonna happen. Here's what is happening, here's what has happened. And through all of this, what he's doing is he's reflecting on the fact that what God says he will do, what God purposed he will do, will happen no matter what it looks like. You say, well, where's the future side? I want to begin with verse four. There's a river, the streamer of shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacle of the most high. Anybody in here ever been to Jerusalem? I know there's people that have. What river is he talking about? There isn't one. There is no river in Jerusalem. There has never been a river in Jerusalem. But that's not how it ends. You say, what in the world are you talking about? Has there ever been a river in Jerusalem? The answer is no. In fact If we were to go back to the time before the Jewish people inhabited Jerusalem, this is the time of the Jebusites, the reason that people were attracted to this location was not because there was a river in the city, but there was a water source outside of the city. And that water source was called the Gihon Springs. What's very interesting is they developed a city around this location, but whenever there was a tide If someone was to lay siege on the city, they were very vulnerable. And the reason for that is they had to go outside the sea to get the water. And not only did they have to go outside the sea to get the water, but the streams that ran through the Kidron Valley were seasonal streams streams and they wouldn't be as consistent as you would want them to be. So during the time of Hezekiah, and this is very important , Hezekiah saw the vulnerability of the Siddhic. And so what he did is he built this aqueduct system In fact, you can go online, you can actually look at the aqueduct system. And what he basically did is he connected the Gihon springs through these aqueducts to the saloon, uh to the pool of Siloam. This is the place where Jesus sent a blind man to wash his face and he received his sight. And so during the time of Hezekiah, they had no river in the city, but they had a continual water source because The aqueducts brought the water from the springs down to this pool that was inside the city walls. There's a reason Hezekiah was concerned, and I'm going to tell you about it later in the sermon. But there was no river. And so the question is, what is he talking about? Is he talking figuratively, or is maybe he talking about something else? And the answer is, I believe he's talking about something else. There are two passages that will help us understand what I think the psalmist is referring to. The first is in Ezekiel 47. And this is a prophetic text that talks about what God will do in Jerusalem down the road during the kingdom era. Listen carefully to these words, and this is fascinating. He says, afterward, he brought me again to the door of the house, and behold, waters issued out from under the threshold of the house eastward These waters issue toward the east country and go down into the desert and into the sea, which being brought forth into the sea, the waters shall be healed. It shall come to pass that everything that liveth with moveth whatsoever in the river shall come and shall live, and there will be great multitude of fish. Because these waters shall come thither, they shall be healed, and everything shall live whereof the river cometh. Now this is a really interesting passage. It's a prophetic text. It has not taken place. It's something in the future. But what's literally going to happen is the temple in Jerusalem is going to have a stream of water, a river that will flow out from that place. And it's going to go down through the eastern gate of the city, down into the Kidron Valley, through this valley, all the way to the Dead Sea. And everything that is touched along that way is going to become vibrant and lush. because God is doing something that he predicts. Interestingly, when you go to the book of Revelation in the New Jerusalem, you're going to hear the exact same thing talked about. By the way, when you talk about heaven, that's heaven, the new Jerusalem. He says in chapter 22, verse 1, he says, He showed me a pure river of water of life. Clear as crystal proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb, in the midst of the street of it on either side of the river, was their tree of life. Which bear twelve manner of fruits and yielded her fruit every month, and the leaves of the tree were the heal for the healing of the nations. And there shall be no more curse, but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it, and his servant shall serve him So what exactly is the psalmist referring to in Psalm 46, verse 4? The answer is something that has never happened, but God has promised. He is emphasizing God's future for his people, which rests on his promises. And it is the zeal of God to do what he has said he will do that will perform his words. God cannot lie. Now, why was this so significant for the people that were living at the time that this was written and compiled? It was written probably during the time of Hezekiah. The same Hezekiah who built the aqueducts. And a Hezekiah who at the end of this sermon we're going to look at something that happened in his life that is very, very fascinating. And I think is going to pull everything together. The people who lived during the time of Hezekiah saw in real life God demonstrating the truthfulness of this text. It's also very significant because when this portion of Psalms was compiled was after the exile. And so here you have these people who have been ripped up from their country. And they've been brought to Babylon. And now it's not the Babylonians, it's actually the Persians who are ruling over them. And God, in his providence, sends them back to their land. And he sends them back to rebuild the city and the temple and to re-establish themselves. And here are these people who are disillusioned. and broken and they feel as if there's no hope. And what does this Psalm say? It says God is a refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. And they are reminded that the same God who promised is the same God who preserved us and the same God who replanted us here and the same God who's going to keep working as he promised. There's even a third piece to this. If you look at the book of Psalms, there are five books of Psalms. And the second of those books, which is the one that this Psalm is found in. was compiled to correspond with the book of Exodus. Exodus narrates how God delivered his people from bondage in Egypt and established them as his peculiar people. And I want you to notice how the book starts. And how it ends. In Psalm 42, it says this: As the heart panteth after the water brook, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirst for God. For the living God. When shall I come and appear before him? It sounds like a person who's weary, who's thirsty. Who's weighed down? How does the book end? Psalm 72. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel. who only doeth wondrous things, and blessed be his glorious name forever. Let the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and amen. The prayer of David, the son of Jesse, is ended. You know what's really interesting about this? This psalm connects things that happened in the life of Hezekiah. With things that the people were experiencing hundreds and hundreds of years after Hezekiah coming back to the land after having been exiled, and it even drives them all the way back to what happened nearly a thousand years before. when God delivered them out of slavery in Egypt. And you know what the common theme of all of those things is? God is a refuge and strength of very present help and trouble. Whenever we find ourselves in the most desperate of circumstances, God is with us, and his promises and his purposes cannot and will not be thwarted. Jerusalem's experience from past to future was that God is in the midst of her. He will not, she shall not be moved, because God is her helper God 's promises have been tested innumerable times. That's one of the great blessings of reading the Bible. You know what we have? We have thousands and thousands of years of history. That are testimonies to the faithfulness of God to his word. We have thousands and thousands of years of history that testify when God promises, he fulfills. When his promises are tested, he never fails. He always comes through. And he even does it in ways that we would have never anticipated, we would have never predicted, we would never have said in the moment, this is what God will do, but he does it. And so that leads us to what he says in 6 and 7. The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved, he uttered his voice, the earth melted. The God of hosts is with us, the God of Jacob is our refuge. This group of people had so many vicious enemies. And each of these enemies put the Word of God to the test, and he always demonstrated he is faithful. But there's a third truth that I think is the capstone of them all. And that is that trouble provides a platform to see God work. God takes no delight in seeing his children suffer. God takes no delight in seeing the misery of his saints. If God even cares about sparrows that fall, and God even knows the very hairs on your head, and some of the men here go, not many anymore. Sorry, guys. If God cares about the birds, how much more does he care about you? And if God has kept his promises, and some of the most obscure promises that you and I don't even know about, but they're in the Bible, we just haven't understood them when we read them. If he takes the care to deal with those, how much more when his character is on the testing block? And so we see in these verses, verses 8 through 11, a very clear testimony to that. It says, be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth. In fact, as we look at verses 8 through 11, what we see is that God wants our faith and God wants our knowledge to be practical. God doesn't want us to be walking around with a bunch of head knowledge but no experience. God doesn't want us to be a bunch of puffed-up theologians. He wants us to be worshipers. He wants us to love him. He wants us to rest in him. He wants us to be fully convinced that he is good. And that he is sovereign, and that when he promises, he fulfills, and that there's nothing that would shake us from such a confidence. And the only way that that happens is when you and I go through tests. We have to go through tests of faith in order for God to demonstrate he is faithful. And that's not fun. And that's not comfortable, but it's necessary for us to grow and mature and our perspective and our love for God to be filled out the way that He intends for us to be. He wants us to be vetoer. He wants us to be wise. He wants us to be lovers of him. And so we see in verse 8 he says, Come behold the work of the Lord. Take a look at what God does. Be still and know that I'm God. Take a break from all your wrestling and trying so hard to do it in your own strengths. One of the most amazing stories in the Old Testament is the story of Jacob wrestling with the Lord. And so many times when we look at that passage, we go, Jacob wrestled with God and he won. And I say, why did he wrestle with God? Because God told him he was going to bring him to that land. And God told him he was going to protect him. And God told him he was going to defend him. And what Jacob wanted was for God to say, I'm just gonna do what I said. And God said, why do I even need to do that? Jacob wasn't wrestling with God with confidence. He was wrestling with God as a doubter. Why did he send his family in droves? Why did he send Leah's family out first to meet his brother? And then he sends Rachel and her children. And why did he send all of those gifts? And why did he stay behind to be the last one to meet his brother? Answer is very simple. He doubted he would live. Why did he wrestle with the Lord? Because he wanted God to say one more time, yes, I will preserve you. Yes, I will bless you. Yes, I will keep you. But God had stated it over and over and over again before that moment. And so what does the text say? Be still and know that I'm God. Quit striving in your own strength and let God as God do what He has promised to do. Verse 10, I will be exalted, walk by faith, and see what God has said he will do and how he'll accomplish it. Verse 11, the Lord of hosts is with us, the God of Jacob is our refuge. Rejoice that he has triumphed, and you get to participate in it. And so I want to give you an example that I think is directly connected to the psalm in front of us, and that is from the story of Hezekiah. I encourage you to do this when you go home this afternoon. Go online and type in Assyrian Empire at its strongest point. And take a look at that map. And this is what you'll see. The Assyrian Empire went all the way to modern-day Iran. And it went all the way to the west to modern day Turkey. And it went all the way to the south to modern day Egypt. And went all the way to the north to modern-day Russia. It covered that entire mass of land. From Persia to Turkey to Russia to Egypt, with one exception. If you look at the map, there'll be a little dot in the middle, and that dot is called Judah. And you should ask yourself a question. Why did they not conquer Judah? It's a fact of history. You can look at history books and it's there. At the height of their strength, they did not conquer Jerusalem and that little portion of Judah. While they went all the way down to Egypt, all the way to Turkey, all the way to Russia, all the way to Persia, and the question is. Why not? I want to answer that. Turn me to 2 Kings chapter 18. And I'll tell you why they did not conquer that region. In 2 Kings chapter 18, verse 9, it says this, and it came to pass in the fourth year of Hezekiah. That Shalmanazar, king of Assyria, came up against Samaria and besieged it. The first thing we read about is something that had happened to city after city after city, people group after people group after people group. The Assyrians came in, they laid siege, and they destroyed the city. Everything they wanted to kill, they killed. Everything they wanted to take, they take, they took. Everyone that they wanted to humiliate, they humiliated. They did what they wanted to. All the way from Persia. all the way to Turkey, all the way to Russia, all the way down to Egypt. Chapter 18, verse 19, it says this. They came next to Jerusalem. This is at the height of their strength as an empire. Thus saith the great king, verse 19, the king of Assyria, what confidence is this wherein thou trustest? Of whom dost thou trust that thou rebellest against me? Did the Assyrians want to take Jerusalem? Oh yes, they did. In verse 33 it says this, Hath any of the gods of the nations delivered at all his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria? Answer: No. Not one. How did the king respond, Hezekiah, when he received this letter? Well, in verses 14 through 19 of chapter 19, this is what he did. And I love this passage. I'm not going to summarize it. I'm going to read it because it's so thorough and so rich. It says, and Hezekiah received the letter of the hand of the messenger and read it. And Hezekiah went up into the house of the Lord. and spread it before the Lord. And Hezekiah prayed before the Lord and said, O Lord God of Israel, which dwelleth between the cherubim. Thou art the God, even thou alone. Of all the kingdoms of the earth, thou hast made heaven and earth. Lord, bow down thine ear and hear Open thine eyes and see, and hear the words of Sennacherib, which hath sent him to reproach the living God. These are amazing statements. Hezekiah believed that this wasn't about him and his preservation. It was about God's name. And he states it very clearly. He has sent him to reproach the living God. And he says, Of a truth, O Lord The king of Assyria has destroyed the nations of their lands, and has cast down their gods into the fire, for they were no gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stone, wherefore they have destroyed them. Now Therefore, O Lord our God, I beseech thee, save thou us out of his hand That all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art the Lord God, even thou, and what's the last word? Only Only. So what happens next? What happens next is that God sends a prophet, the prophet Isaiah, to Hezekiah with a message, and I want you to listen carefully to what he says. In 2 Kings chapter 19, verse 20, it says this: Then Isaiah the son of Amos sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, that which thou hast prayed to me against Sennacherib, king of Assyria, I have heard. Verse 32, thus saith the Lord concerning the king of Assyria, he shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it with shield, nor cast a bank against it. But the way that he came by the same shall he return and shall not come into the city. For I will defend this city to save it for mine own sake. And for my king and my servant David's sake. Did you catch that? I will defend the city. Then we move down to verse 35, the next verse. And it came to pass that night, and notice the wording here, it's very important, the angel of the Lord. Who is the angel of the Lord? If you read the book of Genesis, it's clearly the preincarnate Christ. Over and over and over again in the Old Testament, when that phrase, the angel of the Lord, is used, it is often, often. A reference to Christ Himself. It came to pass that night that the angel of the Lord went out and smote in the camp of the Assyrians a hundred fourscore and five thousand. And when they had arisen early in the morning, behold, they were all dead corpses. So Sennacherib, king of Assyria, departed and went and returned and dwelt at Nineveh. And it came to pass as he was worshipping in the house of Nisrach, his God, his sons killed him. Do you know why all of those lands fell but one? Because they served the wrong gods. Do you know why one little place in all of that region was preserved? Because when Hezekiah was faced with terms , He didn't buckle. He didn't say, I'm going to fight this man. He took the letter. He laid it before God's altar and throne and said, This, God, you hear what he's saying about you. Do you hear what he's saying about you? Defend your honor. Defend your name. Do what I can't do. And you know what God did? He did it. Two takeaways. God preserves his people no matter what goes on around them. And the believer's future hope is unshakable. This is a great text for us to think about as we prepare for the Lord's table. Why? Because what makes our future hope unshakable is the cross and the resurrection. Nothing else. Not your performance. Not your strength, not your goodness, not what you're going to do for God, not what you're going to promise to God what he did for you. It all hinges on his grace and the work of Christ. How do we apply it? To the unbeliever, you have no hope in this life or the life to come apart from Christ. None. Everybody in this room is gonna face heartache. I wish it was not the case, but it is. Personally, in your children, in your your marriages. As we get older, heartache comes. And it's just the grace of God that gets us through those things. But the grace of God that gets us through those things is not the grace of God that matters the most. It's what keeps us and gives us an eternal inheritance. He preserves us. You have no hope outside of Christ. If you've never placed your faith in Christ, why would you hold back? Why not trust in what He has done for you? On the cross and that empty tomb. And then to the believer, since God is a refuge and strength, we should not fear what we cannot control. If you have a responsibility and you're feeling the pressure, then go do what you're supposed to do. But if you're fearful with something that's out of your hands, you need to take it to God. You need to lay it before Him like Hezekiah did and say, God If you don't work, got no hope. Put it before him. Since he has established an everlasting covenant with his people, we can rest in his everlasting presence. He will never leave you He will never forsake you. On your lowest and darkest day, he is with you. As you suffer and struggle, he is with you. When you feel pain inside, he's with you. And he's not callous towards you. He loves you dearly And that's a great comfort. Since he has continuously demonstrated his faithfulness, we should glory in him. What do I mean by that? Well, rest in his care When life's uncertain, rest in his care. When you face enemies, and we all will, rest in his care. Rest in his character. He's good. Don't doubt it. Know his promises. They're sure. He's never going to break his word. Rest in his presence, both in this life and the life to come. What does it say in Psalm 23? Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I'll fear no evil, because you are with me. Surely goodness and mercy will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. May God help us to take his word to heart today. Let's bow for prayer as we prepare our hearts for the Lord's table. Father, we thank you for your word. I pray that it will bring the deepest of comfort. To whatever troubled soul may hear this. And not just in this moment, but may it continually bring them comfort. Father, help us to live lives that are built on the rock of our great God. That we flee to you in time of trouble. We find strength and comfort and stability in you in time of trouble. And we rest. In your continual presence, both now and forever. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.