And uh want to remind you of a couple things before we get started. One is please pick up your uh your missions uh brochure that's going to tell you about each of the missionaries we're having in and which weeks we're having them in. And then also Also, I wanted to uh make an adjustment on something that I said this morning. Uh we're pushing our junior activity back because several of the kids are still in quarantine. And so uh going to be kind of like right at the end of that. So uh we're gonna push back uh our junior activity, but the teens do have an activity this weekend. So Uh Tori, I saw an email with that. So Okay, well so anyway, it's in the mix, you might say. But uh wanted wanted to mention that. And then also um please remember that we're taking nominations for both budget committee and missions committee. So please keep that in mind. If you're joining us in the live stream, please remember to get those into the audience. office as soon as possible. Let's bow for prayer and then we will get started with our songs tonight. Father, I pray that you bless this evening, help us to have clear minds as we uh sit under the ministry I pray that you'll uh bless the music and bless our testimonies. I pray that you would be glorified in those things, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good evening. Let's do some singing. Let's open our hymn books to hymn number four hundred thirteen. Faith is the victory. Please stand as we sing all three verses. But faith is the victory. Encamped along the hills of lighty Christian soldiers rise and press the battle in. The night shall veil the glowing skies against the frozen bales below that all our strength. Faith is a victory wing up that overcomes the world. Faites a victory, fake the victory for Victory that overcomes the war. His banner over us is love. I store the word I God. We spread the words of saints of love with shouts of triumph, love, by faith denied the world, whispered by God or every fame The big babies make for the tell our shiny seal Baking the victory Baking the victory All glory storming that overcomes the woe. To him the overcomes the floor. Why wave it shall begin Before the angel, the son of his name confessed with them. The light were off the tells of life, our hearts with the name The name of the line, and in my God with the Baked a bank for me, baked on the And back to hymn number 355. Jesus paid it all. Please have a seat. We'll continue our singing. Hymn number 355. Jesus paid it all. We'll sing all for verse 1. I fear the Savior says I straight and seen a strong Child wheelchair, by the me , I am alone, Jesus may never, oh my god , I am Thy power and thine can taste the spots and so Do you not think that my own spend I want the presentation? Why not we can have I like winter plane? Oh , that's why. Empezamos a Playoff, ganas de la rima. And when before the one I stand and never wish, Jesus died myself to save, but my friends are still between. Jesus made it off Snake Why National And over to him 418. Trust and obey. We'll sing verses 1-2 Two four and five, trust and obey When we walk with our Lord in the Light of Lord, Mother When we do well, we have cell. Don 't let rise, don't let all things die, but let's forever What I've been on is so giving his ball , I said to me , Then it became sweet, we must come as we Don't use this, when we pray, then we can all pay for Great singing this evening. Okay, well on Sunday nights we'd like to take a few moments to give you opportunities to share testimonies. This is a multiple page song. It's a lot. So this is just a collection of familiar songs, but I don't know you have to change the keys a few times. Yes, we'll have to you got another one, Kelly? You think about it, we'll move on to 135 in the blue book. 135 in the blue book. By Gentle Waters. I think I know this one. Can you play it? Three winter. Here we go by the gentle water You will say plead me and repasters feed me, knowing what is fast Though I often strengthen Wonder Bar away , I can hear you say , consider me. And rest on a third. Jesus loving supper. Your boss make me never And your Though the darkness find me, you are close to me. To those not would guide me till I 'm safely home. Three thirty-four in the Red Book Three thirty-four in the red block. Jesus I come. A good one. Out of my bonded sorrow and I Jesus are thy calm, Jesus are thy cause, and to thy freedom gladness and thy She is a big consumer. One fifty two in the blue book. You good with this one? All right. It's got tricky timings, but we got this. Why leave a heavily match on? Why choose a simple song? Why wonder for a bullet the king of a ball? Why feel all the way back up? Why call the wise to see? The lies of our creation Shiny there for me that was called me quite for me. For me we said it's one upon a tree, it was for me, we can For me we say, for me a praise with them, it was for me. Great. Uh Kelly, do you have another one? Two oh eight in the blue book. Two zero eight. Um, could we play through this one? Let's all stand and sing the first and the last verse. Be loving one most precious in my eyes. I see your stars and hear your mood it cross. My brother has brought your every day. I share your brain, your suffering draws me dear. For myself for you, and I will lead you in the way I choose. Trust now my heart, my grace is still enough, forever rest within my painful love. Believe me, go to the home place for recovery. One day you'll see that life is not in vain. I am the key, I'll soon return to rest O still the life I have for you. And I must lead you in the way I choose. Trust in my heart, my grace is still enough forever. Great singing, please be seated. Um Are you weary? Are you heavy hearted? Talent to Jesus, talent to Jesus, are you? Weeping over choice in water telling to Jesus alone. Tell it to Jesus Jesus, tell it to Jesus, he is a friend that's well known. If no brother's such a friend or brother, tell it to Jesus. Do you feel all gathering clouds of sorrow? To Jesus, tell it to Jesus, are you angsters? What shall be tomorrow? Tell it to Jesus alone Are you troubled at the thoughts of dying? Tell it to Jesus, tell it to Jesus, for Christ's coming kingdom, are you sighing? Tell it to Jesus alone Tell him to Jesus, tell him to Jesus, he is a friend that's well known. You know that such a friend or brother tell it to chase us alone. Okay, thank you for that. If you could, let's take our Bibles and let's turn again to Psalm 18. We're in the eighteenth Psalm again this evening, and we are looking at the final section of the eighteenth Psalm. I'm going to read it to you. And then we're going to dig into a very important topic, a topic that I think sometimes we shy away from, but the reality is it's something that we need to address, and that is that God righteously rules the nation. and he has every right to rule as he chooses to rule. Psalm 18, verses 38 through 50, here's what the scriptures say. I have wounded them that they were not able to rise. They are fallen under my feet. For thou that'st gird me with strength Thanks unto the battle, thou hast subdued under me those that rose up against me. , Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies, that I might destroy them that hate me. They cried, but there was none to save them, even unto the Lord, but he answered them not. Then did I beat them small as the dust before the wind, I did cast them out as the dirt in the streets. Thou hast delivered me from the strivings of the people. people, and thou hast made me the head of the heathen. A people whom I've not known shall serve me. As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey me. Strangers shall submit themselves unto me, the strangers shall fade away and be afraid out of their close places. The Lord liveth And blessed be the rock, and let the God of my salvation be exalted. It is God that avengeth me and subdueth the people. Under Me. He delivereth me from mine enemies. Yea, thou liftest me up above those that rise up against me. Thou hast delivered me from the violent man. Therefore will I give thanks unto thee, O Lord, among the heathen, and sing praises unto thy name. Great deliverance giveth he to his kingdom. King, and showeth mercy to his anointed, to David, and to his seed forever. Now this final section of Psalm eighteen reminds us that God is sovereign And that God moves in history to cause evil to be punished and righteousness to prevail. In fact, when people talk about God's nature, I think that sometimes as 21st century Christians Christians living in the West, living in a society that is clearly pluralistic and clearly antagonistic to the concept of a king who is a righteous king. who establishes his own reign without any rival, there is a sense within our culture where we sort of look at a passage like this and we kind of We shy away and we say, is God really that just and that righteous? And does he really expand his dominion in such an assertive manner? But I want to remind you again that when David is writing these words, he is not writing these words as an aggressor who was in his own land and he was greedy of gain, and so he went to to foreign lands and he went to conquer those foreign lands out of greed. He was simply a man who was trying to preserve the right of a land that God had given to his people, the nation of Israel. Israel. God gave them that land. It was their right to possess that land, because God, as the sovereign, has the right to give whatever land he wants to the people that he chooses. And so when David is talking about this kind of a rising up in battle and having strength in the battle and subduing his his enemies and crushing in his enemies. He's talking about the fact that to establish that kind of a dominion in the land that God had given, he had to fully vanquish his foes. Well, really, what we see behind these words is the fact that God really is ultimately the one who has the right to dictate what is the way that this world is governed. He is righteous. And he has the right to rule the nations. And so what we should see in this passage is that God wants us to glory in this concept: that he has the absolute right to govern as he chooses. In order to look at this topic, I want us to look at several truths that kind of push us to understanding this last section of the 18th Psalm. The first of those truths is the fact that God has the right to rule the nations. I want us to look at a couple of passages of Scripture that really establish that fact that God has the right to to rule as he chooses. rule the The first passage I want us to look at is Colossians chapter 1, and we're going to look at verses 16 and 17. Colossians chapter 1, 16 and 17. Here's what the scriptures say. It says, for by him, and that's Jesus, and in this particular passage, he's talking about how the Lord Jesus Christ, the second person Of the Godhead had a very specific role in the creation of the world. Obviously, each person of the Godhead was actively involved in creation, but the focal point here is on the Lord Jesus Christ. It says, by him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth. Visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him There's more to the verse that I'm going to mention it in just a moment, but I want you to think about this for a second. One of the reasons that God has the right to rule as he chooses is because there is nothing in existence in heaven or in earth that does not find its ultimate source in God creating it. Every creature in all of the creation has its ultimate end rooted in the fact that God gave them life and God made them and God made them with a purpose. The second part of that verse though is this not only are all things created by him, but it says that they're created For him. In fact, when we talk about sin, you know what sin ultimately is? Sin is the distortion of God's plans God's purposes and what He has created. So when God creates something to function a very specific way, sin is when we take that very specific function. And we chip away at it, or we distort it, or we choose to use it in a way that it was never to be intended to be used. And so we can go into any area of life. When we talk about sin, sin is falling short of God's plan. So we could talk about it when it comes to our roles and our families. We could talk about it when it talks about how we relate to other people. We can talk about it in the realm of the church. We can talk about it in the realm of marriage. We can talk about it in the realm of government. Any way that God has created something that is good and it's designed with a purpose purpose if we have distorted it anyway, that is sinful. And so he says all things were created by him and for him. That means that he has a reason for things being the way that they are. Then it says, he is before all things, and by him all things consist. Now that word consist literally means That he is managing, he is governing, he is actively involved in caring for God's creation. So it's not just that God made the world and everything in it. it but God made the world and everything in it with a purpose, with a design. And He also manages and He sustains and he takes care of his creation. All of those truths point us to the fact that he has the right to govern and he has the right to rule. Another passage I want you to notice is Daniel chapter 4, verses 34 and 35. Now these are the words of Nebuchadnezzar. Remember his name. We know who Nebuchadnezzar is, but we're going to go back to this passage again this Section of the book of Daniel where Nebuchadnezzar makes these statements. Here's what he says in verses 34 and 35. His dominion. Now that word dominion means his sovereignty. His rule, the the the realm that he controls, his dominion is an everlasting dominion. And his kingdom is from generation to What doest thou? Now when he says all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing, he's not suggesting that all the inhabitants of the world have no value to God. They do have tremendous tremendous value to God, but when a creature bowls up his value fist and looks at his creator and says, you don't have the right to do it it this way or you don't have the right to tell me that I can't or that you don't have the right to tell me that I must when a person, a creature, looks their creator in the face, not literally, but you're understand this and they say what right do you have basically what Nebuchadnezzar says is they are reputed as nothing that rebellion is going absolutely Nowhere in the end. And so he states clearly, none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? If God is going to do something, then you cannot stop what He hasn't determined to do. Probably the greatest example of this is our redemption. We talk about the cross, and you had all of these people that were plotting to destroy the Lord Jesus Christ. How were they going to destroy the Lord Jesus Christ? They were going to destroy him by putting him to death. And what was the ultimate end of them putting him to death and him being crucified on the cross? God's plan being accomplished. So that you and I can be redeemed, that our sins can be forgiven. We can And so when we see the rebellion of man, the rebellion of man cannot stop the ultimate purposes of God. And Nebuchadnezzar understands that because he's a humble man. A third passage I want to mention is Acts 17, verses 24 And I think you might be familiar with this passage, but this is when Paul is at Mars Hill in Athens, and he's preaching the gospel to people that are worshiping being an unknown God. And he says, I'm going to declare this unknown God to you. He is the one, it says in verse 24, who made the world. And all things therein. Seeing he is the Lord of heaven and earth. He dwelleth not in temples made with hands, neither is worshiped with men's hands, as though he needeth anything. For to dwell on all the face of the earth. And I love this next statement because it's very important. It talks about how God is unique. Involved in history. It says he hath determined the times before appointed and the bounds of their habitations. Another way to put that is, God is the architect of history. So as people push out and they do what they want to do, God is ultimately at work causing things to To stop, causing things to happen as man rebels, as the wickedest of people rise to power and authority. God has ways of continuing his work And so I'll kind of summarize these verses with these four very simple statements. God has the right to rule because one, he's God. There's none like him. He's not dependent on anybody. Nobody made him. You can't contain him He is infinite. We cannot fully grasp his greatness. One of the reasons he has the right to rule is because he's God. The second reason is because he's creator. Everything that exists and every purpose that exists And the working of history, it all goes back to the fact that God made the world and everything in it. The third is that he is the sustainer. If it wasn't for God's sustaining hand, then we would have a world that would essentially self-destruct. There are people that believe they can they can stage off, they can put off the self-destruction of the world. And the reality is this there's only one that person that can do that. It's the one who made it. It's God himself. He is the sustainer of this world. And the fourth thing is that he is the architect of history. And so when we study history and we see these unique stories of things that happen in history, and we look at them and we say, why did it fall out the way that that it did? Why didn't it go here when it could have? Why did it stop at this point? Why did this moment take place, which ultimately ended up being such an amazing part of the storyline? Well it's because God is the architect of history. He's working behind the scenes. It's not stripping people of their responsibility. It's not stripping people of the fact that they make decisions and they make Decisions based upon what they want to do and what they think they should do. But God is still at work behind the scenes. Accomplish his purposes. The second truth I want us to see tonight is that God deals with evil because he's holy. This is a really important principle for us to understand. God deals with evil because he is holy. Now that statement does not tell us how quickly God deals with evil. This is where we get very frustrated. And I say we, I don't mean just you, I mean me too. Okay? We see that evil takes place in the world. And we ask ourselves, why is it that God doesn't Why doesn't God step into that situation and stop this now? Why does he let it continue on a little bit longer or a little bit longer? And the answer to that question is sometimes we just don't No. But I want us to understand that there's an absolute concrete fact, God will absolutely deal with evil. Because he's holy, because he's just because he's righteous. A holy, righteous, just God cannot ignore sin. He absolutely has to deal with it. He absolutely will do it. And I want us to take a little survey of several examples of how God does this. And the reason I want us to look at these examples Is because I want us to see the reality. God deals with evil because he's holy, but I also want you to see the patience of God in all of these stories. I want you to see that God extends his hand of mercy Mercy and he's very long-suffering for a period of time before he deals in evil. There is no person that has the right to look at God and say, God moved too soon God wasn't patient enough. God wasn't merciful enough. In all of these examples, we will see the justice of God, but also the mercy Mercy of God and the patience of God and the loving kindness of God. The first example I want us to mention is the flood. And you go, the flood? Where is God's mercy in the flood? Where is God's grace and where is God's loving kindness in the flood? You will see it when we read these verses. Turn with you to Genesis chapter 6, verses 5 through 8. And Genesis 6, 5 through 8, this is what the scripture says. And God saw the wickedness of man, that it was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil consumed Continually. Is that not an amazing statement? When God looked at people who He created in His image He gave them freedom. He gave them a mind that could reason, a mind that he wanted to know God and to love God and to worship God and to serve God and to invest all those resources and to godly purposes when God sees mankind, this is his statement, every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually That is a stunning statement. Yet that is the reality of the time that we're talking about. It says, and it repented the Lord that he had made man on earth A very simple way to put that is God looked at everything that he made in Genesis 1, 2, and 3 up before the fall, and he said, It's good. God looks at his world now and he says, It's evil. He saw the creation, he said, it's good. Now he looks at the creation, he says, It's evil. And it says, It grieved his heart, and the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I've created from the face of the earth. But Noah found grace. In the eyes of the Lord. You know what's amazing about this story? For one hundred and twenty years, Noah built a boat, and every single person That had the privilege of watching him for a hundred and twenty years. All those generations that were born and then had their children and their children and how many generations are born 120 years? All of those people had the opportunity to watch this guy build a boat. And you know what they did? They mocked him. But Noah stayed by what God told him to do. He built the boat, he got in the boat, and God preserved humanity. We're here today because God demonstrated his grace toward Noah, and Noah. Noah obeyed. The second example we have is the city of Sodom, and we could also add Gomorrah. In Genesis 18, verses 17 through 23, here's what What it says. It says, The Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do? Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, because their sin is very grievous. I will go down now and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it, which is come unto me, and if not I will know. Righteous with the wicked? What an amazing story. Will you destroy the righteous people that are in those cities as you destroy those cities? And you know what God said? No, I won't. And so Abraham has a has this time with God, and he basically says if there's just fifty people in that city. Will you hold back your hand of judgment? God said, sure, I'll do that. He said, how about twenty? He said Sure, I'll do that. How about ten? God said, I'll do that. Ten people People in two massive cities, and God would have preserved the city. And you know what you know what we find in the text? There weren't ten people in those cities. In fact, when we read the storyline of what took place in Sodom when those men, those angels, went into the city, what we will see is from the young to the old, there was complete complete moral decadence in the city. And even those people who were righteous, and I guess some of us might have a hard time calling them righteous, but clearly the Bible does call Lot a just man, whose heart was vexed by what he saw in the city. Even those people who God pulled out of the city, they did not go very willingly. And we even see the result of Lot's interaction with his own daughters. What do we see in that storyline? God is just, yet God is also very patient. God is very merciful. He loved Lot, a man who we probably would not put in very high regard knowing what we know about him. I'm going to give you a third example. The Canaanites. Genesis chapter 15, this is what the scriptures say. Noah surely, this is when God is establishing his covenant with Abraham. This is a very important passage and understanding. The Abrahamic covenant. Here's what it says: Know of assurity that thy seed shall be strangers in a land that is not theirs, and shalt serve them, and they shall afflict them four hundred years. Now you say, who's afflicting who? Abraham's descendants, who are righteous descendants, because Abraham is trying to raise his family right, and so he raises Isaac, and Isaac raises Jacob and Esau, well, things get a little off the rails there, but you understand that these were the cream of the crop, the best of the best in Canaan. He says, for 400 years The nations around your descendants are going to afflict them. They're not going to treat them justly. They're not going to treat them right. In fact, the Bible is full of a lot of examples of this. And this is what he says. And also that nation whom they shall serve, this is a reference to Egypt. Of course. Abraham doesn't really understand this, but we do when we study the scriptures. Whom they shall serve will I judge, and afterwards shall they come out with great substance. And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace. Thou shalt be buried in a good old age. In the fourth generation they shall come hither again. And this is the phrase that should really catch your attention. For the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full. Pause for a moment and think about this. The people that God was going to judge who lived in Canaan, they thought they lived like Sodom and Gomorrah. Okay, if you want to understand Canaanite culture, then look at the interaction that took place in Sodom and Gomorrah between those servants, those angels who went in. to the city and how Lot dealt with them and how Lot spoke to the men of the city, not just the men, but the young men, the boys of the city. And what he suggested, look at that whole conversation, and this is what you need to understand: that when God looked at the Canaanites as evil as they were, he said, I'm gonna give them 400 years. Four hundred years because they're not quite to the point yet where I'm going to judge them. You know, a lot of times when we read through the old Testament, and we see the destruction of the Canaanites, we go, boy, that's horrific. But we don't think about the patience of God. That came before the justice of God. In Deuteronomy 18, verses 9 through 13. By the way, let me just kind of put this in perspective. 400 years. You know how long we've had our nation? 245. Okay, so we've we've hardly as a nation existed half the time that God gave the Canaanites. Four hundred ten years ago was when the King James Version was translated. Okay? Think about how much the English language has changed in 400 years. Incredibly. Think about how much has gone on in the English speaking world in 410 years. You know, go back to the Protestant Reformation. Five hundred four years ago, Martin Luther nails his ninety-five feces to the door at Wittenberg. What I'm trying to say is an incredible amount of time took Place where God held back his His hand of justice, where He is going to judge, but He's patient. Deuteronomy 18, verses 9 through 13. This is what God instructs of his people when they enter into Canaan. He says, When thou art come into the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee, thou shalt not learn to do after the abominations of those nations. There shall not be found among you anyone that maketh his son or his daughter pass through the fire. Say, what he what is he talking about? He's talking about human sacrifice. People taking their children and burning them as burnt offerings to an idol. He said, don't do that. Obviously. Yet it was a very common practice in the culture that God was destroying. He says Don't use divination, the observing of times, enchanters, or witches, or charmers, or consulters, familiar spirits, wizards, or necromancers. These are all different expressions of occult type behavior. He says, For all that do these things are an abomination unto the Lord, and because of these abominations, the Lord thy God shall drive them out before thee. Thou shalt be perfect. With the Lord thy God. Later on in Deuteronomy chapter twenty, verses sixteen through eighteen, he says, The cities of these peoples which the Lord thy God giveth thee for an inheritance, thou shalt save alive nothing that breathed Thou shalt utterly destroy them, namely the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Parasites, the Hivates, and the Jebusites. You say, Well, why does he name those very specific groups of people? People because they were such corrupted cultures that they were under judgment of God. By the way, there were some cultures that lived around the You say, why? Because they were not on the same level of abomination and debauchery that these peoples were. He says, but here's the reason. You're to do this so that they do not teach you after their abominations. In other words, God is warning the people. Don't be like that. Another example, I think of the story of Goliath where David goes out and he slow Slew the giant. The thing that really stands out to me in this interaction is the following statement. The Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog that thou comest to me with staves? And the Philistine curse David by his gods. Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give thy flesh to the fowls of the air, the beasts of the field. David said to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword and a spear, and with a shield, but I come unto thee in the name of the Lord. Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. He says, This day will the Lord deliver thee into mine hands. Thou shalt know that the Lord saveth not with sword and spear, for the battle is the Lord's. Very interesting about this interaction is that we can see very clearly that that the Philistine Goliath is fighting David believing he's empowered by his gods And David is standing his ground and fighting the giant, believing that he will be empowered by the creator of all things. You can see that there is a clash of worldviews The reason there's a battle is not just about a piece of property, but it's about whose God is superior versus inferior. The last example I want to give you is the the land of Israel. And this is This is a very interesting one. While God judged the Canaanites and God judged Sodom and Gomorrah, and God judged the world in a flood, we have all these examples. God did not give special privileges to the nation. nation of Israel, they would also face God's justice if in fact they rejected him. And so in the book of Ezekiel, we see that God is going to measure out his justice against His own people. I say his own people, this nation, who was a divided people. Not everyone in the nation served the Lord. Some did, some didn't. This is very interesting. He says in verse number one, he says, chapter eleven or chapter nine, verse one, he says, He cried also in my ears with a loud voice, saying, Cause them that have charge over the city to draw near. He called to them a man in clothes and linen, which had the writer's ink horn by his side, and the Lord said unto him, Go through the midst of the city. The midst of Jerusalem set a mark upon the foreheads of the men that sigh and that cry for all the abominations that shall be done in the midst thereof. And to the other, he saith in mine hearing, go after him through the city and smite. Let not your eyes spear, neither have pity. Slay utterly old, young, both maid and little children. And women, but come not near any man upon whom is the mark, and begin at my sanctuary. You say, what is he saying? What he's saying is, even as God judged the nation of the Israel. He did. In other words, as the Babylonians were coming into that city, and as they were laying waste to that city and they were destroying that city, it's not like they just were able to do anything they want. God knew who his people were in the city. And as those Babylonians come rushing, and God protected those people, those families That were not idol worshippers, that as it describes, these are people who sighed and who cried because of the abominations that were in their midst. The reason I bring this out is to make the simple point again. God's justice is not some irrational and whimsical thing I had a final example, but I'm not going to get there because of time. Let me kind of give you the simple summary, because I think it's very important. God's ways are patient and exceedingly merciful. Do you see that in these verses? His justice is not irrational or unjust or whimsical. It is measured, deliberate, appropriate. No nation, not even the nation of Israel, gets special privileges. The only thing standing between God's full wrath against the nation is his peace. And I even think about our own nation, the the United States of America. It was very easy for us to think about the incredible Christian heritage We've had in our own nation. And we've had an incredible Christian heritage. There is no question about that. But when you look at our culture today, you know what you see? Little remembrance of that Christian heritage. And it's very easy for us to look at our own nation and to say, God's going to pour out his wrath on this nation as well. And he may very well do that. But we see in these examples that God always showed grace to his people. We see in these These examples that God was very merciful and God was very patient. God was not irrational or whimsical. So let me give you a couple of simple thoughts about this particular passage. The third truth we see is we need to acknowledge that God acts in gracious justice. Let me read these verses again. Verses forty-six through fifty, David writes, The Lord liveth, and blessed be my rock, and let the God of my salvation be exalted. It is God that avengeth me and subdueth the people under me. He delivereth me from mine enemies. Yea, thou liftest up above that those that rise up against me. against me. Thou hast delivered me from the violet man. Therefore will I give thanks unto thee, O Lord, among the heathen, and I will sing praises unto thy name. Great deliverance giveth he to his king, and he showeth mercy to his uncle. Anointed to David and to his seed forevermore. I want you to notice something about those verses. David was a powerful king. He was Mighty. He was prosperous. He was humble. Contrast that with some of the things that were said by some of the great leaders of the History. For instance, Babel, Genesis eleven: four, let us build us a city and a tower, that we may reach the top of heaven, and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered. Or think about the Pharaoh in Exodus chapter 5, verse 2, he says, Who is the Lord that I should obey his voice to let Israel go, I know not the Lord. Or the Assyrians in Isaiah 36, 18, he says, Hath any of the gods of the nations delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyrians? Syria? Where are the gods of Hamath and Arfad? Where are the gods of a very tough word? And they delivered Samaria out of my uh that have they delivered Samaria out of my hand? Who are they among all the gods of these lands that have delivered their land unto my hand, that the Lord should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand? You see the arrogance Of these people. Even Nebuchadnezzar, Daniel 430, is not this great Babylon which I have built for the house of the kingdom by the might of my power? Do you see the incredible contrast between David and between these men? David acknowledges that the power that I have is by the good hand of God. David recognized that he did not deserve the glory and the honor. Honor for the positions that he held. Well, whereas these men all believed they got there by their own might. And I asked this question: Are we like David? Or these people. I don't mean that we're speaking as arrogantly as these people did, but do we hold the same heart? Do we have that heart of the humble Ruler David, or the arrogant ruler like Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Assyria, the Pharaoh, the people in Babel who are building this tower. What about us? The final chapter of American Greatness. I'm not saying we are. They don't know how things are unfolding. It's the people that study history after the fact that go, oh, you can see it here and here. But when you're living Living through it, you may very well not have any clue what's going on. On the other side, we may very well be living through the final moments before the rapture of the church and the day of the We're supposed to be living with this with this anticipation of the imminent return of Christ. The fact is whether America comes or goes before the Lord Jesus Christ returns, We don't know. Whether he comes tonight or tomorrow or sometime within our lifetime, we don't know. The fact is, we know we need to be ready. We may be living at the beginning of a mighty awakening of the Church of God. We look at the terrible times that we're living in and the the frustrations and the discouragements and we have no idea if we are living in 1516 and Martin Luther's about to nail his 95 pieces We really don't know that. We don't know if we're watching the demise of a nation. We don't know if we're watching what is about to be the return of Christ. We don't know if we're about to watch an incredible working of God in our life. God. We don't know those things. But here's what we do know. We need to walk with God simply. We need to express, as the psalmist did, I'm going to read again these verses. That the Lord liveth, and blessed be my rock, and let the God of my salvation be exalted. It is God that avengeth and subdueth the people. He delivereth me from Thou liftest me up above those that rose up against me. Thou hast delivered me from the violent man. Therefore will I give thanks unto thee, O Lord, among the heathen and sing Praises unto thy name. Great deliverance giveth he to his king, and showeth mercy to his anointed. That is the way we need to live. That's the way we need to think. That's the way we need to conduct our business. The truth is, we do not know where we are living in history. We don't know if we're in the middle of history. We don't know if we're in the End history. We don't know. Who would have thought during the Middle Ages that a thousand years would go by? Yet here we are. We have no idea where we stand When I look at how wicked Sodom and Gomorrah were and how patient God is, there are lots of p preachers that say God's going to destroy America. Look at how wicked we are, and I go, but there's more than ten righteous in this country. It's a lot of godly people that love the Lord and intercede on behalf of the nation. They believe in the preaching of God's word. They're preaching the gospel. raising their families right. The fact is we have no idea if because of that remnant within this nation that God is preserving and holding back his wrath. We don't know that But here's what we do know. We need to live simple godly lives. Let's walk with the Lord. Let's love Him. Let's obey Him in the fear of the Lord. Let's Let's preach Christ. Let's raise our families for the glory of God. Let's not cease to praise Him for His glorious acts. Let's be Faithful men and women. That's my encouragement to you as we think about this incredible psalm. God has the right to rule the nations as As he sees fit. God is governing and managing in ways that are far beyond our full ability to comprehend. He is just, he will judge, and we need to be faithful. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to help us to do that. Father, this is a wonderful text. So many incredible truths for us To contemplate tonight. I pray that as we go home, that our minds would be filled with these tensions. That you rule and you reign You are just and holy. You are also very patient. You give people incredible space to repent. You separate the wheat from the chaff as you judge. There is not a whimsical or rational anger, but in fact, your justice is a Father, we truly have no idea where we are living in human history's timeline. In this land. We may be living through its final days before it falls. We may be living in the center of church history. We may be living in the final weeks. Or months before the Lord Jesus Christ raptures his church. But no matter where we stand and no matter where we serve, we ask you to help us to be faithful And diligent in your work. Use us for the sake of your kingdom, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, let's take out our hymn books and we're going to turn to hymn number 445 standing on the promises. 445 standing on the promises. This is uh verses one through four, not through one and four. There's a difference. Let's stand together. We're gonna sing this song Standing on the Promise. You can't you can't sit down and sing this song. Let's stand up and let's sing Standing on the Promises. Standing on the promises of Christ my key. Eternal lady is where it's bringing. The highest I will show and see Standing on the promises of God standing standing Standing off the promises of God by stage and I'm standing on the promises of God on the blast, standing on the promises I cannot fold, Listing every moment to the spirit's call Festing in my Savior as by all in all, standing on the promises of God Standing, standing, standing on the promises of God my Savior, standing Sending I'm sending on the promises of God. I hope that in fact we are doing that and thinking about those promises and living in the light of them. Um just want to encourage you, let's please be in prayer for one another. We have several folks that are grieving the loss of family members. We have some folks that are sick and recovering from sickness. We have some folks that have been in core. quarantine for like three and four weeks because one child gets sick and then another child gets sick and another child gets sick and they're not real sick but they're sick enough to have to prolong quarantine And uh so I know that uh for instance my uh my wife has not uh been able to be in services for about three weeks, so we are praying that there are no new sicknesses and next week week my whole family will be here again and uh we're not the only one like that so please be in prayer uh for our families that are uh going through um that and thankfully we don't know of anyone that's very seriously ill, but obviously a lot of folks have gotten uh sick, particularly in our kids section. Uh so be in prayer for our families, especially our moms. Let's be in prayer that Lucy will be able to come home very very soon. I know you guys really want her to be able to do that. And uh let's let's be in prayer for those who've traveled and there's just a lot going on in people's lives. But let's especially remember Remember those who are carrying heavy burdens because there certainly are folks in our congregation that are in that place. Tim, can you close Some prayer tonight and uh and we'll be dismissed. Hope that you'll be able to be with us Wednesday night as we continue. Actually, we're not continuing our study in the pastoral epistles. We have completed that and we're we're gonna We're going to move into our uh continuation of our ecclesiastes study. And uh Wednesday nights or Sunday nights we're gonna well we're gonna have missionaries every single Sunday Sunday night for the next uh month. So please make sure that you uh keep those missionaries in prayer. Tim. Will you pray with me? Father, I love you. You are God and you are creator and you are sustainer of all things. Thank you. Thank you for your greatness and your goodness. Thank you for your sovereignty and your control over everything. Um we we love you, we want to serve you, we want to love you more, we want to know you more and understand you. Thank you for your goodness to please take care of our church in Jesus' name. Amen.