Well let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn together to the book of the Psalms. And we are in Psalm fifty-two this morning. Our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to your class with some help. I think this is a very interesting psalm for us to start the new year out on, and as uh if you're not accustomed to how we are doing things in our church here. Especially during the Thanksgiving and Christmas season we've kind of changed up our typical pattern. But uh at the beginning of the month, on the first Sunday of the month, we always work through one of the Psalms and we've been doing this for a while. We're in Psalm fifty two, so You do the math, we've been at it for several years. And then the rest of the month we focus in on a series through the book of Ephesians, which we just started a couple of uh I was going to say weeks ago, but actually it was before Thanksgiving, so it's been a little bit of time. But Psalm 52 is one of those passages that you kind of wish you didn't need them in the Bible. But they're there for a reason. They're there because we live in a fallen world. And in a fallen world, sometimes we will witness things. Or we may even be the object of very difficult circumstances. And when we try to process what we have observed , or what we have lived through, it can be very, very difficult. And so this passage is one of those psalms that is written for that kind of a moment. And as we get into the psalm, you'll understand exactly why I say that. Psalm 52, and I'm actually going to begin by reading the little sub-superscript that begins the psalm. It says, it is to the chief musician, a mashal of a psalm of David, when Doag the Edomite came and told Saul and said unto him, David has come to the house of Ahimelech. Here's what he writes. Why boasteth thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? The goodness of God endureth continually. Thy tongue deviseth mischief like a sharp razor, working deceitfully. Thou lovest evil more than good, and lying rather than to speak righteousness. Selah Thou lovest all devouring words, O thou deceitful tongue. God shall likewise destroy thee forever. He shall take thee away and pluck thee out of thy dwelling place and root thee out of the land of the living. Selah. The righteous also shall see and fear, and shall laugh at him. Lo, this is the man that made not God his strength. But trusted in the abundance of his riches and strengthened himself in his wickedness. But I'm like an olive tree in the house of God I will trust in the mercy of God forever and ever. I will praise thee forever, because thou hast done it. And I will wait. On thy name, for it is good before thy saints. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer. Our Father, as we look at this text, We ask that you would take the Word of God and really open our understanding as we read it. As we work our way through each piece of this psalm and we consider the background of this mashal of David. I pray that we would recognize that had we lived through and witnessed such atrocities, we would have a hard time processing it as well. Yet we are reminded of your righteousness, your justice, and the distinction between your people and those who reject you. And so I pray that this morning as we work our way through this text, you would really speak to our hearts and minister to us as needed, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The text in front of us I summarized in the following way, unrestrained evil is difficult to process. Yet there is comfort for those who reflect. on how he, God, preserves and delivers his people. I really enjoy reading history. One of the reasons I enjoy history is because I like to know what happened, not just some like mystical little thing. I want to know the real deal. I want to know about the past. One of the things that you learn as you read history, that would be if you actually read first-hand accounts and it's not been changed by the people that want to preserve the guilty, uh but make the the guilty not look so bad. But if you actually read firsthand accounts of things that happened, you will encounter things that when you read them, you go, I don't even know how to process that. You know what I'm talking about? Especially when you talk about injustices that take place in the world. Or you read about the brutality of different war times, even in our own nation's history. Especially if you go into ancient history. The kind of brutality that you read about is something that you can't imagine. But these verses are written as David, a warrior, a mighty man of valor, a man who knew it was like to go into battle and fight, how he struggles. to process an unbelievable injustice that he himself was in part actually culpable for what took place. That's what the psalm in front of us is all about. It's about helping us to find comfort when there's not a lot to really hang our hats on when it comes to what we look at. That comfort is found in the righteousness of God. So let's go ahead and first of all begin by breaking down the background of the psalm in front of us. Now, when you're reading through the Psalms, it's important to recognize these are not chapters. They're individual psalms. And some of the psalms actually go together with other psalms that are around them. Sometimes there are some that are in sequence. And then it's also important when we're reading the Psalms to recognize that at the beginning of those Psalms, before you go to verse number one of the Psalm, there'll be a superscript, and those superscripts are actually a part of the text. They give us information about what we are about to read. And so the background of this psalm is actually revealed to us in the superscript before verse number one. Here's what it says. It is to the chief musician. A mashal, a psalm of David, when Doag the Edomite came and told Saul and said unto him, David has come to the house of Ahimelech. Now, three things that are important about that little superscript. The first is that Psalm 52 is a mashal. And you say, what in the world is a mashal? A mashal is a song of reflection. When you sing this song, it's something that 's kind of flown a flow it flows out of a heart that was thinking about something a lot. And the reason that David was singing about this a lot is because what had taken place was absolutely horrible. We're going to get to that. David is writing it, and he's writing it for someone to sing it. And this reflection is from the atrocity at Nob when David was running for his life from Saul. You say, well, what is that story? Well, if you go in your Bibles to 1 Samuel, you'll read about it in verse in chapters 21 and 22. So maybe you go there in your Bible. We're going to go back to Psalm 52 in just a little bit. But there are a couple of details I want you to see in those chapters that will help you to appreciate why David says what he does. The first thing I want you to notice from 1 Samuel 21 is that this is a section of Scripture Where David is deceptive because he's trying to preserve his life. Now we know that when he ran from Saul, he had his wife put an image in the bed so that when the soldiers came they said, Oh, he's He's sick. He's in bed. You have to leave him alone. And they see something in that bed and they go, oh, he must be there. And eventually they're like, no, we need to go check this out. And they find out He's not in the bed. There's something that's been stuffed there. He's running for his life. So David is running and he's afraid and he knows that Saul wants to kill him. And so as he's running as a fugitive, what he doesn't know at the time is that he is going to survive, but for almost 10 years of his life, he's going to be a fugitive He's gonna be running for his life. That's like me going all the way back to the time our family moved here from Ghana. That whole period of time, beyond that, is how long David was running for his life from Saul, his father-in-law. It's kind of shocking. And when he came to Nob, he meets a man named Ahimelech who is a priest. And the very first detail that stands out to me in verse 1 is how Ahimelech responded to David when he saw him. He says, it says, Then came David to Nob to Ahimelech the priest, and Ahimelech was afraid at the meeting of David and said unto him, Why art thou alone and no man is with thee? Ahimalach knows something is off. Why are you coming in this way? Well David could have said, Well, I'm running for my life. Do you want to help me or do I need to run from you too? But that's not what he did. David deceives Ahimelech. And in his mind, it's not really going to be that big a deal. I'm trying to preserve my life. Well, he doesn't know isn't going to hurt him. He's going to help me. I'm going to get out of here. And that'll be the end of the story. And in verse 2, it says That David says, Well the king has commanded me a business and hath said unto me, let no man know anything of the business whereabout I send thee. And what I have commanded thee, I have appointed my servant to such and such a place. So what's really interesting is this. The way that David lies to Ahimelech It's something that he the fact that he's an honorable man is what's going to play into the deception. Because he says, if the king has sent you on business and nobody's supposed to know it, then I don't have any more questions for you. I'm just going to leave it alone. Now that was pretty unsavory, just to be totally frank about it. Especially when you see where this story ends. And then the third detail that we see is in verse 7. There's a man there named Doag, and he is described as an Edomite. And the Edomites were constantly in conflict with the people of Judah. And this goes all the way back to two brothers who fought. Jacob and Esau, okay? These are the two nations that come from these men. And here is Doag, and this is what it says in verse 7. A certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before the Lord. That's an interesting statement. The idea is he was doing something with the priest. I don't know if he was paying a vow, I don't know if he was offering a sacrifice, but he was there before the Lord, and that little detail is going to come back. Well David runs for his life, Ahimelech helps him out, he sends him with a sword. Actually, it was the sword of Goliath of Gath. He gives him food, showbread, which was actually only permitted for the priest, but David is running for his life. And so he says, go ahead. You can have this And then David goes on his way, and Saul is trying to figure out where David is. A few days later, maybe a week or two later, we don't know the amount of time, but Saul catches up to where David had been. And he comes there to this town called Nob, and there he says, David's been here. And Saul is furious. In fact, his behavior is irrational, and he brings an unsubstantiated accusation against his men. In chapter 22, verse 8, it says the following. All of you have conspired against me. There is none that showeth me that my son hath made a league with the son of Jesse. There is none of you that is sorry for me, or showeth unto me that my son stirred up my servant against me. to lie in wait at this day. He's saying, you're all against me. Now Saul is wrong. They probably had a reason to be against him, okay? He's not thinking clearly. This is his son-in-law. This is a hero for the people. This is someone whom God had used to raise up and deliver the people several times. He's going to be the next king. And Saul wants him dead. And he's charging all these men around him with conspiracy. But that's not the worst. Because in verses 16 and 17, now he points his anger at a man who is completely innocent. And his name is Ahimelech. The priest. And in verses 16 and 17 it says, the king said, Thou shalt surely die, Ohimelech. Thou and all thy father's house, and the king said unto the footmen that stood about him, Turn and slay the priests of the Lord, because their hand also is with David, because they knew when he had fled, and did not show it to me. Now here's the big question. How did Saul get into his head that Ahimelech was a treacherous man? There's one simple answer. Now part of it was Saul was a delusional man. And he wanted to believe what he wanted to believe. But there's a second piece that's very important. And that's going to help us to appreciate what David says in Psalm 52. And that is that a man named Doag indicted Ahimelech. In chapter 22, verse 9, it says, Ahimelech is standing there. He's an innocent man. He's an honorable man. And Saul is accusing all the men around him of a conspiracy. And Doeg says, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub. He inquired of the Lord for him, gave him vitals, gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine. Question, was all that true? Yes. It was all true. But here's something that was not stated. Ahimelech had no idea why David was there. The greatest deceptions are the ones that are entirely true with a little context left out. It's true. The most dangerous of all lies are the ones that have so much truth, they're believable, but there's a little bit of context left out. There's a little statement that could have been made that was not made. And the truth is that Doeg 's deception was in fact full of disdain. In verse 15, it says, Then Ahimelech answered the king and said, Who is so faithful among all thy servants as David? Can you imagine how angry Saul got when he heard that? He says, who is so faithful among all the servants as David, which is the king's son-in-law, and goeth out at his bidding, and is honorable in thy house. Did I then begin to inquire of God for him? Be far from me that let the king impute anything unto this servant, nor all his house and my father thy servant knew nothing of all this lesser more What he's saying is absolutely true. And you know what Doad could have said? Time out, Saul! He's an honorable man. He didn't know. I saw it. But that's not what he did. He kept his mouth shut. You say why? Because Doag was an evil, callous, vindictive man. And what's amazing is when Saul is in this fit of rage, he commands his servants to kill this innocent man. And in verse 17, we see the integrity of these men. The servants of the king said, We will not put forth our hand or fall upon the priest of the Lord. They said, we won't do this. And Saul looks and sees Doag and he says, What about you? Doag knows that he is about to kill an innocent man. He knows that he's not just going to kill an innocent man. He's going to kill an innocent man's family. And he has all the information there, and he could have easily put a stop to it, but he didn't do it. In verse 18, it says, And Doag the Edomite turned and he fell upon the priests and slew on that day. 85 people. And Nob in the city of the priest smote he with the edge of the sword, both men, women, children, suckling. Could you imagine that kind of a thing happening? And the word gets to David because one person from that family was able to make it and preserve his life. And he comes to David and says, here's what happened. And in verse 22 of chapter 22, David says the following. I knew it that day when Doeg the Edomite was there that he would surely tell Saul, and here's the part I don't want you to miss. I have occasioned the death of all the persons of thy father's house. Do you know what that means? David said, My lie costs these people their lives So in these verses, what do we see? We see the irrational behavior of Saul We see the deception of David. We see the hardened, callous animosity in the heart of Doag towards this innocent man. And David is trying to process all of this. That is what's going on when he writes Psalm 52. Second thing I want you to notice are the themes of these verses. And really, you could break down the Psalm into three parts. One is a charge against the wicked. The other is the verdict. Here's what's going to take place. And the third would be the hope of the believer. But I'm going to break it down into the four themes that I think we find in these verses. Not just the flow, but the things. The first thing we notice here is this. It is irrational to mock God. In verses 1 through 3, we see that David writes the following. Why boastest thou thyself in mischief? O mighty man, the goodness of God endureth continually. Thy tongue deviseth mischief like a sharp razor Working deceitfully, thou lovest evil more than good, and lying rather than to speak righteousness. Now the first thing that stands out to me about this is that the psalm opens with a question. Why are you boasting in mischief? Who do you think you are? You ever seen somebody do something you're like, I can't believe they think that's okay? I can't believe that that person would take that course of action and it's as if there's no consequence. There's no God in heaven, there's no authority higher than them. They just do what they want to do and they could care less about everything else Consequences don't matter. David's saying, that's how I feel. How could you do this? The reality is that the goodness of God endures continually. And it's interesting when he makes that statement, there's a couple of different things that could be in his mind here. For instance, this God who you mock. Is righteous. And because he's righteous, he's just. And because he's just, he upholds a perfect, righteous standard. How could you look at such a God and care less what he thinks? That's one side. A second side is this: this same God, who is a righteous God, is patient and he's forbearing. Think about Romans 2. It is the goodness of God that leads to repentance. As people have an opportunity to repent , God extends that mercy and that grace. They resist. And what does he say? You are treasuring up for that day wrath when God will reveal his justice against your evil. And so he goes, How could you? How could you turn a blind eye to the forbearance of God and his patience? Just because he hasn't judged yet doesn't mean he won't judge. Third thing is this. He's a righteous God and he will vindicate his people. He will punish the wicked. This is going to come out of the song. God's goodness is continually there. The third thing I notice in this section is the folly of what he's doing. He says, thy tongue deviseth mischief. like a sharp razor. It's working deceitfully. You love evil more than good, and lying rather than to speak righteousness. And I wonder in my mind , Obviously, Psalm 52 is focused on the wickedness of this man, Doak. But David wasn't innocent either, was he? He didn't raise his hand against Ahimelech, but he lied. He left the Himalach vulnerable because of his deception. Dileg exploited it, and ultimately a whole lot of people died. And so you've got to think that as David writes those words, in his own conscience, he's got to go, and I have contributed in part to what has taken place. You think you can get away with evil? He says, no, you can't. You think you can destroy people without consequence? No, you can't. And so that's the first theme. It's completely irrational for someone to do what he did. The second thing that we see is that evil people will face God's justice. And this is really at the heart of the Psalm. In fact, the one thing that gives David comfort here is really it comes in two parts. There is the fact that God is just and he punishes evil, and there's also the fact that he is good and he preserves his people. We've got to understand what he means when he says preserves his people. Notice what it says in verses 4 to 5: God shall likewise destroy thee forever. He shall take thee away. He shall pluck thee out of thy dwelling place. He shall root thee out of the land of the living. These are very Vivid descriptions of how God will deal with the wicked. Here is this person who has planted themselves and they seem to be strong strong and they seem to be vibrant and they use deception and they use manipulation and they use their arm of power and they seem to get away with it and they have these deep roots and he says God's gonna grab you, he's gonna uproot you, and that's gonna be the end of it. But that's not what it looks like when the wicked are prospering He says you loved evil. God will destroy you for your evil. And that destruction is eternal. God shall likewise destroy thee forever. You know what's really interesting about David's focus here? His focus is in part on the temporal. But not exclusively on the temporal. You know, in this life, there are times that people seem to get away with evil. But even if a person dies at an old age and they seem to have gotten away with evil, there's still a day that they will stand before the God of the universe. And they will not escape on that day. And that's the idea. David's like, in this life, God uproots those who are evil But even if for a period he gives them some time, and even if they seem to get away with it, it won't be forever. The third thing that we see is that godly people are going to see God's righteous intervention. And this is an interesting concept for us to consider. If a person has sat under an evil and oppressive individual for a very long time, that is not going to be the ultimate end of that interaction. It may be a long period of time. It could be a boss. It could be a family member. It could be someone who you can't get away from because of whatever situation. And you have to deal with this situation day in and day out over and over and over again. That will not last forever. And the point that he's going to make is there's going to be a day where God reverses what has taken place. And this would be true for David. There was going to be a day that the same man Saul who chased him for ten years ends up dying on a battlefield. And it's going to be a miserable death. It's going to be something that's humiliating. And by the way, David's not going to gloat in that. He's going to be very grieved by it. But that is ultimately how David is going to escape Saul. He's going to be uprooted. And he won't be there to oppress David anymore. But this happens all throughout life. God allows the wicked to prosper, He allows the wicked to thrive, but then one day it all catches up. And when it catches up, what does God do? He deals swiftly, he deals substantially, and he reverses the roles. In verses six and seven it says, The righteous shall see and fear and laugh at him. Lo, this is the man that made not God his strength, but trusted in the abundance of his riches. And strengthen himself in his wickedness. Three words. You're going to see, you're going to fear, and you're going to laugh. It's a really interesting way to express this. They're going to see with their own eyes how God takes what's going on and he changes it just like that. When they see this, they're going to process this and they're going to say, what an awesome God! How could anyone live with such arrogance? And when he says laugh, I don't want you to think of the fact that they're like gloating over a person's destruction. But that does happen in life. If you remember what happened in Eastern Europe in the nineteen eighties when dictators fell, okay, there are people dancing in the streets, tearing down statues, why are they doing that? Because they were under an oppressive regime And they were celebrating in the streets. So that just happened in life. But I don't think that's the sense of what he's getting here. The idea is you're going to look at this person and go, how in the world? How in the world did you think you'd get away with that? That's the sense of what he's saying. They're going to see, they're going to fear, they're going to process all of these things. God's people will see it But here is the heart of the psalm that I think is what David is really driving at. And that's the hope. That's the comfort of the psalm. The fourth thing we see is he sets an eternal distinction between the righteous and the wicked. Notice what he says in verse 8. He says, But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God. I will trust in the mercy of God forever and ever. I will praise thee forever, because thou hast done it. And I will wait on thy name, for it is good before thy saints. Now the first thing that stands out about these two verses is that he's giving a metaphor that is in contrast. For instance, the first thing he talks about is the wicked. This is the person who will be uprooted. He says, God will likewise destroy thee forever. He will take thee away. He will pluck thee out of the dwelling place. Root thee out of the land of the living. And then he says, but I am like a green olive tree in the house of God. In contrast to the wicked who flourishes but's uprooted, I'm going to be here forever. Now I went down a very interesting trail as I was thinking about this analogy that he uses. I know that there are some really old trees out there. When I was in California, we went and saw the giant sequoias. It was an interesting trip my wife and I could tell you about And when we went to find the sequoias, and we finally found the first first one, it was this massive tree, and it had a sign right in front of it, and it said. . . This tree was alive when King David was king in Judah. It's true. It's true. I have a picture of it. I was like, that's crazy to think about. Let me tell you what's even crazier. As David wrote these words, there were olive trees in Bethlehem, his hometown, that are still alive today. It's true. Thousands of years old. And by the way, could you imagine living in uh the Middle East with all the heat and all the dryness and all the misery. Those trees, there are trees in the Middle East, olive trees that, by the way, are still being harvested to this day, that were alive when David wrote these words. And not only were alive, but they were old trees at the time. You can look it up. It's true. And so he has these two contrasting metaphors. He says, think about that tree that is rooted, and it looks like it's going to stay forever. And God says, nope, I'm going to rip it out. He says, I am like a tree that those roots go down, and it's going to be there flourishing forever. You know what he's saying? God deals with the wicked. And the righteous have an eternal glory awaiting them. He contrasts The confidence of one versus the confidence of another. One, his confidence is in his ability to manipulate and to force and to deceive and to convince and coerce. Thou lovest evil more than good. You love lying rather than speaking righteousness. But my confidence. Is in the mercy of God forever and ever. Now I've said this a few times about that word mercy, but the Hebrew term that is used there is the Hebrew term chesed. And this is a word that's translated mercy, loving kindness, covenant faithfulness. But here's the idea. God in his love and grace and mercy for people. has made promises to those people that they do not deserve to see come to pass. But he has put his word on the line, and if they grab a hold of those promises and rest in those promises, God will never depart what he said he would do. Another way to put it is, this is about gospel implication. He's not just talking about experience in this world and what happens before we die. He's talking about experience in this world today and eternity. Every time you see God deal with an evil person in this life, that's only a foretaste of what's coming for eternity for that individual. It's a warning to those who will listen and take heed and be warned that God has permitted for a time a person to do as they choose, but he will hold them accountable. And one day they will face his eternal judgment. He contrasts these two things They trusted in their own strength and their own manipulation and their own deception. I trust in the mercy of God forever. And then he contrasts their relationship to God. One is judged, the other says, I will praise you forever. And that's what's going to happen for us, believer. If we place our faith in Christ, not only do we praise him today, not only will we praise him every day until we enter into glory, but we're going to praise him forever. Why? Because of the gospel. And we see this contrast at the end of the Bible in Revelation 20 and 21, where it says the following about the wicked. The devil and them that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone where the beasts and false prophet are, and shall be tormented day and night, forever and ever. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire, and the fearful and unbelieving and abominable and murderers and whoremongers and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars shall have their part And the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death. You could put Doeg 's name there. But not just his. Every person who has ever walked this planet, who has lived in arrogance before their creator and said, no. He's extended mercy, grace, patience, but there's a day that it ends. And that's what he said. But then on the other side in the exact same portion of scripture, he speaks of the righteous. And in verse 20, or chapter 21, verse 3, he says, I heard a great voice out of the heavens saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. He will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall wipe away or shall be with them and be their God. God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes There shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away I will give him that is a thirst of the fountain of the water of life freely, he that overcometh shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son. You couldn't get a greater contrast, could you? And what's David's point? David's point is as much as I cannot take. What I have heard, what I have seen, what I know to be true. And yes, even I have contributed in some way to this catastrophe. There's going to be a day that God will deal with this man. He will preserve me and I will enjoy him forever. And I can trust God to do it at the right time. That's what he's saying. He gives this tension between our immediate and future experience. I will wait on thy name. It is good before thy saints. What's the point? I know what's coming, but it's not yet here. And that's where we live as Christians. We live in a tension between what we have already, but what awaits us in the future. We are already saved. We are already forgiven. We are already cleansed. We are already justified. We already have the Spirit. We have the gift of eternal life, but we have not yet experienced the fullness of this unending gift that we have from God. We don't know what it's like to live in a world without sin and suffering and pain. And some of you go, I know that for certain. But we will. And so while we live in this fallen world as redeemed people, and we look forward to that day when we will escape all the corruption of this world and be with him forever, we are sustained by God's covenant faithfulness. And you know what? The scriptures are filled with so many examples of this. Let me give you some. Psalm 23. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. For thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. That is the already but not yet. And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. That's where we will spend eternity. Psalm 1611. Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. That's where we're going. Romans 8. 23, we which have the first fruits of the Spirit, we groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our bodies. You see the tension? What's the point? The point is in a fallen world we're going to experience a lot of difficult things. Sometimes we experience them personally because it happens to us. Sometimes we witness it, it happens to someone else, especially in the age we live in where we have the internet. We can know about atrocities all over the world. You know, most people all they had to deal with was the evil in their own communities. Today, we know about what's going on all over the world. The truth is that is a massive load to carry. Be careful. How much you try to carry such a load. But here's the point. There's eternal glory awaiting us as his children. And God's going to right all those wrongs in his own time and way. You trust them to do it. Well, how do you apply this passage? Well, here's some thoughts and application. First, there is comfort even when life is painful and complicated. Sometimes we just need to hear that. There is comfort. Secondly, this comfort comes in several ways. I think of 2 Corinthians 4. 17, our light affliction. And some of you go, I don't think it's so light right now. Paul's words, God's words, not mine. Light affliction. He says, it works, it's but for a moment, it worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. He says if you compare the difficulties of life to the glory that awaits, then comparison. There's no comparison. Why? Because God preserves his people? Their suffering is temporary. He will and he does judge the wicked. Their prosperity is a temporary prosperity. This judgment is severe and entirely just. God is patient and perfectly measured when he judges the wicked. The wicked will face eternal destruction. By the way, all of us, if it were not for the cross. Would fate face that same fate? Aren't you thankful for what Christ has done for us? We've got to learn to live with this tension. We are redeemed, we are destined for glory. That we're going to suffer for a little while. May God help us to endure seeing him who's invisible. Let's bow for prayer Our Father in heaven, we think about this text. I cannot imagine the tremendous grief and pain that David would have felt. As he thought about what took place at Nob. As he thought about the destruction the deception, the calloused injustice of that day, and how his own deception to preserve his own life was a part of that story as well. Father, you gave him comfort because you judged the wicked. And David's future was eternal glory because of the gospel. Father, may we learn from this passage of Scripture, may we learn from the background that It's the storyline for the psalm. May we learn from the contents of the psalm itself? I have no idea what we may encounter this next year. But I pray that you would give us from texts like this the tools that we need to navigate as those who endure seeing him who's invisible. Help us to trust you. Help us to rest in you. Help us to glory in you. Help us to be comforted by you. Lord, may we not be as this man Doeg or even as David. May we walk by faith and not by sight. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.