First John chapter 1, verses 5 to 8. This then is the message which we have heard of him. And declare we unto you that God is light. And in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie. And do not the truth. Let's bow our hearts together for a moment before we look at this text. Father, again, we express to you that we are completely dependent upon you at this time We're dependent upon you not only for our salvation, but we are dependent upon you for our growth as Christians. We are dependent upon your spirit to open our eyes to understand the significance of these truths. We need your assistance. We need your enabling. We need you to work in our lives this morning. I pray that as we open this text and as we expound it and as we consider it, the Holy Spirit will apply it to each of our hearts. That the exact things that we need to hear, that we will hear them. The things that we need to apply, we would apply them And the areas in which we have become weary or discouraged, you'll strengthen us so that we can get back up and move forward in these areas. As we have already prayed, I pray that you will minister to the hearts of the people that are here, that are hurting, that are dealing with a lot of different challenges. I pray that you would work in their lives. We didn't mention earlier, but uh we had a a birth in the church this uh this week. One of our families. Who was able to have a healthy delivery of a daughter. And we're so thankful for that. We pray that you'll strengthen that couple and that little baby They will all have good health, and you'll give wisdom to mother and father as they raise this child. Would you help them to pattern the love of Christ in that home? Would you help them to instruct this young soul in the things of the Lord? And may this little child grow up to be somebody that honors and serves you with all of their being. We pray this child will trust in the Lord Jesus at a young age and that she will become grounded in the faith. We pray that you'll bless that family. We pray that you'll be with those who are caring for family members who are not in good health. Pray you'd give strength to those who are in that position. Give them encouragement. Give them the physical energy that they need as they balance work and personal responsibilities and also the care of a family member or a friend. I pray that you'll give strength to all who are involved. Be with those who are in a position of poor health. I pray that you'll help them not to see this season of their life as an endless use of loose, as an endless part of time. But help them to see that this is a season that you still want to grow them and mature them in the faith. It's a continued test of their of their commitment to walk in your ways. It's an opportunity of ministry to people who need to know the Lord in this season of their life. I pray you give strength to caregivers and those who are in poor health. I pray that you will be exalted this morning. And we ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. I want to ask you a question. And I know that we have a lot of variety here as far as people's technical, scientific expertise. How do you define light? How do you define light? You know, in this text it says, God is light. Well, if you ask a kid what is light, he'd say something like this. Well, when I'm afraid at night and it's dark, I ask my mommy to put a night light in to my wall, and then I'm not afraid at night because I can see things. We just got Adelyn a little Peppa Pig. Peppa Pig nightlight, and she absolutely loves that Dollar Tree night light. So if you ask a child, what is light, they'll say, well, it's what allows me not to be afraid when I'm sleeping at night. It's what helps me know the big bad wolf's not hiding under my bed. If you ask somebody who's a little bit older, maybe they're in high school or they're in university or they've gone through any level of education. They say, well, uh light could be defined in a lot of different ways, and there's a lot that we know about it, and there's a lot that we don't know about it. And some of the greatest scientific minds have tried to explain light So it's a form of radiation. It starts somewhere. It moves somewhere. There's a spectrum of colors of light. There are waves of energy. It's a particle. It's kind of a paradox. It's some things that don't seem to work together, but they do. Something that we can use. We can transmit information. It's something that allows us to be able to see things. Light. If you go to Google, everybody goes to Google these days, it's a natural agent that stimulates sight and makes things visible. Light is something that we don't fully understand, but we use it and we appreciate it every single day. Well then what is darkness? Well, the absence of light. So however you define light, if it's not there, it's dark. This text says that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. Why did John write those words? What was his purpose? And ultimately, what was God trying to communicate through John to these individuals? Well, John wanted his readers to have a vibrant Christian walk. And we saw that last week. Because of that, he's warning them that it's impossible for them to experience that if they don't walk in fellowship with God. So that is his desire. He wants them to have fellowship with God. But before he can give them that, he has to help them to understand something. You cannot approach God anyway. If you walk in darkness, you can be in fellowship with God. You may think that you're in fellowship with God. You may feel that you're in fellowship with God. But if you're walking in the darkness because God is light and Him is no darkness at all, it's impossible for you to be in that state which I want to see you in. Well, what does God want? He wants us to understand it's impossible to walk in fellowship with Him apart from the cross of Christ. And so that is what we're going to look at this morning. Just a couple of very simple truths that are connected to this statement: God is light, and Him is no darkness at all. That is the text we're looking at. Truth number one, God's nature determines what he does. God 's nature determines what he does. Because God is light, there are certain things that God does not do, but it goes beyond just he does not do them. He cannot do them. You know, I remember when I was a when I was uh in Sunday school and they're teaching us some theological terms. They would teach us things like omnipresence. God is everywhere. Okay? Then they teach us another one. God is eternal. He didn't begin. He doesn't end. He's eternal. And I look at those concepts and I go, man, I can't fully understand those things. But then they would teach us another one: God is omnipotent. And they would make the statement, God can do anything. Hold your amen for a second there, brother. Sorry, Mr. David. Did you know that there are some things that God can't do? Well, please don't think I'm a heretic. I want to show you from Scripture. God cannot violate his nature. God cannot contradict who He is. It's an impossibility. Let me give you some examples. Hebrews 6, verse 18. says this, by two immutable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hopes set before us. Did you catch that phrase? It is impossible for God to lie. These individuals that the writer of Hebrews is writing to, they are struggling and they are considering leaving the community of believers. Because of the oppression that they are facing from their Jewish family members and their Jewish friends and their Jewish community, they're saying, you know what, I know it I have gotten baptized and I've said that I've trusted Christ, but I'm not really sure if I want to stay a part of this. And they wanted to go back. And he reminds them of that simple truth. It's impossible for God to lie. If he said he's going to do something, then you can mark it down, he's going to do it. You never have to question whether or not he will do what he has said. Another passage, and I love this passage because it gives us both the concept of assurance. And the concept of security in the same text. Titus 1, verse 2, Paul writes this to Titus. In hope of eternal life, which God that cannot lie promised before the world began. Did you catch that statement? In hope Of eternal life. That statement hope means a steadfast confidence. Now, when we use the term hope, we think of something that we think there's high probability that it'll happen. And the the height of that probability is based on the nature of the person that has made the promise to us. So if your dad says I'm going to take you fishing, and your dad has told you this twenty times and he's never taken you You don't have a very good hope that dad's going to take you fishing when he says, oh son, we're going to go fishing on Saturday. But if your dad says, son, we're going to go fishing, and every time he says it, you go, okay. Dad doesn't let me down on this issue, and he says, son, we're going on Saturday. You go and you get your stuff and you're waiting for him at the door when he says he's going to go. In other words, the confidence level that we have in that future thing happening is based on the person that says, I'm going to do this And so when we talk about assurance of salvation, a person who is living in this world goes, is God really going to Enter me into his kingdom for eternity. I'm feeling these things inside. I did this thing. I don't know. I don't feel. Did he let me down? Is he gonna let me down And what does Paul say? That's called a hope of eternal life. Your assurance is your confidence that God is going to do what he says he's going to do. So he says to Titus, you want to know how sure and how confident you should be as a Christian that you will enter into the kingdom of God for eternity? You will receive that glorified body, that you are accepted in the beloved forever. Here's how sure you should be. God, who cannot lie, has promised. It's that simple. God is not going to let you down. God is not a dad who says we're going fishing, and 50% of the time he takes you, and 50% he doesn't. Or 20 times he says, and 19 out of the 20 he does. He's a hundred percent. It's not just that God doesn't lie, it's that he can't. Because it's in conflict with his nature He cannot compromise who he is. Another interesting text, James chapter 1, verse 13, says, let no man say when he's tempted, I'm tempted of God. God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. Again, another statement that God's nature dictates what he can and cannot do. And 2 Timothy 2 verse 13, if we believe not, he abideth faithful, he cannot deny himself. When we come to a text like 1 John chapter 1 and verse 5, and he says, God is light, what he's saying is this. God has a certain quality, a certain nature that does not allow him to do certain things. Because of that nature, you cannot approach him in any way that you want to. You may think you can come into his presence anyway, but it doesn't work that way. You might set aside a list of rules and a list of rituals and say, if I do these things and I can come to God, but he says it doesn't work that way I love in the Ghanaian culture some of the different illustrations that we have that I think are very applicable to gospel teaching to people. In Ghanaian culture, they have chiefs who live in communities. They are the head of that community, and depending on the size of that community, they can have a certain amount of power and authority. If someone is a chief, he'll have an individual called a linguist. They call him a chiami. That person's responsibility is to basically be the go-between between the chief and whoever wants to come and speak. see the chief. Now in these days, they're not probably as militant as they were fifty years ago or a hundred years ago, and certainly not the way it was in the old days. But if you wanted to go to the chief and you just decided I'm going to go ahead and just talk to that person, then you may very well lose your head because you can't do that. You have violated protocol. You remember the story of Esther? And she's going to go to see the king, and he didn't summon her. And what did she say? If I perish, I perish. She had no idea how the king would receive her. You know, protocol is important in the human realm. If somebody wants to go to the chief, he has to have a certain gift. He has to go through the linguist. He has to go through certain kinds of approaches and those kinds of things. But for some reason we think when it comes to God, he's different. He comes, we come to him on our terms, not on his. How dare we think like that? The reality is that God's nature cannot be compromised. And who he is dictates how we can and cannot approach him. God 's holiness and his love cannot act in conflict with one another. And God is a God of holiness. 1 Peter 1:15 says As he which hath called you is holy, be holy in all manner of conversation, for I am holy. Yet the Bible also teaches that God is love. 1 John 4, 7 to 8: Love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. God is love. How is it possible that a God who is holy can love a person who's a sinner? How is it possible that a God who is holy can allow that sinner into his presence? How is it possible that God in his wrath does not strike that individual? You ever thought about that? It's kind of an interesting question. Something sometimes we don't think about. Here's another one: God's mercy and his justice cannot act in conflict with one another. We love to emphasize the love of God. We love to emphasize the mercy of God. And we sometimes neglect to think of his holiness and his justice. Proverbs 29, 27, listen to this statement. An unjust man is abomination to the just. If you are a judge and you see somebody get let off the hook, And does this ever happen in Maryland? In our justice system here in Maryland? I remember we had a guy break into our house some time ago in Ghana. We caught the guy. Okay? Caught him. We had video footage. And myself and about five other Masons went and approached him on the roadside and invited him to sit in our car and took him to the police station. It actually went about that smoothly, believe it or not, because there were six of us. And none of us were little guys. And I was just like, wow, this guy is gonna get justice. And they processed him and he sat in the, you know, his little jail cell, and his uncle came and begged me to forgive him and all this stuff, and I said Your son's just gonna have to go through the legal process. I'm sorry, I'm not gonna be able to help you. Well, he went through the legal process And they're like, uh, we can charge him thirty bucks for damages. I'm like, are you kidding me? No, it's what happened. This is a guy who had three times been arrested for burglary incidents. And there was something inside of me that was like, that doesn't seem right. You get what I'm saying? That doesn't seem right. I mean, yes, maybe the guy he had trouble in his childhood and all these kinds of things, but you know, justice is there so that you protect those who do right, right? And you you defend the innocent, right? Yet somehow we think that God is different. Like we can sin against God, we can do anything, and he just It's okay. I just turn away and not think about it. God isn't that way. God is just God burns in wrath towards sin. Sin is destructive, it is hurtful, it is wicked, it is evil. God cannot tolerate sin. Proverbs 17, 15 says, He that justifieth the wicked, he that condemneth the just, even they both are an abomination to the Lord. Yet isn't that what we want God to do? Justify us, the unrighteous? It's what we want. Yet the same scripture teaches in Hebrews 12 that God is merciful. It says, I will be merciful to the unrighteous. And their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. I want to ask you a question. How can God not be compromising who He is and make a statement like that? Does that make you feel a little uncomfortable? How is it that the holy and the righteous and the just God, who says, I hate injustice , How can he mercifully pardon the iniquity of the unrighteous? We'll come back to that in just a minute, but I want us to see a second truth. What we think about our relationship to God means nothing if our thinking is built upon a lie. Now I didn't say that what we think about God means nothing. I didn't say that because there is something significant about how we view God and how we view ourselves. But if what we think is built on a lie , Then what we think has no value or no purpose. It doesn't accomplish anything. I can believe that I'm right with God, but if what I'm believing is built on a lie, I'm still in trouble. Let me give you a couple of different cases and let you see what he says in 1 John 1. He says, if we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in the darkness, we lie and do not the truth. Now, when John says we, he's talking about himself. He's talking about other Christians. And so he says, if I have convinced myself that I'm in fellowship with God Yet I'm continuing to walk into darkness. I'm building that belief and that confidence on something that is not true Let me give you some scenarios. Case one, you have a person who does not know the Lord. Yet they are extremely confident That they're right with God. You walk up to them and you ask them, Do you know for sure that when you die you're going to heaven? They look you in the eye and say, Absolutely, I'm a hundred percent sure. Okay, what is that confidence built on? Well, I go to church I've read through the Bible a couple of times. I keep the Ten Commandments. I was baptized when I was a little kid. I treat others as they would have me treat them. I'm a generally pretty good person. And so, yeah, God's going to accept me. I have no doubt about it. Is that person's confidence Something that can save him in the final day? Obviously not. He's trusting in something outside of Christ. He's convinced himself that he is sufficient in himself to stand before God, that his righteousness will be accepted by God, that God will somehow overlook his sin and he'll say, Welcome, you are my child. Yet he's misguided in what he believes. Think of the man in Luke 18 who came to Jesus and he says, Master, what good thing can I do to inherit eternal life? In fact, he didn't just say master. He said, good master. And Jesus says, why do you call me good? There's nobody good but God Himself. He says, what are the commandments? And he tells him, he says, we'll keep them and you'll be okay. He says, Oh, I kept them all from my youth. That individual was completely misguided. In Philippians chapter 3, when Paul talks about his pre-conversion condition, he talks about all his credentials as a man who was devout in Judaism. And he mentions how he kept the law blamelessly, how he was passionate about doing the things of God. He even persecuted the church because he believed those people were antagonistic to the truth. Yet he says, those things that were gained to me, I had to count them as dumb, so that I would be found in him not having my own righteousness. The truth is, you can be confident that you're saved, but if your confidence is rooted in anything but Christ and His righteousness, that confidence is misplaced. And you're still in trouble whether you realize it or not. We have a second case. That is the confidence of a self-deceived believer. You know, it is possible for me to be saved. Yet live in a certain way for a period of time that I have lived in self-deception. This is different than the first person, because this person has chosen to trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. But he has not yet been disciplined by the Lord and responded to that discipline. In 1 John 1:8, he says this: if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. And the truth is not in us. Obviously, John believes that there's at least somebody in his midst that he's writing to that has this self-deception A third situation could be someone is truly saved, but they're troubled and they struggle with doubts and confidence. In 2 Peter chapter 1, Peter writes this. You need to add to your faith virtue and to virtue knowledge and to knowledge temperance. And he lists a whole group of things and he says this If those things be in you and abound, they make you that you will neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. But he who lacks these things is blind and cannot see afar off, and has forgotten that he was purged from his old sins. You know, one of the things that will happen to us as Christians if we do not grow as Christians should grow. If we're not adding to our faith virtue and knowledge and temperance and Christian love and those kinds of things, if we begin to veer to the side, though we are in Christ, we will be very unsettled in our souls. We will not have confidence before God. We will question and doubt whether or not we're his child. And there's a reason for that. Because we have a conscience. We have this moral compass. We have this understanding internally that this is right, this is wrong. We not only have that conscience, but we have a heightened sense of it because the Holy Spirit's presence. And so when I do it wrong, I don't feel fine about it. And I'm emotionally affected by it. And I don't know how to process that. And as a result, sometimes that thought pops in your head: if you can do that, you're not a child of God. You ever been there? I remember when I was in junior high doing some really stupid stuff. Okay? I never talked to my parents about some of the things that I was involved in. But I remember crawling up in the top of my bunk bed and just weeping at night because I felt so guilty in my heart. Saying, I know as a Christian I shouldn't do these things. So if I know I shouldn't do these things and I'm doing them, then what does that say about me? You understand? Now I believe I was saved at the time. But because of sin and because I was not in a healthy walk with the Lord, I had doubts. That is not how God wants us to live, but that is where we find ourselves many times. Remember, in hope of eternal life, which God, who cannot lie, promised. Then we have the fourth case, and this is the one that John wants us to be, and that is the biblically grounded believer First John two ten, he that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there's an occasion of stumbling in him When he makes the statement, there's an occasion of stumbling in him, he's basically saying, this is an individual who's settled in his soul. He knows he's walking with God. He knows he's in fellowship with God. His conscience is healthy. His soul is in good standing. He understands his position. He's enjoying his position. This is what God wants But I want you to realize all four of those possibilities are very legitimate possibilities. It is possible for us to be unsaved and be confident we are. It is possible for us to be saved yet doubting terribly God wants us to be grounded and growing and have confidence and stability and calm in our souls. I then want to come to a third truth, and this is the one that answers the question I asked earlier. How can God who is holy Who is just, who hates sin, who cannot look upon wickedness. How can that God show love Compassion and mercy on you and me. And here's the answer. It's the gospel. If there was no gospel, you and I could not come into the presence of the Holy One. If there was no gospel, God could not forgive you. God could not accept you in the beloved. He could not call you his child. If it wasn't for the gospel. The gospel was not an afterthought. The gospel was God's plan. And it was the only plan that could link those aspects of the character and nature of God. You and I, without the fall, would not have known God's wrath and justice and mercy and love as we know them because of the cross. A person may say, I lived in wickedness for many years of my life, and I wish I would not have thrown those years to the devil. And I'll tell you, yeah, that's true, but God allowed you to go through that. You say, why? Why didn't I get saved when I was 13 or 12 or 10? Why was it 35? It's because God wants you to understand how great his love is. He wants you to understand the magnitude of the cross. He wants you to understand the weight of his grace and his mercy. The gospel is the one and only means through which God pours out his grace and mercy on sinners Whom he loves without compromising his holiness or justice and their salvation. When God says, Joel Porsche, you are righteous, He's not compromising anything. Now, my righteousness is not acceptable, but because I've been united with Christ, God can call me righteous And the same for you. And that's on your best day, and that's on your worst day. Don't think for a moment that God has somehow thrown some aspect of his character to the side. Because as we as we see these elements, it reminds us that Christ was beaten and he was mocked. And he was scourged, and he was spat upon, and he was humiliated, and he was rejected. And as he hung on the cross, that was not the greatest agony. He says, Father, remove this cup from me. He says, My God, why have you forsaken me? The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. God 's wrath was satisfied in Christ's substitutionary death. God's justice was satisfied when Christ stood in our place. Romans 8:3 says this: what the law could not do, and that it was weak in the flesh, God did. By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh. What a powerful text. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 14. He is our peace, and he's made both one and broken down that middle wall of partition, having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances. that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross, and having slain the enmity thereby. Romans 5. 8, God commendeth his love toward us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. We are justified by his blood. Saved from wrath through him. When we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. God compromised nothing at the cross. His justice was fully satisfied. And by the way, that is why it is such an offense to God when we say we can do something in addition to what Christ did. Because God looks at what Christ did and He says, Is that not good enough for you? It was good enough for me. You can't add anything to the sufficiency of Christ. I have no more wrath to pour out on you. It has been poured out on Christ. I accept you just like I accept my son because of your union with him. I view you as righteous legally, and I've declared you as such, not because you are, but because you are in Him. And when we come to partake of these elements, that is what we remember. God is light, and Him is no darkness at all. He cannot compromise His nature in the least bit. There are many different possibilities as to our attitude towards God, but the reality is this: what you think about God, if it's built upon a lie, whether you are saved and you are struggling with doubts. Whether you are lost and you have tremendous confidence, the lie that your confidence or your doubts are built upon does not change reality at all. God 's nature determines what he does. What we believe, if it's built on a lie, does not change reality. And the gospel is what unites The nature of God, so that He is uncompromised in any way. As we come together this morning and partake of the Lord's table, I pray that this will be on our souls. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. And then after that, I'll ask our men to come forward to distribute the elements. Let's pray. Father, what a glorious privilege it has been to reflect on the fact that your justice And your wrath and your holiness has never been compromised in the salvation of one sinner. That when Christ hung on that cross, the wrath of God indeed was satisfied As Isaiah said, you will look upon the travail of his soul and be satisfied. Father, help us to rest in our wonderful position that we did nothing to earn and we did nothing to merit. We don't deserve it at all. And I pray that as we eat this bread and as we drink this juice, we will as one body remember that it is all in Christ. May you get the glory in this time, and may our souls be strengthened as we remember this wonderful gospel. In Christ's name. Amen.