Well, good morning. Good to see each of you today. I hope that you are having a wonderful Lord's Day and just looking forward to a great service. uh focusing our attention on the Lord. Uh if you're visiting with us today, we want to say welcome and I hope that you have been and will be warmly welcomed and that you're able to receive a welcome packet in that is some information about the church. A little brochure that talks about the gospel, explains how you can know for sure that when you die you're going to heaven. And also there's a little card that allows us to be able to follow up with you. and just find out how we can be an encouragement and a blessing to you. So if you could, I want to ask you to fill that out and then put that in the little offering box in the back. We don't pass a plate. It's kind of one of those COVID things. But if you could put that in the back. and uh we'll reach out to you and just try to find out a way to be a blessing to you. Um also wanted to make you aware of a couple of activities that we have uh in the coming weeks. First of all Our men's donuts and Bible study. We started that this past Saturday, yesterday, and uh had a good time with the men that were there. I do want to mention that We will be doing this every other week, not every week. So the next one will be February the 6th. So please make a note of that on your calendars. Also There are there's a package in the back for our young people that are at college. Please do uh notice that box in the back. And if you can contribute just to send a little encouragement to our students that are at college. I think that would be a great blessing to them. It's on the SOS table. Also want to mention that the ladies meeting is coming up on the 4th So ladies, please be aware of that also. I don't know which chapter in the book you guys are working through, so please reach out to my wife for that information. Also, I still think that we have some uh needs for signups for hostesses for ladies' meetings. So if you'd like to Be a hostess for that and because of the food situation, it's probably an easy time to be a hostess for that. So if you kind of want to do that, that would be great. If you could, let's take our Bibles and let's turn together to the 116th Psalm, Psalm 116, and our opening scripture is verses 1 through 6. Psalm 116, verses 1 through 6. Here's what the scriptures say. I love the Lord because he has heard my voice and my supplications. Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, therefore will I call upon him as long as I live. The sorrows of death compassed me, and the pains of hell got hold upon me. I found trouble and sorrow. Then called I upon the name of the Lord. O Lord, I beseech thee, deliver my soul. Gracious is the Lord and righteous, yea our God is merciful. The Lord preserveth the simple. I was brought low, and he helped me. This morning, as we focus our attention on the Lord in worship, we're going to be focusing on the need to have hearts that are overcome by the beauty of the Lord. And so we're going to focus on how much we need to love God and how truly lovely and gracious and how good God is. And so with that in mind, let's be out together for prayer. And we will ask the Lord to bless our time together, lift up some very specific requests in light of the topic that we're focusing on and in light of the circumstances and the day in which we live. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, we want to come before you first of all with thanksgiving and gratitude, because we recognize that indeed you are a good God Father, we're reminded of how you display this goodness in so many ways. We are so thankful for how your love demonstrates your goodness, how your tender compassions, your mercy, your covenant faithfulness is demonstrated by your goodness. And Father, we are so grateful for the favor that you bestow on us, so undeserved when you deal with us in grace. Father, we are a grateful and humble and thankful group of people, and we want to express that to you this morning, recognizing how good you are. Father, we are thankful for your wisdom that guides us as we walk through life. And we are thankful for the wisdom that you've given us even this day to face the circumstances that we're encountering. as individuals, as a church, as families, as a nation. Father, we want to intercede on behalf of others and for ourselves that you would be at work in the hearts of the people in our government. We're commanded to pray for kings and all in authority. And so, Father, we lift up to you our current administration. We lift up to you those who are in the Congress. We lift up to you our governor. We lift up to you those that are in state government in this state. Father, we think of those in the judiciary. We think of those in our local governments. Father, we thank you that we live in a land of peace and a land that has enjoyed tremendous freedoms and prosperities. And I pray that you would continue to allow us To be at peace and allow us to live quiet and peaceable lives in all godliness. Father, we pray for righteousness to be promoted in our land. We pray for stability to be promoted. And Father, we pray that churches would have the opportunity to proclaim the beauty of the gospel to people. Father, help us to live lives that are consistent with the position that we have in Christ. And help us to live in light of the power of the gospel that has both forgiven us and cleansed us and set us apart as your possession. Father, I pray that you would revive your church. Help every church in this land that proclaims the gospel with clarity, cares about the authority of Scripture. And desires to make disciples who walk in godliness, I pray that you would revive every congregation in this land. Father, help our churches to be places that proclaim your glories and places where people see the light and the darkness. I pray that you would encourage those in our midst who are burdened. Think of those who may be joining us in the light Live stream who carry heavy hearts. Father, we are reminded that you are compassionate towards us in our times of desperation, and I pray that you would uplift and strengthen those Be with those who physically are weak, physically are sick. I pray that you would strengthen their bodies. Father, most importantly, I pray that today, through the ministry of your word, Lord, that you would renew a sense of your greatness in our hearts. Father, help us to see you as a glorious God, one who is beautiful to behold, one who is worthy of our praise, and one who we delight in with all of our being. I pray that you would help us to be men and women of integrity and courage. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen All right. Good morning to you all. Let's all stand as we prepare to sing some hymns. this morning. Our first hymn is going to be Crown Hymn with many crowns, hymn number 46. We'll be singing verses 1, 2, and 4. Crown him with many crowns. Crown him with many crowns. Arcada I wake my soul and say I remember thy birthday and when I came for all Proud and the Lord of Lord given that eye Bitch for dumb up and bad it going around. No angel and the sky and for the bad flights, but dumb would have been bringing us back. Stories are price, crowned ever I blend us very To be an for us for Great singing, please be seated As we turn back a couple pages to page 44, to God be the glory. We'll sing all three verses. To God be the glory, great things he has done so nothing. In the world that we did not miss one in his life and comment first and more than my It's the mega women, praise the Lord , praise the life , praise the earth, praise the life, praise the life. The reply comes to the Father who Jesus has done and given more glory. Great things. Perfect reduction, the branches of blood to everyone. God is the brutes will be good leaves, my brother was Jesus upon this thing. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the voice, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the we will be joined up. To the harness who Jesus has done and give them what his great things have done, great things. Have God done and break our rejoicing through Jesus the Son But over and liar and greater will be our move for when Jesus with thee praise the Lord. Lord, praise the Lord, let me hear man 's voice. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the people rejoice Welcome to the Father who Jesus was done and the glory with God. Great singing. And then we'll turn back just a few pages to hymn 38. How great thou art will sing Verses one, three, and four. Sing out this morning. I stay us for the ball and no one die. I forgot , I know that was. And stinks my scroll right today I breathe the walls I've read the watch and stinks my Have gone mess, I 'm not celebrating to the heart, my scars can make a pen , have on the cross, my Then let me bring it out to take away my sin. Then thank my bone my favorite. I 'll pray thou art, I'll pray thou lord, and things like warm as they will come out to thee. When Christ shall come will start the back and take me for choice upon my board, then I shall follow. And my great son and the forface, my God, how great thou wars. That sings my soul, my saved God to thee. How great thou art, how great thou art That thinks my soul might say God to me I greet the wall. Amen. Great singing. Praise the Lord. Our scripture reading for this morning will be just James chapter 4, verses 4 through 10. James chapter 4, verses 4 through 10. Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship of the world is enmity with God Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. Do ye think that the scripture saith in vain, the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? But he giveth more grace. Wherefore, he saith , God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your heart. Ye double-minded, be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to heaviness. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. As we continue our singing, we'll turn to him one thing Thirty-four, hymn number one thirty-four, and can it be saying Versus one, two, and four. One, two, and four And can it be the can stand last time? Two hundred years and the On a so free is the threat Said we're seeing all my God, what 's in my hands? Says my same and I said one. I both by pros and if the Great singing our last song. Please stand as we sing our song. of the month complete in the 192 in our blue book. We'll sing all four verses. Sing out Complete and over God line May take your own place of mine My blood hath brought and pop for me, and I am now complete in the Get us a part of blood and safe the parts , salvation rights, thy blood card and work for me And for a fight, I turn shall be complete, and they no more shall send thy grace and talk away within thy I shall be thy tempter flee, and I shall stand complete in thee. Yea, thus they fight up with art and sink their part. God salvation brought by blood have brought and perform me and glorified I too shall be Some traits and babies once a fight, and no good things can be denied. Since thou my portion, Lord, helps me I ask no more Tunb , take a step from the And glorified I to be Dear Savior when before thy bar, all tries and tons of temple more. Among thy shoes, and will I be at thy right hand? Come please in thee. It 's a step out of the thoughts and take their part. Salvation was thy blood and caught and brought for me and glorified thy two surface. Amen. Thank you for singing. Please be seated. I kind of jumped the gun there. Sorry, Doris. That was beautiful. Uh children ages two to six can be dismissed to the back for junior church. And the rest of you I want to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of James. And we are in James chapter four this morning. James chapter four. And we read verses four through si uh four through ten for our scripture reading, but this morning We will be focusing on verses four to six. James chapter four, verses four through six. And you know, one of the great blessings and also one of the challenges of Preaching verse by verse through a book of the Bible is that there are some passages when you come to them and you just go, Wow, that's really blunt. That's really in your face. That's There's a lot of sting in that particular verse of scripture. And as I was sitting there listening to uh Doug as he or excuse me, uh Tori as he was reading And then we, as we were reading together James chapter 4, verses 4 to 6, I thought, wow, that is a really blunt and in-your-face statement, is it not? Let's read the verse again. It says, ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore will be the friend of the world is the enemy of God? Do you think that the Scripture saith in vain, the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. You know it's interesting when you read those verses, it starts out being very much in your face. But then it closes with encouragement. And so this morning I want us to look at the way that James talks about how God views the hearts of his people. In fact, what we're going to see in this passage of Scripture is that God yearns for the hearts of his people. And so I want you to see from these verses that the purpose of the section in front of us was meant to shake us to realize how offensive and how illogical it is for us as Christians to embrace this world system. Let's remember that it's a system that is in opposition. It is antagonistic to God and his ways. Now the reason that it is illogical and the reason that it is so offensive has a lot to do with the fact that we are in a position, a very precious position, as God's people. It's also offensive and illogical because the fact is that it's a way of life that in the end will not will not triumph. What we see in the scriptures is that though God allows people to indulge their flesh and to live according to their own devices, their time to do that is temporary. And there comes a day when God is going to step in and he's going to resolve what is done wrong. He's going to deal with sin. He's going to handle things injustice. And so what we've seen contrasted over the last several weeks is the fact that there are two kinds of approaches to life, two kinds of wisdom, two kinds of hearts that we can have. And James is appealing to these Christians to be people that pursue God's way. And people have hearts that are inclined to God and his truth. as opposed to handling the challenges and the circumstances of life according to this world's system and approach. Perhaps one of the most startling ways that we saw it is how we deal with conflict. We look at the way that the world around us deals with conflict, and we contrast that with how the Bible says we're supposed to handle conflict, and what we see is there's this stunning difference between the two. One is a way that lets God work and is restrained and is controlled by the Spirit of God that's gracious, that's kind. And there's another that is without restraint, dominated by our fleshly passions. And so we have to realize when we come to the verses that we're looking at this morning. that that's not just a casual conversation that James has had, but really that is undergirding the statement that he makes in verse 4 where he says You adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship of the world is enmity with God? The fact is, the way that these people have set themselves at enmity against God is that they have chosen to embrace the world's approach to resolving issues. And so today we're going to see that God wants us to have a heart for him. It's something that's very important to him. It's actually part of the way that God made us. He made us to be people that would delight in him and that would find that he indeed is the center of our affections. God wants us to have hearts that are fully and passionately committed to Him. And I want to ask this question this morning. Do you have a heart? that is passionately and fully committed to him. Whereas your heart kind of turned away from God and his word And are you looking at other places to find the center of your , affections and delights? God wants us to be a people that love Him. And he's worthy of our love. In fact, it makes sense to love him when we see him as he actually is in his word. And so this morning we're going to ask the question, how can we have those kinds of hearts? How can we have hearts that are passionately, unreservedly, fully committed to God? Where we love him and we delight in him and he is the center of our affection. Well, the first fact, the first truth that we're going to find in the verses in front of us is that our relationship to God through Christ can be described as a, don't miss this, permanent Unconditional covenant. Let me say that again. Our relationship to God through Christ can be described as a permanent, unconditional covenant. Now it's very interesting when he makes the statement, he says, you are adulterers and you are adulteresses. And the question is, what kind of context do you call someone an adulterer or an adulteress in? Well, it's in the context of someone who is married. They are in a covenantal relationship and they're being unfaithful to the covenantal relationship that they have established between themselves and before gods. When we talk about someone who is unfaithful to marriage, That means they have to be married in order to actually be in violation of a marriage vow. Well, the fact is that when he uses this terminology, it's help it's to help us to realize that from the eyes of God, he sees us as being in a relationship that is very similar to marriage. In fact, marriage is actually meant to be a picture that points us to the nature of what God does. when he saves us as his children. When a person comes to understand the gospel and they see that they're a sinner and that they're condemned, there's absolutely nothing they can do to earn God's favor And they recognize that Christ came and he died for their sins and he rose from the dead and through his righteousness they can be declared righteous before God. They can be forgiven before God. They can actually become God's eternal possession when a person places their faith in Christ. The Bible teaches that they enter into a covenantal, permanent relationship. Now you may say, Pastor, I've never heard you use that kind of terminology in association with salvation. Well, the reality is we tend we tend to not think of it in that way, but I want you to realize, and you'll see this from the scriptures, that God actually uses that very terminology in certain books of the Bible. We'll get to that in just a moment. But before we get to that, I want us to see a couple of facts that we can see about the nature of our salvation when we place our faith in Christ. And how they relate to this topic of God establishing this permanent, unconditional covenant with us. The first fact I want to mention is this that God is worthy of our absolute affection. In Psalm 42, 1 and 2, it says this, as the heart He's talking about a deer, panteth for the water brook, so panteth my soul after thee, O gods. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. Now I know that we have at least a couple of deer hunters in our church. And if you're a deer hunter, you have to set up your place in a place where the deer like to travel. One of the ways that you do that is you go to a place where you know there's a water source. Because the deer, when they get thirsty, look for a place to get water. David actually uses that as an illustration of how his heart longs for God. Like a deer in the heat of the summer longs to have water and looks for that water source, he says, God, that's how I feel toward you. That's affection. That is where he is driven and consumed with a relationship with God. Psalm 84, verses 1 and 2, and 10. I want you to notice how the sons of Korah describe The tabernacle of God. They say how amiable. And the idea is it's beautiful. It's glorious. How amiable are they? Tabernacles, O Lord of hosts. My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God. Basically what these individuals are saying is they're saying, we long to be in your presence. And what's so interesting is that these individuals were not able to work within the tabernacle, within the temple. They were the doorkeepers. That was their position. And they longed to be in that place where they were in the presence of God. And verse 10 it says, A day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. What they're communicating is a longing to be in God's presence. The second fact that we see is that God created us to be united in unhindered fellowship with Him. God made us to have relationship with Him. When the Bible says that God created us in his own image, the idea is he gave us capacity for relationship. He gave us moral awareness. He did that because he wants us to know him personally. He wanted us to have relationship with him. And one of the first things that we see that took place after the fall was Adam and Eve hide from God's presence because Sin has affected fellowship. It's affected relationship. They want to hide and they want to withdraw from God. Yeah, this is what we see in Psalm 1611. The psalmist writes, Thou wilt show me the path of life in thy presence is notice the phrase: fullness of joy, and at thy right hand are pleasures forevermore. In 1 John chapter 1, he talks about the fact that the book was written so that we would have fellowship with him and fullness of joy. That means as we walk with God, we experience fulfillment. We experience joy. We experience a fulfillment of the purpose for which He made us. A third fact, the gospel provides the only acceptable means for this unhindered fellowship. Well, God made us with the ability to know Him and to walk with Him. Sin Mars That wonderful opportunity. It separates us by this wall of iniquity. And God says, I want to tear down that wall and I want to bring you into relationship with me. The only thing that provides an acceptable means for us to come into God's presence is the work of Christ. First John 1, 6 and 7 says, if we say that we have fellowship with Him And walk in the darkness, we lie and do not the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin. What allows us to have communion, fellowship, relationship with God, it's Christ's shed blood. That removes the guilt of our sin. And remove the just wrath that was poured out deserving would be deservingly poured out on us. And Christ bore that on the cross. And he conquered the grave. And because of his work of redemption, we can know God and walk with God and enjoy God. We can be forgiven and cleansed, and we can have relationship God made us for that very purpose. The fourth fact, when God saves us, he establishes an unconditional permanent covenant. This is kind of at the heart of what I was saying earlier. In Hebrews chapter 10, verse 16, listen to what he says. This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith the Lord. I will put my laws into their hearts, and in their minds will I write them, and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. The writer of Hebrews is referring to a passage in I believe Jeremiah, where God talks about a new covenant. And as he talks about this new covenant, he talks about it in Jeremiah, he talks about it in Ezekiel, he says, I'm going to put my law in their heart. He's talking about what happens when a person is regenerated. This person has new life in Christ. And all of a sudden, they have a different disposition towards God. They have a different nature internally because of the miracle of God giving life to the person who's spiritually dead. We can walk and we want to walk in newness of life because God has saved us to that very purpose. And so he talks about the fact that there's coming a day when God is going to regenerate people and they're going to be his children. He's going to save them. They're going to enter into a new covenant. That's what he talks about. Hebrews 13, 20 and 21, he says, Now the God of peace that hath brought us again from the dead, from the dead, our Lord Jesus Christ, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant. Make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is well pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. Even on that night when the disciples were celebrating the Passover, and as they're celebrating the Passover, Jesus hands them bread that has been broken. And Jews said is to represent something. He says, this cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. In other words, Jesus was saying that by his going to the cross, he was establishing a relationship with people by the work that he would accomplish on that cross, and this relationship would be a covenantal relationship. Literally, God would say, You are my possession. I own you. You belong to me. Just like we talk about the covenantal relationship of marriage, connecting two people and making them one flesh. God unites people to himself, we become his possession. And it's unconditional. We didn't earn the position. It was determined by the work of Christ. His cross is the condition. His resurrection is the condition. His righteousness is the condition. Not our sacrifice. Not our good deeds, not our righteousness. He takes all the responsibility of this covenant upon himself, and he says, I have taken you as my own forever. We talk about eternally secured in Christ. That's what we mean. He bears on himself the full burden of keeping his children for himself. But the fact, the fifth fact I'll mention is that a distracted heart, because of these truths, is tragic. And really it should be unthinkable. When we think about all that God has done for us and all that we have in Jesus, it makes no sense for us to have eyes for this world. I'm not saying that it doesn't happen. I'm not saying that it isn't something that plagues all of us, but I'm saying it's tragic. I'm saying it's unthinkable. I'm saying that it's illogical. And that's why James uses such strong terminology by saying, you are unfaithful When you have eyes for the world. A second truth that we find in this text is that worldliness is a serious sin against God's goodness. He says, Know ye not that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy Now I want to kind of break down what he's saying just a little bit so that we kind of understand what he's communicating here. First of all, there are two words that he uses that vividly describe how God views This turning from God and seeking after this world. The first word that he uses is the word adultery, a covenantal unfaithfulness. And we think about how evil and how destructive the sin of adultery is. The fact is it's a very personal sin. It's a very disruptive sin. It's a very destructive sin. It's the epitome of unfaithfulness. And basically, what he's saying is when you turn to the world as a Christian. That is essentially what you are doing. The second word that he uses is enmity. The idea is that there's this militant antagonism towards God and his goodness. We don't think of it this way, but the fact is that when we pursue after this world system and we love this world system, rather than delighting in the God who saved us, And loves us, and we can find fulfillment and satisfaction and joy in Him, what we are doing is setting ourselves as an enemy to God. In other words, the word friendship here has the idea of a brotherly affection. We've heard of Philadelphia, the city of brotherly love. At least I guess at one time it was, I don't know. Well that word Philadelphia actually has a Greek root word, and that's where we see the word philath. Well that is a cognate here where the idea is it's a a brotherly friendship kind of relationship. It's like you have a person who's a Christian and they love Jesus, but then they go, you know, the world's not so bad either. And so I'm going to kind of link the two together And I'm going to have this familiar love for the world and its system and its ways of approaching life. And I'm going to try to keep my attachment to Christ as well. The phrase says, whoever will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. And it has this following sense, and I'll give it to you because it's very interesting. It has the idea that a person who desires to have this brotherly connection to the world has literally set himself as God's enemy. Now, if I belong to God and I'm his child and he loves me, there's no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. God isn't going to turn away from me in a moment of weakness, in a moment where I stumble, in a moment where I fall. We talked about the faithfulness of God this morning in our Sunday school hour. And how God keeps his word even when we stumble. So it's not as if God makes us his enemy, but literally it means we have set ourselves against him as if we are an enemy to him. That is really the sense of it. In other words, the one who God loves has distanced himself from God. A picture of this is what we see in the book of Hosea. Where God actually tells Hosea, take this woman to be your wife, and he says, She will be unfaithful to you. Not once, not twice, but over and over and over again. She's going to be a very unfaithful person. But I want you to have unconditional love for this woman, and I want your life to actually be a picture of the way that I've related to my people Israel. That's really what God did. And so as Gomer, the wife of Hosea, is setting herself against Hosea, and she is being unfaithful to him. He is continuing to love her and to be faithful to her and to have this covenantal bond with her. And that's really the sense of the verses we have here. Not as if God pushes us away and says, I have no part of you, but literally we are pushing ourselves away from Him because we are distracted by this world system. And that's the sense there. The scriptures are clear, it's impossible for us to have a mixed allegiance to Christ. You can't take water and put in oil and mix the two. It just doesn't work. These substances don't combine. Things that are antagonistic towards one another, they don't become friends. They don't work together. If we have two systems of thought that are completely, fundamentally different and contrary to one another, you cannot put them together and make them compatible with one another. It's not possible. In Matthew 6, Jesus says, No man can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he'll hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon in Matthew's pass it when Matthew records this he's referring to the fact that there's an allegiance of service. You cannot serve two masters that are pulling for full authority in your life. Full allegiance. You can't do it. In James, he's not talking about allegiance of service. He's talking about allegiance of affection. In other words, you cannot be faithful to God. While you indulge in this world system, you can't do it. And the fact is, one day you're gonna take your stand on one side or the other. And so he says, wake up and realize what you're doing. The third truth we find in this text is that God passionately demands our exclusive affection. The fact is that when a person is married and their spouse has been unfaithful, there are few things in life that could wound deeper than that. There are few things more destructive, more hurtful than unfaithfulness in a marriage And you say, why is that? Is that because marriage is this evil domineering controlling thing? No. It's because something that God created that is good and that is wholesome and is for us to enjoy and delight in. It's been set aside for something that has no value. It's like when Esau is hungry. And he says to his brother Jacob, give me that bowl of soup. And his brother says, Okay, I'll give it to you. But sell me your birthright. And he goes, Well if I die, my birthright won't be anything to me. So, okay, go ahead, I'll do it. Boom, just like that. He throws away something that has incredible value for a bowl of soup. The idea is that things that are valuable are things that are meant to be defended. Things that are important are things that we treasure. And we hold fast to. We love our family, we defend our family. We love our country, we defend our country. The fact is that when a person who is loved by God turns their heart away from him , that is an extremely, extremely difficult thing for us to look at. God demands exclusive affection. Just like a husband or a wife expects their spouse to be faithful to them And it's completely appropriate, and we understand that God expects his children to have full allegiance and affection for him. In verse 5 he says, Do you think that the scripture saith in vain, the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? Now, when we come to this verse, I want you to realize that there's actually a little bit of a debate about what the verse is saying. And the reason that there's a debate is because the Greek language that really is what we have underlying the English translation here is a little bit ambiguous as to the way that you would interpret these verses. Now there's a lot of detail there, I'm not going to get into all that, but really there are two possible ways that you can look at these verses. The one possibility is that he could be referring to our own passion within our own hearts, our own personal lust for for this world and if that's what the text means and the idea is our spirit is passionately longing for the world system and that's a bad thing. And by the way, it could very well be meaning that. On the other side, it could have the idea that it's not referring to our own passion for the world system, but the reality is it's the Spirit of God who is placed inside of the heart of every single believer who passionately longs to dominate your affections and my affections. I sat down and I started to think about this and I looked at a lot of other passages of scripture. I read what commentators had to say about it. And I asked myself, which of those two really fits in the context one And two, the overall overall picture of what the Bible has to say about how God views his people. And this is the conclusion that I came to. It's the second option. It's not referring to the fact that you and I have a passion for this world and we long after this world, and our flesh is constantly a battle that we're dealing with, though that is true. But I think literally what James is saying is one of the reasons that this friendship with the world is such a destructive and such a terrible thing. Is because the Holy Spirit, who God's put within you, longs to dominate your affections and your heart. And when you resist him, what are you doing? You are grieving him. It's like when the Bible says, don't quench the spirits. In other words, when God is working, don't suppress it. And then we have another scripture that says, don't grieve the Holy Spirit whereby you are called unto the day of redemption, or sealed unto the day of redemption. The idea that the Holy Spirit can be grieved over the way that we live, what we love, what we do, the way that we think. And you go, well, how in the world could the Holy Spirit be grieved? Here's an example of it right here. We have a heart that is not passionate about God, but in fact we're going after this world system. Let me give you a couple of scriptures that give this idea. God talks about how He wants our hearts in the Old Testament, Deuteronomy 6, verse Verse 4, he says, that thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might. These words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart. How many times does he say heart there? He says to love, it needs to be in our heart, it needs to be all of our soul. These words are to be in our heart. We're to teach them diligently to our children. Do you get the sense that what God wants of people is their affection, what's going on inside of them? Not just this external obedience or not just this rule keeping, but literally a heart that is passionate for him. In Matthew 22, Jesus says the same thing. He says, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. To put it in simplest terms, if you take all of God's commands, you can ultimately boil them down to two: love God and love the people around you. And if you love God, you will love the people around you. And so if you really want to put it in the simplest of simplest terms, if you love God, you're going to do what's right. You're gonna do what's right towards other people. You're gonna do what's right towards him. And so God wants our heart We see that God hates idolatry because what idolatry does is it takes our heart that should be passionate about Him and it replaces it with something else. In Exodus 20, verse 5, in the Ten Commandments, he says, Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them or serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God. He wants our heart. Exodus 34, 14, thou shalt worship no other gods, for the Lord whose name is jealous, is a jealous God. God wants our hearts. 1 Kings 19, 10, Elijah is talking about the way that he views his ministry, and he says, Lord, I have been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts. For the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thrown down thine altars, slain thy prophets, and I even I only am left to seek my life and to take it away. God will Wants our hearts. Second Corinthians 11, 2-3. Paul has the same kind of attitude about the people he's ministering to. He says, I am jealous over you with godly jealousy. I've espoused you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ. I fear lest any mean by any means as the serpent beguiled Eve through the subtlety of your minds. Should be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ. Can you not see the similarities, the parallel between what James is saying here What Elijah was saying there and what Paul is saying to the church at Corinth, God wants our hearts. We go to Ephesians 5, 25 and 27. It says, husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. And gave himself for it, that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word, that he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing But it should be holy and without blame or without blemish. You see, he uses marriage as a picture. Marriage is supposed to picture the covenantal love that God has. For his people. In other words, as a husband, my responsibility, my duty, is to actually demonstrate to my wife before others the kind of love that the Lord Jesus Christ has for me as his child. That's pretty sobering, is it not? And then it's kind of interesting in Nehemiah, or Nahum chapter 1. This is one you probably wouldn't have thought of, but I want you to see how God defends his people. In Naam 1. 3 says the burden of Nineveh, the book of the vision of Nahum, the Elkishite. God is jealous. The Lord revengeth. The Lord revengeth and is furious. The Lord will take vengeance on his adversaries. He reserveth wrath for his enemies. The Lord is slow to anger and great in power, and will not at all acquit the wicked. The Lord hath his way in the whirlwind and in the storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet Now you may not be real familiar with the book of Nahum, but I'll just put it like this. The book of Nahum is a prophecy against Nineveh. And you say, why is there a book in the Bible as a prophecy against Nineveh? The reason is God wanted his people to understand that when they were mistreated and they were maligned by the Assyrians. While the Assyrians treated them horribly, God saw it, and God still loved this very disobedient nation. And he said, I am jealous over you as my people. And because I'm jealous over you as my people, then I will one day deal with those who have treated you with so much disdain. All of these scriptures point to one very simple fact. God wants your heart. And the question is, does he have your heart? It's interesting how he closes out this little section. He closes it out by reminding us that God relates to us in correlation. With our disposition toward Him. What I mean by that is that God deals with us in some way, in the way that we deal with Him. It says in verse 6, but he giveth more grace, whereof he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. Two very simple statements. God resists the proud. Literally, he is resisting those who lift up themselves in arrogance. And in the context, it's those who have friendship with the world. The second is that God strengthens us when we're humbled, but he giveth more grace. So basically, what happens is that there are times in our life that God humbles us. When we have become proud, he puts us on our back. He gives us reality checks, not because he's cruel and harsh. But because he wants us to be humbled, so he doesn't have to resist us and so that he can give us grace. He does this because he wants our hearts. Just like God chastens us to shape us into the image of Christ, Hebrews 12, 10, He chastens us for our prophet, that we might be partakers of his holiness, and afterwards it yieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness. Unto them which are exercised thereby. Just like God chastens us because he loves us and because he wants to shape us into the image of Christ, sometimes God humbles us because he doesn't want to have to resist us Because he wants our hearts. He wants our affections. He wants us to be in a right place. It could be right now, you're going through circumstances that make you upset. At God. And you say, God, why are you doing this to me? I can't give you all the answers. I can't. But I can tell you this. There are times that God's chastening you. There are times that God's trying to get your attention because your heart has replaced him with something And I'm not here to tell you that right now what you're dealing with is one of those two. I don't know. I really don't. You have to sit down and reflect on it yourself. I'd be glad to talk through it with you. I mean, if you were in a place where you needed that. There are lots of reasons why God allows us in these places. But one of the reasons is because He wants to humble those who are resisting him. So that he can pour grace into their hearts. In other words, the same text that is bluntly saying, You're an adulterer, is a text that's saying, I want to humble you so that I can give you grace. Isn't that incredible? It's like when we preach the gospel and we say, the law says, thou shalt not, and you have done, therefore you have violated God's laws. In that same gospel presentation we're going to say, but God who is rich in mercy, died for your sins, rose from the dead, he's provided himself to stand in your place so that you can be forgiven and cleansed and made his child. When we preach the gospel, we explain that over and over and over again. That's the sense of the verses in front of us. So I want to remind you this morning: God wants your heart to be fully and passionately committed to God. To you, to Him. Don't take worldliness lightly. It's primarily a matter of our hearts. And God wants us to have hearts that are centered on Him. Realize that God is jealous over you. And he's jealous over me. And the fact is that God will take action to thwart our plans. And to humble our hearts when we have lifted up ourselves in pride and turned away from Him. I have personally experienced this in my own life. And perhaps you have as well. I could tell you stories about times where God wasn't so much about chastening, it was about my heart And God did things in my life that humbled me at that point to get it get my attention, to get my heart. And that's what He does in our life. I want to encourage you, let's humble ourselves daily and let God shape us more and more into his image. Let's not resist him. Let's humble ourselves. And let's experience God's overwhelming supply of grace each day. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, indeed you're so good to us. Forgive us for not saying it enough. And not really allowing that truth to dominate our hearts enough. I pray that if there's anyone in our midst, whether physically here or on the live stream, That finds themselves in a place where you have really resisted them to get their attention, I pray that they would understand what you're doing And that they would humble themselves and they would allow you to draw them to you. That they would experience a rich, wonderful supply of your grace. And that they would have affections for you as never before in their life. Father, help us to be a people who don't get pulled aside and driven by the cares of life. That we don't follow this world system of thought and values, but that we delight in you and that you are the center of our joy. I pray that you would help us in times like we are dealing with now to be refined and purified. And made more and more like you. Help us to be in the place where we can enjoy you as you desire us to enjoy you. And may that be the sense that we walk out of this place with this morning. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Could be that there's a person here this morning that doesn't know for certain that they're saved, that they've trusted Christ, and there'd be a lot of things in that message that didn't make sense to you. So if you don't know for sure that you're saved, you have doubts and concerns, please reach out to me. You can reach out to me when you walk through those doors. You could send me a text, an email. You could reach out lots of different ways, but please don't hold back. Reach out and say, Pastor, I don't know for sure I'm saved. I need to talk to you. It could be that you know that you're saved and you're dealing with issues, and frankly You are struggling with what is God saying here. And if you're in a place like that, then please don't hesitate to reach out. I'm not a prophet. I don't know everything that there is to do about these things. But I will as much as possible try to direct you to scripture to show you some concrete things that can help you to think through those issues. It may be that you just needed to be reminded again today of how good God is. And so I hope that that'll be something that really stays with you, not just throughout the day-to-day, but into the next week, and this really sticks and resonates in you. your heart. The song we're going to be singing in our closing is hymn number 120, God Makes No Mistakes. And I think what we should be reminded of as we close out this service is that there are times in our life that the things that we chafe at and frustrate us are exactly what God wanted us to face. And the reason is actually very kind reason. And he knows that's how he works in our lives. And so let's declare that as we sing the song. Let's reflect on that. So let's stand together. We're going to sing the first and the second verses of God makes no mistakes. My life I give to you, the Lord. Use me, I pray. May I glorify your precious name in all I do and say Let me trust you in the valley dark, as well as in the light, knowing you will always lead me Your will is always right. I know God makes no mistake He meets in every path I take along the way that's leading me to home So at times my heart would break. There's a purpose in every change he makes. That others would see my life and know that God makes no mistakes. And when some day in heaven above I see his dear face May I then be counted faithful as a runner in this race Now I'm trusting in the Savan to show me the way In his righteousness he guides me as I seek to please him day by day. I know God makes no mistakes, He meets in every path I take. Alarms away that's leading me to the home So at times my heart would break. There's the purpose in every change it makes. That others would see my life and know that God makes no mistakes Amen. Very important truth for us to for us to grasp and live in the light of. Um Eric, can you close us in prayer? And uh So good to see each of you out this morning. I want to remind you that uh tonight we'll be continuing our Ecclesiastes study, so I hope that You'll be able to make it out for that. And it's an interesting topic. We're going to be talking about the limitation of wisdom. And so I think it'll be a an intriguing topic. I hope that you'll you'll find it to be helpful. So go ahead. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you for this day and uh just the way that you love us and care for us and for the good messages that we heard, Lord, as I ask that you would help us to uh to dwell on it and to grow us from hearing from your word, Lord, as that you would bless us as we leave this afternoon. In Christ's name. Amen