I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles with me. Let's turn together to the book of James. James chapter 1. I'm going to get a little bit of water because I've been talking a lot. James chapter 1, and we are looking together at verses 5 through 8. James chapter 1, verses 5 through 8. I'm going to read the text again with you this morning, and then we're going to dig into this passage of scripture. And I think you'll find this to be an extremely practical, but also very theologically rich concept as we get into James chapter 1, verses 5 through 8. Here's what the scriptures say. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God Who giveth to all men liberally and abradeth not, and it shall be given him. But Let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. A double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. We come to James chapter 1, verses 5 through 8. We need to remember that this is really just a continuation of what James has talked about in verses 1 through 4. And in those verses he talks about the trying of our faith and how the trying of our faith is something that produces patience. And because God produces patience in us through the trying of our faith, we should stop and we should reflect on the fact that though this is bad, God's using it for good. And the good that God's using it for is a wonderful good. In fact, it's conforming me, a child of God, into the image of Christ So I can and I must count it all joy when I fall into these trials of my faith. And the reason I count it all joy is not because evil's good. Bad doesn't hurt anymore. That's not the point The point is that God takes that that is going on in my life, and in the midst of it all, he says, let me take the difficulty here and let me accomplish something good and something wonderful and something beautiful out of it. I can take that evil set of circumstances and I can use it to accomplish a good purpose in you. In spite of all of that, I can still use it for my honor and glory and for your good. And so James has laid out the fact that we can, that we must, that we should respond to God with joy, no matter our circumstances. And then he goes from that little statement of counting all joy when, to this next statement, if any of you lack wisdom. Now who is he talking to? He's talking to you and he's talking to me. The one who's in the midst of the trying of our faith. The one who is going through that process of God developing patience in us. And so what is the point of this passage of Scripture? The point is this. This portion of James teaches us that when we need wisdom, God is willing to give it. And not only is he willing to give it, but he's willing to give it to us fully and richly, but if we're only willing to pursue it. In other words, God's wisdom is available to us. God invites us to come and get that wisdom, but he says, if you're going to get the wisdom, you have to pursue it with a heart that says, I really want what you have. And so that's what this passage is all about. It's all about inviting us and calling us to say, when you need wisdom, recognize it and go to God for it. God wants us to come to Him for wisdom when we need it. God doesn't want us to bury our heads in the sand and act as if our trials are really insignificant and don't matter. God doesn't want us to go to the world and say, What do you think I should do in this situation? God wants us to go to Him, the creator and the sustainer of all things, the one who knows everything, the one who's infinitely wise. The one who understands not just what can happen and what should happen, what will happen, but why things function the way they do. God wants us to come to him to get wisdom when we need it. So how can you and I do that this morning What could press our souls and motivate us to go to God like we should when we need wisdom? I want to begin with this first truth: that trials show us that we need God's wisdom. You know, if God never allowed us to go through difficult circumstances, we would become very self-centered, we would become very proud, we would become very self-sufficient. We never learn, we never grow, we would never become more and more like Christ. The truth is those areas in our lives that need to change and mature, they'd never be confronted if God always insulated us. from trouble and difficulties in life. And so what God does is God in his sovereignty and in his wisdom Chooses when it's time to allow us to face the trial. And the reason that he allows us to face the trial in part is simply to help us to recognize we need his wisdom. It's to help bring what really resides in our souls, a very self-centeredness, a very arrogant side of us. Something that doesn't seem to need God, doesn't seem to want God, doesn't seem to recognize his power and his sovereignty. God wants us to move from that place to being a place where we're humbly dependent on him. He wants us to be in a position where we say, I don't have the wisdom, I don't have the strength, I need your wisdom, I need your strength. God wants us to get to that place. And so what does he do? He allows us sometimes. To face those difficulties. Notice what he says in verse number five. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. You know what's interesting? He could have said, you need wisdom, you need to ask God. It would have been totally appropriate for God for James to write that. You need God's wisdom, you need to go and ask for it. But that's not the way he put it. He says, if you need wisdom Why does he do that? Because you don't get wisdom until you recognize that you need it. And sometimes you need to come to that conclusion yourself because when somebody else tells you you need this, you just kind of blow them off. Have you ever been there before? Okay. In fact one of the things that we learn as we get older is that when we're young we always want to correct everybody's problems. We go to them and we say, Hey, you know, you're doing this, you need to stop doing this And we're constantly correcting people and we're constantly getting frustrated because what we're telling them they just don't seem to really care. And you know what happens as we get older? We start realizing something. Sometimes, rather than correcting everybody's problem, you gotta let them learn the hard way. You just gotta do it. And you know what happens when they're learning the hard way, then they come to you and say, I think I need help. And all of a sudden they're in a position And I think that's the sense of what James is doing here. He's saying, you know, I know these people need wisdom. I know they need God's perspective. They need God to shape how they think. But I'm going to say, if you need it, come to him. He wants them to come to that conclusion themselves. And by the way, it's logical and it makes sense in the midst of circumstances like that that we need to come to God. But he says you need to recognize it. That word, if, anticipates that there's a need. But you've got to come to that conclusion. I want to ask you this morning, is it possible that as you sit here today And as you go through life, you have this arrogance before God. You wouldn't call it arrogance. You say, I'm just a self-sufficient person. But whether you realize it or not, it's really about you not feeling like you need God's wisdom. Listen to what James is saying. If, since, think about it, you need God to shape how you think in circumstances The second phrase that really stands out to me is this. Let him ask of God. That's an invitation. In other words, God doesn't force on us his wisdom necessarily. He allows us to pass through circumstances that press us so that we come to him and we say, I need help. And he says, I am there ready to give it. God invites us to come to him in our time of need, but we have to be motivated and willing to actually do it. You know what's so interesting when we're preaching the gospel and we're giving someone the gospel and we say God wants to save you, God wants to give you eternal life, and we never deal with the fact that we're a sinner. That we've broken God's laws, that we're separated from God, that there's nothing we can give God, there's nothing we can bring into his presence. We cannot keep a set of rules that make us acceptable to God, where all is a filthy rag. Our righteousness separates us from God. We need the gospel because there's no other place to turn. If we don't begin with our need, people don't be, they're not compelled to trust. In other words, repentance is what presses us to faith. And the truth is, God lets us struggle sometimes to press us to come to Him when we need His wisdom. I want you to realize there are a lot of scriptures that talk about how much we need God's wisdom. Old Testament passages, conversations that Jesus had with people, and then we come to a passage here like James chapter 1. We have a lot of scripture that presses us to go to God constantly for wisdom. And I want to expose you to a couple of those passages. The first one I want to mention to you is in Proverbs chapter 2, and that's the text that we read to open up our pat our sermon today, our service today. James chapter 2, verse 7. We see the godly father, the wise father, Solomon, talking to his children. And this is what Solomon says in Proverbs 2, verse 1. My son, if, and then he continues on with this statement, if you cry after knowledge and you lift up your voice for understanding. If you're seeking her as silver and searching for her as for a hid treasure, then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. Solomon says to his children, if you are passionate and hungering for God's wisdom, you're going to discover some things in life. If you're the person that's crying after knowledge, saying, I need it, I need it, I need it, lifting up your voice and saying, God, I need understanding. I need you to shape my perspective. If you're seeking for her like silver or gold. In other words, think back to the old days, the 49ers and the 1840s. who were going, leaving everything on the West Coast, leaving their homes, leaving their families, because they wanted to find gold and get rich in California and out in the West. People who abandoned everything that were passionate things, long journey across a desolate Midwest, going through the desert. Risking their lives because they wanted gold in California. Sadly a lot of them didn't find the gold, and those who did, some of them it ruined them. But the truth is that they were very passionate about getting that gold. Why? Because they saw it as valuable. They were willing to abandon a lot of things to go get it They were willing to live lives in isolation to go get it. They were willing to live in communities that were rough and tumble, let me tell you, so they could get money out of that gold. Solomon says if you want God's wisdom, you have to seek it like it's really valuable. You have to search for it as a hid treasure. That's not like you just go and you say, oh, I didn't find anything here, I'll just move on. You're gonna tear apart your house trying to find something that's valuable that you lost. It's like that picture of Jesus talking about the woman who had those coins. And one of them fell and she said, I will tear apart my entire house to find this one coin because it's so valuable. That's the sense that Solomon is telling his children. You need to see God's wisdom like it's the most valuable thing in the world. Do you seek for God's wisdom that way? Do you really feel like you need it? He goes on to say this: when you do that, then you know what you'll understand? Wisdom starts with fearing God. Wisdom starts with knowing God, his character, his nature, how he works, what he loves, what he hates. In other words, it comes down to you recognize the awesome wonder of God and you know his character, and that's where wisdom begins. And then he says this, you'll find the knowledge of God, for the Lord giveth wisdom. Out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. He's a buckler to them that walk uprightly. In other words, God has this rich store of wisdom that He wants to give to you. He wants to impart it to me. But if we don't seek it and we don't look for it and we're not passionate for it, it stays in his storehouse. Lots and lots of Christians go through life. And they never grow into spiritual maturity and have godly wisdom because they didn't hunger for God's wisdom enough. Matthew chapter 7, Jesus talks about the same thing. Listen to what he says in Matthew 7, 1 through 11. He says, judge not. That ye be not judged. For with what m judgment ye are judged, which ye judge, ye shall be judged. And with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again Basically, what Jesus is saying is this, before you make a judgment about a person or a situation, you better make sure that what you are judging based upon is actually what God is judging based upon. That your judgment is not a reflection of your own standards, but God's standards of righteousness. Because God will hold you, and others will hold you accountable to the standard that you judge other people by. And then he goes on to say this, if you have something in your own eye that's blocking your ability to see clearly, you've got to remove it before you'll see clearly. He says, cast out the beam out of thine eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the moat that's in thy brother's eye. And we see this so many times in life that when a person is not dealing with something in their own life, you know what they will do? They will oftentimes not have the clarity to help other people who have the same problem. In other words, it distorts their vision. It inhibits their ability to be able to see clearly and to help people. A person who's living righteously is in a far better place to help others than someone who's got a beam in their eye who won't address it. But here's the point I want to show you. After Jesus has made those statements, here's what he says: Ask. And it will be given to you. Seek, ye shall find. Knock. It shall be opened unto you. He then goes on to say this, if ye then being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him? And what's really interesting is in the context of this passage, Jesus is saying, you need to make a judgment call. You need God's wisdom. And if you want God's wisdom, you have to ask for it, you have to seek it, you have to search for it, and you need to ask him understanding that he's good and that he's going to give it to you. I want you to keep this in your mind because what we see in Proverbs 2 Matthew 7 and James 1 is the exact same thing. In other words, if we take those three passages of Scripture We lay them side by side. We kind of flush them out and write out all the details. What we will see is a very rich picture of how a Christian gets wisdom. And what we need to realize is that really what James is doing is he's expanding and he's addressing the exact same thing that Solomon and Christ taught in those places. So, what are the factors that ultimately form what we call godly wisdom? What is the thing that we should be seeking for, that we should be searching for, that we should be asking God for, that God wants to give us What is godly wisdom? Well, folks, godly wisdom really involves three things that we will see. Wisdom involves, first of all, information. Godly wisdom begins with processing the information that we need to make a good decision. If you don't have the information, you won't make the right call. If you're making a judgment about something and you don't have all the details, you will not judge accurately. You need to know everything that needs to be known so that you have all the details to make the right decision. Wisdom involves information. And God can give you the information that you need so that you can make the right decision in the circumstances you're dealing with. A second word is skill. Godly wisdom is able to take information that we need to make the right decision and the skill and the maturity to be able to take that wisdom and actually properly apply that wisdom. That means that wisdom is not just something that it's in our heads, but it's something that actually goes into what we do. A person who's wise doesn't just have a lot of knowledge. He's not just a thinker. He's not just a philosopher. He's a practical person who lives his life in obedience to God. Wisdom is not just information, it's skill. Taking the information and applying it. A person who has wisdom in the area of family knows how to relate to their wives, knows how to relate to their husband, knows how to relate to their kids, knows how to relate to those who are in their family, knows how to relate to the people that they works for that they work with that work under Zen Wisdom involves information and skill. When we talk about someone who's simple, they don't have the information, or they don't have the skill that they need to apply the information. But there's a third aspect to godly wisdom that's extremely important. We cannot miss it. The word is our values. Our values. Wisdom is not just taking information. Wisdom is not just applying that information. Wisdom is revealing what we think is important and what we think is not important. What we value the most is reflected in what we call our wisdom. This is what I mean by this. The way that we go about addressing a problem, the techniques that we use, the steps that we take, our approach to resolving a problem reveals what we value. The end result that we're looking for reveals our value. And if we're even willing to address an issue or not, it reveals our values. When we talk about somebody being pragmatic, what we're basically saying is the end result to them is more important than the process. When we say that person is practical, we're saying that what they're doing involves not just the end result, but the process. They're following God's instruction for both. We must guard our hearts constantly against a pragmatic, self-centered approach to solving our problems. You know, you could have a person who has an a an interpersonal conflict with another person, and somebody says, you know what? Life's short, man. You don't have time to deal with this nonsense. Just cut that person out of your life. They're toxic, you don't need to deal with them anymore. God says, well, that toxic person happens to be your son That toxic person happens to be your wife. That toxic person happens to be your husband. You don't have the right to just cut them out of your life. You've got to learn how to deal with the problem. You've got to address the problem. That toxic person happens to be somebody in your church. Happens to be somebody that you relate to on a regular basis. God put them in your life, and you need to work through the difficulty. So godly wisdom says, okay, that relationship's important. God put you in that relationship. Here's how biblically you address restoring that relationship. Worldly wisdom says it's not worth the time and the energy. Let it go. Folks, the point is this we have to constantly guard our hearts against a pragmatic, self-centered approach to solving our problems. Problems. We need to be slow to cut people off and to give up on these issues. We need to make sure that we're not taking God's word and saying, Yeah, I know God said that, but this doesn't apply in this situation, so I'm just going to set it to the side and I'm not going to deal with that. We have to learn to take all of Scripture to all of our lives. Not being pragmatic, not being self-centered. Having godly wisdom, the information, the skill, and the values that God has given us. A second thing is that this wisdom And our heart is mo the wisdom of our heart is most inclined to follow the voices that cry the loudest. And the voices that cry the loudest may not be the godliest voices in our lives. They might not be the things that we want to hear. We are often tempted to be very selective in where we go to get wisdom. You know, a lot of times people go and they find ten counselors who they know are going to say what they want to hear. And there's enough people in the world that you can always find somebody that reflects what you want them to tell you. Folks, what we need is not people who tell us what we want to hear, but people who tell us what we need to hear And the truth is that the loudest voices in our lives, the ones who might be the most persuasive and the ones that we might be the most inclined to might not be telling us the truth. And so what does the Bible tell us? We need God's wisdom, not just man's wisdom. In just a moment, you'll see why this distinction that I'm making is so important. Because James is going to make this distinction and he's going to tell us that if we have a divided heart about God's wisdom versus this world's wisdom And we can decide which one we want. And we want to take one and we want to take the two together and blend them. You know what we're going to do? We're going to end up really messed up because these are two sets of values that are in opposition to one another. A second truth we see is this. God is ready to give us his wisdom when we ask him. And verse number five, we continue saying this: let him ask of God who giveth to all men liberally and abradeth not, and it shall be given him. There are three statements in the rest of verse number five. That tell us that when God is there and we come to him and say, give me the wisdom I need it, he says, okay, I'll do that. And he tells us how to do it. Three important observations. The first, God is generous. Verse 5, he giveth to all men liberally. It's like you have a need. And you come to somebody and you say, I desperately need $10 so that I can go and do such and such. And it's a genuine need. They can see it. They know it. They have the money to be able to do it. And they say, you need ten dollars here. Hold on a second. Let me get you something. He pulls out a $20 bill and says, oh hold on a second. He pulls out $320 and says, let me give this to you. This will be a help to you. You say, well, I only asked for $10. That's okay. I want to help you out. That's what he means by he gives liberally. He's generous. In other words, God's not sitting there going, well, you know, I'll just give you what you need at the moment But I'd like to kind of hold back because I just want to keep this reserved so that you'll keep coming and coming and coming. God pours out his wisdom to us. The reason we don't have his wisdom is because we don't ask. It's because we don't seek it. It's because we don't have the heart for it. Not because God's unwilling to give it. The second thing we see is this: He doesn't belittle or mock us. It says, He abradeth not You know, I think about when we're little children and we're we're playing with each other and one child has a toy that the other child wants and the one child says, Can I have my toy? And the other one goes, Huh. No? And they start they start crying. They start fighting. And all of a sudden they hear bang and then crying and more crying and mommy, daddy, I need help. And you come down, what's going on? And you try to work through this whole mess and when you when you get to the bottom of it you see Child one is child to his toy. Child one wants the toy back. And we say, that's his toy. Give it to him. And he says, okay, fine, I'll give it to you. And he sticks it in his hand and says, I didn't want it anyway Is God like that? Is that how God gives us his wisdom? Fine, go ahead and take it. I don't want to deal with this anymore. You are a bother to me. He doesn't do that. God loves his children. He says, you know, if you go to your dad and you say, Dad, I'm hungry, can I have a fish? He says, Oh yeah, let me give you a snake. He doesn't do that. Dad, I'm hungry. Can I have a loaf of bread? Oh yeah, hold on. Let me let me give you a rock to chew on. You don't do that to your kids. And God's better than you. You're sinners. We love our kids, but we're sinners. You know, sometimes we wake up on the wrong side of the bed Sometimes the circumstances we're dealing with, they're oppressive and they're difficult. And we take it out on the people that are the closest to us. But we really do love our family members. And in spite of the edginess that we sometimes have with one another, we genuinely do love them and we want to get that right and restore the relationship and teach things where they need to be. He says, God is far better than you. He gives good things to his children. In other words, God is generous in the use of his wisdom. God doesn't upgrade us and belittle us and look down on us. In fact, he's inviting us and he's waiting and he says, I want to give it to you. I want to see you grow. I want to see you mature. I want to see Christ's image stamped in your life. That's what God wants of his children. Proverbs 2, verse 7. And then in verse, the end of verse 5, he promises, it says, Then God will give it to him. Proverbs 2, 7, the Lord layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. It's as if God is laying it aside and he's saying, I'm waiting for the day that you're going to come to me and say, I need this, and I'll give it to you. Matthew 7. 11, if you, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him? Folks, God is good. God loves his children. As we are in the midst of circumstances that are overwhelming and we question God's goodness, we need to realize that we've embraced a lie. And his wisdom is available to us. We should go to God because He will give us the wisdom we need in abundance with a loving disposition. Truth number three, knowing God will make us all the more committed to his wisdom. Knowing God will make us more committed to his wisdom. In verse six, he says this: But let him ask in faith Nothing wavering. Now it's interesting as we read this verse, we tend to think of the fact that the person is doubting whether or not God will actually give the wisdom. And that could be part of the sense. In other words, I'm coming to him and I'm saying, God, would you give me this wisdom? But in my heart, I'm not sure that he's actually going to give it to me. And so I'm coming with this reservation to God. And clearly James is trying to clear up that we don't come to God in that kind of a way. But I think there's more to it than simply that the person is saying, I'm asking, but I'm not really convinced or I'm not sure that he's going to give it. I think there's a little more to it than that. This doubting that he's telling us not to have is a doubting whether or not the wisdom that God gives is actually good. It's actually right It's actually what we should embrace and what we should apply and live in the light of. In other words, I am kind of conflicted in my mind. God says he gives his wisdom. God says he's good. He doesn't upbraid. He's generous. But deep down in my soul, I'm not convinced I want him to tell me what he's going to tell me. I don't know if I really want to fall through with it. It's going to make me feel uncomfortable. It's going to go against the grain. What are people going to say? What will be the long-term result of these decisions? We question whether or not God's wisdom is actually the best wisdom, the wisdom that we want. And I ask you a question: Have you been in this place before? Undoubtedly, every person who's listening to this message has found themselves at some point in your life in a set of circumstances where you were in a fix betwixt two. Do I want God's wisdom or do I want man's wisdom? And I'm really inclined this way, but then I'm inclined this way. And what does James say? He says, let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. Don't be caught between the two. Be fully committed to embracing what God has to say. Come to Him without reservation and say, I want your wisdom. I'm committed to your wisdom. I'm going to apply your wisdom. I'm not looking for it in another place. I want you to speak to my soul. Is that the place that we find ourselves? This wavering is that internal struggle between embracing godly and worldly wisdom. And let me give you some practical ways that we get caught in this place. How do I view God? Do I really see him as good? Do I really see him as all wise? Do I really see him as having my best interests in mind? Do I really believe that what he says is righteous? Do I really trust in His sovereign care? Do I really think that God's being fair to me in this set of circumstances? This is where we get caught. Do I really view God the way that I should? Whose interest is most important? Is it really about my agenda and what I've always dreamed that I should do and what I want to do, or is it what God says I need to do? In other words, we can become very fixated on something that we hold fast to in our minds and we say, I will not give this up because I don't want God to say that's not for me. I have set my heart on it. My whole life I've said I want to do this. I'm going to do this. And now we're in a place where we might have to release it. And what happens? Is it God's interest or mine that's really most important here? What process do we go through? In other words, should I take an approach that really Ultimately is me controlling my circumstances and trying to micromanage every single detail of what's going on? Or do I release my hands and I say, God, I'm just going to obey you? I'm just going to trust you. I'm going to do what's right. I have no ability to control my circumstances. I'm not sovereign. I'm not all-powerful. I'm going to trust you. I'm going to do what is right. If you're caught between those two tensions, you're in big trouble, folks. How should I treat others in the process? Do I have the right to be vindictive? Do I have the right to crush people's interests so that I can advance my own interests? Oh, but my interest ultimately is good. God can use it. So it's okay if I crush a few people in the way, because ultimately what I want is a good thing. And you know what happens? We end up getting in this place where rather than letting God put us where he wants us and to lift us up and put us down and position us where he wants us to be positioned, we are doing everything we can taking every single step because we are trying to control our circumstances. What's morally right and what's morally wrong Do I value the immediate or eternity more? These are the kinds of things that really get us caught between attention. Do I want God's wisdom or do I want man's wisdom? Do I want to pursue what he says is right, or do I want to pursue what my flesh is longing to do here? And folks, the passage is very simple. He says, let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. I need to approach God with confidence in his character, with a heart that is willing to fully embrace his wisdom because we believe that he is good. We then come to a fourth truth, and this one is extremely important. We will be unsettled if we try to blend godly wisdom with this world's wisdom. Here's what I mean. If you try to take this position and this position and blend the two together, you will not be able to do it. You will not be successful. You will be unsettled. You will be unstable. That is a destructive, dangerous course of action for you and me to continue down. It's like somebody taking a bottle of water and somebody taking cooking oil and putting them together and stirring them up and saying, I can make these come together. And when you stop stirring, you see what happens? They say Why is that? Because oil and water, they don't mix. They don't mix. They are two substances that don't mix. And the truth is, worldly wisdom, godly wisdom, they don't mix. And it's not just that they don't mix, they're in conflict, folks In other words, what God says is right, what the world says is right, they're not the same. They're actually at war with one another. And when we try to embrace these two sides, we end up getting destroyed in the process. We're the ones that get chewed up. We're the ones that get ground down. We get caught in conflict between two at war with one another. It's like two people that have a tremendous animosity towards one another. And you've watched them fight and bicker, and you say, I'm gonna be the hero, I'm gonna step in the middle, I'm gonna settle it all for them. And you step in the middle and what happens? You're like somebody who grabs a dog by the ears and is going to get shredded in the process. And the point is this. When you try to get caught between these two positions, You will be unsettled. He says it this way. In verse number four: He that wavereth is like a wave of the sea. Driven with the wind and tossed. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. I love to go fishing. Fishing is one of my favorite pastimes, okay? As far as extracurricular, I love getting out and catching fish. It's a lot of fun. I've done it since I was a kid. Some great memories, epic fishing trips that I've had with my brother and friends. And let me tell you, one of the most frustrating things to do when you're excited about going fishing. is getting in a boat and going out into a bay, and it's so windy that you're just getting driven all over that bay. You put the anchor down and you're trying to be set and you've got your place to fish and you cast your line and it ends up behind you and it ends up in a place that you didn't want to go. You're on a little pond and you're trying to fish and every time you cast it ends up snagged in a tree. It's not because you're a poor caster, it's because there's wind everywhere. And you finally get your line out there and then it ends up where you don't want it. And he says that's what you're like. You're like someone who's out on a sea and the wind is driving and you're at the mercies of the wind. The waves are pounding your vessel. You have no control, he says. You try to embrace these two kinds of wisdom that are in opposition and you say, I want this, but I want this, and you don't take aside. You know what you do? You get blown about by your circumstances. You will have no stability. You might find yourself there today. You are caught between God's wisdom and this world's wisdom. And you've tried to blend these things together, and you are getting driven by your circumstances. And that's what James says. Trying to blend the two will leave you helpless, driven by your circumstances. He that waverth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. We won't have God's wisdom because it's exclusive in its nature. Verse 17 says, Let not that man think that he should receive anything from the Lord. In other words, the moment we take God's wisdom and we inject into it something that is from this world system that's ultimately in opposition to God's wisdom, we don't have his wisdom anymore. It's all or nothing. It's exclusive. Folks, we cannot allow ourselves to continue in this position. We've got to embrace a conviction that God's wisdom is best. We will be unstable in everything that we do. Verse 8 says that a double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. The Christian worldview has to be embraced fully. It's consistent with reality. And if we inject into it something that is in opposition, it's all going to become corrupted. Trying to blend godly wisdom and worldly wisdom will unsettle our souls. I want to encourage you this morning, don't do that. You might ask, well, Pastor, how do we take what we've talked about this morning and how do we just practically apply it in our daily lives? Isn't that what wisdom is? taking information, practically applying it, and really doing it in the light of godly values. Yes, that's what wisdom is. How can we do that this morning? Let me give you a couple of simple thoughts that I jotted down that I hope will help you to apply the text in front of you The first is this. We constantly need to be growing in wisdom. And allowing us to pass through trials is one of the ways God reminds us of the need. Let that simple truth sink into your soul. It will shape how you respond to God and circumstance. Two, we need to remember that God's wisdom is always available, but we need to have a heart for it, and we need to pursue it. Folks, if we don't have God's wisdom, it's not because God doesn't want to give it. It's not because it isn't available It's because we have not sought it with a heart that is fully committed to embracing it. Three We need to look at God correctly when we're struggling because the pressures we're experiencing can div distort how we view him. Folks, a lot of people's view of God has very little to do with the scriptures and has a lot to do with how they feel in the moment. It's really true. We formulate our view of God based on circumstances far too much. We need to formulate our view of God based on what God says. And what God says informs how we feel in circumstance. That means that what I know to be true factually from the Word of God When I'm going through difficulty, those facts that I know about God become the stability that helps me in that moment of trouble. But we tend to not do it that way. We tend to look at our circumstances, and we're driven by our circumstances, and we're battered by our circumstances, and we view God based on what we can see only at that moment, and God says, no, don't do it that way. Know it is true, and apply it no matter what you're facing. We need to look at God correctly when we're struggling. Pressure often distorts our view of Him. And lastly, I mentioned this. We must resist the temptation to try to blend godly wisdom with this world's wisdom. Because the result of this attempt to blend two approaches to life that are in direct opposition will leave us in a helplessly unstable position. Folks, I exhort you, I encourage you lovingly but firmly, don't allow yourself to be caught between these two principles that are in opposition. You cannot win in that place. You won't be stable in that place. You won't get what God wants to give you. You won't have the stability and the strength. You won't mature like you need to if you're caught between these two tensions. We have to recognize that the wisdom of this world is not godly wisdom, and we reject it and we embrace truth. That is the intent of the passage before us. God wants us to come to him for his wisdom, and he wants us to do it without any reservation. By God's grace, let's do that. You know, there may be a person who listened this morning and says, you know, Pastor, we talk about God's wisdom, and one of the things that you talked about earlier in that message. Was the gospel. You talked about how the gospel involves understanding that I'm a sinner, I'm separated from God. And you said something very interesting. You said that there was no way that I could earn my way to God. There's nothing that I could give him. There's nothing I could do for him that could remove my debt. I was completely helpless. Apart from the gospel. Is that true? That's absolutely true. God wants us to recognize that we've sinned against him The penalty for our sin is death, and our righteousness is a filthy rag that God cannot accept to remove our sin. And folks, that's why the cross is there. Jesus went to the cross to remove our sin debt. Jesus lived a righteous life so that his righteousness could be imputed to us. He rose triumphant from the grave. He conquered sin and death. All the gospel is rooted in what God did for us, not what we do for Him. There might be a person listening this morning that says, you're talking about worldly wisdom, godly wisdom. I'm not even there yet. I'm not saved Folks, if you don't know the Lord is your Savior, I hope that this morning you will humbly call on the Lord to save you from your sins. You will recognize your sin, that is only what Christ did for you on that cross, and you will trust in the finished work of Christ. The Bible says with the heart man believes unto righteousness. And whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. If you don't know the Lord as your Savior, I hope today, right there in your home, you will trust What Christ has done for you on that cross. Maybe you've done that today. If you've done that today, I hope you'll just send us a message to say, Pastor, today I trusted Christ. You might be in a position where you say, I don't know that I'm ready to do that, but I need to talk to somebody. There's an email address on this final slide. I hope that you'll send me an email. I'd love to answer your questions and explain to you how you can be saved. You might say, Pastor, I'm saved. I'm a member of this church. I'm a friend of a member of this church. I needed that message. I am caught between these two types of wisdom, and I've tried to blend them, and today I see I can't do that. I hope that this morning you will turn from that trust and a false set of wisdom and embrace God's wisdom fully. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to take what we've heard and apply it to our hearts. Our Father in heaven, we are so grateful. That we can come into your presence through the finished work of Christ. We stand righteous before you because of the righteousness of Jesus We stand cleansed and forgiven because of the death of Jesus. Father, help us to embrace your wisdom, to see that we need it To wholeheartedly, without reservation, pursue your wisdom and not try to blend it with the wisdom of this world. Help us to be a humbled people who live practically in the light of eternity We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen