Let's bow together for prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our time together, please. Father, thank you for the Lord's Day and the opportunity to gather with other Christians. Um thank you for the sweet fellowship that we've enjoyed together. Thank you for the way you've ministered to our hearts through the word and and song. And I pray that tonight you would continue that work in us. And I pray that you would bless Pastor Chris as he preaches the word tonight. I pray that you would guide his thoughts and help him to communicate. The word of God with clarity. Basket in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Good evening, everyone. Let's Take our handles and turn to page 417. Or just look up on the screen as we sing three verses of Faith of Our Fathers. Please stand with me, warm this place up. With some good singing, faith of our fathers. In the others the heavy still It's like a For I went only care that glorious words and other On the third, our lawyers we will strive to win omit and But true and come God, make thy children be great, make my father. Oh we will make sure we 're unless they were But a friend and boy and all our thrive memory to that one my time. I would like to only find We were being good. Just across the page, page four eighteen. Remain standing Page 418, trust and obey. First, third, and fifth. What the glory is all our men What we do is God will be a part of the world. Everyone women probably understand the longer always well a better way to be happy. Jesus on your cross and not a bird that we dare not a sorrow we share our poor There's no other way to realize me and Jesus on the crowd. And if thou worships me , we would sing that it was beef, for we'll love my birth time now. What is that we can go then we only come to Okay , the word is another way to be happy and take life on your crowd and the location. That's good singing. Go ahead and have a seat while we turn to page 391. Page 391. Look up at the screen. We're going to sing. All four verses of I am resolved. I am He is a trigger while he is the jump part, he has the worker. The baby blind eye water. I am to be sick now. I am resolved in the kingdom being the handle of the brother. Good singing tonight. Okay, well on Sunday nights we like to take a couple of minutes to give you opportunities to share testimonies. Yeah. What have I to ask this night? Can I get a fit in the wasting words for my man? Comfort here by fighting well. For I know what near people. Okay, one hundred and Twenty two in the blue book. It's almost in the middle. What's that? Both verses? Yeah, my uh I have two both on both verses. Both verses? Yeah, my Oh, okay, I didn't quite catch that. Alright, well. Okay, we will sing the whole song as the deer. Okay. As the demand for the waters of my soul. You alone are my heart's desire and I long to worship you. You alone are I speak and shield, to you, my spirit yield You alone are my heart's desire and I long to worship you. You are my friend and you are my brother even though. You are a king I love you more than any other so much more than anything. Lord are my strength my shield, you alone, may my spirit heal. You all are my heart , desire and I love to rest. Alright, yeah, we get to go all the way to the back of the red book. Yesterday, today, forever. You know, we got some songs hidden back here that y'all don't want to forget about. They got some good ones. They just weren't in this hymnal. And so somebody took the time to photocopy and paste them in here. So yesterday, today, forever. Oh, how sweet the glorious passage simple faith makes sense. Yesterday, today, forever, Jesus didn't say Still he loves to save the temple, heal the sick and a cheer the Lord. Yesterday, today, forever. Jesus is the same. All may change, but Jesus never. Glory to his name, glory to his name, glory to his name, all may change of Jesus never. Okay, four hundred and ninety-three in the red book. Page four ninety three Come, ye thankful people, come. Come ye thankful people come, praise the logo hard as long , while we safely gathered in. Three hundred and seventy four, same book Okay. Yeah, sometimes these books have places they like to open too, and some are a little more difficult. Page three seventy-four. Be thou my agents. Be thou my heart. All right, now back to the blue book, page one hundred and twenty-two. Uh duh. Okay. Senior moment going on. Now, okay, page one hundred and fifty eight Page one hundred and fifty-eight in the blue book , the fourth verse. Uh uh. I know you just Hold on, hold on, hold on. I've got to get my bearings here. Okay. I'm not real familiar with this one. When I started hearing the echoes, I'm going, what did I do wrong? Okay. All right, let's start this over again. Here we go God, God who gives us verbation. God bless us where we are like the broken find the weak. Who can make us all again? God would be love. One more. One more. Oh, you are really wanting to punish me. No, that's not I was having a hard time with that one. My goodness. Uh okay. Let's turn to the red book, page 555. And we'll sing this before the special, before the uh before the um message. Stand with me. We'll sing first and last verse of face to face. Past your face, what will it be? And with rapture I be falling. As my two die for me If we wish I shall be holding hardly on the glory I shall see you by hunger last Face the face of this football face to face It's me and the law. There's to faith with my renew. Jesus Christ and Loves me love. There is to faith I shall be all. I shall be please have a seat Do you trust me as your God? Though my path for you is deep. Will you lean on your own way? Or resolve to follow me, I am still your shepherd. Who has led you with my love Since I see be on your view? Surely trust me, Fall Tringwan. You trust me, yes, you're rock , while the storm surrages on. Every day new mercies grow. Every night I give a song. Since I sinned as Prince of Peace. Set your mind up. Everlasting strength is mine. Fully trust me, wearied one Will you trust me with your life when you face your final laugh? Soon to leave this broken world. Destined for my Jasper. I am he who once was dead, now alive, my suffering dawn You will live for all your rose. Come be with me, faith war. Okay, well uh Chris is gonna continue our Pastor Chris is gonna continue our study uh as we're working our way through the Old Testament and looking at uh passages that are pointing to the gospel, and this is a very, very important uh passage that we're looking at. So brother come on up and preach the word. Instructions. There we go. We can edit that out. All right. All right, Genesis chapter twelve. Genesis chapter twelve So as you know, we're we're getting into what some white might call the meat of the book of Genesis. We're going through the story of redemption. We're about to get into the life and times. of the patriarchs, beginning with Abraham. Now, I think we're pretty fairly aware of who Abraham is, or Abram, as he's called uh here initially in these earlier chapters. But sometimes we fail to grasp how big of a figure Abram really is in religious history In fact, when we take a step back, we realize he is the key figure in the three major monotheistic religions of the world. that being i Islam, Judaism, Christianity. And in Christianity he's especially important because it is through him God initiated his his gospel plan in bringing the nation that would usher forth the Messiah, the kingdom of Israel. So Abram is an important person in the story of redemption. But sometimes when we're reading about him, we we tend to neglect how much of an idea he had about God's redemptive plan. And I'm going to read to you here Hebrews chapter 11. kind of uh to to help us kind of get a sense of what we're going to be studying here tonight in Genesis chapter 12. So if you want to turn there, feel free to. I'm going to be reading to you Hebrews 11 verses 8 through 10. It says there, by faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he stood after to receive for an inheritance, obeyed, and he went out not knowing whither he went. By faith he so journed in the land of promise, as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. For he looked for a city Which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God. And in 13, it says, these all died by in faith. Not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country, and truly, if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have had an opportunity to have returned. But now they desire a better country. That is unheavenly, wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city. Now in reference to the kingdom plan, the story of redemption bringing people into his kingdom, the patriarchs Knew that God had a redemptive plan in place. And so when we read in chapter 12 of Genesis, Abram being called by God to leave his homeland, to leave his Dwelling there in Haram to go to Israel, to go to the land of Canaan. He did so in faithful obedience to what we would call the gospel. While he would not have understood the gospel, the good news of God, the same way we as believers would, it's clear that he had an idea, a concept that he He could trust in, knowing that God had a plan in place, a redemptive plan. And so that should behoove us as we study this chapter of uh Abraham's calling, his initial calling, we too should see that God wants us. To act in obedience, in obedient faith to the gospel. And I say that because when we read about it, we're not just seeing Abram consenting to a fact. He's not just simply agreeing with the gospel, he is acting in obedience to it. And so when we're looking at what he's doing here, we're going to see how we can faithfully take action. in light of the gospel in three different ways. The first we'll actually see here in verses in chapter eleven, so just a few verses before you get to ver chapter twelve. We're going to start reading and then we're going to read into chapter twelve. So look with me there in chapter eleven, verse twenty-seven. Now these are the generations of Terah. Terah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran, and Haran begat Lot. And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his nativity in Ur of the Chaldees. And Abram and Nahor took them wa took them wives, and the name of Abram's wife was Sarai, and the name of Nahor 's wife Milkah, and the daughter of Haran, the father of Milkah, and the father of Iscah. But Sarai was barren. She had no child. And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot, the son of Haran, his son's son, and Sarai, his daughter daughter's daughter-in-law, his son, Abram's wife. And they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees to go into the land of Canaan, and they came into Haran and dwelt there, and the days of Terra were two hundred and five years, and Terrah died in Haran. Now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land which I will show thee. And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing, and I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee, and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken unto him. And we'll stop there as we begin looking at how God wants us to act in obedient faith to the gospel. We're going to see first of all That we need to, like Abram, faithfully act, regardless of what context we find ourselves in. It's easy as we look at Abram's calling to ignore what had just been explained in the chapter previous. We tend to kind of gloss through those genealogies and say, okay, just got to push through this, get to the rest. But there's some important things we can recognize. as we look there at the end of chapter 11. The first is knowing that Abram 's context was a common one. Abram lived in a very common context. Like everyone else, he was born into a family like we read about in this genealogy. He faced death during his lifetime. He had relationships. He faced tragedy. He had big life changes. In Abram's eyes, when God called him to leave Haran and go to the land of Canaan. He was just an ordinary person. He was another another guy. In fact it it might have been kind of strange to him because It 'd be like God coming to you or me and saying, hey, I want you to leave Maryland. I want you to walk, you know, 400 miles in another direction. That's where you're going to live. And we may think, okay, well, God's never going to do that. I'm sure Abram didn't think so either. But God did. Because he had an intentional plan for him and his descendants. The fact is that God expects you and I to act in obedient faith to the gospel of regardless of where we are, who we are, what our context is, whether we think we're ordinary or not, which The majority of us are are pretty ordinary people. No offense. You don't need to be a paid ministry worker. You don't need to be someone who is just uh you know, gung-ho 100%, uh outgoing all the time kind of a person to be in labor for God in obedience to the gospel. God expects you to labor in the gospel 24-7, whatever place you find yourself in on a daily basis. We also know that Abram 's context wasn't just common, it was also unique one. Now, I know there's a little bit of a contradiction there. Uh bear with me there. Abram's context was common, but it was also unique. Abram was unlike any other individual in history, aside from the fact that he was a unique, one-of-a-kind human being. God specifically chose him to initiate the establishment of Israel as uh as a nation, even if it still took hundreds of years to do that. You know, Aban didn't look look at Isaac down the road and say, oh yeah, definitely gonna have, you know, a whole country right after this He had his one child, and then Isaac had his two children, and then you know, hundreds of years pass and eventually you have a nation. But for Abram You know, he's the father of many nations. He's the father of you know, we we could go down a list. We got Ishmael and the the Arabs, we got Isaac and the children of Israel, we got uh you can even say Esau and the Edomites, we could go on and on. He was the father of many nations. How many of us have that title? You know, we're I don't think anybody in this room uh does or will. But whether you realize it or not, you're still a very unique individual in history. None of us shares the same story, not a single one of us. Your your context is unique compared to anyone else who has is around you, who's ever existed, whoever will be. No one fully shares your thoughts, your beliefs, your knowledge, your challenges, your experience the way that you do. And God expects you to act in obedient faith to the gospel in light of that uniqueness. Listen We we we can read about missionaries like like Adam Adam Iron Judson, Hudson Taylor, C. T. Studd, who all had remarkable and enviable ministries. But the fact is not a single one of us is like those individuals. I'm not going to be a Natinaram Judson. My wife isn't going to be an Elizabeth Taylor. My son isn't going to be the Apostle Paul. And none of you will be either. No, if Chris Wagner is going to be Chris Wagner in whatever context God has uniquely given me, and the same is true of you. So act in obedience to the gospel in light of that unique context that you find yourself in in life. So as we seek to act in faithful obedience to the gospel, we see, first of all, we need to act faithful regardless of our contexts. But as we move into chapter 12, we see Abram acting faithfully according to God's word. That's the second way we need to be acting in obedient faith to the gospel. is by doing so according to God's word. We read that passage there. We see God directly speaking to Abram. Wouldn't it be nice if When we're going through life, God spoke directly to us with like an audible voice saying, hey, you need to do this and go there and you know say this. It would be really nice, wouldn't it? Abram had that very unique interaction with God because, frankly, he didn't have God's written word. He didn't have scripture to go to and say, you know, oh yeah, I I know what I need to do here in life. I know I shouldn't, you know, bear false witness. I know that I I I don't We have that advantage, but Abraham, Abram did not. And yet what God gave him, he faithfully obeyed and did. Now I said we have the advantages of Scripture, but do we really take advantage of it? Do we seek out God's commandments in His Word? Do we study this book? Do we memorize it? Do we meditate on it? Do we seek guidance from it. I'm not saying, you know, you're gonna look in this book and say, oh, you know, this chapter, this verse tells me I need to pack up my bags, leave Maryland, go to China. I heard of a missionary one time who says, I think God's calling me to India. And he's looking through his Bible, and every page on the bottom said printed in India. I'll let that one sink in for a second. And the Bible isn't necessarily a step-by-step roadmap. It provides us principles and commandments by which we need to live wisely and conduct ourselves godly in light of the gospel which saved us. So God wants us to act faithfully according to his word, first of all, because God's word provides us with commandments. But you know, it doesn't just stop there. You know, we see Abram being told by God, get out of your country, leave thy kindred, go from your father's house. But in verse 2, he also gives in his word promises to Abram. He gives Abram a unique, specific promise. You see what he said there? He said, I will make of thee a great nation. I will bless thee. I will make thy name great. Thou shalt be a blessing. All those things came true for Abram. I don't know of any religion out there that has something bad to say about Abraham. Anything untrue necessarily to say about Abraham. Because the fact is, God truly blessed this man. God kept his promise for this man. He made him great in the eyes of man But God only gave him that one promise in this instance. That was all Abraham really had to cling to. We have a whole book of promises. We have chapter after chapter, verse after verse, of God's specific promises to us. We're not given the promise necessarily that our descendants were going to be great nations or that we ourselves are going to be great. But listen, we're promised all things work together for good to them who are called. We're promised, therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as ye know that your labor is not in vain. We're promised that if a man love Christ, he'll keep his words. If you love Jesus Christ, you'll obey him. It's a natural result. God's word provides these promises that we can cling to, that we can go to, that we could hold on to as we live in faithful obedience to the gospel, as we live out the gospel, as we Work out our own salvation, we can cling to these promises and trust God. And not only does God give God's word give us commandments and promises, it also provides us with examples. Now in verse 4 it says, So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken unto him, and Lot went with him. And Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed Haran. You know, at this point, you know, it's kind of unclear whether Abram had any kind of example of godliness, any kind of example of faithful uh obedience. It's a little murky if if he was aware of Noah or his his actions, but we know for a fact he didn't have scripture to look to He couldn't read about what he was going to do when God told him, take your son Isaac and sacrifice him. He didn't have You know, the faith of his descendant Joseph to look to when he was going through hardship, when he was going through doubt. But we have examples, example after example, some good, some bad, of men and women who truly knew what it meant To follow God in obedience, or didn't follow God in obedience. So God's word gives us commandments, it gives us promises, it gives us examples. In fact, Abram in this passage became an example for us. of what it means to act faithfully in faithful obedience to the gospel. But the third and final way we need to act in faithful obedience to the gospel. is to faithfully act regardless of what challenges we face. We know that we need to act regardless of our context, we need to act in light of God's word, but finally we need to faithfully act regardless of what challenges. we face. Abram faced the challenges of life. We read about it here in verses four through six says that he departed Haran when he was seventy-five years old old. And Abram took Sarai his wife and Lot his brother's son and all their substance that they had gathered and the souls that they had gotten in Huron, and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan, and to the land of Canaan they came. And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Shichim, unto the plain of Morah, and the Canaanite was then in the land. And you know we read that and say, okay, that's a description of what Abram did, but we don't think sometimes take the time to think about what all that implies. You think about a seventy five year old man packing up his estate Putting it on animals, taking well over 300 people, if you remember he had an army, and led all those people down 400 miles plus. to the land of Canaan. Now I don't know too many 70 plus year olds that would even drive that far, let alone walk that far. And he was a man who knew that that was going to be a challenge and did it. Here's a man that You know, he had a huge estate to manage. Here's a man who had a barren wife. who was promised that he was going to have a nation out of his descendants. Now, I don't know about you, but we all face challenges in life. And they're all different, they're all unique. And not everybody around us understands them. But I'll tell you what, God understands them, and He wants us to act in obedience to the gospel, even when facing those challenges. You know why Abram was able to do that? It's because Abram knew the promises of God. Abram was given constant reminders of God's promises along his journey. In verses 7 through 9, we read about it. It says, the Lord Appeared unto Abram and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land, and there buildeth he an altar unto the Lord who appeared unto him. And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitched his tent. Having Bethel on the west and Hion on the east, and there he built an altar unto the Lord and called upon the lame name of the Lord. And Abram's journey going on still toward the south. Abram knew the promises of God. Even though we read about the one specific one here, he was reminded of them constantly as he went down. into the land of Canaan. As he went down and he set up these altars, they were reminders. They were constant testimonies to the promises that God was intending to keep. And that he eventually did. And Abram had the faith to see that. He had the faith to face those challenges, to pursue his faithful obedience. Because he knew the promises of God. We read up read about it just a little while ago in Hebrews. He was looking for a city. He was looking for a place made by God, a place that was unlike anywhere that he ever knew, this side of eternity And all he had, I say all he had, but he had Just maybe what two, three verses that we could read about? Maybe a little more if you know that wasn't recorded in Scripture. We have a whole book. Going back to that, God's word is full of promises. When we're facing the challenges of life, when we're going through life And we're trying to act in obedience to the gospel. And we're met with struggle and we're met with resistance. And we're met with difficulty. We can go to scripture. We can cling to promises after promises. And no, we can do this by God's grace because he said he would. He would do everything according to his promise. Yet sometimes we forget or maybe even neglect those promises. Listen, we who know the promises of God have a tremendous obligation to act in accordance to them. Whether it's by faithfully living in obedience to the gospel or choosing right now to do so. How that plays out requires us to know the wisdom, to know the principles, to know the promises found in Scripture. So I ask you again: do you know this book? Are you in the Word? Are you studying it? Are you meditating on it? Are you cherishing it? I ask you this because God wants us to act in obedient faith to the gospel. We can do that by faithfully acting regardless of our context, our challenges, all of this according to God's word. Now you might be sitting sitting here thinking, okay, well how what do I need to do now? How do I need to act in obedient faith to the gospel? Listen, you might be sitting here tonight or listening in on the live stream and thinking, I don't believe the gospel Or I never understood the gospel. And I'll tell you right now, the only obedient step that you need to take at this moment is trusting, believing in the gospel. If you don't know what that means, if you don't understand that, listen, we're here to to talk to you about it. There's people in this room who would love to talk to you about it. But for most of us who are here listening , we already believe the gospel. What do we need to do with the gospel now? You know, I've believed it. Well, how do I act in obedience to it? Listen. God didn't give us the gospel so that we could say, oh, I believed it, and then move on from it. God expects us to take the gospel, to share the gospel, to live out the gospel. And whatever context you live in, whatever challenges you face, God's word provides us with the life, the principles, everything that we need in order to display the gospel in a real and practical way. It doesn't mean you need to drop your job and head to the mission field. Although God may have you do that. What it means is you need to be faithful wherever you are at any given moment. Living in light of the gospel. It takes action. It takes more than a mental affirmation. So let's strive not to just be hearers of the word. Let's not just be head nodders to the word. Let's be doers. Let's be actors. Let's be obedient in our living, living out the gospel. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Father, we come before you thousands of years after Abram's time. Seeing what your promises to him have unfolded and become. And as he looked ahead down the road of your redemptive plan , We look back and we see the gospel of Jesus Christ, his death, his burial, his resurrection. And we can see how glorious your plan, your good news, your gospel is. And as you've called Abram to step out in faith in light of the gospel, he acted. I pray, Lord, you would help us to act. act, to take action, to not just nod our heads, to not just sit here affirming what we know, but to take what we know and take action. To do what you've called us to do, to take the principles, the promises, the commandments, your word. Out into to a lost and dying world for the glory of Jesus Christ. It's in his name that we pray these things. Amen. You know, I think about um obedience and how it relates to the gospel. Think about what what Paul preached at Mars Hill. He said that God commands all men everywhere to repent because he has fixed the day in which he's going to judge the world. And so when God Brings the gospel to us and he says Christ died for your sins and rose from the dead. The highest form of rebellion in the world is someone saying, I believe I can earn my way to God. I don't need the gospel. I don't need what Jesus did for me. God doesn't suggest that we should trust Christ, He commands us to. And ultimately rejection of that command to trust in the gospel is what condemns us eternally. And then I think about a second command in Romans 6. It says, shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? He says, God forbid. How shall we that have died to sins live any longer therein? And he says we're to reckon ourselves to be dead to sin but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. And because he has forgiven us and cleansed us, God commands us to live in the light of that position we have in Christ. And so we're to account ourselves dead to sin because we are, and alive unto God because we are. And we do it by yielding our members as instruments of righteousness unto God. And so if you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, I want to encourage you, don't delay that. Today is the day you need to. Respond to the gospel, humbly, trusting in what He did for you. And as believers, we should be reminded again that we need to live in the light of the position we have in Christ. We are called saints, so we should live like it. That's what he calls us. We should live like it. Let's go ahead and pull out our uh hymn books, please, and the closing hymn we're going to sing is the hymn I Surrender All. And we're going to sing the first, the second, and the first verses of hymn 390. I surrender all. Let's stand together, please. And let's Say this honestly from our hearts, that we really have yielded ourselves to the Lord, and that we are willing to walk in obedience to whatever he has for us. To do. Him three hundred ninety. I surrender all here we go. All to Jesus I surrender, all to him I freely give I will ever love and trust him in his presence daily with I surrender all I surrender all to thee my blessed Savior, I surrender all. All to Jesus I surrender comedy at his feet I bow worldly pleasures all forsaken. Take and take me, Jesus, take me now. I surrender all I surrender all. All to thee, my blast is able, I surrender all on the last All to Jesus I surrender, Lord, I give myself to thee. Fill me with thy love and power. Let thy blastings fall on me. I surrender all. I surrender all To thee, my wife said Savior I surrender. And I hope that that really is honestly where our hearts are tonight. And we will spend several weeks looking at the life of Abraham. There are many, many very important lessons for us. uh to learn from Abraham's life and he is uh the most prominent figure in the book of Genesis. And uh so we will be spending uh quite a few weeks looking at his life and so I hope that uh you'll be able to uh see uh those lessons but really see also how they they point us to uh the need for redemption and how God was going to accomplish redemption by sending the Savior into the world. Mr. Jenny, can you close us in prayer, please? And uh we hope that we'll be able to see many of you out on Wednesday. Wednesday and uh good group tonight. Good to see everybody. I know it's a holiday weekend, so some of our church members are even uh out of town enjoying uh a holiday extended week. So good to see each of you tonight. Go ahead, Mr. Thank you, Heavenly Father, for this uh Blessed Lord's Day that we've been allowed to enjoy in your house. Lord, we uh we have been so well fed from your word today, this morning on the temptations of Christ, Lord, that we might uh use this as an example that when we are tempted, Lord, that we would use your scripture to help us get beyond the temptation and not to follow through and in sin by uh committing the uh temptation that we've been tempted with. Also tonight, Lord, that we've uh studied the life of uh Abraham, Lord, what a what a faithful, godly man he was to obey God's uh commandments that uh we would be uh faithful and and use the Abraham as our example that we want to uh live a life that would be Pleasing to God that we would endeavor to be a testimony and witness to our church family, to our community Lord, that our desire would be to see men and women come to a uh a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. And Lord, I too, I want to thank you for the uh The healing that you've done in uh in Mr. Guthrie's life or to see him out uh this morning and know that he has successfully come through the um the uh surgeries that he has had and getting ready to uh be get prepared for a uh a hip replacement in in the month of May. Continue to be with him and continue to strengthen this body and get him ready for that surgery. Pray, Lord, now that you just go with us as we go our separate ways that we might go forth from here. Determined to be a better testimony and witness for you, and we will give you his praise in Jesus' name. Amen.