And let's look at Psalm 16. Tonight or this morning, we are celebrating the Lord's table. It's the first Sunday of the month, and uh we will be focusing in on uh this psalm before us. Psalm 16 and And we'll read verses one through four together for our opening scripture, and then later in the service we'll look at the second part. It says, preserve me, O God, for in thee O my soul, thou hast said unto the Lord, Thou art my Lord. My goodness extendeth not to thee, but to the saints that are in the earth and to the excellent. Whom is my delight? Their sorrows shall be multiplied that hasten after another God, their drink offerings of bul blood will I not offer, nor take up their names. This morning, as we focus our attention on the Lord and particularly this psalm, we're going to focus on the redemptive work of Christ. I do want to remind you that if you're planning to Partake of the Lord's table. The elements are in the back, they're pre-packaged. So during our first hymn, if you are planning to participate, please grab those and we will use them. At the end of the service. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, we thank you so much for this Lord's Day. We thank you for the opportunity to gather together as a local church and to focus our attention. Exclusively on the work of Christ. Father, I pray that you'd help us this morning to have humbled hearts as we consider how much you have done for us. Father, first of all, I'm so thankful that we live in a land of fruit. Freedom. I thank you for this day as a national holiday where we remember that many generations ago there were people that paid the ultimate price. So that we could be a free land. And we recognize that preceding generations have laid their lives on the line so that we could continue. To have a free land. Father, I pray that as we focus our attention on the work of Christ, we would recognize that our Savior has purchased the ultimate. The ultimate freedom. And that is the freedom from our sin debt and the power to walk in newness of life. Together and encouraged and strengthened. Father, I pray that you'd help us as a people to be distinct and separated unto you. I pray that our affections would be Godward -centered. I pray that we would live our lives in a way that That pleases you and is uh it is a vibrant reflection of new life in Christ. I pray that as we worship together as a body this morning, that when we sing these hymns of praise that our hearts would Exalt in your glories and that you would be magnified. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Anchor Baptist Church and esteemed guests, those that are connecting with us on live stream, Pastor was praying there and he brought to mind some scripture as we celebrate The day of independence of our nation, two hundred and forty five years. I hearken back to John chapter eight, verse thirty Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed. And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. They answered him, We be Abraham's seed, and we're never in bondage to any man. How sayest thou ye shall be made free? Jesus answered them, Verily, verily I say unto you, whosoever committeth sin is a servant of sin. And the servant abideth not in the house forever, but the son abideth ever And if the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. And so, yes, we celebrate many freedoms living in this country. But without the truth of the gospel, as Pastor so eloquently started in Romans chapter 1 this morning in Sunday school, it is the truth and the sun that truly sets us free regardless of the the political climate around us, the culture. So let's keep that in mind as well as we celebrate this This day and those that have bought this freedom that we celebrate in this culture so richly. But now enough of that. Let's get to our song service And so we're going to first song this morning, page two hundred and forty-three. Page two hundred and forty-three. When I survey the cross, Please stand with me, and we'll sing the first, the second, and the fourth, if I can find it. When I survey trust Oh alone with uh prayer. I riches gain, I count hurt for Oh my God. Say the death of Christ my God All the batic writes I thank you twice to his God Were the whole realm of nature. That were a prayer God Remain standing, but turn back to page thirty Or look up at the screen, of course. We're going to sing the three verses of How Great Thou Art. See ya. Oh, Lord, my God. When I an awesome wonder consider all I say, I see the snow I hear the rolling under I have brought out the universe. Then take my soul, my Savior, God to thee. How great thou How great thou I this Christ oh my Savior God to thee How great thou art, how great thou art. And when I think that God is not swearing, since him to die, I scarce can take it. And on the cross by burden badly bearing he bled and die. Take away my sin, then sing my soul, my Savior God. I'll take thou I'll break down and sing my soul, my Savior God to thee. How great thou art, how great thou art on the last thing out when Christ shall come We shall fall back from a free fall, but joy shall be back, and I shall burn In a dormation, and there 's no play like God. Then say twice all my Savior God to thee. I'll break thou How great thou art and seek my soul, my Savior God to thee. How great thou art, how great. Thou art chorus again without the instruments, then sings my soul, my savior God to thee. How great thou art, how great thou art , then sings my soul, my Savior God to thee How great thou art, how great thou art That was good. Sit down, please. Good. Beautiful singing. Alright, for the next song, we're going to turn to page 14. Worthy of praise. Oh, that song just begged for an a cappello on the chorus. Page 14, worthy of praise in the red button. With praise to the key He brought me out of the pit of despair and my heart is seen Worthy of all my friends. You are worthy of all my friends. I thou at your throne, and I worship you alone, for you are worthy. Worthy of praise is praise, I heard To my way, it must and grace for every I'm still interested worthy of all my friends You are worthy of all my praise. I bow at your throne. And I worship you alone. Lord, you are worthy, worthy of praise. Amen. That's good singing. Now for our second reading of scripture, we're going to Psalm chapter 16, verses 5 through 11. So If you'll read along with me, either in the Bible or up on the screen, the scripture says, The Lord is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup. Thou maintainest my lot. Lions are fallen unto me in pleasant places. Yea, I have a goodly heritage. I will bless the Lord, who hath given me counsel. My reins also instruct me in the night season. Reasons. I have set the Lord always before me. Because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. Therefore my My heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth. My flesh also shall rest in hope, for thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine And holy one to see corruption. Thou wilt show me the path of light, life, in thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures. Uh uh. Eternal Father Strong to save. As we continue our song service, we're going to turt take our hymnals and turn to page 251 this time. Page 251 Near the cross. Jesus, keep me near the cross. We'll sing the first, second, and the fourth verse. See ya! Jesus came in the cross A precious content free to all the king streams From Calvary's in the cross, in the cross Be my glory till my raptured soul shall die. Beyond the river, near the cross a triming so And mercy for me there the bright and morning star She says they 're running in the cross In the cross be my glory Till my raptured soul shall find last beyond the river on the last Near the cross I'll watch and wait holding trusting ever Till I reach the golden strength just beyond In the cross, in the cross, be my glory Till my raptured soul shall find rest beyond the river. Amen. Good singing. Now let's take our blue book out. We're going to turn to page 151 in the blue book or look up at the screen If you want to follow along, sing parts, page 151. Otherwise, we're going to sing all three verses of I Run to Christ. Stay with me on this. We stay. I run to Christ which is my fear and find a refuture I run to Christ with born by grace and find upon east. I too had tears he gently speaks of joy and sorrow be I run to Christ with born my life and find my soul repressed upon to me. All stars try to give way to death. I run to Christ with born life. And fly the mighty arm, a terrible thing the scriptures tell me force but cannot I run to Christ west for sin and find a sure escape for deliver me. I cry to him, temptation is to praise. I run to Christ with fake by shape And I might want it yes, I pour God's wrath, if it's my case, I had but as Please be seen. But Softly, softly and tenderly Jesus is calling for you and me. On the portals he's waiting, waiting and watching for you and me Jesus is calling you. Asian waiting for you. Jesus is calling, calling a tater combo. Why should we tarry when she has a ceiling for you and me? Why should why should we linger and hid all these mercies For you. Jesus is calling you home, patiently waiting for you Come, come home. Jesus is calling, calling us in here. Come home. Wonderful life he has promised. Love he has promised. For you and me, though we though we say that he has mercy Come, come home, Jesus is calling you home, patiently waiting. For you, Jesus is calling, calling us in Oh , Softly, softly internally. Jesus is calling, calling us in our com Thank you so much. That was a very beautiful rendition of that song. Our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back, so uh the parents could take your children to the back and I don't know if you remember, but yes man, last Sunday we uh dismissed the children for junior church. I think like fifty people walked out of this room. It was unbelievable. So they're all probably sleeping in right now because it was a long week, but not not necessarily. But anyway, if you could, let's take our Bibles and let's turn together to the 16th Psalm. And uh the passage we're going to look at today, I think, is a really, really practical passage of Scripture. It is such an appropriate text, and we think about the fact that first of all we're going to be looking at I think it's also a really appropriate text when we think about the fact that nationally we are thinking about the fact that we are a free people, and several hundred years ago there were individuals who put everything on the line ultimately to declare independence. And we are enjoying the benefits of not just their sacrifice, but the sacrifice of the generations that followed them. And one of the things that I want us to look at as we look at this text is that there is a similarity in the illustration that's before us, but there's something that's very unique about Christ. And it's something that I want to really point out Freedom is that their life has been laid down and the freedom has been preserved, but their generation has to hold fast to what they have. The difference is that the Lord Jesus Christ laid down his life and he rose From the dead. And he preserves our freedom in Christ by His power. We are kept by the power of God unto salvation. That's an incredible So this morning let's look at the 16th Psalm. I'm going to read it, and then from that we're going to kind of look at the divisions of the Psalms so we can kind of understand the flow. But then I want us to look at the contents that I think are So very powerful and so very practical this morning. So Psalm 16:1 says, Preserve me, O God, for in thee do I put my trust. O my soul, thou hast said unto the Lord, Thou art my Lord, my God. Goodness extendeth not unto thee, but to the saints that are in the earth, and to the excellent in whom is all my delight. Their sorrows shall the m shall be multiplied That hasten after another God. Their drink offerings of blood will I not offer, nor take up their names into my lips. Thou maintainest my lot. The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places, yea, I have a goodly heritage. I will bless the Lord who hath given me counsel. My reins also instruct me in the night sea Seasons. I have set the Lord always before me. Because he is at my right hand I shall not be moved. Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth. My flesh also shall rest In hope. For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither shalt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. Thou wilt show me the path of life. Joy, and at thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. is expressing that God is his highest, greatest treasure. And it's not just that God is his highest and greatest treasure in this temporal world that we live in, but God is his highest and greatest treasure in He's going to really develop that concept in this psalm and really at the heart of David development This concept is the fact that he is a believer, he's anticipating a savior, but David is a very grateful man. David is not a person with an attitude of entitlement. David is a man that recognizes there is no reason that God should preserve his life now, nor should God preserve his life forever. Yet God has done it and God will do it, and David except expresses that it's not just that God has preserved his life in this temporal world and that he's going to do it forever, but God has also lavished him with this abundance of goodness and kindness. David has lived in a very troubling world in a way that we could say is full of wellness and wholeness. David has lived a lavish life of God's abundant blessing. Blessing. He's going to express that in this psalm. And so as we come to the Lord's table, we're going to see that what David is talking about in this psalm is something that Peter is going to refer back to when he goes and preaches And it's something that we need to think about this morning as we reflect on the Lord's table. So the truth before us is that God wants us to be a people who treasure him more than everything in this world. I'm going to ask that question to you. Do you treasure the Lord more than anything in this world? You know, I am a very thankful person to live I've lived in other countries. I know what it's like to live as a foreign national in a land that doesn't even begin to have the kind of prosperity and peace that we enjoy in this land. I am very, very thankful to live in this country. But that's not my identity. And I hope It's not your identity. Our identity should be rooted in the finished work of Christ, His righteousness, and His sacrifice. While I'm very grateful for what I enjoy in this I recognize that ultimately the willingness of people to sacrifice to preserve liberties is something that God in his providence brought them to a point to do that. are willing to lay down their lives if it's not for the good providence of God, if it's not for his kindness, if it's not for his preservation, the bottom line is the sacrifices that people are willing to make Will not result in the liberties they desire. The fact is, we enjoy what we enjoy by the good hand of God. And David was a man who understood that what He enjoyed in his lifetime was from the good hand of a good, all-wise, and all-knowing God The first thing I want us to see is the divisions of the book. In verses one or of this psalm, in verses one through three, we see that David prayed fervently for God to protect him. And we see this expressed in the words: preserve me. I want us to think about that a little bit later on. The second section of this psalm is that he prayed fervently that God would judge the wicked. In verse 4, he says, their sorrows are multiplied that hasten after another God. He says, their drink offerings of blood will I not offer. David understood that around him there was incredible wickedness. Debauchery, idolatry. And David said, While the pressures of the peoples around me is great, I will have no parts In the paganism and the idolatry of the individuals who would seek to destroy me. He prayed that God would deal with the wicked And verses five through eighty he gave testimony of God's incredible goodness. And I would say that that really is at the heart of this psalm. David is expressing, God has been very, very good to me. And we see that in the phrase, I have a goodly heritage. I will bless the Lord who hath given me counsel. My reig also instruct me in the night season. I've set the Lord always before me because he's at my right hand. I shall not be moved. And David talks about the fact that in the midst of this world, he has so much. He has so much to express in gratitude to God and say, God, you are worthy of all my praises. Because every good thing that I enjoy is by your hands, and I don't deserve it at all. Grace. but to an eternal confidence. And what we will see is that David, as an Old Testament saint, understood that he would experience Physical death and resurrection. And the reason that he was going to experience resurrection and he would enjoy God's pleasures forever is because he understood that the Messiah was not going to die and stay dead, but that he would rise from the dead. And what's very interesting about the way that he states it is David David understands there's a Savior who will die for redemption and conquer death. And because he conquers death, I will receive not just temporary life, fullness of life for a moment, but everlasting life. Incredible to consider. So with that in mind, understanding kind of the movement of this psalm, let's begin with truth. one. David's only hope was in God. We see in verse one, preserve me, O God, for in thee do I put my trust. O my soul, thou hast said unto the Lord, Thou art my Lord, my goodness extendeth not to thee, but to The first thing that David is expressing is that his only Hope, his only confidence is in God. I want to ask you a question on this day, where is your ultimate source of confidence for the preservation Of your life in this world. Where is it? It's got to be in God. I think of the proverb that says that we are to prepare the horse for the battle, but safety Is of the Lord. You know, I can labor to build my house and to set it in order, but if God's hand of blessing is not upon me, I'm going to labor in vain. On the other side, all of the odds can be stacked against us. And it seems that humanly speaking, we have zero hope. And God steps in and In a way that only he can do, and he preserves his people. What we're reminded is that when David uses He keeps him safe. But David's not just talking about his temporal safety. He's talking about his eternal safety. He says, preserve me. He believed that God was the only one that could preserve his life. It says, In thee do I put my trust. But then the next statement It says, Oh my soul, and I want you to look carefully in your Bibles at the way this is spelled. Don't Miss it. Oh my soul, thou hast said unto the what? The Lord. How is that spelled? Don't tell me, but it's capital L, capital O, capital Capital C R, capital D, you see that. And then he says, Thou art my Lord. Is it spelled the same way? It's not. You say, why Because he's talking about two different people. When he talks to the Lord, he's talking about the Lord in the sense of the Godhead, but when he mentions the term, thou art my Lord, he's actually referring You say, Pastor, how do you know that? Well, the distinction is made in our Bibles, but what we're going to see is that in the New Testament, Jesus actually references this very statements. And he references this statement to show that there's a distinction in person between the Father and the Son within the Godhead. And he asks the Pharisees, how does David say How does he do that? In other words, the psalmist is writing in these verses that he understands that the object of his Faith is not just God in the general sense, but in the person of Christ, the Messiah who is to come. He is focusing on the Savior So when David talks about his being preserved in this life, he recognizes that it's more than just a temporal preservation, it's an eternal preservation. We're going to see that later on in these verses. He is trusting in the coming Savior. David is an Old Testament saint. Just like you and I think of the gospel and say, Christ died for my sins, Christ rose from the dead. I'm trusting in the finished work of of Christ, his Christ. death, his resurrection, his righteousness. He is the object of my faith. David's doing the same thing, but from an Old Testament context. He's believing in the promised one, and he says, I know God is going to follow through with promise. He trusted in the faithfulness of God to fulfill his promise. And so when David talks about God being his only hope, he's anticipating the Savior. And we're going to see later on in the Psalm, it's he's anticipating a Savior who will conquer death, not just die, but conquered in resurrection. Resurrection and give him eternal life, and he will enjoy this Savior forever. That's what he's saying. Psalm 110, verse 1 says that the Lord said In this passage, David does the exact same thing that he does in Psalm 16. He makes distinction between Between the persons of the Godhead. the sam And in Luke chapter 20, Jesus refers back to the psalmist 's words and makes distinction between the persons within the Godheads. David was an Old Testament saint because he was trusting in the coming Redeemer. You say, well, how do you summarize this? I would summarize it this way: God preserved David's life in the midst of of a vicious, wicked, evil world, and he acknowledges that in this text. He understood the centrality, the importance of the Messiah, and he testifies, I'm looking for the Messiah. He is the preserver of my life. He daily trusted in God to provide Deliverance for him. The second truth that we find is that God was David's greatest treasure. Now that's not to say that David didn't love the people. That's not to say that David didn't love the opportunities that he had. But David connected the fact that every blessing that he enjoyed Was a grace-based blessing that came from the good hand of God. And so he's going to express that in these words. Listen to how he puts it in verses 5 through 8. He says, The Lord is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cop. Thou maintainest my lot. The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places, yea, I have a goodly heritage. I will bless the Lord who hath given me counsel. My reig also instructed me in the night season. I set the Lord always before me because he is at my right hand. I shall not be moved. How would I define or how would I kind of summarize what David is saying? I would say it this way. David is expressing gratitude and praise to God because God has dealt with him abundantly. Question Are you a grateful person? When's the last time you sat down and mentally took a note of the many incredible blessings that God in heaven has given you. I am convinced that at the fundamental problem in our nation today is the root of Gratitude. I'm serious. There are people that hate this country and they have no idea that they live in the land of the greatest opportunity I'm serious. There are people that complain and murmur and grumble about all the things they do. don't have and they don't stop and realize what they do have. You know what's amazing when we read the Bible, Romans chapter one is a very hard hitting text And you know what the first thing mentioned in Romans chapter 1 is as far as the sin of humanity that leads to the devastating consequences of God's abandonment. Listen carefully to what it says. When they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were Thankful. You say, what's the point? You know why people complain? It's because they believe that they're owed something. Folks, if you got what you deserve If I got what I deserve, I would not have my wife , would not have my children, I'd not be a pastor, I'd not be a live right now. The fact is many of the opportunities that I enjoy as an individual, I would never be able to enjoy those things. Why? Because everything that I 'm But when I'm ungrateful, I don't believe that the good things That I have are grace. I believe that the things that I don't have I'm entitled to. And guess what happens when my attitude is that the things I don't have I'm entitled to? I'm willing to do lots and lots of evil things To take what I believe I'm entitled to. And the end result of that is absolutely devastating. He says they became vain in their imaginations, their foolish heart was darkened, professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. David is expressing that though he was a man who lived with his life on the line at so many points in his life, he was grateful. He was humble. He was not entitled. When David went down his darkest days, it's because his attitude went from grace and gratitude to entit Entitlement and I will take what I want. And so let me show you what he's saying when he talks about how God has dealt with him. He literally says, every good gift that I enjoy, it's coming from God. But it wasn't the gift that he was most focused on. On it was God Himself. He said that the Lord is his heritage. The Lord is the focus. And so he talks about what God does and what God is doing and what God will do, but his focus is not so much on what he did, but as on who Let me show you some of the things that David said celebrated in these verses. And I want to encourage you as you sit here this morning to do the same thing that David did. The first thing he mentioned is how God was the one who made him prosperous. And verse 5 he says, thou maintainest, or he says, the Lord is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup. That word portion is referring to the land that he lived on. Now if you lived in an agrarian context, the land that you owned is really a picture of your prosperity. If you walk out and your vineyards are lush, guess what? You're a prosperous person. You're a wealthy person. You're enjoying a good life. If you walk into your property and all you see is dry and barren and desolate, guess what? You're in a tough place. He says, God, the reason that my land is lush and prosperous is because you made it that way. When he talks about him The cup. He's talking about the fact that I have what I need, but it overflows in abundance. This is actually a picture that would have been used in those days. Think about when God promised the land to the nation of Israel, and he tells them, he says, I'm going to give you a good land, a land that's flowing with milk and honey. You go, what does he mean by that? He means it's prosperous. It's a beautiful land. It's a lush land. I'm giving it to you. I'm God. I'm going to bless you. And so what does David say? My prosperity, on whatever level I enjoy it, it's from the good hand of God. He personally was being sustained by God. He says, Thou maintainest my lot. You say, well, what is the lot? The lot is how people divided up their land. And so as the lot is cast into the lap, the whole disposing of is of the Lord. God preserves the inheritance that He gives him. And David says, God didn't only give Give it to me, he allows me to keep it, and he allows me to enjoy it. That's from God's good hand. He talks about how God would bless not just him but his offspring. He says, I have a goodly heritage. He said, these kids that you've given me, this family that you've given me, this family is going to continue to enjoy your blessings because you're goods not because I'm wise and not because I'm strong because you're goods. He said God would give him discernment to navigate the complexities of a very Dark world. He says, I will bless the Lord who hath given me counsel. You know, there are lots of people that have a lot of nice stuff, but in the end, guess what happens? They don't have the wisdom to manage what they have. And they lose it. They don't have the perspective to be able to enjoy what they have. And so you can have two people that have the same amount of stuff, they have the same opportunities, and one person's thriving and one person's falling apart. And it's not what they have. Going on up here. It's what's going on in here. It's God giving people the discernment to manage What he gives them. The heart to appreciate what they have, and the heart that doesn't long for what they don't have. The heart that doesn't put the stuff in between them and God, but has gratitude towards God for what He's given them that they don't deserve. David expresses this. In verse 7, he says that God had shaped his heart so that he wouldn't stumble when life became difficult. This is a very interesting way that he puts it in verse 7, he says, my reigns also instructed me in the night seasons. You say, well, what's David talking about? He's talking about a period in time when it gets dark and you can't make sense of what's going on around you. Anybody ever been there? When you're going through life and all of a sudden you end up in a set of circumstances that drag you down, they discourage you, they frustrate you, they make you f fearful and the question is how do you get out of the darkness? There's a God in heaven who strengthens your heart in the midst of it. He guides your reins through it. And you're gonna get through that season. There's gonna be Days that you look back and you see how God got you through that, but the ability to get through that season is rooted in God's good hand on you David knew what this was like. His father-in-law wasn't just wanting to kill him, he was trying to kill him. And he wasn't just trying to kill him, he was trying to kill him with a lot of help. The help of a nation. The fact is, David understood what it was like to go through night seasons. Talk about Absalom's rebellion, talk about when he's running for his life, talk about when he's hiding in the cave, talk about when he goes. to the land of the Philistines and he acts like he's a crazy man because he's afraid for his life. Talk about when he's ready to go and kill Nabal because he's angry. God preserves him from this Nonsense talk about when he commits adultery and then has Bathsheba's husband killed in battle. David went through a lot of hardship and a lot of it was of of His own doing. What did God do? He preserved the man. And so the point is that there's a God in heaven who preserves us through the darkest, harshest, most difficult seasons of life. If it's not for God, we crumble in those places. And verse 80 says that his safety was entirely rooted in God's protection. He said, I've set the Lord always before me because he is at my right hand. I shall not be moved. David is not arrogantly saying, I'm an invincible man. David is saying, as long as God wants me here, nobody can stop it. As long as I'm willing to walk in God's ways, and it's not Not my time, God will preserve me. And you know what that means? He could live with a steady confidence. He believed that God is sovereign. He believed that God Was in control and he said, Because God is at my right hand, I won't be moved. What is David doing? He's expressing gratitude. He's proclaiming with his lips The greatness and the goodness and the worth of God. And I asked you this morning, will you take time to write down on a sheet of paper how God has blessed you? You and alone and on your knees, just tell him thank you for those things. I want to encourage you to do that. This morning, as I was sitting in my chair with my fan going and being so glad it was actually cool outside. I did that. I I made a list. I want to encourage you to do that. It may be that we need to repent Of our ingratitude. You know what I'm talking about? We can thank God for these things, but these things over here, forget it. I'm not going to say a word about that. God, there's some things that I believe I'm entitled to, and why won't you give them? We may need to have a repentance before God. Before we thank him for what he's given us, I want to encourage you to express praise and gratitude to God for his grace on you. We are a people who have received incredible Abundance. The third truth, and perhaps what is really at the heart of everything that is said here, is that the gospel is what gave him Verses 9 through 11 he says, Therefore my heart is glad, my glory rejoiceth, my flesh also shall rest in hope, for thou wilt not leave my soul in In hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. Thou wilt show me the path of life, and thy presence is fullness of joy, and at thy right hand are pleasures for evermore. Let me kind of break this down verse Simply to you. The first thing is that David was not afraid of death. He was not afraid of death. David had confidence. And I don't, I'm not, I'm not saying he wasn't afraid of how we'd die. We don't know that. But David was not afraid of death. And verse says, he says, My heart is glad, my glory rejoiceth, my flesh also shall rest in hope. He said, no matter what happens to me, I'm ready to meet God. Are you ready to meet God? I'm not saying you're going to meet God today. You and I should always live with an anticipation, a readiness of meeting the Lord. David had confidence. You say, why? He had confidence because his heart was reading the gospel. This confidence of a hope is the idea of it's it's a confidence that's rooted in a trustworthy promise. David understood that God is reliable, God is trustworthy. Trustworthy. I have confidence, not because of who I am, but because of what he's going to do for me. Secondly, he believed in the resurrection. In verse 10, he says, Thou wilt not leave my soul in hell. Neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. David says, I know that I'm going to rise again from the dead. I'm not going to stay dead. I'm not going to stay in this position. There's going to be a day that I die and I rise again. It's like what Job says in Job 19, I know that my Redeemer liveth, that he shall stand at the latter day upon the the earth. And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God. So Job expresses that I'm going to see my Savior face to face. David expresses, I'm going to spend eternity with my Savior. When I die, I'm not going to be left in hell. I'm going to spend eternity with God. What an incredible thought to consider. And it's because your holy one will not see corruption. When the Messiah comes and he pays for my sins and he dies, he won't state it. He'll rise again. In fact, that's what Peter goes to when he's preaching at Pentecost. Just as the psalmist talks about the Messiah dying and rising, that's what happened. That's what he's saying. He believed in the resurrection. He believed that he would rise again, and it's because of the Savior's resurrection. He expresses the exact same thing in Psalm 23. He says, Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. I will dwell in the house of the Lord for how long? Forever. Forever. David had confidence that when he died, he'd go to meet the Lord. The last thing I want us to notice in this verse here is that he looked forward To God's eternal kingdom. In verse 11, he says, Thou wilt show me the path of life, and in thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. In this statement, David is addressing his current situation, path of life, fullness of joy, and his future situation. Situation, pleasure forevermore. You know, people talk about quality of life. Let me tell you, what David is talking about is the only way to have a truly glorious quality of life. The path of life, fullness of joy. It's like what it says in Proverbs chapter 4, verse 18, that the path of the justice of the shining Light that shineth more and more into the perfect day. The way of the wicked is as darkness, they know not at what they stumble. It's like what he said, it's like what John writes in 1 John 1 3. That which we've written, what we've seen We declare unto you that we may have fellowship, and that truly our fellowship is with the Father, with the Son. These things write we unto you that your joy may be full. Folks, this psalm reminds us that we can have fullness of joy, we can have clarity , confidence if we will live The God -centered life. And then everlasting delights, pleasures forevermore. God will one day wipe away all tears from our eyes. They'll be No more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. That's what the scriptures say. Revelation 21, God said, Write these words for they are faithful and true. And so I ask you this question: Are you a grateful person? I ask you another question: Are you afraid of death? What are you seeking in life to give you purpose and stability and joy? Is your life firmly rooted in the The gospel is God your greatest delight. Psalm sixteen calls us to live a God center life. One that is rooted in God's goodness today, and one that will enjoy Him forever. And so as we Partake of the Lord's table in just a moment. You know what we're going to be doing? We're going to be remembering what makes it possible for this text of scripture. To be accurately lived out in our lives. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to prayer our hearts as we remember together what Christ has done for us. Us. Father in heaven, thank you so much for the work of Christ. I am so grateful that two thousand years ago You sent your son. He died on the cross for my sins and for the sins of every person in this room. He rose triumphant from the dead and because of what he's done for me and for each of us here, we can celebrate the unity that we have in Christ. Forgiveness that we enjoy, the fullness of joy and delight that we can have in God, the fact that we will one day spend eternity in your presence, we look forward Lord with great anticipation of that day. Help us to remember with tremendous gratitude the work of redemption. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. If you could I'd like you to take your Bibles again and let's turn to first Corinthians. First Corinthians chapter eleven And it's a hymn that we uh haven't sung in a while and that's Blessed Be the Tie That Binds. Uh I want to remind you that on the first Sunday of the month, when we have the Lord's table, we also have our deacons fund collection and so on the left hand side when you're heading out there's the offering box on the one side and on the other side there's a basket and so if you would like to give towards our deacon's fund which we use to be a blessing to To uh folks that have uh serious financial need and and need that, uh please uh participate in that if the Lord puts that On your heart. Let's stand together. We're going to sing the first, the second, and the fourth verses of blessed be the tie that binds. And let's really reflect on the tie that binds us. And it is The work of Christ. Bless these are ties at bind Our hearts in Christian lost the fellowship of Kendrick Mine says lie to that above on the second, before our father 's road We for our heart and prayers, our tears, our hopes, our aims, our one Our compass and our kill, and alas, when we are It gives us your birthday, but we shall still be joined in heart And hold to me it again. Oh, I hope that your heart is pained when When you leave the assembly of the church, not because of something somebody said to you, but because of the bond that we enjoy in Christ and the fellowship that we've enjoyed together. So I do want to remind you that this afternoon, or however you qualify 5 o'clock, we have uh a fellowship. We're gonna have a sing spiration, so we'll be sing hymns and I'm not picking the hymns. Uh it's gonna be all your favorites. And so we're looking forward to that. And then after we have our our time of hymn singing the We're going to enjoy some some good food and fellowship. And uh I tell you what, we are really blessed on the 4th of July to have uh a day where it's only going to be 81 one? I mean like that's pretty good. So uh volleyball nets are out. We'll we'll uh get some volleyballs going too maybe and I think it'll be a really good time of fellowship And just want to encourage one another in the Lord. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. And Chris, do you mind closing us in prayer? Come on up. If today you're visiting with us. uh first time. I hope that you can come by and greet me and I hope to be an encouragement to you. So come on up. Father, we thank you so Thank you so much for all that you've done for us. Thank you that we have hope, um, even more than David did, because we have a much fuller picture. Ask that you would help us to remember that, to think of you and remember Remember what you've done for us and live in light of that as we go out. And that you would give us safety as we go out today and bring us back together to worship you again in Jesus' name. Amen.