Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And today we are in James chapter 4 again, and we are looking at James 4, 4 through 6. If you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it. And let's turn together to the passage we're looking at, James chapter 4, verses 4 through 6. I'll begin reading in verse number four. Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. Do ye think that the Scripture saith in vain, the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy, but he giveth more grace Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. Now this passage of Scripture, when we open it up, is a pretty startling passage of Scripture. We don't generally address someone in such, we could say, really blunt terms, okay? James is very blunt here, very dogmatic And we need to understand why James is so blunt, so straightforward in this passage. So let me begin with a summary statement, and from our summary statement we'll work into a couple of the details A few of these details involve some interpretive challenges, and I kind of want to address those at least a little bit this morning. Here's a summary statement. Embracing a system of thought and values that is constantly opposed to God is as serious as unfaithfulness, uh as marital unfaithfulness to God. Let me say that again. Embracing a system of thoughts and values that constantly opposes God is as serious as marital unfaithfulness to God. The first thing we're going to see is found in verse number four. Our union with Christ is a permanent covenantal bond that we should view as sacred as our marriage vows. In verse 4, he puts it this way, ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship with the world is enmity with God. Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. Now we would never use a term like an adulterer or an adulteress. unless the person was married, one, and two, they were being unfaithful to the covenantal relationship that they had to their spouse. So when James uses these terms, what that indicates is that James views the believer as someone who has a covenantal relationship with God. That's very similar to the same relationship that I have with my wife or that you have with your spouse. In other words, when a person becomes a believer, they're united in this bond that should be inseparable. And what's very interesting is God actually refers to our marriage relationship as really an illustration of the relationship that we have to God. An example of that is Ephesians 5. Where he talks about husbands and he says, husbands, you should love your wife as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it Now the reason that he gives the illustration and connects those two is because God views our relationship to him when we're when we place our faith in Christ. as a relationship that is permanent. It's a bond that is a covenant relationship. And God is faithful to us no matter what. The question is, are we being faithful to Him in our heart? And that's really what James is addressing here. He's basically saying that when the Christian, who is in a covenanted relationship with God, loves the world system , A system that's in opposition to God, God views that as a form of marital unfaithfulness. What a serious and what a startling thing. Adultery, enemy of God, these are strong words, and these are the words that God uses. I do want to want to just mention this for a second too, though. What does he mean by the world? And it's interesting. The Bible talks about the world in a lot of different places. And when the scriptures talk about the world, it's referring to a system, primarily a system of values. a system of thinking. And it's a system of values and thinking that is opposed to God. So for instance in 1 John he talks about how we're not to love the world or the things that are in the world. If anyone loved the world, the love of the Father is not in him. The lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, it's not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world is passing away. When John talks about the world and James talks about the world, they're referring to this term world in the same way. A system of values, a system of thoughts. That's an opposition to God. And by the way, his use of the term really makes sense in light of the discussion that we've had talking about this issue of worldly wisdom versus godly wisdom. So worldly wisdom represents a system of values and thoughts, how a person is to live in this world. That is all summed up by this statement worldliness So basically what he's saying is this, look, when you became a Christian and you were united with Christ, you entered into this permanent covenantal bond. Don't be unfaithful to God in that relationship. He'll never be unfaithful to you, but don't let your heart be unfaithful to him. A second observation that we find in this text. The Holy Spirit, who indwells each Christian, is jealous over our hearts. Now I mentioned at the beginning of this little section, that there was an interpretive challenge. And this is the verse that I was talking about. Notice what he says in verse 5. Do ye think that the scripture saith in vain, the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy. Now, it's interesting. James is clearly referring to a passage of Scripture that's somewhere in the Bible that's talking about the fact. that the spirit of God is jealous over God's people. And the truth is, I'm not sure exactly which passage he's talking about. There are a lot of passages in the Old Testament where God talks about his covenantal love for Israel and when Israel was being unfaithful as a nation, he says that God is a jealous God. He wants the heart of his people. In fact, it's interesting when we talk about the Ten Commandments, and he says that we're to have no other gods before us. One of the things that he talks about when he talks about idolatry, as he says, we serve a jealous God. The idea is that God burns in his heart to have the heart of his people God expects his people to have a heart that's fully devoted and given over to him. And so when he says, do you think that the scripture says in vain that the spirit that dwells in us lusteth unto envy I believe he's actually talking about the fact that the Holy Spirit, who indwells us as believers, wants our heart. In other words, the reason that God gave us his spirit when we were saved wasn't so that we could just continue on our merry way and live as if God's word and God's will don't matter. God gave us his spirit. so that the Spirit of God would really rule and reign in our hearts. And so the challenge of what does he mean by spirits and lusting to jealousy. Some might say, well, I think he's talking about how we have this internal struggle going on in inside. But the truth is that really doesn't make a lot of sense in light of the context. In the context it appears that he's talking about the fact that God wants our heart 100%. God's Spirit burns to control and dominate our hearts. And we need to have a heart that's fully given to God. A third observation. God deals with each of us each moment based on our disposition toward Him. God deals with each of us in each moment based on our disposition toward him. And so the next verse says this, verse 6, but he giveth more grace Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. Now this is interesting. What the Bible is teaching here Is that God deals with us in each moment of our lives, basically how we need Him to deal with us That means that he's very personal in our lives. That means that the situations that we deal with on a day-in and day-out basis are really the result of God's hand at work in our lives. So there are seasons that we go through where we are struggling and we feel overweighed and burdened down. Perhaps right now, nobody feels that way, right, after two months in your house Uh no, we all feel that way on some level. The truth is that when we're in that position and we're proud, what does God do? He continues to allow us to suffer. Why? Because God wants us to be humbled He wants us to seek him for wisdom. He wants us to stop living by a worldly set of values. He wants us to stop living our lives based on this world system of thought and this world's wisdom. He wants us to say, okay, I get it. You're in control. I'm not. I need you. I'm going to trust you. Please strengthen me. When we finally get to that place, it says God stops resisting us and he gives us grace. Well, that's an amazing thought. God stops resisting us when we finally recognize what we should always see. He stops resisting us and he gives us grace. He strengthens us. He enables us. He pours into our heart all of the things that we need so that we can triumph and be victorious in the circumstances that we're dealing with. But until we reach that point, God resists us. And you know, sometimes there are people that are they're they're truly being stubborn. in pride, set their heart a certain way, and they're continuing down a certain road, and they just hit roadblock after roadblock after roadblock. I mean, as a pastor, I've dealt with many a person. As a missionary, I've dealt with many a person who I would say they went through a season of life where God constantly resisted them and it frustrated them. And the thing that we would constantly have to go back to is Could it possibly be that God is trying to get your attention? And when they finally realize that's what it is And there was a humility. , All of a sudden there's a position of God giving his grace. I've dealt with this personally in my own life. Resisting God, he's resisting me. Pride, he's going to continue to work to humble us. And so God is working moment by moment in our lives, and He's relating to us exactly how we need to be related to. If God wants our heart, And pride is something that separates us from God. There's no way that He's just going to let us continue down that road without doing some very significant things in our lives to get our attention. In fact, when we talk about whom the Lord loves, he chastens and he deals with us as children. That's exactly what this passage is talking about. God deals with us in the most appropriate way possible to get our attention so that we will live in a way that has Him at the center where our heart is humbled and we're drawing grace and strength. From him. Because God wants our hearts, he resists us till we humble ourselves, and then he strengthens us So how can we apply this passage? What are some things that we can learn from what we've seen in the text today this morning? Let me just share with you some simple thoughts. The first is this: don't take worldliness lightly Worldliness is a serious matter. For the Christian to have a heart set on this world, to have a a set of values that really reflect this world's thinking rather than the scriptures, that's a very serious thing. And we need to recognize how serious it is. And we need to ask the Lord in his mercy to show us where in our hearts we have the wrong set of values and thinking so that he can uproot those things and replace them with what is right. A second thing that I wanted to mention, worldliness is primarily a matter of our hearts, not externals. Now I will just say that throughout most of my life, when I've thought of worldliness, I've always thought of the way a person looks. Okay. That's just, that's been my mode of operation. Maybe that's not the way that you've thought throughout a lot of your life. Maybe that's exactly how you thought. Worldliness is not about how you look, folks. Worldliness is about how you think. Worldliness is about what's going on inside your heart. Now I'm not saying that what you love and what what the way that you think and your values don't eventually reflect in what you choose to do and not to do and all those kinds of things. But worldliness is primarily about what's going on in your heart And ultimately what's in your heart will eventually take time to show up. You could have a person who looks pretty rough on the outside, but God is changing them internally, and because of what's going on in the heart, eventually it'll work its way up. You can have a person that's got everything looking right on the outside and inside they're as worldly as anybody you know. The fact is what's going on inside is really the heart of what he's talking about The Spirit of God wants to dominate our thinking. He wants to change what we love and what we hate and what we're living for. A third thing. Realize that God will take action to thwart our plans and to humble our hearts when we're lifted up in pride. That's something we need to keep in our minds. If I'm being proud, if I'm being stubborn If I am pressing forward in a way that that is that is as a Christian, it's not healthy, you think that God in love would just let me continue on that road indefinitely? I mean, is God just gonna ignore that? Of course not. God's going to address that. And the way that he addresses it is through circumstances. He will bring things into our lives that resist our plans. that thwart our plans, that show us that we can't do it in ourselves. He's got to remind us we're not the Lord of our lives. He's got to remind us we're not the king. We're not the sovereign. He is And so in love, God resists us when we are proud. And he's doing it because he wants us to be humbled so that we can actually think right about him and about our circumstances and about ourselves. And the fourth observation, let's humble ourselves daily through the sanctifying work of God's Word, so we don't get into a place where God has to constantly resist us. You know, the truth is that if we will have a daily habit of being in the Word, where the Word of God is speaking to our hearts where we're responding in humility, where we're confessing our sin to God, where we're drawing on his grace. If we will develop those patterns on a day-in and day-out basis, We will not get into these ruts of arrogant resistance to God. I'm not saying that pride is never going to be in us, okay? We're all human and we all deal with this issue of pride. But the truth is that we are constantly addressing that issue day in and day out. And so rather than God having to do these drastic things in our lives to finally get our attention and wake us up where he's constantly resisting our steps. we are starting to be in the Word daily and we are reflecting and we are growing and we are changing. By the way, that's the healthy thing. That's what God wants God wants us week in and week out to becoming more and more like Jesus. And if we want to be in a place where we're growing consistently, we have to be in the Word, because that's what God uses to sanctify You know, this morning as I think about this passage in front of us, uh, it is very blunt, it is very transparent It's kind of in your face. It's scripture. That's what God wanted us to hear today. But on the other side, there's actually something very comforting about it. The fact that God will take me who's in resistance to him, who's being arrogant, and he will resist me so that he humbles me and he can pour grace into my heart, that's actually a really comforting thing. And I'm thankful for that And I'm hopeful that you'll be thankful for that too. If this has been a blessing to you this morning, I hope you'll share it. I hope you jot down a little note of encouragement. It's been good to see each of you this morning. And let's get out together for a word of prayer, and then we will Hopefully have a wonderful day. Father, we thank you so much for the opportunity to study the word again. We're reminded that worldliness is a serious matter. And you do jealously yearn that our hearts would be fully given to you, that you would be the center of our attention and focus and that we would be able to draw daily from your sustaining grace. I pray that you would help each person that's listened this morning and those that will listen later in the day. to have been encouraged and helped by this time in your word. I pray that you would help us this morning to live in the light of these truths. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see each of you this morning and look forward to the next time we can get together for our Bible study. This morning, hopefully I'll be giving you some more information about what we're planning to do with our church. Phase one, I am hopeful, begins in a week here in Maryland. And with that being said, that means that we will actually get to meet in some way as a church And I'm going to talk to you a little bit about how we're going to do that. And I'm excited about that. And it may not be as uh it used to be. It may be this way for a while, but that's okay. We're excited about what the Lord's gonna allow us to do there. So I will be making uh an announcement later in the day about that, just putting together the details And I'm looking forward to that. Hope you have a great day and we will catch up with you later. Bye now