Service tonight. Let's get started with a word of prayer and then we will uh get started with our service. Let's pray Father, thank you so much for the opportunity to gather again this evening. And I thank you for the fellowship that we've enjoyed both this morning and already this evening. And I pray that as we open our Bibles, that you would speak to our hearts, help us to have hearts that are tender to what you want to show us through your word. And I pray that as Josh opens the Bible, that you You would just guide his thoughts and the Holy Spirit would take these truths and impress them upon our hearts as we have opportunity to hear testimonies of the way that you have been at work in lives during our testimony time. I pray that that would be just extremely encouraging to all of us. We would know how to pray for one another. We would know how to encourage one another. And so we just we pour out our hearts to you this evening and say, please work in our hearts. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. All right, and good evening. We'll start our song services off tonight by turning to page five hundred and twenty-seven. Page 527. And after everybody got an afternoon nap this afternoon, I'm sure you'll need to be revived this evening Stand with me. Turn to page 527 and sing out on Revive Us Again. I will be God, I live in the God of my head, I live in the God , I 'm the glory, bring my blood. Oh glory and pray through the man on the way to every day I will get I the glory, I will be dying. I will be out of my glory, really, my God. To four. Yes indeed. No, I was I was counting three, but I was thinking we were on the fourth verse too. So I went right there with you. Page five hundred and thirty-seven. Page 537. We have heard the joyful sound of Jesus Saves. All four verses. I 'm leaving , leave the day, when the land, I don't need a walk away, I'll with the I feel there , the people there , the eye with me, I will I the ocean came , burn me. We the baby, we will lake , we have to die, in the day , in the way , I would have. He was gay, and our ways fallen free. I cleared he was gay, with my love, speak away. Amen. Since you're all wide awake now, we're going to sit down and turn to page 530. Have a seat. Page 530. Rescue the parachute. Um don 't think that's the one. I pray once more , rest in the prayer seat , carefully , see the most being the word , we are Amen. Now for some testimonies. Okay, well on Sunday nights, one of the things that we always enjoy doing is sharing test ma nagħmilhom illuminhom na mmini ma nagħmlu ma jim Jimmy , I'm not even announced how many ma'am niche nema il mama jim Minimum minima humain minimum minimum huma minimum minimum minimum minimum Mm-mm. mm juni mawin ma jim homminhom jummilhom Minimum minimum minimum minimum Имаме монимални и мамани внимания, ними мамни, невнимания, немани. Взимаме на нея ги има Minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum? Minimum minimum Numinen se non mi ha mim, että mi mamma miała minimum , että me ne moni. Jimina Mona Mini ma no mejani mammina mahimina monsi ma nemi mina Jien ha minimum anomalina minima Num minimum omna mournum , il ma non jim Mikä minun moni ja mielessä mielessä on sellaisia omaa Yeah, I mean, I mean, I mean , I mean , you know, you know, minimum , minimum, minimum, and then a minimum , I mean, I mean, you know, I think that's a good thing. Niin Il se huomaa, mihin tämä on hammiin on Huominha on niin hahominen hommiin. Muun haluan ja huomioim, niin mä oon maailman muun mahdollisimmin ja mihin on huomin ja muun omaa, niin on You know, the minimum minimum is a minimum minimum in the home. Minimum Maman Има за ними да нима Mm-hmm. Olen Hamini on Se on ihan huomiout Josh is uh coming up to preach, so all right. Okay, can you can you run through this one one time for me? All right, for all you visitors, be prepared. Alright. Let's sing the first and last of Dwelling in Beulan. I'm gonna challenge you. Louder than the kids. All the things. On the last. So I the wake me and I will have a good job on my wings of my whole world. Please be seated. Hey, may we raise the rafters on that one Please join me in turning to Psalm 62 this evening. Psalm sixty-two. I often tell people that my favorite Psalm Is whatever Psalm I read last. But Psalm 62 is a really special one. It's a really good one. And I my hope and prayer as we come to the Word of God this evening is that you'll find in Psalm 62 a passage of scripture that speaks to your soul, to your heart. And that no matter what it is that you're facing in life, or what you've been through in life, or what you will go through in life, you'll come back to Psalm 62 and see that in the midst of all of the mess That sin has brought in this world, there is a place of refuge, there is a place of help and comfort in Christ. Let us pray as we come to the Word of God this evening. Father, we are so thankful to approach your mighty throne this evening in the name of your Son Jesus. Because of what he has accomplished for us on the cross and through his resurrection. We thank you that he is a great high priest. Always living to make intercession for us. We thank you for the gift of your Holy Spirit indwelling us and speaking to our hearts through your word, taking it And wielding it as a two-edged sword, opening up our hearts, all the thoughts and desires and intentions and struggles of our heart, and laying them all bare before you And so we submit ourselves to your word this evening, and we ask, oh God, speak to us powerfully through it, for this is your word, your truth. And we ask these things in Jesus' Jesus' name. name. Amen. David writes Psalm sixty-two to this worship leader, Judusan And in this psalm, David is expressing the feelings of treasonous attacks. Those who are once loyal subjects who have rebelled against him, who have turned against him, who have wounded him deeply, who have betrayed him. And it's it's hard to pinpoint exactly when this would have been written, but I've been Preaching in our church through 2 Samuel and especially the life of David and his son Absalom. And I have to tell you again and again and again, my heart is broken. As I see the dysfunction within David's family and and what that brings upon the kingdom and all of the horrible things that are done during that time period. And so perhaps even as David goes through the anguish of all of those things, he sits, he pours out his heart to the Lord, and this psalm is composed. And the questions that we will be exploring tonight as we look at this psalm are, where do you turn for refuge? Where do you find a place of protection and shelter from danger and trouble and hardship? What is your haven? Where is your sanctuary? Where do you look? Everyone looks somewhere when they're facing loneliness, when they're facing struggles and anxiety and worry, when they're facing temptation. When they're facing despair, when they're facing a news cycle that's bombarding them, when they're facing financial trouble, when they're facing relationship issues, everyone runs somewhere for refuge Where do you run? Where do you turn? Where do you look for help? Some run to sports and exercise. Others turn to ice cream and cake. Some people pour themselves into their career and monitor their bank balance. Others turn to hobbies. social media, their phone, relationships, people will binge watch YouTube and they'll get sucked into this hole and they'll hours later they'll emerge and they'll say, what just happened to the last four hours of my life? Well, you've turned to YouTube for refuge. Did it satisfy your soul and the deepest cravings of your heart? Did it bring you a peace that passes all understanding that will guard your heart and mind? And if we would be honest, and if people that we speak to out on the streets would be honest, The truth is, the fact of the matter is, nothing in this world satisfies your soul. Other than Christ. I was speaking on the street. I'm getting sidetracked. I will get into the text in just a minute. I was speaking on the street in our late night outreach to an atheist Irishman. who grew up Roman Catholic. And I asked him the questions that Shane went through, plus the question of identity. Who are you as a person? And uh and he gave me his answers and his answers were I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. I'm going to go into the ground. I don't really know. And then he proceeded to tell me how he was going to deconvert me from Christianity and cause me to leave the gospel. And I looked at him and I said, Give me 90 seconds. To answer the five questions, and I'll share what the Bible says about the gospel. And he listened. And I and I sat back at the end and I thought to myself , this is where people are at. Why would I ever leave what I have in Christ for I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. The world has nothing to offer me when I have Christ there to satisfy. And so David begins this psalm with this great statement of my soul waits on the Lord. David writes, Truly, my soul waiteth upon God, from him cometh my salvation He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be greatly moved. And I I love the word that's used there of a soul waiting upon God. And this means to remain silent and submissive, confident and patient. trusting and knowing that the Lord will supply an answer. That we're not speaking to a God who is is remote and distant or you're disinterested in the nitty-gritty details of my life, but actually we're speaking to a God who loves me. And intimately is connected with me through his son, so that when I wait on him, he is going to reply. He is going to answer. One of the great Puritans, William Bridge, wrote this book that ministered to my soul during our um furlough last time. Because we have been through some very difficult things. in in Ireland, some false teachers and various things that had gone on. And I read this book that William Bridge wrote, and he talks about waiting upon God. And listen to what he says and how he describes it. A waiting heart is a pledge of the thing waited for. And the longer you stay, the more your heart stay Shall be weaned from the thing prayed for, and the more you shall be taught to wait upon God, and sometimes a waiting frame of heart is a greater mercy than the thing waited for. As you wait on the Lord in prayer, you begin to find that your heart is drawn more and more toward Him and less and less toward what you want to happen in your situation. And it's a beautiful thing to know that as we wait on the Lord, we're waiting on one who is our salvation. He is our deliverer. He is our victorious king. Who saves us from our sin? He is a rock. He only, no other. He is the one we can stand on and say, My feet will not be moved. I foundation is firm. Because it is grounded in him and not myself. He is my defense He is the refuge and the stronghold, the protection that I need. I shall not be greatly moved. I will not be shaken. I will not be demoralized. There may be trials. There may be temptations. There will be testings, but I will rest in the Lord, in who he is, and in what he will do to bring me through those times of trial. That's what David is saying here. And it sounds very similar in a sense to what the Apostle Paul writes, just to give another illustration of this in 2 Corinthians chapter 1. And he's talking about the comfort that comes from the Father of mercy, the God of all comfort, through the Lord Jesus Christ. And Paul writes this. For we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble which came to us in Asia. That we were pressed out of measure, above strength Insomuch that we despaired even of life. But we had the sentence of death in ourselves that we should not trust in ourselves. But in God, which raiseth the dead, who delivered us from so great a death, and doth deliver, in whom we trust that He will yet deliver us You see that? Paul says, we were in such a situation, it was too great for us, it was too much for us, we were out of strength, we were overwhelmed. We felt like a death sentence was written against us so that we would not trust in ourselves, but in the one who raises the dead. They can kill me. But there is one who raises the dead. He's proven it by raising his own son. And so when Paul writes that, you notice he says He delivered us from so great a death. He does deliver, and he will yet deliver, right Our salvation, our deliverance from sin, our deliverance from death is a past work, a present work, and a future work of Christ. He doesn't save us and and become a rock to us and a fence defense to us and then say, and now just go ahead and try and make it on your own. He's there, always present, always living to make intercession for us, never ceasing to pray for you in what you're going through. David continues. He had turns in his psalm here to address the enemies. And look at this address in verse 3 and 4. He begins with a question. How long will you imagine mischief against a man? That's that's the question that he asked them. He looked to those who are attacking him, who have betrayed him, who are slandering him, who are wounding him and he says, How long are you going to imagine these things? Are you going to think these things? How long are you going to continue to batter me? and assail me and assault me with the things that you're doing. How long? And look at the next statement. He gives an illustration. You shall be slain, all of you, as a bowing wall shall ye be, and as a tottering fence. He pronounces their doom, they shall be slain. And what he is doing when he does that is he is making a confident statement in the righteous judgment of God on sin. That's what he is doing. He is saying, because you have rebelled against the Lord, because you are living in your wickedness and sin, and you hate the Lord, and you have turned your hatred of the Lord towards me, because I am the Lord's anointed king, and you hate me, you shall be slain. Because you cannot fight against God and think that you're going to win. In fact, I'll liken you to a wall that is leaning over and about to topple down, or a fence. that is about to collapse. I have a perfect illustration of this. Because my dad was just telling us yesterday there's a branch in the back. It's hanging by a thread. It's a big branch. And don't stand under it, because it's gonna fall at any time. What is Shane and my cousins doing this afternoon? They're playing in the back. They're not playing under the branch, but they're near the branch. And what does it do? It snapped and fell right then and right there. I mean it came crushing down. Right? It's like any moment that thing is coming down The wicked person who hates God and rebels against God. Any moment their life could come crashing down, any moment their life could end, and we are sent as emissaries of God's love and grace to who warn them and say, you shall be slain unless you repent and believe the gospel. I don't want to see you. End up as a rebel against God in the final day when Jesus sits on his throne to bring justice and judgment on all the nations. And separate the sheep from the goats. I don't want to see you on that side that rebelled against him and said, I've taken my stand here against you And so David turns to the adversaries and warns them and says, this is what is going to happen to those who will not repent. He describes it further in verse four. They only consult to cast him down from his excellency. They delight in lies. They bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly In that description, he he mentions that they consult to cast him down. In other words, the enemies are looking to bring the king down. They're looking to degrade David and cast him down from his position which God has given to him as the anointed king of Israel. The enemies want to tear him down. He says they delight in the lies. They delight in falsehood. They speak lies continually. Have you ever met someone? Have you ever been in a situation? where you just feel like everything the thing that's coming out of their mouth is not the truth. You feel like every comment, every statement has some kind of spin on it, and you're like, I I just don't know if I can trust a word that's coming out of your mouth. He says that's what they're like. That's the way in which they're living. They're living like it doesn't matter There will be no judgment. I can say what I want, when I want, how I want, and God will not do anything about it. God has a lot to say about the tongue. They bless with their mouth, and yet they're cursing inwardly. They'll say, Oh yes, bless the king, and inwardly they hate him. They despise him, they curse him, they want him dead, they plot against him, and it deeply, deeply upsets David. Doesn't it upset you? Have you ever been in such a situation where people speak these nice, kind things to your face and inwardly they are just ready to tear you apart? David calls us to pause at this point. He says, Sila. In other words, pause, consider what has been said, and respond. And this passage is driving us to the gospel, but we have to go a little bit further here before we come to that gospel and look closely at it. Notice David responds by running back to trusting in God. He says, My soul trusts in God. Verse 5, my my soul, wait thou only upon God, for my expectation. Is from him. So here is a statement of David's hope, of David's trust, of David's confidence. He is expecting God to answer and to work. to silence the mouths of the wicked and to preserve him. Notice what he continues to say. All of these identity statements He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be moved. And God is my salvation and my glory. The rock of my strength and my refuge. Is in God. Now how many times, right? My, my, in, in, in. It's all tied to who is God and who am I in a covenant relationship with God. And we as New Testament Christians read this, and we can't help but think of the writing of the Apostle Paul. How often does Paul talk about being in Christ? For in Christ I have hope. In Christ I find a rock. In Christ I find my salvation. In Christ I find defense. In Christ I have glory because it's his glory worked out in me and through me for his glory. Right? He is my strength. He is a refuge to me. And it's all these statements of David reminding himself, preaching truth to himself. He has to do this. Why Because he has people that are saying one thing to him and inwardly cursing him. He has people lying to him constantly. He doesn't know who to trust. And so he stops for a minute. He pauses his life and he says, Who can I trust? Who can I turn to? Who can I call out to? God. He has to Stop and preach the truth to his heart to tell himself, this is where I will find help. This is where I will find hope. God Brothers and sisters, this is one of the reasons we gather every Lord's Day. We proclaim truth. We come in out of our lives, out of the busyness of the week, out of all the mess that we have been in. We come here to sing truth to each other. We come here to sit under the word open so that our hearts and our lives are directed to Christ and say, That is where we find our truth, our refuge, our rock, our fortress. All the lies that the world could hurl at us need to just be swept away as we turn to Christ and say, no, he is my rock. Say what you will, do what you will. I am standing on Christ, my rock, and I will not be greatly moved. In him. It builds to what I think is just the absolute heart of the passage. Verse 8. Trust in him at all times, ye people. Pour out your heart before him. God is a refuge for us. Sila. Don't you love that verse? That's a verse to memorize. That is a verse to hide in your heart. That is a verse to wake up Monday morning. And read, trust in him at all times. In the good times? Yes. In the challenging times? Yes. In the temptations? Yes. In the family relationship issues? Yes. In the financial struggles? Yes. With the news cycle? Yes. In America? Yes. In Ireland? Yes. In China? Yes. Trust in him at all times, ye people. Pour out your heart before him Take that phrase for a moment. Why is that so difficult for us? I'm just being honest with you. Why do I find that so difficult? Why is my first inclination when all those situations I just listed out Whether it's temptation, financial struggles, or whatever it is, why is it so difficult for me to pour out my whole heart and soul to the Lord? It's because of this. The sinfulness of sin is so deceitful. We so think that we can handle it That we'll get through it. That we'll be able to navigate that thing. And we can't. And you know. This is where this is where this is what the Puritans called experiential preaching, right? Because you know and I know the secret. I can't fully explain this for you, but when you pour out all your heart to the Lord, He does what it says right here. You just you just have to experience it. I can I can't make it happen for you. I can't make you do it. All I can do is this. I hope and pray the Holy Spirit of God warms your affections right now and gives you a greater love for Christ. To say I can come to one and pour out my whole heart to him, every thought that I'm thinking, every struggle that I'm having, every discouragement that I have faced, I can pour it all out to him. I can open my mouth and tell him All my soul, all that vexes me, all that troubles me, every anxiety, every care, I can tell him the spirit Specific exact things that I am thinking, and he's not going to look at me and say, You horrible piece of filth, get out of my sight. He's going to say, Come to me for more and more and more Because I love you, and my grace is sufficient, and my mercy will fill you up, and my love is so deep you could never plumb its depths That is the Christ that we serve. That is the God who sees and hears our call. He is the one who calls us to pour our hearts out to him, for God is a refuge for us. Selah, pause, stop, consider. When I was reading this psalm, the passage I immediately ran to to connect with was Romans eight, twenty-six and twenty-seven. Likewise, the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. And he that searches the heart knoweth what is the mind of the Spirit, because he maketh intercession. for the saints according to the will of God. This truth is so beautiful and so easily neglected. That the Almighty, Infinite God, the creator of the ends of the earth and every human being that has entered into this world. Would come to those who have repented of their sin and put their trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, the second person of the Trinity, believing on him for salvation alone. He would send his Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity, to indwell their hearts. Why? to aid us, to help our infirmities. We are weak and needy people. And he has placed his own spirit within us. Why? Because he knows how intimately you and I need his help. And so he sends the comforter to indwell us and to intercede for us. in prayer. The Spirit and the Son interceding before the Father, the Father full of mercy and comfort, hearing the prayers. of the Son for his people, for his bride, hearing the cry of the Spirit who indwells us, with groanings that cannot be uttered, and searching the hearts and knowing what is the mind of the Spirit, the idea is this. Sometimes your heart is so overwhelmed that you cannot put words to it. And God still knows what you're wrestling with. You come to pour out all your heart to him and you're just failing for words and he is there in your heart already and he knows what you are feeling and what you are going through, and his love extends to you in such a way that his spirit is there to settle you and comfort you and you leave that time of prayer. And you say, the Lord has heard my cry. The Lord knows that all I could plead was, Help me, Lord. I know you are my rock and my salvation. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to say. I can't even begin to get my head around this thing, but you know it. Help, help, help me. Your grace is sufficient. And the peace of God will pass all understanding and guard your heart and mind in Christ Jesus It's a beautiful work of the triune God in intimate communion and fellowship and relationship With the people whom he loves and has bought and has saved, and is there always for them to call on him and to be filled with his peace. Why do we not run to him and pour out our hearts before him again and again and again and again? Verse nine and ten. We're running out of time here, but let's just deal with these two ones briefly. If you're If we're building this whole case about trusting in the Lord, and then verse 9 and 10, we're given the opposite side of things. Here's the examples. You could also trust in man. And David is saying, don't do that. Don't trust in man. Verse 9. Surely men of low degree are vanity, and men of high degree are a lie to be laid in the balance. They are altogether lighter than vanity. So when he speaks of low uh men of low degree, the idea is um that These are people of a lower social status, but they find strength in their numbers. Okay? So the idea is they might they might be viewed as a working class or anything like that, but They have strength in their numbers, they're hard workers, it's the power of the crowd, it's the power of the mob. And you get all these people together and they think they have power and strength because they're part of a massive movement. And they might not have s they might not feel strong individually in their own achievement, but they're part of the big mob and they have power as a group. And David says, don't look to something like that to find refuge. Don't trust in that for refuge because those people don't are not invested in you in the way that Christ would be What about men of high degree? What about people of great wealth and power and a high social standing? He says they're a lie, they're false, a delusion, deceptive. He says they could have all the influence and intelligence and wealth and power, and they will think that their power and achievement are going to do them okay through the whole of their life. And he says, don't trust in that Don't turn to the mob and don't turn to the really powerful wealthy. Your hope and trust is to be placed in God. They are laid in the balance And they're altogether lighter than vanity. You you weigh up both of those scenarios and you find it's like a vapor and it's gone in an instant. You could think you have a really wealthy, powerful friend, they could leave you like that. You could think that you're okay in the big group, in the in the big uh mob, and it could be gone like that and turn against you. That is not how the Lord will treat his people. Trust not in man. Trust not in wealth. Verse 10. Trust not in oppression. Become not vain in robbery. If riches increase, set not your heart upon them. Okay? Oppression, this extortion, a wicked means to gain wealth A wicked means to wrong others and um accumulate more to yourself. And David says, don't trust in that. Don't live in that kind of way. Don't oppress others and extort others so that you can get better off. Become not vain in robbery or theft, another wicked means of gaining wealth. If your riches do increase, don't set your heart on them, don't love them, don't trust in them, don't boast in them. They must not be your refuge. The Lord alone is to be a refuge to you. And David comes to verse 11 and 12 and says, My soul praises God. God has spoken once. Twice have I heard this, that power belongeth unto God. Power belongs to God. God has spoken once, twice have I heard this. The idea is the emphatic of this statement. It's repeated because this is the vital lesson. to be learned. The power, the authority, the glory, it rests in God alone. He can do anything. Paul says it this way. unto him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. God 's power is greater than any other power on the face of this earth We trust in what He is able to do, even when it seems something is impossible, even when it seems someone is too far gone, God is able to powerfully work. Finally, the mercy that belongs to God. Also unto thee, O Lord, belongeth mercy, for thou renderest to every man according to his work. God is merciful. He is steadfast in love. He is full of goodness, kindness, and faithfulness. He brings justice. He renders to each person according to their work. He is the one that takes into account all that the adversaries have said against David, all the sin that has been done against him. All the sin that David himself has done, the Lord is the one who takes it all into account. And David knows this: God is abundant in mercy because God has shown abundant mercy to David. How are we as humans able to show any mercy or love or grace or compassion to anyone else? Because first and foremost, Almighty God, who has all power and authority, has shown mercy and grace and love and compassion. Towards us. His mercy is a gift which he gives. It is from him. And any merciful thing we have done is because of the good work of God in us and through us for his own glory. He is the father of mercy. And so we draw all these things together as it points us to the gospel. We understand that we all are sinners. We all once were adversaries against God. We all once lived lies We all once trusted in wealth or power or ourselves or whatever it may be. We all heaped up works that condemned us in the sight of God And God in his infinite mercy, love, and compassion when we deserved for all of his wrath and and judgment deserved to fall on us and condemn us and crush us and destroy us and condemn us to hell sent his only begotten son To come into this messed up world and live a sinless, perfect life and take all of the horrible filth of our sin and heap it all on himself. So that all the horrible things you and I have ever thought, said, or done, all of the times we have been so nasty in the words that we speak. Hating people in our hearts, whatever it may be, all of it was born by Christ on that cross. And there he drank to the full The wrath of God toward our sin. And God 's great mercy, He has supplied a substitute, a sacrifice who satisfies the demand for justice, pays our penalty in full, is buried And rises from the grave the third day, defeating death, defeating the devil, defeating sin. And promising to all those who repent and believe forgiveness, cleansing, restoration, healing. Declared righteous in the sight of a holy God, not through any work that we have done, because of his great mercy and love toward us. Seeing then that we have a great high priest that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted, like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. We may run before God with confidence, with boldness Not because of any work or worth or merit in and of ourselves, but all because we are pleading the name of the great high priest, Jesus Christ. who loved us and laid down his life for us, who purchased us and has saved us from our sin. And because of his sacrifice, We may come before the throne of Almighty God and find a never-ending supply of grace and mercy and help. The problem is this. We turn to things of this earth. To find refuge, to find help, to find satisfaction, and they fail us and leave us empty when the way is open and clear. Come before the throne of grace. Come before the mercy seat of Almighty God, and see that his Son has paid for you with his own blood, that you might enter in and find the hope, the help, the healing. The protection, the security that comes from a relationship with him. Never forget What Christ has done. Preach this gospel to your soul day by day and run to your rock and your refuge Your hope, your defense, your salvation, your glory. In your temptations, run to Christ. In persecutions, run to Christ. In doubts, fears, worries, anxieties, run to Christ. In your discouragement, run to Christ. In your illness, run to Christ. In your comfort and prosperity and joy, run to Christ. And let your soul constantly be pouring out praise and love and thanksgiving to him. Let us pray. Father, we thank you so much that we may come to you And know that you welcome us and receive us as your dearly beloved, blood-bought children, for you have declared. That we have received a spirit of adoption through the work of your Son. We pray if there is one here who has never repented of their sin. Has never put their trust in Christ alone to save them, that they would run to you tonight and pour out all their soul, all the story of their life, all their heart, and cry out to you and find That you are merciful and that you will forgive and cleanse even the darkest, deepest, most secret, most horrible state Pain of sin, you will cleanse, forgive, wash, and renew. I pray, O God, they would run to you And I pray tonight as believers we would not become cold and complacent, but our hearts will be warmed with great love and tenderness and affection. to the God who has given us everything, to the God who has saved us and cleansed us, to the God who is always living. Making intercession for us, helping us in our weaknesses. We trust in you, O God. You are our refuge and rock. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I love the way that that psalm ends. God. What what is it that causes us to recognize that we need to pour out our heart to Him? It's that when we do it, He looks at us with compassion. Isn't that an amazing thing to think about? You know why we don't pour out our heart to God? Because we think that he's gonna look at us like with this cold, calloused attitude, like, oh yeah, look at you. But that's not how he is. He knows what's going on already in our lives. And so we pour out our heart to him. We we rely upon him. He pours out his mercy on us. And that's That is just a wonderful way to end it. I I decided rather than singing um the song that I had planned for the closing hymn, I actually would like us to sing something That we sang this morning. So I know we're going to be repetitive, but the song is a wonderful, wonderful song. So take out your blue books, please. Guys in the back, you do have this song. It's uh 192 complete in the And I'd like us to sing that as our closing hymn, because that really is where this message ended, the fact that we are complete in Him. and the fact that that our our dependence on him , what we get in Christ, we're going to sing about that. uh in this song. So let's stand together, please. We'll sing all four verses of 192 in our blue books, complete in thee, and we'll sing the last part, a cappella, please. Hope me to me , it is more, I know that one and one for me, and I am out of me. Give us your mind of God and make the mind salvation God by God and God and God for me and for my. I forgot to be And take your mind, salvation broad, Turn upon me. And for the light I do show me , don't leave it be once a fine, and over me to me and I 'm I am the Lord of me. In the I will find a wave , I know that. God has for me, and for your God you know me. You save your land me for my God All prize and comes up and lord, among thy toes and will I be at thy right hand comf Give us your mind of blessing God and change my salvation law. Thy God and God is not for me out all day today. I'd like to ask if Pastor Chris can come and uh close us in prayer and uh hope that you'll take some time to uh just be a blessing to one another, encouragement. Uh for the middle of July, it shouldn't be too hot tonight. So I know the volleyball net is out there and waiting for all those who are interested. interested in uh getting out there and the cones are out so the kids can uh play in the back as well. Pastor Chris, close our service in prayer, please. Father, we are so richly moved by the truth of your word tonight. Lord, instill in us a deep sense. of the riches richness and the fullness of the salvation you have given to us. As we've just sung and we've meditated on the sanctification That you work in us now because of the justification that you've given us. You rest in that future hope of glorification. Knowing that the fullness and the richness of your blessing that we look forward to, we taste of now as we come before you, as we fellowship with you. And as we dwell in your presence, even in this life, among your people, and within the Spirit Lord, be with us now as we go our separate ways, keep us safe. Allow us this week to reflect on these truths and to share them and be a blessing to all those whom you have deemed fit to put into our sphere. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.