Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church and hope that you've had a great week and we're looking forward to a wonderful Lord's Day. I do want to remind you that today is the Lord's table. And so if you are planning to partake of the Lord's table and we're not able to pick up your elements, please do that during the first hymn that we'll be singing, and they're on those back two tables. If you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we'd like to warmly welcome you and I hope that you were able to receive a gift and a welcome packet. And in that there is a little card that if you'd like us to follow up and visit you at some point during the week, please fill that out and put that in the little box in the back and that'll be a way that we can reach out to you. We have quite a few activities that are coming up in the next couple weeks, and so I want to highlight those for a few moments. First of all, tonight for our teenagers, we have our teen hymn sing, our sing spiration, that's after the evening service. And so for our teens that are planning to come to that, please make sure that you're here tonight so that we can get you at that. Also wanted to mention that we have our ladies' meeting coming up this Thursday on the 7th. So ladies, please sign up for that. Our men's meeting is going to be on Saturday the 16th. And so men, please sign up for that. We have had really good groups the last couple of weeks So please do make sure that you sign up for that. So the ladies' meeting is this Thursday, and the men's meeting is the following Saturday, the next Saturday. I also want to mention that we have a business meeting coming up, and that will be next Sunday evening after the evening service. So please come prepared for that. The only item really is to go through our financials But please do make sure that you come to that. And the teams also have a team trip to the Museum of the Bible on Um Saturday the ninth, that's this Saturday coming up. Um so please make sure that uh you sign up for that if you're planning to to come and you have not yet signed up. Also want to mention that we have little flyers that we've made up postcards that we want to encourage you to pick up to invite folks to Our Palm Sunday service, that's next Sunday, and then the following Sunday as we celebrate the resurrection Easter Sunday. We have both sides of the cards so that you can invite people to both of them. And hope that you'll you'll pick those up and invite folks. We also have designed a new Anchor Baptist Church church tract, and we had one that we used years ago. And this will replace that so that it's both a church invitation and also a gospel presentation. And it's also got a Cura code, which makes it easier for people. if they're trying to find the church website. So um those are going to be getting in some point here uh this week we hope and uh hope that you'll be able to pick those up and use them in addition to um the bridge tracks that we normally use. If you could, let's go ahead and pull out our Bibles and let's turn to Isaiah 53. And since we are celebrating the Lord's table this morning, we want to look at a passage that is very focused on the death of Christ and what he accomplished for us. Isaiah 53 verse number 1. Here's what the scriptures say. Who hath believed our report? And to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground. He hath no form nor comeliness And when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. This morning, as we remember the death of Christ, his body that was broken, and his blood that was shed, as we Partake together of the Lord's table. We're obviously going to focus our attention on the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. And specifically, we're going to look at how He shepherds our souls, how He takes care of us. on a daily basis, not just in this life, but for all of eternity, because of his work of redemption. And so I want to invite you, let's bow together for a word of prayer And let's ask the Lord to bless our time, that he would open our eyes to understand these wonderful truths, that he'll speak to our hearts, that this will be just a wonderful Lord's day of rich, Christ-centered worship. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we are so grateful for the work of Christ. We're reminded that we would have no basis to come into your presence and pray. We would have no basis. to have confidence and joy and the conviction that we are righteous in your presence had it not been for the work of Christ. We're reminded that his death on the cross canceled our sin debt. We're reminded that his triumph over death is what gives us the guarantee of eternal life. Father, we are so grateful that this morning we can remember the work of Christ that gives us a righteous position, that gives us a continual work of sanctification as we grow into Christ's likeness. And it gives us the promise, the guarantee, the sure hope, that steadfast assurance that one day we will receive the full benefits of our inheritance in Christ, that we will enjoy you forever in your kingdom. I pray that you will bless this service, may each aspect of it point honor and glory to you. May our eyes be open to these wonderful truths May our hearts be fully engaged as we sing these hymns of the faith, as we read these scriptures, and as we submit ourselves to the ministry of the Word of God and the preaching, I pray that you would truly be exalted And that as your people we would be blessed. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, good morning, Acre Baptist Church and esteemed visitors, those in present And also joining us via livestream. Good to see everyone out. I think spring has sprung. Has anybody mowed their yard yet? I'm putting it off as long you have. You must have been taking care of it over the winter then. Um the weeds are growing abundantly in my yard, so I'll have to trim them down before too long. So anyway Well, let's uh take a hymnal or stand with me as we start our song service off. We're going to turn to page six for the musicians. For those that want to sing some parts and follow along, sing out, make a joyful noise unto the Lord as we sing all three verses of I Sing. The mighty power of God. Sing out. I sing the mighty power of God. I sang the hand of that morning. What if we were on eye? I 'm not going to know who I'll go and I have to go there. Amen. We're going to turn back a couple pages to page two. Now come Christians. Join to sing. Everybody sing out. Alambray, hallelujah, I can 't do twice my king. Hallelujah. Well Here we are to work all in the prayer for Amen. Go ahead and have a seat. While we turn now to page 134. 134. And sing and can it be? All four verses. Don't stop now. Sing out. And can it be the shallow day? I didn't get to love. I can do that by God, just die for me amazing. But my God should not be. He left it by the I give you a break. I will play with that was great. My course and God will be my changel, my car. My love I had No God. I never. Will it hold? Amen. That's good singing. Oh. Making a joyful noise, no doubt. Wow, okay. Well now we're gonna go to Psalms 23. Psalms 23, we're gonna read verses 1 through 6, the entire Psalm. I like reading these short verses. All right. Psalms 23. Please follow along with me as we read the Lord's Word. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still water. Waters. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. For thou art with me, thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me Thou preparest the table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Thou anointest my head with oil. My cup runneth over me. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Kärkey. Well Mm. Amen and Amen. Alright, as we continue the song service, after all that, let's turn to page 157, yeah? Page 157. Sing all three verses of grace greater than our sin. Amen? More the less grace that are not ignored, grace that makes me Pray praise, pray the way with him praise. Dark is the same as we can alike, but get away to wash it away, but there is no eager. Why did that will you make me to make great grave? Praise a quarter and great break your Our spin are the biggest gray we live on all the The money, I has a rack I want to get in pay When you come in his grace, praise , praise, God, grace , grace the pardon. Cell Reperts the chorus a cappello. Grace, grace, God 's grace Grace that will pardon and cleanse within Grace, Grace God Grace Great that is greater than all our sins. Amen. Sounded wonderful. Alright, now we're going to take our blue book out. Turn to the back half of the book, page 167. In the blue book, or we'll have it up here on the screen. It is still the cross. It's still the cross. We're going to sing all four verses. The glory like the crying will yes for my Alora The Lord of life is death, and willingly God 's breath is death, it's still the cause, it's still the blood, it's still the die. act above compelling me to spend my night in giving everything for Christ, in giving everything for Christ. The Roman sports mockery, the hanging person, the nowry, the Lord of life says and satisfied. That sin is that it's still the cross, it's still the cross, it's still the light , life of love compelling me to spend my life in you. Stand with me on the third. How brilliant so you have to love the death because they 'll say Taken bread, it's still the cross, it's still the blood, it's still his eyes of my compelling it to still my life and giving it Every day for eyes, in giving air, we play noise. The greatest cause sacrifice, the crime love, the boss device, the border , as my hand to live forgive. It's still the cross, it's still the cross, it's still exciting and a cloud, compelling me to spend my life with me. Please be seated. There will never be a sweeter story. Story of a Savior's love divine Love that brought him from the realms of glory, just to save a sinful soul like mine. Boundless as the universe around me, reaching to the farthest So lower Saving, keeping love is what found me. That is why my heart Can truly stand within the law of She's not Of Jesus. Love beyond our human comprehending Love of God in Christ, how can it be? This will be my theme and never ending. Great redeeming love of Calvary within the life of Jesus. Why to meet you Wasn't that a beautiful arrangement of that song? Thank you so much, guys. Our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you this morning to turn with me to a very familiar psalm, and it is Psalm 23. the Shepherd Psalm. And this psalm is one that I'm sure that you've heard read many times. This is a psalm that you've probably thought a lot about, and so a lot of what we're going to talk about this morning is not going to be new to you. In fact, a lot of what I'd like to do this morning is I'd like us to take what is very familiar truth. I'd like us to be reminded afresh. of these truths, because as we partake of the Lord's table, we're going to be remembering the death of Christ, his body broken, his blood shed. And the truth is every time we partake of the Lord's table We're reminded of a truth that we've known for many, many years. It may be that as you partake of the Lord's table, this might be the thousandth time in your life that you've done it, or maybe you've done this hundreds of times over the course of your life You're being reminded of a message that you know thoroughly, and it's something that you've thought often of, but the reality is that we need to be reminded on a continual basis of what Christ did, what he accomplished on our behalf. Psalm 23, we're going to look at the entire Psalm, and we're going to look at how God is our eternal shepherd. Look down with me in verse number one. It says the following: The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. The psalm in front of us, Psalm 23, describes God as our eternal shepherd. He's our shepherd who lovingly sustains us. He's our shepherd who lovingly preserves our lives. And he's not only our temporary shepherd, but the fact is that he is our shepherd now and forever. He sustains, he preserves, and he's going to do it for all of eternity. And this morning I'd like to invite you to look at the scriptures. That compel us to recognize that God wants us to rest our restless and weary hearts in his everlasting care I don't know about you, but I'm sure that this morning as we gather together, there are burdens that are being carried in this room, and most certainly as there are folks that are joining us in the live stream, there are probably burdens that you yourself are also bearing. It might be that the reason that someone's not able to be here this morning that you're on the live stream is because you're carrying a very heav heavy physical burden. Because of that physical burden, you can't physically be here at this moment. It may be that there's someone that's here this morning that the reality is you knew you needed to be here, you knew it was good for you, but Just getting the will to come, in fact, it was not an easy thing. The fact is that we are restless people. We are weary people, we are broken people, and we need God to cause our hearts to rest in Him And so this morning I want to invite you to rest your heart in the care of our everlasting shepherd, the Lord Jesus Christ. You made me asking this morning, well, Pastor, how can I do that? Do I need to just kind of work myself up into this feeling of rest? Well, the reality is no. Sometimes our emotions are troubling us a lot. Sometimes the internal thoughts that we deal with, they're very heavy and they're very complex, and they're things that we can't fully make sense of. But this morning I want to invite you, I'm going to encourage you to take all of those weariments and all of the complexities that you may be feeling at the moment, how your spirit may feel at this moment, and I'm inviting you to look at truth. I'm inviting you to look at reality about God, about how He cares about us, how He cares about you as an individual this morning. I'm inviting you to rest your heart in the truth. Not in how you feel, not in the circumstances around you, not what you hope is going to happen, but what God says is true about his attitude and his relationship to you as an individual. You say, Pastor, how do I do that this morning? Well the first thing I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to recount who we're talking about. Who is this God that the Scripture says is my shepherd? So for a few moments, I want you to think about who we're talking about for the moment. We're talking about someone who is described as the Lord. And what's very interesting is when you look down in your Bibles, you'll see that the L, the O, the R, and the D, they're all capitalized. In other words, that is God's covenant name. We don't even actually know how to say God's covenant name, whether it was Yahweh or whether it was Jehovah. The reality is we don't even know how to pronounce the word because the Jewish people were afraid to utter his name. They called him Hashem, which means the name. We don't even know what this covenant name was, how to express it, but what we know is what it tells us about God. It tells us the story of a God who took a man, Abraham, whose wife was barren, and he said, I'm going to give you not just a child of promise, but I'm going to make you a great nation. And through your seed, all the nations of the earth are going to be blessed. I'm going to make you a blessing. God made that promise to the nation of Israel. And from that moment, what we see is how God continually, persistently graciously dealt with that group of people. I want to remind you what it says about the Lord in Malachi 3. 6. He says, I'm the Lord and I change not. The same God who preserved the Jewish people. The same God who continually reminded them of his covenant promises The same God who shepherded those people, even when they were rebellious people, and he preserved out of those people a remnant. That's the same God that today we sit here and we say, He's my shepherd. Think about some of the truths that are expressed in the Old Testament about God. I want you to think about Isaiah chapter 40. Isaiah 40 is a very rich, theologically deep passage out of the book of Isaiah. Listen to what it says in verse 13. It says, Who hath directed the Spirit of the Lord or been his counselor? Who hath taught him? With whom took he counsel, and who instructed him and taught him the paths of judgment? And taught him knowledge and showed him the way of understanding. Behold, all the nations are as a drop of a bucket, and are counted as small dust of the balance But he, behold, he taketh up the aisles as a very little thing. You know what those verses express? The incredible magnitude of God. Talks about his wisdom. Talks about the fact that he is infinite. Isaiah 40 verses 25 through 30. It says, To whom then will I will ye liken me? Or who shall be my equal, saith the Holy One? Lift up your eyes on high and behold who that created these things, that bringeth out their hosts by numbers. He calleth them all by name by the greatness of his might. He is Strong in power, not one faileth. Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel, Why do you say, My way is hidden from the Lord and my judgment is passed over? Hast thou not known that the everlasting God, the Lord, the creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary. There is no searching of his understanding He giveth power to the faint. This is the God we're talking about. Or Daniel chapter 2, verse 21 says, He changeth the times. And the seasons, he removes kings, he sets up kings, he gives wisdom unto the wise and knowledge to them that know understanding. If we were to talk about God, we would say that He is infinite, that He is faithful, that He does not change He's not dependent on anybody here. He is high and he is lofty. He is holy. He is set apart from sin. This is the God that we're talking about who is your shepherd. He is absolutely all-powerful. He rules and reigns over his creation. You might say, well, that doesn't sound very personal. That sounds very distant. That sounds very set apart. That sounds very lossy. I don't see how a God like that could care about me. Well here's what's so amazing about Scripture. It indicates that not only is God infinite, But he's personal. The same God who created everything, he's personal. Literally it says that he took on flesh. And he dwelt among us. And the disciples beheld his glory. The Lord Jesus Christ entered into his creation. And he took the form of a servant so that you and I could be redeemed to the Father. He's personally involved in our lives, and this is the way David says it. He says that the Lord is his shepherd. It's a powerful description of the way that God personally deals with us. It's interesting, all throughout Scripture, that word shepherd is used over and over and over again. God uses that illustration to help us to get a little bit of a sense of how personal and how personally involved he is in our lives. You know, in the ancient world, shepherds were very lowly people. Think about David. When Samuel came and was looking to anoint the next king , All of the boys who are young men came before David or came before Samuel. And there is the last son, and Samuel says, None of these are the ones that God has chosen. Do you have any others? And they said, Well Yeah, there's a boy out in the field. Go call him. It kind of tells you what they thought of David, okay I mean, think about when David brings this food to his brothers, and there is Goliath, and he's mocking the armies of Israel. And when David comes up, here's this young man, he's like, What's going on, guys? And they're like, What are you doing here? Did you leave the sheep with anybody? Why are you here? Does daddy know where you are? That's the way that they spoke to David. Why is that? Because they didn't think much of him. He was just a boy watching sheep. It was a job of tireless obscurity That's the way the shepherd's life went. You didn't have to be super educated. You needed somebody to say, these sheep are under your care, and you better take care of them or you'll be in trouble. That's all they needed. Yet this is the illustration that David chooses to use to describe God's personal care. He chooses this illustration because he understood it very personally. And I'd like us this morning to take a little bit of time to notice the beauty of this illustration. The infinite God willingly steps into our lives for our good. And the fact is that this should absolutely overwhelm every single one of us. I think of what David said in Psalm eight. He says, When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained, that's what he says. What is man? That you are mindful of him and the Son of Man that thou visitest him. It's kind of like David's looking out over the creation and he's saying, This is an amazing world. I'm looking at the stars. I see the order and the beauty of this creation. And he says, God, why do you care about me? Why does my life matter to you at all? Why do you take the time to get involved in my personal life? Doesn't make sense to me, but I'm so thankful for it. That's what David's saying. And that's what we should say. So first of all, we think about the God that we're talking about. Secondly, I want us to see that we need to recount what he does in our lives. In verses one through five, we see that he lays out in great detail the nature of God being our shepherd. Before we look at this, I want you to think about some other scriptures that talk about this concept. Psalm 37, verse 23 says this: the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. He delighteth in his way, though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down. The Lord upholdeth him with his hand. I have been young, and I am now old, yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken. Nor his seed begging bread. He is ever merciful and lendeth, and his seed is blessed. The Lord loveth judgment, and I love this next statement. And he forsaketh not his saints. That's how God deals with us. So let's take a few moments to think about how he describes the way that God shepherds. Him. And by virtue of this conversation that David has with us, telling us about how God shepherds his own life, we are going to recognize the fact that this is how God deals with us too. He saw that God was his ultimate sustainer. He was the source of his life. And he expresses that in the simple statement, I shall not want. In other words, David is saying, I don't lack what I really need, because God is the ultimate source of that. This morning we were in the Sunday school class with the teenagers. And we are talking about how Jesus told the woman at the well, he said, the water that you want, you're going to drink it again and again and again and again. But the water that I can give you, you're going to never have to drink again, and it's going to become in you. Living water that's going to spring up into everlasting life. In other words, what Jesus is basically saying is what you're looking for is sustenance in all the things of this world, which she obviously was. And he said, I am the source of real life and real vitality and real sustenance. And not only am I the source And I can satisfy you, but when you're satisfied in me, you become this channel that I can use to actually reach in other people's lives. That's what God does in our life. David's going to describe that. Let's look for a few moments at what he says. The first thing we're going to find is in verse number two He talks about how God is the shepherd who brings rest and brings nourishment to his children. Just like God brings rest and nourishment to somebody like David, he does it for you and me. Here's what he says in verse number two. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. Now, I don't know if you've uh ever been to the Middle East. I know some people in here have. I know all of us have seen pictures of the Middle East, but when you think about the region where David is talking about, did you see a lot of green grass all over the place? The answer is not really. It's a very dry area. It's a very desolate area. It's a very wildernessy kind of an area. So if you're a shepherd and you know where there is green less grass, guess what? You had to work to find that location And not only that, when you took the sheep to those regions, you know what those sheep would do? They would gorge themselves and they would literally eat it down so there was no grass left. It's almost like if you somebody asks, you know, have they has anybody cut their grass yet? And I I raised my hand. I cut my grass yesterday just because I wanted to do it. I wanted to I wanted everything to be like smooth, because you know during this time of the year it's like there's like a weed over here, there's like a clump over here, and then you know, building that's warm it's like growing really good, and then these other areas you know what I'm talking about. I just wanted it smooth, at least today. Well, if if you took a sheep to this lush area, guess what they would do? They would do what sometimes we do wrongly when we cut our grass in the heat of the summer, we cut it too short. And you know what happens? It burns the grass. The sheep could do that. They could literally go into this area, this lush area, and they could eat it down to where there's nothing left, and the next time they come, it's gone. So that shepherd had to bring them to that place. He had to kind of watch what they were doing and make sure they didn't burn out the region He talks about the sheep lying down, and what's interesting is as we read about sheep, we find out that sheep are actually naturally not very restful creatures They don't like to be still, and so the environment's got to be very secure for them to feel like they can lay down and they can rest. And so what does this show us? It shows us that the shepherd takes care to bring the sheep to a location that is safe, where they feel secure. where they can be nourished. He's going to make sure that they don't burn it out. And he's doing that all as a shepherd. That's what God does in our lives. He brings us through seasons where we can be nourished and we can get rest and he takes care of us in those seasons. This is the sovereign hand of God, his providence at work in our lives. This is the way the shepherd works. The second thing he mentions is also in verse two. He provides safety from danger. He says that he leadeth me beside the still waters. Now you might not think much of this, but The fact is, if you're a sheep and you've got all this wool and you go into a stream that's moving really quick, guess what happens? You're in trouble. That water can move swiftly, and a sheep could become saturated and could get dragged down in that swift current. And not only that, the sheep won't even feel safe to go up to that water because he's afraid. But if you were to take these sheep to a stagnant water, that's not going to be good for them either. So what is he doing? He's looking for the a specific place that has moving water, but very slowly. Calm living water. Why? Because the sheep needs to be safe. That's how God works in our lives. Verse number three, he talks about the need for continual renewal. He says, not only does he lead me besides still waters, but he restoreth my soul. Now this is kind of interesting when we talk about sheep. But sheep are not only very fearful creatures And they wander around a lot and they're very vulnerable creatures, but they also are kind of melancholy creatures, as far as I have read about sheep. And there are times that this melancholy creature needs to be comforted and encouraged by the shepherd. It's kind of like when your dog walks in. And his tail's tucked down and kind of hunched down real low and the ears are down. The dog's down. It needs encouragement. You know what I'm talking about? Cats don't do that. Dogs do that. Sheep need to be restored, encouraged, strengthened. And when he talks about the need for restoration, he's talking about the fact that we are a people that get wearied. And discouraged and disheartened. And we drift. And you know what God does? He pursues us. He goes to us and he uplifts us and he strengthens us and he encourages us. That word restored, another way to describe it or express it is he revives us. We belong to him. We have eternal life. But he kind of stirs up those affections again. One of the great benefits of coming to the assembly of the local church on a weekly basis Is that during the week you deal with all kinds of craziness. Everybody does. It might be at work, it might be challenges at home, it might be financial pressures. You get tired of watching the news and all the nonsense going on in the world and in our nation. And you know what? You get weird and discouraged and frustrated. And when you come to this place, your attention is focused on God. And the scriptures are laid out, and we sing praise together, not just by ourselves, we sing praise together And the people around you, they encourage you. Isn't it a blessing to hear the songs being sung by the congregation? I just love it. Sometimes I just sit back here and I stop playing, I just I listen. And I love it. What does that do? It uplifts us. This music uplifts our hearts. It directs us to the truth. And our hearts are stirred up and strengthened and encouraged. And we desperately need this to survive the weak. And we desperately need the encouraging hand of God. God does that. He restores. He revives. He uplifts our souls. We continually need this renewal. The next thing he mentions is also in verse number three, he talks about sanctifying grace. The way he expresses it is he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Now, when David is talking about the shepherd's role, shepherds lead the sheep. They don't drive the sheep and beat the sheep. They say, hey, come follow me. That's the way that the shepherd does things. In other words, the shepherd's not goading cattle and he's got this spear. He's like stick them in the side and get them moving. No, what he's actually doing is he's calling and he starts walking, and they just kind of get in line and they start following This is the way God deals with us. This is a very gentle picture, isn't it? It's a very compassionate picture, isn't it? He leads us in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. And I stopped and I tried to think about this. What is he saying? What he's literally saying is My sheep belong to me and they're identified with me, and so I lead them in the paths of righteousness for my own name's sake. Literally, God's Stamp is on his people. You know, as you grow into Christ's likeness, as you mature as a Christian, you do it because God is working in you by the power of the Spirit We call it sanctifying grace. Justifying grace is the cross. He died on the cross for my sins, my sin that is canceled. I stand righteous in Christ. I'm forgiven. I'm cleansed. And I have eternal life, justifying grace. I'm saved. But when God justifies me, he doesn't just leave me on the side and abandon me. He begins this work of sanctification. He's maturing me into Christ's likeness. He's transforming me through the renewal of my mind. He's taking those works of the flesh. And he's bringing them to the surface, exposing them, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit, those things can be put to death and can be replaced by godly virtues. And as I go through the Christian life, it's a slow process, okay? But I grow. I mature. I become more like Christ. And you know what that does? It's a stamp that shows the people around me that person belongs. To me. I'm not saved by my works. I'm not saved by righteousness that I do. But when I tell people I'm a Christian, they believe me when they see something has changed in me. And that's what sanctification does. Sanctification changes us to become more like Christ. And so he literally says that he leads me in the path of righteousness for his name's sake. The sheep follow the shepherd. And we as his sheep begin to become conformed to the image of our shepherd. What an amazing concept. The next truth we find is in verse number four. He provides security through defense and gracious intervention. In verse number four, he says, yea. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Now, as I have read through this verse so many, many times, I've always thought of him basically saying that death is a shadow. But I don't think that's actually what he's trying to express here. What he's expressing is something that a person who would have been a shepherd in those days in that region would have understood. That there were times that they were not in high places that were open, but they had to go through narrow places That were very close and tight and could be potentially very dangerous. In those valleys where the shadows were dark, those animals that would come against those sheep, viewing them as prey. Could hide in the rocks just waiting for an opportunity to pounce and to attack. And those sheep would have felt the tension of that moment. But the thing that was a comfort to the sheep was not that the shepherd led them through that region, but that the shepherd was with them as they passed through that region. He says, I don't fear because you are with me. Folks, there are times in life that God allows us to pass through very troubling waters. Very discouraging, very fearful waters. And his sovereign hand has brought us to that point, and his presence is there with us And that's what he's saying in these verses. I didn't abandon you when you came to that place. I came with you, and I am there. And then he mentions these two instruments: a rod and a staff. Now, I think when we read these, we think of some kind of disciplinary thing. But a rod and a staff serve two different purposes. The rod was for the shepherd to defend the sheep from something that would attack. So if a lion or some wild beast came out, what was the shepherd gonna do? He's gonna take his rod and he's gonna go to town on that creature If somebody wanted to steal the sheep or someone wanted to abuse the sheep, what would he do? He would defend himself with the rods. And he would defend the sheep with a rod. You say, well, what's the staff? Well, the staff is what he uses to press those sheep away from dangerous places, to pull them to the side. And what is this picture for us? This shows us how God defends us. And how God is personally involved in our lives to guide us and to move us to places that we need to be In other words, when God allows us to pass through hardship and he is there with us and he defends us in those moments, you know what it does? Strengthens us. When we're in those moments and we're starting to drift and veer off and we're starting to get to places we shouldn't be, and he comes alongside and he pulls us back to where we need to be. You know what that does? It reminds us that he's with us. It's like in Hebrews where it says, whom the Lord loves, he chastens. Literally, God is personally involved in bringing us back. And every time God intervenes in our life, it reminds us he loves us. Us. Amazing, amazing thoughts. Next, in verse number five, he talks about tangible expressions of God's loving care. He says, Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. Now, if you and I were to tell God what we wanted, then what we would say in these verses, you prepared a table before me when you removed my enemies. You know what I'm talking about. There was I don't have to deal with these people anymore. They've caused me grief, they've caused me pain, they've caused me heartache, they've caused me trouble. And so you eliminated that problem. That's not what he says. He says, in the presence of my enemies, you prepared a banquet. That's really interesting, isn't it? In other words, sometimes God allows the challenges of life to persist. But in the midst of those challenges, you know what he does? He brings encouragement. It's almost like you're in a in a situation like maybe you're work in a work environment that's very, very difficult, very complicated, very frustrating, very very very challenging. Or some other situation. We can find these all the time in life. And it's not like God just removes us from this. He allows us to continue in it. But in the midst of it, he pours these blessings that are tangible reminders that he loves us. us. They may even serve as a witness to those who are problems to what we're going through that we belong to the Lord. This is what David's expressing. It's almost as if as David is running from Saul who wants to kill him, Saul had little moments along the way whereas he was persistent in trying to destroy his son-in-law. God reminded Saul, that's my child. I'm blessing this child. This person that you're after, this person you want to destroy, he's mine, he belongs to me, and I'm taking care of him. This is the way that God works with his people. Next, he says, thou anointest my head with oil. Now this is one that is a little bit of a challenge when it comes to the interpretive side. The first time that I've read this, and many times that I've read this, the picture that came to my mind is something that I experienced when we lived overseas. We had this little dog, his name was Rover, he had these little pointed ears. He was a Basinji. Anybody know what a Basinji is? These are dogs that don't bark, they sing. And they howl. I mean like if my wife played the piano, this dog would just start howling right outside the window. He was a really intriguing uh really intriguing dog. One of the things that we dealt with when we were over there is when that dog would sit outside and sleep, these flies would land on his ear. And when they lit they'd literally just tear apart that poor dog's ears. And we'd have to get this ointment, we'd have to put it on the dog. Sometimes we'd have to like wrap his head so that they wouldn't mess with him. We'd take him inside and we'd let him sleep in the kitchen, and then he'd kind of heal up and we'd let him back outside. And it happened again. And so when I read these verses, that's the picture that comes to my mind, but I don't think that's what he's talking about. You say, well, then why'd you tell us that? Because that's where most of our minds go. This is what I think he's saying. I think he's inviting us to intimate communion with him. Because there's another picture that should come to our minds when we read these verses. Think about the picture of when Jesus knelt down and was washing the feet of his disciples. Do you remember that story? In fact, it was the night he was going to be betrayed. It was the night that they celebrated the Passover for the last time in the old covenant. And he said, This cup is the new covenant, the new testament in my blood. And he basically is saying, I'm going to the cross, and the old system's gonna it's gonna pass away, it's gonna be replaced by this new system. And so as you remember the Passover, now you're gonna remember the cross It's an amazing story. But in the midst of that final night, before all these things unfold, he comes over to his disciples and he gets this basin and he kneels down and he starts washing the feet of his disciples. I said, don't do this. You can't do this. I used it as a picture, an illustration. In other words, he was showing them this is what you do when you come to someone's house. Someone will come and meet you at the door and watch Thankfully we don't do this here. But that's the way they did it in ancient way ancient days. Somebody would get down and they would they would wash the feet of that individual and they would dry off their feet. They would take oil and they would anoint the person's head so that they would be fresh and ready to be welcomed into the home. These were ancient Eastern customs. And so when he talks about you anoint my head with oil, he's not talking about the flies are going to get beat away. He's talking about an invitation to come into his presence. He's literally inviting you into this place of communion. In other words, God's not just the shepherd who says, Come and follow me, and I'm going to pull you away from danger, but he's the shepherd who says, Come and sit in my presence. Come, I've made a meal for you. Sit down and eat it and enjoy fellowship with me. Enjoy communion with me. Hey, isn't that what we're about to remember? Communion? We remember what gives us fellowship with God. He says, you anoint my head with oil, and my cup runneth over. So literally as you sit down, he gives us a abundant expression of loving favor. He says, here, let me give this to you. And oh, you're not quite done yet. Let me give you some more. Oh, it went over. Don't worry about it. Let me give you some more. It's like that picture of Joseph and there's Benjamin and he's given him an abundance. An abundant expression of his kindness, and all the brothers look around going, what's to do with Benjamin? Why is this guy favoring Benjamin? Why is he giving him all this stuff? It's God's grace. God loves his children. You're not just the project. You're a child that he loves. It's incredible, isn't it? God abundantly expresses his loving favor on his children And God does it all the time. This is not eliminating the fact that there were enemies that wanted to destroy David. He prepared a table in the presence of his enemies. It didn't eliminate the fact that there were times that he was walking through the valley of the shadow of death. He was there in the presence Of the shepherd. of And so he was encouraged. In other words, God doesn't remove all that stuff. But in the midst of this broken, fallen, troubling world, God pours these lavish displays of kindness on us. He invites us to his presence and he says, come and dine. Enjoy what I have for you. Enjoy my presence. This is the sense of the shepherds. And the last thing I want to show you is that he does this persistently. It says in verse number 6, it says, Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me. Think of the word pursue. All the days of my life. This is how God deals with us as his children. God does not abandon us. He protects us. He leads us. He stays with us. He provides safe locations for us. He invites us into his presence. And he does it forever. Every moment of every day, whether you feel it or not, whether in your mind you are dwelling on this truth or not, He's doing it. He's consistent. He's far more consistent than I am with my children and with my spouse. He's far more consistent than you are with your kids and your spouse. He's far more consistent than I am as a pastor. He does it perfectly. But that's not the best part. The best part is he does it forever. This isn't just a for this time only. It's forever. Folks, we need to think about the role the gospel plays in this eternal care. And verse 6 says, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. If God did this for us in this life only, that would be good. But if he only did it in this life and there wasn't an eternal dynamic to it, we'd be miserable. This is what it says in 1 Corinthians 15. He says, if in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. Matthew 16, 26, what does it profit a man if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul? If God took care of us on this life and then left us abandoned for eternity, We would have lost everything. But he didn't do that. God has provided in himself a basis for this shepherding to be forever. John 10, he says, I'm the good shepherd, and I give my life for the sheep. He says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life. They shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. Psalm 16, 9, David wrote, My heart is glad and my glory rejoices, my flesh also shall rest in hope, for thou wilt not leave my soul in hell. Neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to seek corruption. Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy, and at thy right hand are pleasures forevermore. The basis of this eternal shepherding is the gospel. And so I asked this question this morning. Have you placed your faith in the Lord Jesus? Is He your personal shepherd? Have you come face to face with the fact that you're a sinner? Christ died for your sins. He rose from the dead. You can't save yourself. You have no basis to stand righteous before God, save the cross of Christ. And you've come face to face with that, and you've placed your faith in the finished work of Christ. Do you know for sure that you're saved? The second question I have is, is your heart restless? Is there internal, I almost said eternal, internal struggle? And noise and trouble. Are you today able to focus your attention again on the shepherding care of your Savior? I want to encourage you to do that. As we partake of the Lord's table, as we remember his body broken, his blood shed, we're not just remembering, hey, I'm forgiven because of this. We call it communion. In other words, I'm forgiven and I'm brought into his presence to enjoy fellowship with him now and forever. And we as God's people together we participate. Why? Because we together have embraced the same message and we have fellowship with the same Savior and we have it together. Are you resting in his shepherding care? That is the question this morning morning. So I'd like to ask you to bow your heads, close your eyes. As we prepare to partake in the Lord's table. If you've trusted Christ as your Savior this morning, you know the Lord as your Savior, you've been baptized and You would like to participate as one who is a member of a church of like faith, I want to encourage you, partake. You might say, I don't know if I feel comfortable partaking, but I need to remember. Let's together remember what Christ has done for us. His body broken, his blood shed. Let's not just remember it, but let's glory in it The Lord's table is about joyful communion with the Lord. And so I want to encourage you to do it. Let's bow together for prayer after that. I'm going to ask one of our men. Ask Bill Phew if you can um lead us in prayer as we uh partake of the bread together, remembering the body that is broken. And then my wife is gonna play uh one verse uh while we think about that, and then I'll come back. I also want to mention that on the first Sunday of the month when we have the Lord's table, we have a little basket out there that um is for uh what we call our deacons fund. And our deacons fund is one of the ways that we're able to uh be of assistance to members of our church and sometimes folks in the community um who are going through hard times and uh They need uh financial assistance in very specific situations. So if you would like to participate in that, please make sure that you uh put that in a little basket in the back. on the way out. Let's stand together, please. We'll sing the first, second, and the fourth verses of Near the Cross Jesus needs me near the cross air of We need to follow the hearing tree, those are in the road. On a second Here are cause a tracking soul of entertaining. He might fall my partner. And on the last, we'll sing it through with the piano and then we'll sing an a cappella uh on the chord. So sing it out. In the cross, in the cross, be my glory Tell my nature so shall I rise be my glory. Amen. It's been great to be in the Lord's house. Uh just uh wanted to also remind you that when you go out, um please pick up a couple of those invitations for our Uh, Easter Sunday, focus on the resurrection, and it's also a Palm Sunday invitation. Um pass those out uh to folks that um you'd love to see come out. And obviously we'll also have it live streamed so some of you maybe I'm not encouraging to stay home, encourage you to be here, but maybe share it online. So that folks can uh even join us uh online if they're not able to be here physically. Uh but it's been great to be in the Lord's house. Hope you can join us again tonight. Um Scott, Moore, can you please close us in prayer? And uh if you're visiting, I hope that you'll stop by and uh greet my wife and I, okay? Let's pray Lord God, we are so grateful to you for the beautiful day that you've given to us. Thank you that we could gather around the preaching of your word and encourage one another in that. That we might take this familiar psalm and see it in more depth and meditate on it this day and throughout our lives. May we be thankful for the many blessings you've bestowed upon us and help us to be more like Christ in everything we do and say. In Jesus' name. Amen.