Well good evening. Good to see each of you. Hope that you had a good afternoon. And uh whether you realize it or not, they're calling for us to uh get snow tonight. So it was 60 two degrees. I was filling up my my woodshed and I thought you gotta have a lot of faith to be a meteorologist gone for Six inches of snow tomorrow. We'll see what happens. Well, let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer. And I wanted to mention too, uh, during our song time, we are doing the Lord's table tonight. So um if you That we're not able to pick up elements and you're planning to participate, please do pick up those uh during one of our songs. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we'll get started this evening. Father, thank you. For the Lord's Day, an opportunity to have quieted hearts and focused attention on your word. We pray that tonight you would speak to our hearts, be with Pastor Chris as he preaches the word. And then we pray that tonight as we remember the Lord's table, that our hearts would really be knit together as one, and that we would be encouraged. Encouraged as we remember the death of Christ, his body broken, his blood shed for the remission of our sins. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Well, good evening. Let's get started with some singing. Open our hymn books to hymn number 36. Sorry, 37. Worthy is the Lamb. Please stand as we sing both verses of hymn number 36. Three seven. We plot, we plot, we For the one that's worthy Jesus Christ the Lord of I am to the Savior, the great I am. Worthy to receive power messages, worthy to receive words on the screen Jesus Christ our Lord join all creation and back Se muecto el Padre. Worthy to receive our righteousness, worthy to replace my salvation, worthy of honor, and glory , and lasting glory. We'll turn over to him number thirty eight, please. Please be seated. We'll see in verses one, three, four, of how great thou art. Hymn number thirty-eight. Oh Lord my God, when I am a someone, consider all the world I have in I see the stars, I hear the rolling gun. I come throughout the universe So great thou art, that saint for one wonderful I baby prego to be. So cleanly thou got a best, but thy body God, a woman of all of us. And when I think that God is not very listening on, I can 't really take it. And on the cross my word and He glad of God to take away my sin And same thing. I'll bring our heart and free thy laws by saving me. Shall come , wish I'll admire and take me wrong but to a shall be my heart Then I shall vow in humble valuation that them proclaim I God how great thou art And sing my soul, my saving God, how bring our heart, and sing my soul, my thing in God. And we'll turn over to him number fifty-five. Sing The praise to God. Hymn number fifty five will sing verses one, two, and four Sing praise to God, little red, white, one three days, love. I say mama and extenders that Great singing, Seeley. Two. All right. One fifty one in the blue book. fifty one in the blue book. I run to Christ. Let's all stand, we'll sing all three verses. I rise surprise when she 's my thing. For I bright and bright one born by Greek , and my love empty , my two time. I price price when I might and I might soon reprise. Because right, what he can 't play to us They know and I 'm mighty on the sort of. I want surprise when some person can find us for a My brother might make my name and I want my more came. Great singing, please be seated. All right, open your Bibles please to Genesis chapter ten. Genesis Genesis chapter ten. So as you can see, we're going to be looking at the Tower of Babel. But when you turn to chapter 10, you're going to notice A very long genealogy. And we are going to look at both chapters 10 and 11, but as we look at these passages, I want us to be able to get a feel for how God is moving through all of these lives, all of these individuals And understand that God is intervening. He is overseeing all that's going on in these two chapters Now, you don't have to raise your hand, but in your mind, think of something, and there's probably at least one thing that bothered you in the last year, something that made you a little nervous. And you know, you can think throughout the whole year probably a couple of things. Well if I asked you to think of something in the last month or the last week or the last 24 hours. last 24 minutes. Um you can probably think of at least one thing. But you know what whatever makes us nervous, whether it's geopolitics or pandemics or vaccinations, whatever it is, we understand that God has sovereign oversight. Over the affairs of this world. Everything that is going on on this planet, God has oversight of it. And we can find comfort in that. In fact, God wants you to find comfort. in his oversight of the world's affairs. As we look at the aftermath of the flood, as we talked about last week. We noticed in chapter 10, if we were going to look through these two chapters, we're going to see three ways God oversees man's global affairs. And the first way that we see that is that he oversees men without any kind of discrimination. Now, I'm not going to read up the whole genealogy of Chapter 10, so you you don't have to worry about that. But I do want us to look at it and to understand what it is. It's commonly labeled as a table of nations. As you read through it, you're going to see the genealogies of Noah's three sons, Ham and Japheth. And really the The goal of the chapter is to show you all the origins of all these nations that we read about throughout the entire Old Testament and New Testament. For example, if we looked in verse 2, you'll see the name Madai. And that is the father of the Medes, the Medes and the Persians. You see in verse 6 you have Mitzraim. That's a literal translation of the word for Egypt. And he's the father of the Egyptians. In verse 14, you have, uh, forgive me if I slaughter this, Cast Luchim. And it says there, out of whom came the Philistine, or the Philistine. So we don't know whether or not these people are going to be remembered for all of eternity or why they were included for all of eternity. In God's word, specifically based on their lives. But we know that these individuals were the forefathers of many, many, many millions, billions of people. Including us. And you know what? God preserved a record of them to point to the fact that He knew who these individuals were, who these descendants were, and he has oversight over every single one of them. He didn't pick one over the other. He didn't stop looking at one. Just because he was focused on another, he had oversight over every single one. Ham, Shem, and Japheth, and all of their descendants But what's interesting is when you look at chapter 10, this Table of Nations, even though we see it as a very uh historically focused book, it really doesn't offer It offers little or to no commentary on any of these nations. In fact, if you if you look at it, he doesn't really qualify any of these nations saying, Well, you know, the the father of this nation, which was a wicked and evil generation that God was going to destroy that it doesn't really qualify any of these nations. In fact, the only time God is even mentioned is in association with the hunter Nimrod. It says in uh verse eight there in chapter ten, Kushbeg Nimrod, he began to be mighty a mighty one on in the earth. He was a mighty hunter Before the Lord, wherefore it is said, even as Nimrod, the mighty hunter before the Lord. And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel. So we associate Nimrod with really the main story of what we're looking at tonight, and that's the Tower of Babel with the city of Babel. But you know what? That's not really what we're focusing. We're focusing on the fact that you know what? God, He looked at every single one of these individuals without any kind of discrimination without any kind of judgment. He's saying, look, here's the people. I have oversight of them. I know who they are. And you should too. We cannot judge these nations because God chose not to hear. And you In and even today, you know what? We we may be very, you know, American minded, we think of God as or America as you know, God's nation, but you know what? God has oversight over America, he has oversight over the nations of Europe, he has oversight over Over the nations in Africa, in Asia. He doesn't pick one and ignore the rest. He has oversight over them all. He knows every single one of them. He knows every single person. Every single one of them. He knows their life. He knows where they came from. He knows who's coming from them. And it's amazing to think that you know what? God has oversight without discrimination. But not only does God demonstrate his oversight through his lack of discrimination, he oversees man through personal intervention. And so we're going to read here the account in chapter 11 of the Tower of Babel. It says the whole earth was of one language and of one speech. And it came to pass as they journeyed from the east that they found a plane in the land of Shinar, and dw they dwelt there. And they said one to another, Go to let us make brick and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for mortar. And they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whosop may reach unto the heaven, and let us make us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower which the children of men builded. And the Lord said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all one language. And this they begin to do. and now nothing will be restrained from them which they have imagined to do. Go to, let us go down and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech. So the Lord scattered them abroad from thence, from upon the face of all the earth, and they left off to build the city. Therefore is the name of it called Babel, because the Lord did there confound the language of all the earth. And from thence did the Lord scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth. So in demonstration of his sovereign oversight We see God personally intervening in the affairs of man. Now, we can see from the first four verses, man was united against God. Just a few generations coming off of the ark, the people of the earth, saying, you know what, God told us to scatter throughout the earth. We're not going to do that. And that we're going to stay right here. We're going to build as a city. We're going to get this tower built. We're going to tell God, you know what? We have a name for ourselves. We're not worried about you. We're not worried about your name. We're not worried about what you have told us to do. We are going to make a name for ourselves. But what's interesting is that it doesn't seem that God had initially intervened when the this rebellion started. He waited until he could come down and see this city, this tower being built We see what he does in verses nine through ten when God put an end to the rebellion. It's if you look in verse seven, the language there suggests that God physically, personally came down, much like in the beginning in Genesis when we see the voice of the Lord walking through the garden. Much like later when we see the three men with Abraham and he discusses with the Lord. the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, we see God seemingly going down physically to confound the language of the people of Babel. Now I don't know what what you picture in your mind, but I kind of see, you know, someone who who m more than likely Christ is might be a uh Uh Christophany in the Old Testament. I see Christ walking around, he goes up to one person and starts talking to him in Chinese. And he goes up to another person and starts speaking to him. And you know, I don't know if those languages existed back then. I'm just, you know, we we see God going down personally and confounding these people's languages To squash this rebellion, to stop this rebellion against him. Where man was united against God, God stepped in, and Spread them abroad. Split them apart. Ended this rebellion against him. Do you know what? God is personal personally intervening throughout the entire course of human history. I think the greatest example of that is when we look And see Christ born in a manger, living a normal life, coming up at age 30 and starting his ministry, healing the sick, ministering to people, preaching to people. Being a part of their lives, and then dying on the cross and rising again. God personally intervened in him human history in the affairs of man. And who's to say how God is intervening in your life? Who's to say what how God is intervening in whatever you're watching on the news today? We don't know. But we know this. God's done it before. He will continue to do so. God is personally intervening in the affairs of man because he has oversight, sovereign oversight over man So we've seen the first way God oversees men. He does so without discrimination. We see he oversees men with personal intervention. But finally, as we look at this next genealogy, we see God overseeing men with special energy. Now I know that sounds funny coming from the first point, but bear with me. In verses ten through thirty-two, we see God outlining the generations of Shem all the way down to Abram. And we know that God does this because who do we know comes from the line of Abraham, the descendants of Abraham, well, Israel. That's who this book was written to. It's the Israelites. And we know that from Israel came the Messiah, and from the Messiah came salvation for the entire world. So God demonstrates some special interest in these individuals. And yet, as we read from Shem down All we know about many of these people is that they lived so many years, begat this individual, and then passed If we just read through ten verses ten to twenty-six, we just see individuals, words on a page, people that we wouldn't know from a stranger on a street And yet God, God knows every single one of these individuals. And on top of that, you know what? He could have used any one of these individuals. To usher in his his nation, this nation of Israel. He goes all the way to Abram before he he intervenes, before he enters into this lineage But we know that he has special interest because he recorded for us these names, these lives. They're more than words on a page, they're more than numbers in the scriptures. These were ordinary people who got up, worked all day, ate, and went to bed. And whatever they did during the course of their life, we don't know. God knows. And he knows that this person who is going to beget this person who is going to beget this person, who is going to beget Tarah, who is going to beget Abram, Abraham. All of them had a role to play in ultimately bringing in the Messiah. God has special interest in these individuals. Now what does that tell us? It tells us that God has special interest in people. Yes, he has oversight over All of man. But you know, especially as a child of God, God has special interests in you. He saved you. He redeemed you. He's called you to be like Christ, to be conformed into Christ's likeness. He has special interests in how you live your life because he has an ultimate purpose for it. Even though you may live your life and at the end of it, no one may remember it. God knows what purpose he had for you. And he sees beyond even your own wife because he has special interest in you. So while the generations of Shem live their lives, while the generations of Terah live their lives, to us they're just they're just people, but to God. These were the forebears of the Messiah, the forebears of Israel, the forebears of Abraham, of Abram. You know, I I always think it's interesting when we come to verse twenty-seven that it distinguishes from Shem and his genealogy. to Terah. It says in verse 27, these are the generations of Terah. Terah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran, and Haran begat Lot. But then in verse 31 says Terah took Abram, his son, and Lot, the son of Haran. his son's son, and Sarai his daughter in law, his son's Abram's wife, and they went forth unto them from Ur to of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Caden, and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there. And then Terah dies. That's it. We see Terah moving his family from Ur to Haran, the place where we normally associate Abraham from being called out from his people. people from his family to go to Canaan. And yet, you know what, Tara, he really holds no special place Among the patriarchs of Israel. In fact, if we look in Joshua, we see that Tarah was an idol worshiper. He didn't fully commit himself to the one true God. And yet God, in his infinite wisdom, included just a little bit about him because he had special Interest and terror. Now we we're not singled out to be the forebears of the Messiah, of the nation that was going to bring the Messiah. But as I mentioned before, God has special interest in you as his child, as his adopted son or daughter. Upon receiving Christ as Savior, you are among the chosen elect. You've been chosen to be conformed into the image of Christ. Whatever life you're living, God wants to see you use it for his glory. Yes, he knows you because you're a part of his sovereign domain. He knows every single one, every single individual on this planet. Whether they're in here, whether they're on the live stream, whether they're watching the video, five years from now, God knows every individual. But child of God, he has taken special interest in you. You are among his elect. You are a new creature. You are no longer part of this world system. You are an ambassador for Christ. So why wouldn't he take special interest in you? He cares for you personally. He has oversight over you and he wants to demonstrate So as we've seen from just these two chapters, I know there's a lot of genealogy. I know that there's a lot of historosity when we look at the Tower of Babel, but what God wants you to find in these chapters is comfort because He has oversight, sovereign oversight. Over the affairs of man. Without discrimination, our God oversees this world with special interest and even through intervention. And we can find comfort, regardless of how God sees fit to oversee this world. Regardless of what we may see that bothers us, whatever may seem to be going out of control in this world, we can find comfort because God. Cares deeply what is going on, both globally and personally. The Lord is in control. Let's find comfort in his sovereign oversight. Father, we pause now and we reflect on this immensely important event in history. And yes, a lot of focus can be given on just the the minute details of what happened at Babel. The city that was built, the tower that was built, the rebellion of man. But as we've seen in what you've recorded in Scripture, with these two genealogies sandwiching this event, we see a bigger picture than Just this is where languages came from. We see your sovereign hand, your sovereign oversight over the affairs of this world. Lord, I thank you that you look at this world, you have oversight over everyone without discrimination. You do not pick and choose Who to look over. You look over all. And when needed, throughout history and in the ages to come, you intervene. You play your hand to ensure that your will is done. And yet, we're not just clockwork. We've taken special interest in Us as your children, as your people, as ones with purpose, with eternal purpose Make us more like you and your son. Father, let us reflect on us on this truth tonight, that in your sovereign oversight we may find you Comfort. For it's in Christ's name we pray and praise you. Amen. Okay, we're going to take a few minutes tonight to uh spend time reflecting on the work of Christ and uh specifically to partake of the Lord's Son. table and you might sit down and you go, well, man, the Tower of Babel, like how does that have anything to do with the gospel? Well the truth is that that is part of the story of redemption. when he talked about those individual families, the fact is you don't have a messiah if you don't have all those people that uh were born, they were married, they had their children, they're children had children, you you have all of these uh individual generations one after another. You don't have the Messiah coming into the world without that. And that is so very, very important. And then we see this very important reminder that God is personally involved in his creation. And as we go through these Old Testament passages from time to time, what we're going to do is we're going to stop and we will have a Sermon or two that's just reflecting on the lessons that we've learned from these individual passages. And so we will have those kinds of messages along the way. But we're reminded that God's personality And it's not so much that God was confounding the languages to punish the people, as much as it was him graciously restraining evil in the world. And uh he was doing that because Because ultimately he loves people. And he is going to, and he did, but uh from that vantage point in history, he's going to send the redeemer What I'd like you to do now is I'd like you to take your Bibles and let's turn together to 1 Corinthians chapter 11, because that'll be the focus of the Hymn, uh blessed be the tie that binds, blessed be the tie that binds, and we will sing verses one, two, and four together. It's in the back of the hymn book if you don't know it's in the insert. I guess it it doesn't have a number, but it's the first insert in the back. As we thought and all Our Lord 's in Christ shall come the battle shape of Guess what I give out to evil or harm authors We are heart and friends, our peers, our walls, our names, our walls For conference and your cares on the last when we are served. It gives us in perfect, but we each have spell enjoyed God Well I hope that it's been a blessing to remember the Lord's take And also to think about the fact that the Tower of Babel and the confounding of the languages wasn't just about uh God's judgment, but it was in many ways about his personal intervention for the good of mankind. to restrain evil. And I think it's important for us to remember that. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer. And Brother Bruce Hutchison, can you close us in prayer? And then let's fellowship and we'll be dismissed. Lord, thank you for the opportunity to be in your house today, for being under your word, to be able to sing praises to your name. Um thank you for the opportunity to Focus on your death and what you've done for us on the cross and being able to have eternal life. We do pray for a number of people that are with us. within congregations that going through our health concerns and just ask your hand upon them. Give a safety amidst the possible winter weather tomorrow and uh just give Give us wisdom in being on the roads. Ask your guidance upon our night in Jesus' name amen.