Okay, let's take our Bibles this evening, please, and turn together to the book of Genesis. And we are in Genesis chapter 13, and for those of us uh who um maybe this is your first time uh that you've been able to be a part of our our series. We're working our way through the Old Testament and as we work our way through the Old Testament what we're ultimately doing is we're telling the story of redemption. We're telling uh how God has promised to send a redeemer and then he how he sets out to actually do that. In fact it's interesting this morning in our Sunday school um this was not really stated uh it wasn't laid out in great detail but the mission family that's with us, uh one of the things that their missions agency really really does is they go through the Old Testament and they go from creation to the cross and they tell the gospel through all these Old Testament passages. And that's one of the things that sometimes we actually did in Ghana when we were missionaries is we would start with creation. We'd kind of build a foundation so people would understand, look, you're created in the image of God. And because you're created in the image of God, uh you're accountable to God. And we would begin to lay a foundation so that understand God's holiness and God's righteousness. and his justice. Then they would understand sin and how God is going to deal with sin. And then ultimately what we would do is work our way through these Old Testament passages. And what they're doing is they're continually pointing us to the cross. One of the greatest Old Testament passages pointing us to the cross is the Passover story. And what we would do is just move our way through that. Well, that's kind of what we are doing on our Sunday evenings. And we are also on some level, though we're a little bit off, but we're kind of following the same uh progression that we're going through in our junior church classes. And so they're using answers in Genesis. And so uh the kids would not have learned this passage this week, but we're trying to Trying to kind of stay within the ballpark with that. do that. Okay, Genesis chapter 13. I'm going to go ahead and begin reading in verse number one. We're going to work our way all the way to verse 13. Here's what the scriptures say. And Abram went up out of Egypt, he and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the south. And Abram was very rich in cattle and silver and in gold. And he went on his journey from the south even to Bethel. unto the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and High, unto the place of the altar which he had made there at the first. And there Abram called on the name of the Lord. Lot also was wit which went with Abram had flocks and herds and tents. And the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwell together, for their substance was great, so that they could not dwell together. And there was a strife between the herdsmen of Abram's cattle and the herdsmen of Lot's cattle. And the Canaanites and the Perizzites dwelt then in the land. And Abram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee, between my herdsmen and thy herdsmen. We are brethren Is not the whole land before thee? Separate thyself, I pray thee, from me. If thou wilt take the left hand, then I will go to the right, or if thou wilt go to the right hand, then I will go to the left. Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld all the plain of Jordan, and it was well watered everywhere before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, as thou comest to Zor Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan. Lot journeyed east, and they separated themselves the one from the other. Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan. Lot dwelt dwelt dwelled in the cities of the plain. And he pitched his tent toward Sodom. And this next statement is, we could say, like a foreshadow of what is to come, it says, but the men of Sodom were wicked. And sinners before the Lord exceedingly. Now, when we read these verses, you may ask: well, how in the world does the passage in front of us have anything to tell us about the gospel? Well, whether we realize it or not, this man Lot is actually a very important figure in the genealogy of Christ. Now the way that he becomes an important figure is actually kind of dubious. We're not going to get too much into that story this evening, but I'm going to allude to it because we'll find out about this later when we talk about Sodom and Gomorrah and the destruction of that very wicked city And we talk about what happened after God literally grabs Lot and drags him out of the city because Lot is really so callous in his heart because of the wickedness that he lived in for so long. Well, you might ask, well, what in the world does this story have to tell us about the gospel? Well, let me begin by kind of setting it its context and giving you a summary statement. For the passage in front of us. Genesis 13 reveals how God consistently and graciously is disposed toward people despite their sinfulness. And it talks about the destructive consequences of an unguarded, self-centered heart. What's very interesting about the verses before us is we're going to see that there is a very clear hero in the story. And you know who the hero is? It's God. It's actually not technically Abram. It's most certainly not Lot. The hero of the story is God. Because God is demonstrating his grace To Abram. Don't forget what we talked about last week in Genesis 12. God is showing his grace to Abram. And God is also showing his grace to Lot. But within this story of God demonstrating his power and his goodness and his grace and his love for these people, and how his plan of redemption is not thwarted by the self-centeredness of this man Lot. What you're also going to see is the devastating consequences of a person whose heart is self-centered, and that self-centeredness Is not put to death. It is left unguarded. And that person makes decisions from an unguarded self-centeredness. This passage of scripture is going to show us really both dynamics. And so what God would have us to see from the Word this evening is that we need to be sobered by the weights of sin and how sin starts in just a very small way. That little seed of sin is something that as it goes through time, it grows, it metastasizes, it becomes very destructive. And we're going to see that in the life of Lot. But on the other side, we should be absolutely overwhelmed by the goodness and grace of God. We're going to see both sides. And so let's begin, first of all, by looking at the first truth that this passage teaches us, and that is that life, Lot's life teaches us that God, in fact, is very gracious. Now, I want you to think about what we talked about last week. Last week we talked about the fact that Abram is a great man. But though Abram is a great man, he was also a very sinful man. In fact, we go to Genesis chapter 12 and we look at the life of Abram, and we see the decisions that he makes in that particular text of Scripture, what we see is that Abram was very self-centered in the way that he dealt with his wife. Abram was not walking by faith in the moment that he went down into Egypt and he told his wife, I want you to lie for me so that I can be And oh by the way, ultimately you're gonna get caught in the middle of this. You're gonna have to live the consequences of me not protecting you as my husband. But I want to live. That's essentially what Abram did. You know, as we broke down that passage, I didn't want to give the impression that I think Abram is a horrible person, but I did want you to see that Abram is a sinner just like you and me. And it was the grace of God alone that called this man out, ultimately saved this man, and used this man. Abram still was a great sinner. And so we saw in that particular passage that God's grace was revealed. He didn't abandon Abram, even though Abram sent. He protected Sarai. He even protected the Pharaoh. He even protected Abram in that moment And God continued his work. This particular passage is going to follow in the same theme. Again, we're going to see that God is a God of tremendous grace. Lot was the object of God's grace, and I want to talk about this in just a couple of ways and how God had demonstrated his grace to this man Lot. I want to begin, first of all, by talking about what we call common grace. When we talk about common grace, what we're basically saying is this. Everybody that's living in this world, if you have the gift of life You have food on your table. You have a place to stay. You have strength in your body. You can continue to do what you do. You are the recipient of what we call God's common grace. God's common grace isn't what gives you salvation. It's what allows you to survive in this world. And if you're surviving in this world, God has demonstrated his common grace to you. Abram and Lot both failed in many different ways, yet God continued to give them good things that they did not deserve. In fact, one of the great effects that we experience in life when we suffer is that we're reminded that suffering is kind of like God protects us and God insulates us and God gives us so many things. But there are times every now and again where God kind of allows us to experience, well, what it's like to live in a fallen world Sometimes God takes away those gifts. We're not entitled to them. We don't deserve those things. He actually removes them so that we're reminded of something. I'm not entitled to these good things. It's God's grace. God allows us to kind of get reoriented in our thinking. God blessed Abram and Lot despite their failures. Look down at what it says in verses 5 and 6. It says that these two men were so great that the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwell together. Their substance was great so that they could not dwell together. Abram, who was a godly man, and Lot, who was a compromised man, we're going to find out. But those are both sinful men, both we're going to find out later, redeemed men as well. These two men received the good things of God as a common grace. In fact, I want to go so far as to say that God doesn't just Pour out his grace on people that are redeemed. But God pours out his grace even on people who are miserable rebels. His enemies. In fact, listen to what it says in Matthew chapter 5, verses 43 to 45. I love this text. As I think about it, I go, wow, what a powerful statement. Here's what Jesus said. You have heard that it has been said Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thy enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemies. Bless those who curse you. Do good to them that hate you. Pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. Now, that's a really tough thing to do. But then I want you to hear kind of the application here. So that you may be the children of your father which is in heaven. For he maketh his son rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. Now when he says so that you will be uh the the sons of your father, he's not suggesting that the way that you become a Christian is by following the commandment, love your neighbor as you love yourself. That's not what he's suggesting. What he is suggesting is that the way that people identify God's people is by a quality that the world does not have. The world loves people when those people can give them something good or when those people have given them something in return. Or when they believe that there's some potential kickback that they're going to enjoy down the road. But God's not like that. God demonstrates his love to the rebel. I think about what it says in the Book of Romans. It says that were when we were without strength, Christ died for the ungodly. God commendeth his love toward us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. When we were the enemies of God, we were reconciled to God through the death of his son. God loved his enemies. And so what he's basically telling us is, listen, God is good even to people that take their fists and they look up to heaven and they say, God, I reject your authority and I reject your ways and I want nothing to do with you. Or people that say, I don't believe in your existence. And they blind their eyes to the reality of God's existence and his power and his authority and his handiwork in creation. God is even good to those people. If you go to a pagan land where there is a Christian community and there are communities of people that serve idols or reject God's authority, what you're going to see is when they plant their fields, There are believers who have luscious crops and there are unbelievers who have luscious crops. Why is that? Because of God's common grace. These two men were the recipients of common grace. But there's even more to it than just this common grace. There was a daily grace that these two men experienced, and I want to focus primarily on Lot. Lot 's actions in this particular scripture are extremely self-centered. I would even say that they were unjust and disrespectful. And having lived in a culture where those who are younger don't just submit and obey the elder, but they show tremendous reverence, tremendous honor, tremendous respect. to those that are their seniors. Having lived in a culture like that, I can only imagine that when Jewish people were reading these scriptures And they hear that Lot basically looks at Abram and says, I'll take the good land and I'll give you the trashy , land. They were like, I can't believe he would do this to his uncle. Like what incredible disrespect. What self-centeredness. I mean, who do you think had more stuff? Abram or Lot? Who do you think was the father figure in this story? Abram or Lot Clearly it was Abram. So he takes the nice land and he gives the guy with the most substance, the one who is his senior, he says, go take the junk land. But you know what Abram did? He said, Okay, no problem. But God blessed him anyway. What's the point, though? The point is that this guy, Lot, was self-centered. He was disrespectful. He was unjust. Yet God was still kind to this man In fact, one of the things that's really interesting about these verses, verses 10 through 11, it says that he lifted up his eyes, he beheld the land. And the plain of Jordan. It was well watered everywhere before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, like the land of Egypt that cometh down from Zoar, like the garden of the Lord. Lot chose the plain of Jordan And even though he made those decisions, God blessed him in many ways. He didn't earn those blessings. He was blessed in spite of those blessings. I think this is a truth, a principle that you and I need to understand. There are times in our life that we believe that we're right with God because we're being blessed. You know what I mean? Or the inverse of this, there are times that we feel that because our life is lean And we're going through challenges and difficulties and hardships that somehow God has removed his favor. He doesn't love us, so he's not he he d he's not treating us favorably as his children. But what we see in these verses is that's not necessarily the case. God treated Lot very kindly and very well in spite of the fact that he was a sinful person. He does that for you too. He does that for me too. There's a third thing that's very interesting about God's grace here, not just this daily grace, but there is a providence in this story that's very interesting Lot's story is very complicated. And Lot's story is very tragic. But God chose to use this man's lot, this man's lot, in spite of the complexity and the tragedy of the storyline. Listen to what it says in verses 12 through 13. Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain, and he pitched his tent toward Sodom. But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the Lord exceedingly Now I'm going to say a little bit more about Lot's decision to choose the land that he did, to pitch his tent toward a city that was very evil, and by the end of the story what we see is that Lot is living in the city. He's not just living in the city, but the city's living in lot, okay? And as he's living in this city, he has become a part of the culture of the city. And when God is dragging this man out, his wife says, I don't want to leave. And he goes to his children, and his children don't want to leave. And his children's spouses, they laugh and they mock this man a lot, and they say, God's going to destroy this powerful city, the city that you sit in the gate at? Forget it. We're not going to go with you. This man Lot experiences a great tragedy. Yet, in spite of that, God blessed him materially. He was successful and prosperous in a very powerful city. Yes. This poor judgment is going to come back to bite him. He had poor judgment in how he related to his uncle. He had poor judgment and the place that he chose to live. He had poor judgment and his d decision to assimilate into a very wicked city, this cost him almost his entire family. In fact, I think you could argue That it actually costed his entire family. Because not only did he lose his wife and he lost his children and their spouses And if they had any children, we have no idea. He lost those. But his two daughters that went with him, we see the end of that story too. An absolute tragedy. Lot's life was the result of his poor decisions. This tragedy is something that kind of blows my mind to think about. Yet, think of this God worked despite his sin and the terrible consequences of his sin to bring the Messiah into the world. I want you to turn to a passage of scripture that's very interesting because this story is actually a piece of what is fated in Ruth chapter 4. So go with me for just a moment to Ruth chapter 4, and I know that you know the story of Ruth. Ruth is set during the time of the judges. And when we read about the life of Ruth, Ruth is one of those stories that has a very romantic side to it, a very sweet and a very joyful side to it. We see the providence of Of God, the goodness of God in this, God's plan to bring a redeemer, and how Ruth is going to be a part of it. Yet we see a tragedy in the story as well. We see that a man takes his family out of Bethlehem, the house of bread, and he goes to Moab. And there in Moab, his two boys marry Moabite women who are idolaters. And then this tragedy hits where The man dies, his boys die, and his wife is very, very bitter, and she wants to go back to Bethlehem. And when she goes back to Bethlehem, she is so bitter against God that she tells her two daughter-in-laws, Don't come with me Go back to your people, go back to your gods, worship them, get a husband, and forget about me. That's basically what this woman says. She says, Don't call me Naomi, call me Mara. That's tragic Yet, what we see is that God doesn't abandon this woman. Her daughter-in-law Ruth did not go back to her idols. She did not go back to her people. Her daughter-in-law Ruth said, no. Your people are going to be my people. And your God is going to be my God. And there's nothing that can stop me from going to be with you. And God blessed this woman, Ruth, a Moabite. And this woman, Ruth, ends up to become a part of God's covenant people. And by the end of the story, God gives this woman a husband. And not only gives her a husband, but gives her a child, and that child is a very important store part of the story of the Messiah coming to the world. Listen to what it says at the end of Ruth, Ruth chapter 4, verse 12. He says, let thy house be like the house of Pharisees, whom Tamar bare unto Judah. Now If you wonder who Pharaz was and who Tamar was , read the book of Genesis and you'll find the story. And it won't be one that you read to your kids at night, I promise you. You will not read that story. Why? Because it's a tragedy. It's a horrific story. But He says, Let your house be like the house of Pharaoh's, whom Tamar bear of Judah, of the seed which the Lord shall give thee of this young woman. So Boaz took Ruth, and she was his wife. The Lord gave her conception. She bare a son. And the women said unto Naomi , Blessed be the Lord which hath not left thee this day without a kinsman. His name may be famous in Israel. He shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life, a nourisher of thine old age They called his name Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of who? David. If you're reading the genealogy of Christ, the book of Matthew, Matthew works through the legal side through Joseph. We know that Joseph was not Christ's biological father because he was conceived in the womb of the Virgin Mary. But we could say his right to the throne, his legal right to the throne, was through Joseph, not his father, but the one who was a father to him. And as he gives the genealogy of Christ on that side of the family, he mentions this man, Pharaz, who was from Tamar. And he mentions Ruth, the Moabites. You say, well, where did the Moabites come from? Well, that's an interesting story. Another one you probably will not read to your kids tonight. It's the result of this man Lott's very poor decisions. Why do I bring this up? I bring this up simply to say this. In spite of the horrible decisions this man made, God still kept his plan intact. He did. His plan was not thwarted. God brought the Savior into the world. And interestingly enough, this man, Lot, as much as he stumbled, the scripture tells us, was actually a man who believed in the gospel. The last thing I'll mention about God's grace in his life was God's saving grace. In 2 Peter 2, verses 6 to 9, this is what it says. Very interesting text. The cities of Sodom and Gomorrah God turned into ashes. He condemned them with an overthrow, making them an ensample that those that after should live ungodly. And he delivered just law, and I think this is an interesting statement, vexed with the filthy conversations of the wicked. For that righteous man dwelling amongst them And seeing and hearing vex his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation and to rescue the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished. Now these verses are very interesting because in the context of 2 Peter, he's talking about how within the church there are some people who are false teachers. and they're perverting the gospel and they're preaching false teaching. And then within the church there are people who have trusted in the simple gospel message. But these false teachers are affecting the thinking and the living of these believers. In fact, you can even look at a body of believers in some context where it's kind of a mess. And you go, how do you separate all this out? And what does Peter say? God knows how to take the righteous and how to separate them out and preserve them until that final day. And those who are not, he knows to separate them out and to judge them for eternity. The example that he uses is this man Lot. So when Lot went down to Sodom, he made horrific decisions. decisions that cost him on this side of eternity. But as he went into that city and as he assimilated into that city, he still was a believing man And the things that he saw and the things that he heard and the things that his kids were involved in, those things plagued this man's conscience and bothered this man's heart. And we see in these verses that though he lived a tragic life in many situations. He had believed in the gospel. What do we see in these verses? Well what we see is that Lot's life teaches us that God is gracious. And the truth is that God's grace is a precious and glorious thing. The second thing though that it teaches us Lot's life teaches us that self-centeredness is painfully destructive. You know, I can talk to you about the grace of God, and we can glory in the grace of God, but there are certain things that though God is very gracious to us, It doesn't mean that the decisions we make don't matter. It doesn't mean that if we make poor decisions, there won't be consequences. Or if we sow to the flesh, we won't reap corruption as a result of that. The reality is that God is very good and God is very gracious, but we should never, never, never presume against the goodness and the grace of God. Lot's life is a great example of this Lot received God's common grace. Lot received God's daily grace. Lot was actually on some level a part of the story where God brings the Redeemer into the world. Lot was a man who placed his faith in the coming Messiah as a result of really probably the life of his uncle Abram. But Lot was a tragedy because He didn't keep his heart in check. We see Lot's self-centeredness. We think about how he put his own interests first When Abram looks at this conflict between his herdsmen and Lot's herdsmen, Lot says, or Abram says, we've got to resolve this matter. So he goes to Lot and he says, here's what we're going to do. The land is before you. You can take this side or that side. It's your choice. Do what you want. What does he do? Puts his own interests first. This is something that ultimately led him down a road that ended up in a very tragic place. That's self-centeredness. The second thing we see is that he showed a lack of judgment by not favoring the greater needs of Abram's Hertz. I mentioned this before. But between Abram and Lot, who do you think had more stuff? Who do you think had more herds that needed to be watered and to be fed? Do you think it was Lot's? The younger man? What do you think was Abram? Unquestionably, in my mind, it would have been Abram. If if Lot was thinking in a just manner, not only would he not have put his own interests first. But he would have looked at this very practically and he would have said, well, Abram, obviously you should take this land here. You have more herds to feed. You have more herds to water. This is a lusher, richer land. You should take this land because you have the need more than I do. But that's not what he did. He showed a lack of honor or respect for this man who was his uncle. He was senior to him. Again, I tell you that we live in a culture where people don't respect their elders anymore. They just don't. But in most societies, throughout most of history, if you had gray hair, you were treated with respect You are treated with honor. You know, when the scripture says honor your father and mother, we think, well, my mom, my dad But the truth is in most societies what people would think of not just my biological mom and dad, but the person who was a father to me. The woman that was a mother to me. They might be thinking about uncles and aunts and a grandparent They may be thinking about a family elder who isn't necessarily their biological dad. They thought in that kind of way, but not Lot. Lot was all about himself. And we see the tragic result of that. Then we see the painful consequences that followed this unchecked self-centeredness. Lot lost probably the greatest influence in his life. He traded a man named Abram, a man who ends up being the father of faith, the one who was willing down the road To offer his own son law, his own son Isaac on an altar. This is the man that he walked away from so that he could go live in Sodom. Can you imagine that? It's sort of like the prodigal son. The prodigal son said, Dad, give me my stuff. I'm going to the far country. This is the mentality of Lot when he makes such a decision. And he lost the influence of this matured wise man Abram. He lost his family. One of the things that really stands out to me about when God comes, And he's going to go and he's going to spy out the land of Sodom. And he's going to see what has been reported to him. It's a very interesting passage because God knows everything. It's not like God was like, hmm, I wonder what's going on there. I'd like to figure this out. He's literally going to walk in the city and he's going to see for himself what's going on in this place. And the text lays out in tremendous detail, graphic detail, what was going on in that place. But when Abram is talking to the servant of the Lord, probably the pre-incarnate Christ. As Abram is talking to this person and he says, God's going to judge the city, he says, if just 50 righteous people were there. How about 20? He goes all the way to what? To 10. And I'd encourage you, do the math and try to figure out why he would have gone to 10. It tells us that two girls went with him. It tells us that his wife went with him. It tells us that he went to his children's spouses. When you started doing the math, you realize that Lot in his family was at least 10 people. Perhaps that's why Abram decided to stop there. We don't know. But here's the point. The decisions he made led to the complete loss of his family. I really want to encourage our young families here. And I I am part of that group. My kids are pretty young still. The fact is, we have a tremendous responsibility to raise our kids and the nurture and admonition of the Lord. We need to think very carefully about the decisions we make and not just how they affect them at this moment. but how it'll affect them as time goes on and they end up becoming adults and young young adults and starting their own families. Lost decisions didn't just influence him, it affected his family He lost his possessions. And by the way, possessions are not, you know, a big deal when you talk about eternity. But the truth is he was a very powerful man. He had lots of stuff. He lived in the city. He was in a position of honor. He was sitting in the gate. He was an elder of the city at Sodom. He lost all those things. When I say that he lost his honor, I'm referring to what takes place when he leaves Sodom. And when he leaves Sodom, ultimately the result is that this man will father children who are going to be a complete disgrace. His loss of honor is an absolute tragedy. And then I think of it this way too. He lost his heritage. We talk about the book of Malachi. In the book of Malachi, it says that one of the reasons God gives his children is so that he can raise up a godly seed And so as God blesses us with children, we're supposed to take those children and we're supposed to teach them the word of God. We're supposed to pattern the godly life. for them. We're supposed to walk through life with them. We're supposed to invest our energies in developing godly wisdom in the lives of our children. This is our greatest work that we do. A greater work than being a pastor, a missionary, or an evangelist is raising up our kids in the fear of the Lord. It's also perhaps one of the most difficult things we do, one of the most painful things that we do. And you know what happened to this man Lot? His heritage was the Moabites. And they were not a godly people. They were not a people that serve the Lord. Folks, the point that I'm trying to make is God is gracious. And we should glory in his grace, yet God also tells us our decisions matter. And if we make foolish decisions, we eat the fruit of foolish decisions. If we make sinful decisions, we eat the fruit of sinful decisions. If we don't consider wisely the future when we reach it, we will regret what we sowed leading up to that time period. Lot's life Is a tragedy. The third and final truth I want us to see tonight is that God's providence teaches us how to live wisely This passage of Scripture behind us gives us all kinds of insights into what it means to live wisely in a broken world. We see wisdom as it relates to God's grace. We see wisdom as it relates to walking and making good decisions. Those things are here. And let me give you just a couple of simple thoughts. The first one I'm going to say is this: we need to distrust our hearts. The world tells you follow your heart. Do what's in your heart. Isn't that not what the world tells us to do? Now, I'm not suggesting that as we go through life, we should make decisions saying Well, what what do I not want to do in life? Well, I'm just gonna go ahead and do that. Okay? God does use a godly person Heart and he plants desires in their heart for godly purposes, and many times he opens those doors and gives them opportunities. But we need to distrust what comes out of our heart. Our heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. And the way that I distrust my heart is I take the word of God and I compare what the scriptures say to what I want to do and I go, God's word is the authority. I submit to that. A second thought is this: we need to distrust the apparent innocence of small compromises. You know, many times in life we have decisions to make, and deep down in our heart we know they're not good decisions. They're not wise decisions. They're foolish decisions. They're sinful decisions. But in our minds, it's a small thing. It's not going to really matter in the big picture. I think that when Lot looked at that land, he wasn't thinking, you know, by taking this land and pitching my tent and ending up in Sodom. One day I'm going to lose my family and I'm going to lose my honor and I'm going to lose the influence of Abram and I'm going to lose the possessions that I have and I'm going to los my future heritage, those things never would have crossed the man's mind Yet that's what happened. Distrust the apparent innocence of small compromises. Three, don't excuse sin and act as if God's providence and goodness will isolate us insulate us from the consequences of our foolish decision. God's grace is a wonderful thing, but we should never presume against God's grace. It's like having a conversation with a young man, and you say, Hey, the decision you're about to make, it's a sinful decision. It's going to cause you pain and grief and suffering in life. And he looks at you and he says, Well, you know, I know that God's loving and kind and good and gracious. I'll take my chances. Presumptuous. Is dangerous. And we learn that in this passage. Number four, learn to appreciate the depths of God's grace. You say, well, I thought you just said not to presume against God's grace. I'm telling you this: look Make decisions according to godly wisdom. Don't presume against God's grace. But when you receive the grace of God, be thankful for it. Abram is an example of that. Lot is an example of the first. Learn to appreciate the goodness of God and what it can accomplish. in a fallen world despite the complexities and the tragedies that abound around us. One of the things that I think is so difficult as we go through in a fallen world is we see authorities that are flawed, we see laws that are flawed, we see people that rise in the power that are flawed. We see the way things that are unfolding in life. And we look at all these things and we go, this is out of control. How in the world can God accomplish anything good through this? Yet what do we see in the Bible? Endless history, endless story of how God took that kind of a world and still accomplished what he wanted to in the world. this world. We need to learn to appreciate that about God. And lastly, we need to be thankful for the gospel because that's what makes The sole foundation for the life of the believer. Every aspect of our lives as Christians should be built on the foundation of the gospel. The gospel is what gives us a standing before God. The gospel is ultimately what gives us hope when we have failed. We look to Christ and we remember his shed blood on the cross. It's what gives us stability when everything around us is going crazy. Our lives have to be built on the sure foundation of the gospel. And I've said this before, and I remind you of it again. It's like the parable that Jesus said where you had two people. One was building his house on a rock. And one was building his house on the sand. And they both weathered the same storm. But at the end of the storm, what happens? The house built on the rock is still standing. The house built on the sand is gone. What's the difference? It's the foundation. And so he basically says this you hear my words and you believe them, you're like the man who builds his house on the rock. You hear my words and you reject them, you're like the man who's building his house on the sand. Folks, building our lives on the sure foundation of the gospel is like building our lives on the rock. That life can weather the storm. And so I pray that you'll take the truths of this text of Scripture, all these principles that are so very, very practical, and you'll apply them this evening. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us to do that. Father, we're reminded tonight that you are a tremendously gracious God. The fact that we can live and move and have our being It is the result of your grace. The fact that we got up this morning, the fact that we could be in this place, it's all a result of your grace. Father, the fact that you haven't thrown us to the wayside and we have stumbled and failed so very miserably, it's a result of your grace. The fact that we can stand as accepted in the beloved, it's all a result of your grace. Father, we glory in how gracious you are. Yeah, Father, I pray that you'd also sober us by the tremendous weight of making wise, godly decisions. Help us not to be like Lot, who as a self-centered man, did not keep that passion unguarded, but rather he he embraced it. And you made sinful decisions that led to tremendous tragedy. I pray that you'd help us as your people to walk in wisdom and to delight in the way that you use godly decisions to accomplish good. Purposes. Strengthen us by this text of Scripture, we ask it in Christ's name, Amen