Take your Bibles and turn to 1 Timothy chapter 1. 1 Timothy chapter 1, and we are looking at verses 12 to 17. I hope you've enjoyed the last month that we've had. A focus on missions. The truth is that missions is something that's very dear to the heart of God. When we talk about missions, missions is not just what goes on in countries around the world, but actually what we're doing here in this church is part of missions. So long as we are a church that is thriving, that is healthy, that is trying to lead people to Christ, that is trying to see disciple-making going on within our congregation. That 's trying to prepare the young people to one day take the baton and run with it and for this church to continue on into the next generation. We're part of missions too. Not only are we in part of missions because we're supporting missionaries and because we're praying for missionaries, but the truth is that the only difference is that we're not in a cross-cultural context. Though I would say it would be good if this church was a little more cross-cultural and how it was interacting in the community. The truth is that the United States is one of the most Cross-cultural dynamics in the entire world. And we have many, many different nationalities, even within this community here. And this church is a part of missions. So I hope that this past month, as we've looked at all these different exposures to what God is doing in the world, it stirred your heart up. Today I'd like us to look at a very interesting text as it relates to missions. 1 Timothy 1. Let's begin in verse 12. I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who hath enabled me. For that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry. Who was before a blasphemer, a persecutor, and injurious? And I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. This is a faithful saying. And worthy of all acceptation that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am chief. Howbeit for this cause I obtain mercy, that in me first Jesus Christ might show forth all long suffering, for a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on him to everlasting life Now unto the King, eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be honor and glory for ever and ever. Amen. I'd like us to bear our hearts together in prayer as we reflect on a glorious text and as we expound some wonderful truths that are unpackaged within this passage here. Father, I pray that as our hearts are focused on this text, you might soften the hardened will. I pray that you might break the stubbornness Of any person here who is unsubmissive to your will. I pray that you would soften the heart that is attuned to your spirit's work. I pray that you would press them to an eruption of worship and praise to you. that their heart would overflow with gratitude, that they would glory in their Savior, the Lord Jesus I pray that as we examine this passage, we would see displayed in all of its glory how great your grace is displayed in the gospel. I pray that we would see to a greater degree how glorious it is when you save a soul. When you take a sinner who's living a life that is so self-destructive. So worthless in the eyes of eternity, and you transform them into a saint. You make them your child by your work through the gospel. And you make them a new creature, and you give them a new purpose, and you change everything about them. I pray that this morning, as we reflect on the gospel , That our hearts would be drawn to praise and to worship, and that we would be strengthened by this text. We ask it in Jesus' name. Jesus' name. Amen. As I often like to do, I like to take the passage in front of us and just give a little summary statement. The summary statement I'd give to this passage is that Paul wanted Timothy to understand the greatness of God's grace and the power of the gospel. And for this reason he reminds him of what he was before his conversion. He wants Timothy to remember that the great apostle was once a blasphemer. He was once a persecutor of the church. He was once someone that injured many godly saints. He was an antagonist. He was a hater of the Lord Jesus Christ. But after his conversion, God made him a humble, loving, faithful servant. Is that not an amazing thought? An ungodly man like the Apostle Paul, a hater of the church, could be humble and teachable. and loving and patient and self-sacrificing, proclaiming with all of his heart the gospel he once persecuted God wants us to glory in Him as we reflect on the power of the gospel. That is what this text is all about. That is what I want to draw our attention to this morning. glorying in the gospel and its power to take a sinner and make him a saint. How in the world can we do that this morning? Well I'd like to invite you to look at a couple of simple truths. That we find in 1 Timothy chapter 1 that will help us to have that kind of a heart as we think about the gospel. The first truth I'd like us to see from the text is this: the gospel transforms Broken people. The gospel transforms broken people. Every person in this room Whether you understand it or not, to the extent to which you understand it, it doesn't really matter. You are a broken person. I am a broken person. When I was born into this world, as much as my mother and father delighted in that newborn child, as they thought of all the wonderful things they would get to experience, because God had given them a son. They probably did not reflect as much as they could have or should have on how broken a person I am. And you know, as time went on, my parents got to deal with my brokenness a lot. They got to deal with the stubbornness The hard-heartedness, the rebellion, the pride, the arrogance. They got to deal with those kinds of things The way that a little child could be so manipulative and so injurious to his siblings, they got to see the laziness of a broken child in their home. They got to raise me and work with me, and guess what? Your parents got to do the same thing. They got to do that with you. The truth is, every person in this room is born with a problem. And that problem is we're sinners. We're broken creatures. We are not prone to walk in the things of the Lord. In fact, we cannot walk in the things of the Lord in our unconverted condition. We are blind and we are miserable and we are separated from God. We are spiritually dead. We don't even realize it as we're growing up. When Paul talks about what he was before his conversion, notice what he says. I thank Christ Jesus, our Lord. Who hath enabled me. Before his conversion and before his ministry, he was an incompetent man who could not do what he did as a servant of God. He counted me faithfully, put me into the ministry, who was, and then listen to what he says, a blasphemer. When we talk about blasphemy, we're talking about a person who insults. Now we have a little bit of a reflection on African culture because of our family that's with us this morning. The truth is that probably the greatest offense that I would see when I was dealing with the Ghanaian culture was this issue of blaspheming someone's name and reputation, insulting. That was a huge deal. The truth is that Paul did not just blaspheme Christians. He blasphemed the name of Christ. He hated Christ's name. He persecuted Christ's name He in his anger went to Damascus to get people and drag them back to Jerusalem so that he could imprison them, so that he could discipline, so that he could shut down the expanding work of the church. He then goes on to say this, I was a persecutor. I was injurious. Paul had hurt and harmed people. Maybe we don't think a lot about the Apostle Paul before his conversion, but the fact is there were real families whose lives were terribly affected by the work of Paul before his conversion. He killed Stephen. It was at his hand that Stephen was martyred. This is what Paul was Yet the gospel did something to this man. It changed him radically. He says, I thank God, though I was a persecutor, a blasphemer, and injurious. God put me into the ministry. He changed who I was. He made me a new creature. He completely transformed. me as a person. He enabled me to do a work that I once hated and once attacked. I want you to take a moment and just think about the brokenness of humanity. Go with me in your Bibles to Titus chapter 3, verses 3 to 6. And notice what Paul says to Titus. He says, we ourselves He doesn't just say all y'all. He says we. He was one of those people. He says we ourselves were sometimes foolish, disobedient. We were deceived. Paul says, I was walking in the darkness. I was a man who didn't have common sense Because I was not walking in the ways of God. He says we were serving all kinds of lusts. And pleasures. We lived in malice and in envy. One of the reasons that Christ was crucified is because the religious leaders were consumed with envy. They did not want Christ to remove them from their position. They liked the money, they liked the prestige, they liked the power, and Christ was a threat to that. And that's one of the reasons they killed the Lord Jesus. They envied him They hated him. And that's what Paul was. He was one of those men before his conversion. But he says, after that, the kindness And love of God our Savior toward man appeared. Can you imagine that while Paul was going to Damascus with hatred burning in his heart, with envy and with a desire to hurt people? God goes to him and he erupts his plan and he says, Paul, what are you doing? Why do you persecute me? It's hard for you to kick against the bricks. You cannot win, Paul. That's what he did He grabbed Paul and he shook him. And Paul was a transformed man by the gospel. He says, It's not by works of righteousness that we have done, it's according to his mercy that he saved us. By the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Ghost, which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior. Not only did God change Paul, but he cleansed him. He gave him life that he did not have. He washed him. He renewed him. He made him a different person. He was a new creature in Christ. If we go to Romans chapter 3, it says, There's none righteous, not even one, none who understands, none who seeks after God. We are together become unprofitable. There's none that doeth good. No, not one. That's you, and that's me. In our pre-converted condition, we are that text right there. We were talking about Romans chapter 1 this past week in our Roman study. And we went through this list. Let me mention a couple of the things that are mentioned in Romans 1. 28. He talks about people doing things that are not convenient or it's not fitting, it's not appropriate. He talks about people who are filled with unrighteousness, meaning that they're overflowing with unjustice. He talks about people who are consumed with lust for other people's things. Covetous. He talks about people who are malicious. That means they desire to harm and injure people. He talks about people who are malignant, meaning they're crafty in their ability to plan and plot evil and to carry out those plans. He talks about people who are whisperers, slandering others, backbiting, gossiping. He talks about people who are not neutral about God, but hate him. It says they are haters of God. People who are despiteful, they had no sense of restraint, and how they lifted themselves up in pride. He talks about people who are boasters, speaking in arrogance. He talks about people who are proud having contempt for others. He talks about people who are without understanding being fools. He talks about people who are disobedient to their parents. They disrupt their families. They disregard the authority of a mom and a dad. It's called rebellion. That's called rage. He talks about people who are covenant breakers. You can't trust their word. Even in a formal agreement, if they write their name on a line, it doesn't mean anything because they don't have something governing how they live and relate to other people. He talks about folks who are without natural affection. They've lost their ability to see people with any kind of love. Any kind of grace. They see someone in a very broken and hurting condition and they don't even feel a sense of mercy towards them. Talks about people who are implacable. There's nothing you can do to appease them, to bring them to reasonable terms. When he makes a description of all these things, you know what he's basically doing? He's saying that's humanity. Our hearts express themselves in all those different ways. You know, whether you realize it or not, if you're a teacher and you you work with little kids, you find out that on a kid's level, all those things come out When you work with teenagers, you find out that on a young adult level, all those things are coming out. You get into the workforce and you work with adults, and guess what? All those things come out. This is not an exception to the rule, folks. This is a description of humanity. This is a description of me It's a description of you. Apart from the grace of God, these are the ways that our fallen hearts express themselves. But folks, the gospel does something. When it enters into your life, when God in his work brings you to repentance and faith. When you're gloriously saved, you know what God does? He changes you. He makes you a new creature in Christ. He takes all of those qualities that are flowing out of a fallen heart, and he takes those things and he removes them one by one. He takes that arrogance and he changes it to humility. He takes that envy and he changes that person and they're willing to let other people advance even when they don't. He takes that person who was so rebellious and arrogant against his own mom and dad, those in authority over him, and he humbles that person. Brings them under authority, and they don't have those problems anymore. He takes that person who could never be brought to terms and be appeased, and all of a sudden they're very agreeable. He takes that person who was so unmerciful, and now they see people with compassion. God does that through the gospel. In Romans chapter 12, verse 2, he says, Be not conform to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Basically what God does is not only does he make you a new creature in Christ, but he begins to take that old thinking. Those old habits, those old ways of looking at the world around you and responding to people. And one by one, he pulls those things out. He replaces them with what is godly and what is wholesome. And instead of you living a life that is not convenient, meaning it's not fitting, it's not proper, it's not appropriate, you live in a way that is exactly what God made you to be. That's what the gospel does. The gospel did that to Paul, and the gospel can do that in your life, or the gospel is doing that in your life. We come to a second truth, and that is this, the gospel's power is demonstrated in missions. You know, the degree to which you're involved in God's kingdom work has a lot to do with how much you see his power demonstrated in your life. Now I just want you to reflect for a moment on something that was shared with us in Sunday school. A very difficult situation that I'm sure our brother only gave you some of the details of. Okay? You know, I wouldn't invite that on anybody. But because he was in the battle, God allowed him to see tremendous displays of his power. He was able to taste the comfort of God. He was able to see God defend his children. God defends his church. He was able to see the power of God on display. There are a lot of people who say, you know, I don't believe in God because I've never seen him do anything in my life. Well, you know, the things that you see God do have a lot to do with what you're doing in your life. The truth is, if you're not a believer, you don't see God transforming your life. He doesn't transform unbelievers. If you're not involved in his work , In the midst of the battle between what is right and what is wrong, you don't see him at work in your life. If you never pray, you never see him answer prayer. If you never go through the kinds of difficulties that God steps into and strengthens and matures and develops, you don't see God's power. The truth is that when someone is involved in God's kingdom work, when he's giving the gospel, he does see that the gospel changes people's lives. He sees people that were like Paul, and he sees them transformed to the gospel. He sees people who are broken. People who are arrogant, people whose lives are self-destructive, people who the way they relate to one another, it's so harmful to peace and to harmony Their life is so out of whack. It's not what God intended it to be. And they see God take that person and transform them. And make them something that they could have never been apart from the gospel. If you're not involved in God's kingdom work, you don't see those things. And this is one of the reasons sometimes that our church and our people, I don't mean our church, but the church here in the United States are folks that are very complacent, they say, I don't see God's power at work in my life. Well, of course you don't, you're not involved in the battle. You're not in a position to actually see him do those things because of the way that you're living and the way that you look at life. Look in verse 12. He says, I thank Christ Jesus our Lord who has enabled me. Enabled him to do what? To serve in the capacity to which God called him. He says, He put me into the ministry. He says the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. Why did Paul need an abundance of grace? It's because the work that he did was tough. It was hard. He could not do that work if it wasn't for the sustaining grace of God. It was an impossibility for him to do those things. How is it that he talks about faith and love? The reality is he had to trust God. He had to learn how to love the unlovely. Paul gave of himself in the context. Ministry. He says, For this cause I obtained mercy that in me Christ Jesus might show forth all long suffering for a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on him to everlasting life. God showed his patience in the life of Paul. He showed his patience in Paul's life because God put up with Paul for 30 plus years of nonsense. Of antagonism to the gospel, of spiritual blindness, self-righteousness, arrogance. God was patient with Paul personally. And then God showed his love to the nations by Paul going to city after city to establish churches. God showed his patience to people at Corinth who hated Paul's ministry. God showed his patience in so many ways. Through that man. The gospel's power is demonstrated in missions. Christ Jesus our Lord has enabled me, He says He endued me with power and enabling. He put me into the ministry and he talks about God erupting his plans and his providence and coming to him on that road to Damascus. Paul wasn't looking for Christ at all. He was he was looking to destroy what Christ was doing. And God shook him. And whether we realize it or not, that's probably where a lot of us were too before our conversion. He talks about this overflow of God's grace. He says, I was the chiefest of sinners. I want to ask you a question. Do you feel like Paul sometimes? Unfortunately, I don't think like we feel like we're that enough, do we? We're a little too self-confident, a lot of too a little bit too much self-focused, a little bit too much distracted by the things of this world. Paul wasn't like that I want you to reflect on some wonderful stories of the gospel's power through Paul's work. The first, obviously, is in Acts chapter 9, where Paul is gloriously saved And God goes to this man, Ananias, and he says, Ananias, you need to go and meet Paul because he's praying. He actually didn't call him Paul, he called him Saul. And Ananias said, I know about this guy. Listen to his words. He says, Lord, I've heard by many of this man. How much evil he has done to thy saints in Jerusalem. Ananias is basically saying, God, I think you could get a different person to do this job. When Paul was coming to the church at Jerusalem, they didn't want to accept him. They were like, uh I know how this man is. He wants to join us so he could destroy us. He wants to sit in our houses. He wants to have the Lord's table with us. He wants to know where we live. He wants to know what we do. Why? So he can take us all into prison He can kill us. He can ruin our lives. We're not going to have any kind of fellowship with this guy. So Barnabas has to come and bring Paul into their midst. Can you imagine how you would have felt? If that was you, I mean, we could take some like current situations, take someone who was known to like attack churches. And all of a sudden he claims to be a Christian now and he wants to join our congregation? Like, so how would that congregational vote go, do you think? Oh, our brother wants to join Anchor Baptist. We'd like to do a background check on this man before we uh take that vote up. That's how the people felt about Paul. Put it in perspective Think about the church at Ephesus in Acts 19. It says, Many of them which used curious arts brought their books and burned them before all the men. And they counted the price of them and found it was fifty thousand pieces. of silver. These people were idol worshippers. Their city was known on the map for its idol worship. It wasn't like it was, you know, a hobby in the city. That was their livelihood. That was everything. And these people were so transformed by the gospel, they said, We want nothing to do with this. We don't care how much this has been a part of our life. It's gone. We don't want it. 1 Thessalonians, when Paul refers to the church at Thessalonica, he says. They show us what manner of entering in we had unto you, how ye turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. Paul again is reflecting on the power of the gospel to change the idol worshippers at Thessalonica. But I think one of the most interesting is the statement he makes in 1 Corinthians 6. He says, Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves of mankind Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God. I will tell you that that's not a passage many people want to expound anymore, is it? Yet it's clearly in the scriptures. But here's what I want you to notice. He says, such were some of you. He didn't say you are, he said you were. What is that saying? Transformation. These people were involved in decadent lifestyles. And a wicked city. And you know what? God changed them. He made them new creatures in Christ. He says, You're washed, you've been cleansed, you've been sanctified, you're justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit. Of Christ. Hey folks, missions is where we see the display of God's glory through the gospel. If you don't give the gospel, you won't see God change people. You will not. If you're not involved in the battle, you don't see the glories and the beauty of this. Yes, experience the hurts, but experience the grace that sustains you through those hurts. You won't do it. We come to a third truth, and that's this worship is both the motivation and the result of missions. What is it that should press us to leave our homeland and be involved in the work of missions? I hope it's not a desire for money. I hope it's not a desire for popularity. I hope it's not a desire to please your pastor or one of your parents who's been praying that you'll be a missionary. Maybe a lot don't do that, but some might. It's because you're motivated by worship. You have so seen who God is And been so moved by the power of the gospel that you want to tell others about it. Look in verse 17. After just talking about his testimony, here's what I was, here's what I am, here's how I've been sustained, the grace of God erupts into this praise. Listen to what he says. Unto the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. Somebody says, well, what does that have to do with the text? That's where it ends. Because as Paul reflects on what he was, what he is What he's doing and how he was able to get there, he cannot help but praise God. He talks about God being the eternal king. He talks about him being immortal. Nothing can conquer God, not even death. He talks about him being the invisible God. He says he's the only wise God. His incomprehensible wisdom, his glories, his power over even death in the grave. His endless sovereignty, his honor and glory that he deserves forever. Why does Paul go there? It's because his heart is overflowing With gratitude to God. You know, sometimes I wonder if instead of singing first, we should preach first and then sing about what we just heard preached on. Because that really is the right order of worship. Our mind has to be full with truth And as we're full of truth, we reflect on it, we meditate on it, we chew on it, and our hearts are moved. I don't know if you've ever noticed this. But if there's ever a sermon that people have really been moved by, and then we close in a hymn, that hymn will be much more passionately sung than the first one of the service, I promise you. Why is that? Because our hearts have been fed. Because our hearts have been moved. That is what singing in the church is supposed to be. An overflow of praise to God because we're thinking about who he is, we're thinking about what he's done, we're thinking about his glory, and we say, I cannot help but praise you. Worship is the motivation for missions and it's the end result. A heart that is filled with the glories of God will erupt into meaningful expressions of worship. A heart that is filled with the glories of Christ will be sustained through the most difficult of circumstances. And a heart that reflects on God's glorious purposes and missions will erupt into meaningful expressions of worship Hey folks, if you don't have a heart for missions, it means you're not worshiping like you ought. It's that simple. If you love God 's work in the nations, It's because he's working in your life. It's because you're thinking right about him. It's because you're thinking right about yourself. It's because you're thinking right about the plight of mankind. That he is worthy of all glory and praise and honor. If you have a heart for missions, that is where it will start. If there's a deficiency, I want to remind you, don't try to short circuit how we're supposed to get there. Get back to the heart of the issue. It's how you think. It's what you love. It's what drives you. It's what you live for. It's what you value. What do you value? What are you living for? What consumes your thinking? Is it Christ and his glories or other things? I want to kind of close with these final thoughts. We need to glory in the power of God that transforms broken people through the gospel. Think about what you were. Think about the people around you. The gospel changes people in the most wonderful way possible. We need to let the glory and the power of God as He daily transforms us be something that we think about. The fact that you have matured in the last five or ten years of your life is because God has brought you there God has brought you into circumstances. God has ministered to your soul. He's brought people along your path. He has not set you aside. He has pursued you The reason you have grown to any degree is because of God's persistent work in your life. Stop and reflect on that. And let's glory in the power of God that is demonstrated in missions. As we think about this church and what we're able to be involved in. One of the reasons that you ought to get to know our missionaries, that you ought to read their prayer letters, that you ought to think about them is because it should cause you to worship God a little bit more. To think about what he's doing in people's lives, to hear the stories of people's conversions, to hear the stories of how God is maturing his servants. To hear the stories about how God has sustained his people through the most difficult of circumstances, those things will cause us to worship and praise God. May this text be something we don't forget, but that we think about throughout this day and in the coming days. Let's bear our hearts together in prayer. Father, I'm so thankful for the example of Paul because we're all reminded If you can change Paul, you can change us. You can change our neighbor. You can change a family member we're burdened for It can change that person in our workplace. The gospel can transform people. Doesn't just save them from hell, but it makes them new creatures. Makes them saints. It shapes them. It gives them purpose and value to the things that they do. I pray that you'd help us to be people who are busy about your work. Who are properly motivated and properly sustained in your work. And I pray that through all these things, this this past month we've spent thinking about missions. I pray that you would cause us to worship you more because of what we have been exposed to. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.