There is one activity I absolutely cannot forget this week, and that is that we have our men's uh breakfast. And uh Hugh has uh been recruiting and that's really good. Uh so I want to encourage our men, uh if you If you can this Saturday come to a men's breakfast. That's at 8 o'clock. It's a great time of fellowship. Um the the food is always very good. And uh we we have some time in prayer, some time study. The word together. So, men, please do sign up for that if you're planning to come to that. Also, we have our senior luncheon this week. And for our seniors, please do sign up for that as well. We want to remind you that for the senior luncheon, we are not doing it the way, excuse me, that we have in the past yet, where we have like a potluck style, but each person needs to bring their own food and I'm sure somebody will bring some Kentucky fried chicken, right, Cleo? But uh bring bring your own food and uh we're gonna have a great time fellowship and with uh with with each of us and it's been a while since we've been able to do the senior fellowship, but again that is this Thursday and that's at noon. So uh please remember those uh two very important activities and sign up for that so that we can take a note of that and be prepared for that. If you could, let's take out our Bibles and we'll look together at our opening scripture. Our opening scripture is Hebrews chapter 4 verses 14 through 16. Again, that's Hebrews chapter 4, verses 14 through 16. Here's what God's Word says. Seeing then that we have a great high priest that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are. Yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time. You know, there are many burdens that I'm sure are being carried in this room right now. And uh burdens can come in all different sizes and all different styles. It could be a physical matter, it could be a financial matter. And I want to remind you as we think about the scripture that we'll look at this passage, but also the Luke 4 passage. That Christ understands by experience what it means to suffer in a fallen world. And He can encourage us and strengthen us, and we can Can come into the presence of God and appeal to Him for grace, and He will give it. And so that is really the focus of our service this morning. We want to focus our attention and the fact that we need to rely on God for our daily grace and our daily strength. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to bless our time together this morning. Father, we are so grateful that we can gather together this morning and we can fellowship as one body because of the work of Christ. We're so thankful for his redemptive work, his death on the cross, his triumphant life, where he remained sinlessly perfect in all points, yet he faced temptation in this world We think about his triumph over death and the resurrection. Father, this morning we want to glory in our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. We want to fellowship together as a unified body because of his work on our behalf. Father, I pray that you would strengthen every heart that is here A heart that is heavy and weighed down, I pray that you would minister in a very special way this morning. Those that are dealing with physical infirmity, weakness, sickness, pain. I pray that you would strengthen their bodies. And I pray that you would touch them and heal them and strengthen them in a way that's beyond our power and ability, his people. Father, I pray that you would take the Word of God as it's proclaimed this morning, and I pray that it would penetrate our hearts. I pray that these truths would resonate in our souls, that they would dig into the very core of our hearts. That we would recognize the power of Christ and the goodness of Christ. We would recognize his love and his affection for us, his people. And I pray that our hearts would be stirred up and warned by those things. I pray that this morning as we sing praise to your hearts would express appropriate worship and praise, with our minds fully engaged on these wonderful truths. Father, I pray that your hands would be evidently at work in our midst this morning. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning. It's great to have you with us here in person and on the live stream. The weather this weekend, 60 yesterday and 30 today, and snowing. Really warms my heart. I'm from Minnesota, so I've had to lower my expectation a little bit with a snowfall, but uh at least at sixty to thirty And not 20 to negative 10, like happening in Minnesota. So we'll count our blessings. You'll stand with us and turn your hymnals to page 81. A mighty fortress is our God. We'll sing all four verses. Fortress is our God, no work never Or how many are made of blood or more Just ask for that daily, why speak I said this morning to stay. Coming to pay us away, and we must remove that I know this world where I will still be one thing We will not feel bad. Please have all that border if we can do more than two. I would come back. That would have all would be my mother. I am There's more than I will that I need to. His kingdom is for heaven. And quite a few pages over, four sixty-four, how firm a foundation. We'll sing one, two, and four. How firm of foundation is saints of the board. It is lame for your faith In his excellent word, what more can we say than to him we have them For I am thy God and will give me I 'll straighten the health feature Uh by my brightest little man, you 're taking A soul that unheels us had claimed for repose. I will not, I will Not these words who have woman. Should they have two stakes? I 'm never done for You may be seated. As we turn to four eighty-three, like a river glorious, we'll sing all three verses Over all victorious and writing perfect magic for us for the It in the hall of his blessed death, never forgive Ever traitor down for really like us rather Every joy arma come out. They who trust him boldly, I employ. Stay up on my fulls, thy been as if. Great singing. Our scripture this morning is from Luke four verses one through four. And Jesus, being full of the Holy Ghost, returned from Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness of the Being forty days tempted of the devil. And in those days he did eat nothing, and when they were ended, he afterward hungered. And the devil said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, command this stone that it be made bread. And Jesus answered him, saying, It is written that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God. May the Lord bless the reading of this word. Sorry for the back and forth. Uh you can stand with me now as we turn our hymnals to 475. Rejoice in the Lord. We will sing all three verses. God never moves without purpose for one, and why he deserved that for me The things of my boy 's means long I 'm telling us for Now I can see just blah blah blah to take a little bit and I 'll give you And when I done and no more, I shall come for You may be seated as we sing our last from the blue book, page 38, Great is the Lord, verses 1 through 3. When we came to my being a great king , if it is a fight in every save And praise his who we may in the tomb of God With our glory, my body now proclaim Hill. And praise his own Every needs help I and honor him She had takes all the I'll worship my Lord case the wall of the king. Way the Ray Okay, how do we do that? Feel a bit one most precious in my eyes. I see your stars. And hear the wounded cries, these tattered hands have caught your every tear. I share your pain. Your suffering draws me near. For I sown all the plans I have for you And I will lead you in the way I should try Forever as within my faithful law. For give and one lived off your broken gift. My blood is transform yourself shame. I favor you Because of my greatness For I still know the plans I have for you And I will lead you in my No way I should trust now my heart, my grace is still. Forever as within my faithful laws. Believing one hold fast so patiently on to the hope made sure of cavalry. On day you see this wine is not in vain. I am a king on the Then we turn to bed for I don't know the plans I have for you. And I will lead you in the way I choose. Try to now my heart, my grace is still enough Forever rest within my faithful law For I still know the land I have for you and I will leave Tell it all Forever rest within my faith. Forever rest within my face Oh we're gonna have a Okay, thank you so much for that. If you could, let's all take our Bibles together and turn to Luke chapter 4, and then our children who are in junior church can be dis Again, we're Luke chapter 4 and we're looking at verses 1 through 4, and I don't know if you've noticed, but there's been a theme in our message or in the songs that we've been singing, the songs that we've heard. And there's really an emphasis on God's sovereignty and how it relates to this issue of needing strength when we suffer, and needing strength when we are facing temptation or testing. And the text we're going to look at really is going to call us to look at that very topic. So again, Luke chapter 4, and we're reading verses 1 through 4 together this morning. We're looking at God's sovereignty and how it relates to Temptation. It says, And Jesus, being full of the Holy Ghost, returned from Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness, being forty days tempted of the devil. And in those days he did eat nothing. When they were ended, he afterwards hungered. And the devil said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, command this stone that it may be made bread Jesus answered him saying, It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God. Now this morning we're not going to actually go into all the details that we find in the temptation of Christ. In fact, if we're looking at Matthew's account, we see a little bit fuller, more detail than we find in the book of Luke. But what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look really at what is tr being transitioned from when we're talking about the ministry of John the Baptist, the message that John the Baptist was preaching. And how it's almost like John the Baptist just falls off the scene just like that, and then we're talking about Christ's ministry. And then we ask the question, why in the world is there this genealogy just kind of like sandwiched right there between John the Baptist being thrown in prison, nothing more being said about him, and then Jesus is in the wilderness being tempted. Well, one of the things that's very important for us to remember when we're reading through the Gospels is that each of the gospel counts are given with a very specific intent in mind. And so as Luke is recording these details He's not just flowing chronologically. In fact, many times he does not flow chronologically in the book because that's not really the point. He's not trying to give us a chronological retelling, he's actually trying to give us a logical progression that's meant to emphasize some things. And that is what we find in these verses today. In other words, John's imprisonment and all those things would have happened at a different timing in relation to Christ's ministry. And it would have been logical if You or I were writing the book of Luke to maybe give the genealogy at the beginning of the book, like we see in the book of Matthew. But there was a reason for that moment putting it in where it did. So you may ask the question, well, what exactly is being communicated in this section? We just read verses one through four of chapter four, but Really, from where we left off in chapter 3, verse 19, all the way into chapter 4. What exactly is being communicated? Well, the following section records Christ's personal temptation. Revealing many details about the nature of temptation and teaching us that Christ can fully comfort us when we are tempted. What I'd like us to do this morning is I'd like us to see how Christ's temptation actually is connected to the gospel story itself and that really is the primary focus of the text in front of us. And then I like us to look kind of secondarily at what we find in relation to Practically understanding how we relate to this issue of temptation. What we're going to see in these verses is that what God wants us to do is draw daily strength from Him as we face temptation. And I don't know what your situation is as you come into this room this morning. But the fact is within this congregation and most certainly on the live stream, there are burdens that we all carry. There are things that are very heavy to us. There are things that we have carried maybe through the night. Maybe we didn't even sleep well last night. Got up very early this morning. Things have been weighing down the mind There is most certainly a situation somewhere where someone says, I'm facing intense personal trouble. How am I supposed to understand how God would allow me to go through such a thing? And does he even have a purpose in allowing me to face these kinds of Well, what we're going to see today is that God does have sovereign oversight in everything you and I face. His hands are at work even when we're going through the most difficult of circumstances. This passage gives us a very specific example of that. Obviously, the Lord Jesus Christ didn't do something evil to end up being tempted. He is sinless. The Lord Jesus Christ is not only sinless, but he didn't have a sin nature like you and I do. Yet he still faced temptation. And you go, well, why in the world did the Father allow such a thing? There was a reason. We're going to talk about that a little bit this morning. So, first of all, what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to talk about Christ's temptation and the gospel. And in order to do that, I want us to kind of understand how we flow from John's ministry and John's preaching into this story about Christ being tempted in the wilderness. First of all, we need to understand how really this section relates to the entire book of Luke. Luke chapter 3, verses 19 through 38 really links John's ministry of preparing the way for the Messiah to the Messiah's actual ministry. John is not going to be the focus of the book of Luke. He's going to fall to the side. The focus of the book of Luke is Jesus' life and ministry, what he said, why he went to the cross, what was accomplished there, and all those things. And so he's going to transition from this focus on John to the focus on Christ. The first way that he does it is he recounts the historic reason. that John's ministry ended so abruptly. Look down with me in chapter three, verse nineteen. It says the following. Here in the Tetrarch being removed by him from Herodias, or reproved by him for Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, for all the evils which Herod had done, added yet this above all, that he shut up John in prison Now, there's a lot that's being said there that is not said there, okay? There's a whole storyline that we read about in some of the other gospel accounts. Herod was a very evil man. Herod took not just someone's wife, but his brother's wife. And when John had the audacity to speak the truth about this matter, I use that, you know, tongue-in-cheek, of course. Herod didn't like that. But Herod was afraid of John, and he was afraid of the Jews. And the reality is that through circumstance, Herod was sort of tricked, or we could say, manipulated, into being willing to Take John and ultimately have him killed. That is how his ministry ended. But the second thing we see in this transition is that This passage, this section, is really not just about showing us how John's ministry ends abruptly, but to show us the uniqueness of the person of Christ. When we talk about Christ, we're not talking about someone who's just God or someone who's just a man. We're talking about God in flesh. We're talking about the incarnation. And we actually see some very important statements that are made in these verses that show us about the uniqueness of the nature of Christ. His humanity is going to be emphasized in these verses. His deity is going to be emphasized in these verses. The fact that God in flesh could actually experience real temptation. Is actually laid out in these verses. And you go, how does this all work out? Let me just show you a couple of the details of what it says here. First of all, his position within the Godhead looked down in verses 21 and 22. Again, Matthew has more to say about this than Luke does, yet what Luke says is very important. He says, now when all the people were baptized, it came to pass that Jesus also being baptized, praying, The heaven was open. And now listen carefully to the next statement. The Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him. You go, who is the Holy Ghost? Well, he's the third person of Of the Trinity. Scripture has a lot to say about the third person of the Trinity. And then we see: and a voice came from heaven which said, Thou art my beloved what? Son, in thee I am well pleased. You go, well, who's speaking there? It's God the Father. This is one of the great Trinitarian texts we find in the Bible We have the Holy Spirit coming down, descending on the Son in bodily form. We have the Father saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I'm well pleased. And we have the Son being baptized. We see all three persons of the Godhead in this moment. So this modalistic view where you know God shows himself as the Son in some places and as the Father in some places. And as the Holy Spirit in some places, it's not true. It's not biblical. It's a false teaching. And we see a demonstration of that in this particular passage. John is showing that Jesus Christ of Nazareth is the second person of the triune God. He is physically being baptized. And he's being demonstrated by the Father saying, This is my beloved Son, and the Holy Spirit descending on him as a dove. He's authenticating that, or he's basically giving witness or record of the fact that this is the second person of the Triune God. In fact, what's interesting about these verses is they're also prophetic fulfillment of the prophet Isaiah, where he talks about the fact that there's going to be a moment where the Messiah is going to be The Holy Spirit's going to come upon the servant, the Messiah. And so this is actually a sign demonstrating that. In other words, what Luke is doing is he's emphasizing Jesus is not just a man, he is God. God in flesh. But in order for us to understand the uniqueness of Christ, we have to recognize He's not just a man, He's also God. Or he's not just God, he's also a man. And so we see his human lineage being mentioned in chapter 3, verse 23. Listen carefully to what it says. Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age, being, notice carefully how this is worded. As was supposed, the son of Joseph, which is the son of Heli. What's very interesting is when he says he's the son of Heli, he's actually not talking about Joseph's father in these verses. He's actually talking about Mary's father. In other words, the focus of these verses, this genealogy, is not focusing on his relationship to Joseph as his guardian, you could say his legal right to the throne that's what Matthew records but this is focusing on his humanity Jesus's humanity comes through Mary And what's very interesting about this is that it chases it all the back all the way back through David, through Nathan. Nathan was one of his sons. Solomon was his other son, if you want to talk about Joseph's side, okay, then you're talking about through Solomon. That's his legal right to the throne. But that's not his physical father because he had not. And so it's emphasizing the fact that through Mary, he goes all the way back to You say, why does that matter? Well, because thirdly, he connects and he contrasts the first and second atoms. I don't know if you've ever heard of Jesus being referred to as the second Adam, but that is exactly what he's doing. Because it's very interesting as we look at This verse he says, he was the son of Seth, which was the son of Adam, which was the son of God, and Jesus, being full of the Holy Ghost, returned from Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness. He's connecting what Jesus is doing all the way back to the first Adam, Adam. And you say, well, why does that connection even matter? It matters a lot because of what the Bible tells us in Romans chapter 5. Turn there for just a moment because this is very important because this is connecting John's ministry to And John falling off the scene, and then this conversation about the genealogy of Christ through Mary all the way back to Adam to the temptation of Christ in the wilderness. Listen carefully to what it says in Romans 5, verse 12. It says, wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world, who is that man? It's Adam. And death by sin. And so death passed upon all men for that all sinned. Later on he says, death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over unto them that had not sinned, after the similitude of Adam's transgression. Who is the figure of him that was to come? Who is the one that he's talking about is going to come? He's talking about Jesus, the second Adam In other words, Adam represented all of humanity in his sin, and because of his sin, we're all guilty. When the Bible says that all have sinned And come short of the glory of God, it's emphasizing the fact that we sinned in Adam. We are guilty not just because of what we do, but we're actually guilty by birth. There is none righteous, not even one of us. And so when Adam sinned and represented humanity in the fall, there's a second Adam that's predicted, who's going to be the seed of the woman, who's going to represent those who will be saved. In other words, because of Adam representing us in sin, Christ can represent us in redemption. And that's what he's going to say in the rest of these verses. He says, if through the offense of one many be dead, much more the grace of God, the gift by grace which with by one man Jesus Christ hath abounded unto many. So he's saying, like Adam sinned, and now you're guilty, Jesus can go to the cross and represent you, and you can be accepted by God because of his sacrifice on your behalf. That's possible. But it's not just because of the cross. It's not just because of the empty tomb. It's also because of his life. In other words, Jesus lived a righteous life. He went to the cross not deserving to die. The Lord laid on him the iniquities of us all. He who knew no sin became sin for us, me, you, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. All these things are bound up in these verses. Listen carefully as he puts it. He says, as by one man's disobedience, Adam, many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. Where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. This is a really amazing truth. This is at the heart of the gospel. You might say, how can I be saved? It's because the second Adam, the Lord Jesus Christ, lived the life you can't live. And I can't live. He is sinless. He is righteous. He is holy. And he demonstrated his righteousness. In the moments we're going to talk about in these verses and all throughout the rest of his life, he demonstrated his fitness, the fact that he is qualified to go to the cross and to represent you and to bear your sin debt, though he did not. That's how we can be saved. Because the sinless one died for the sinner, you and me. That's what these verses really are all about. This section is not primarily about learning how to think and respond to temptation. Though we can learn those things, don't get me wrong. It's about recognizing this, right, recognizing the superiority of Christ to the first Adam. It's about recognizing his fitness to redeem humanity back to the into himself. That's what these verses are all about. We can be redeemed because of Christ's death, resurrection, and obedience. Second section I want us to look at this morning is that Christ's temptation also has relationship to our own experience. Now, there are some very pronounced and distinct differences between the way that Christ experienced temptation and the way that you and I experienced temptation. So temptation for you and for me is ultimately there's opportunity, and my sin nature inside of me starts going, you want to do this, don't you? Jesus didn't experience that. He didn't have that sin nature. Yet part of what makes me so susceptible and what makes you so susceptible is I live in a fallen body. I get tired I get weary, I get hungry, I get discouraged, I feel pressures. You understand what I'm saying? And some of those external circumstances, when they begin to weigh heavily on us, they make temptation much more easy. While Christ had no sin nature, he did get tired. He did get hungry. I mean, these verses clearly tell us he was hungry. He experienced certain aspects of the weakness and the frailty of being in a human body, being a man, he experienced those things just like you and I do, yet without sin. So I want you to notice some very important details about the nature of his temptation and really how it relates to us as well. First truth that I want you to see here is that God permits Testing. Now, you know what's interesting about when you read a Greek word or a Hebrew word and then you translate it into an English word? There are certain words in our language that you might say, when you use the word temptation, do you think of a positive or a negative? Always a negative. When you say testing, what do you think of? You think of it being positive. Yet you could use test your attempts to basically describe the exact same event. It kind of has a lot to do with, you know, what the motive of the person who's kind of like bringing you into this situation is. For instance, when your English teacher says, all right, pull out your pen. And pull out a pencil and pull out a paper, you're going to take a test, you don't think, oh, what an evil English teacher. Well, maybe you do. I don't know. But you don't go, ooh, they're trying to make me fail. You might feel that way afterwards, but actually they taught the classes leading you to be ready for the test And they said, here's the material we're going to cover. Prepare. So the test doesn't have like an evil intent to it. It's really there to see Did you prepare or not? Did you learn anything or not? In other words, the intent is not evil. When we say that Satan tempts us, he's not going, I'd really like to see you pass the test. He wants to destroy you. He goes around as a roaring line, seeking whom he may devour. And so when we use the word temptation or testing, we need to recognize that really a lot of it has to do with the nuance of going, what's the motive of the individual that's put me in this place? Is it the teacher who wants to see me pass because they don't want to see me in class next year? Is it the coach who wants to see me prevail on the fields? Or is it Satan who wants to destroy me? He wants to see me stumble. He wants to crush me. He wants to have a vantage point where he can move from there and continually throw that in my face so that I have no hope. What's the point? God puts us in tests. God did this to Abraham. God did this to Job. There are lots and lots of biblical examples of God permitting the testing of his people. And the father permitted the testing of his son. And when the father permits the testing of his son, his desire is not to see the son fail. But I tell you, Satan was Right there in the wings going, let's see what we can do right here. You see the difference. So I use the word test because I want you to see it from the perspective of the Father. Why does God permit such things? He does. Notice what it says in verse number one. It says, Jesus, being full of the Holy Ghost, returned from Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness. The place where this is all going to take place was a part of God's plan. Now, God was not provoking Satan to go after the son, he was leading his son into the place where he knew what would happen. The Father permitted Christ to experience testing. He empowered the Son by the Spirit. It says he was full of the Holy Ghost. This is a very interesting statement. Someone might say, well, why does the Son of God need to be filled with the Holy Ghost to do his work of ministry? Well, let's remember what it says in Philippians chapter 2, verse 2. Verses 7 and 8. It says that he made himself of no reputation. He took upon himself the form of a servant. He was made in the likeness of men. Being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself. The Lord Jesus Christ experienced the suffering of a fallen world and the frailty of human flesh. He is God. He didn't stop being God. He didn't stop having the power and the authority and the rights and privileges as the The Son, but he laid aside those things for that moment to experience real human suffering. He went to the cross, he really physically died on the cross. He really physically shed his blood on that cross. He really experienced the agonies of those things. And so here is the Son in his humanity facing the temptation by the power of the spirits. It's an amazing concept. I don't fully understand that. But it's scriptural. His steps were literally guided into the circumstances that would become the setting of the test. He was led by the Spirit into the world. The season was controlled by the Father's will. It says he was there forty days, tempted of the devil. It's indisputable that the Father willed to allow Christ to face this season of Testing. I mean it's it's clear. If you're going to take the text literally, that's what it says. The principle also applies to you and me though. Just like the Father allowed the Son to be tested, he allows you and me as well. Think about the Lord's Prayer, Matthew chapter 6, verse. thirteen this is what it says. It says, lead us not into temptation, deliver us from evil for thine is the kingdom. Three little statements Don't lead me into temptation, but when I face it, deliver me. And I'm asking you because I know this is your kingdom. This is your rule. They're your world. You're the ultimate authority in this world. That's a really interesting way to put it, isn't it? In other words, there are times that God keeps us from those moments. Because he is so kind and he is so patient. There are other times where he says, No, I'm going to permit that because there's a reason behind why I allow you to fail. Face such things. And through all that, you know what he does? He demonstrates: I'm the ultimate ruler in this universe. Even as Satan attacks, God protects and guides And works. I love that song that we sang, A Mighty Fortress is Our God. And it really emphasizes the fact that Satan is under God's dominion. and rule. I think about Job's life. We've been talking about this the last two Sunday nights. In Job 1 12 the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power only upon himself, put not forth any What does that tell you? Satan had to ask God if he could touch Job. And God said, sure. But here's how far it goes. He does that with you and me too. In Job 2, 6 and 7, it says, The Lord said unto Satan, Behold, he's in thy hand, but save his life. So went Satan forth from the presence of the Lord and smote Job with sore boils. What does that tell you? Satan has to request to come in the presence of God and touch his saints. And God allows us to face such things in certain circumstances. And he has a reason for it. But it shows his his care over the situation. So that moves us to a second statement. And this one's very important because I don't want you to misunderstand what I'm saying. in the first statement. You ever had a situation where you make a statement and then somebody says, are you saying this? And you're like, no, that's not what I'm saying. Let me restate what I mean by that. And you say that, are you saying this? No, I'm not saying that. I am only saying this. Not that. So when we say that God permits his saints to be tested and to experience temptation, we're not saying that God's the author of such things. Or that God is enticing people to sin. Verse number one, it says, He was tempted forty days of the who? The Father? No. Of his own flesh? No. Of the devil. And what's very interesting is when we read these verses, you'll see how active Satan is in his role. For instance, chapter 4, verse 3, the devil said unto him, If Chapter four verse five, the devil said, taking him to a high mountain, showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. CHAPTER four, verses six and seven, the devil said unto him, All this power will I give unto thee, in the glory of them that is delivered unto me and Chapter four, verse eight, it says, Jesus answered and said unto him, Get thee behind me, Satan, it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. Who is tempting who here? It's Satan. The Father allowed it. And Satan steps in and says, Let me throw this at you. And he does that. He does that to you. He does that to That to me. you And God at times allows such things. But I want you to understand something very important. The scripture is so clear. The Father never until Entices us to sin. He never does. In fact, it's interesting in James chapter 1, verse 13. James has to address this. The book of James is a book that's all about suffering, all about testing, all about temptation. That is a heavy, heavy emphasis in the book of James. And James says the following: let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. Couldn't be clear, could it? God does not entice people God allows circumstances to unfold. Sometimes He protects us from circumstances. Sometimes He delivers us in the midst of circumstances. Circumstances. Sometimes he allows circumstances and then he stops circumstances. His hands are involved in those things, but God never, never, never entices you to sin. Don't ever blame God for your sin. Frankly, don't ever ever blame somebody else for your sin either. Let no man say when he's tempted, I'm tempted of God. Every man is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lust and entire We need to recognize in the midst of this passage that God did not want to see Father. The Father did not want to see the Son. And in the same way he doesn't want to see you fall either. God will never and can never entice someone to do evil. Evil. That would be self contradictory. Why would God encourage you to sin against him? Does that make any sense? Of course not. He is always working for our good, even when he allows us to face God can guide our steps away from temptation and often does. However, he's under no obligation to insulate us from every potential. evil and every potential enticement to sin. Listen to what it says in 1 Corinthians 10, verse 13. There has no temptation taken you but such as is common to man. But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that ye may be able to bear it. Let me kind of break it down very simply. He doesn't leave us even when he permits us to face temptation. He is faithful. So if God allows me into a situation that's not easy, it's very difficult, He's still there with me. You say, why is He there with you? Because He wants to strengthen you. You. He wants to give you everything that you need to bear under that circumstance. He wants to uphold you and strengthen you. Listen to the next thing. He limits the duration, nature, and intensity of the test in proportion to our strength. God knows what you and I can handle. You know, if someone is an excellent coach, an excellent coach is going to push an athlete to the point that he knows he can. He's not going to push him beyond because if he did that, he'd hurt the athlete. He's not going to just give him a pass because he knows if he doesn't push him to the extent that he needs to, he will not develop properly. So, what does a good coach do? He pushes the athlete to the level that the athlete needs to perform at a higher level, to become stronger, to develop skills. What does a teacher in a classroom do? A teacher in a classroom understands the level of the children in that classroom setting and draws them to that level so that they can learn and they can grow. In other words, a kindergartner doesn't do sixth-grade work. And a sixth grader doesn't do first grader's work. Well, things are changing, I would say. But in the old days, a sixth grader did sixth grade work. And a 12th grader did 12th grade work. What do we mean by that? The teacher has experience and has been taught to understand here's what's appropriate for that age level. I'm going to put Them to that level. Folks, God knows your threshold and mine. He knows how much to allow and when it's time to pull back. That means that when we're in the midst of difficult circumstances, if God's allowing this to continue, He knows that you can bear the load. And he knows when it's time to stop. And by the way, he does that. And we've all in our lives seen testimonies to that. That. And so he says he will not suffer, he won't allow you to be tempted above that ye are able. When a Christian suffers immensely. It's one of God's ways of saying that's a matured saint. And you can see the level of maturity by what that person has endured. Thirdly, I'll mention he always provides a means of victory. It says he will with the temptation also make a way of escape that ye may be able to bear it. God is with you and He's saying, Here is how you handle this situation, sir, ma'am. This is the escape. This is the way you have victory. He's not hiding that from us. He's pointing us to it. That's the way God works in our lives when we face these difficulties. I think of the teacher, the coach, the mentor, even moms and dads, parents, we have to train our children, and part of that is understanding what they can handle, how far to let them go in a situation when to say no. You know, our kids have to learn how to develop independence. They have to develop strength and maturity. Sometimes we have to let them stumble. Sometimes we have to let them make decisions, which they're a little clumsy with, but you know what? That's part of growing up and maturing. A good parent understands that threshold and allows the children to come to that threshold. This is very important. There is no greater parent than our Heavenly Father. The motive is never to see someone fail or stumble. The attitude towards someone in a test is never malicious. It is always a positive -oriented motive. The third thing I want to mention, and this is the last point into these verses, is that God always has a reason for what he allows. You say, well, what was the point of these verses? Let me remind you of the text that we read at the opening of our service. Here's what it says in Hebrews 4, verse 14. Seeing then that we have a great high priest that has passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. That's an amazing statement. That's a really amazing statement. He understands by experience the emotional weight of the very issues that you and I encounter in life I mean when you start thinking about Christ's ministry and what he experienced on the emotional side, and you actually process it from that standpoint. It's stunning. We tend to focus on the physical side. What about the relationship between he and the father? He experienced immense suffering. He knows what it feels like to experience the infirmities of living in a fallen world. He was in all points tempted like as we are. Yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly before the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. I'll break it down this way. In the case of Christ, he was tempted to demonstrate it's possible to overcome temptation. He was tempted to demonstrate that he can sympathize with our weaknesses and temptation. He made this offer of grace to help in time of need carry far more weight. When someone says, I know your shoes because I've walked through them and they tell you the story all of a sudden, there's incredible strength that comes out of that When somebody has no ability to identify with your situation, I mean you appreciate their kindness, you appreciate their words of affirmation, but you know they don't feel what you feel. But when somebody tells you their story, And it's like what you're going through, all of a sudden it's like there's this closeness. There is a kind of comfort that comes there that's very unique and different. Christ experienced Temptation. And when he says, I'm there to offer grace, it carries legitimate weights. But it also demonstrates his fitness to rule when Adam failed the test in the garden. Here's Adam, one command. Don't eat that fruit. And what does he do? Everything blows up. Up after that. And we're dealing with all the effects of that. What does Christ do? He demonstrates that he's righteous in real practical interaction with people. In a real fallen world. And you know what? He demonstrates the second Adam can go to the cross and represents you and be punished in your place because he does not have sin to pay for. He's righteous, the just for the unjust, that we might be redeemed to God. That's what was accomplished in Christ's suffering. If Christ didn't face temptation, then this is all theoretical stuff, We can say he's righteous. We can see that he is righteous. What about you and me? Let me just give you a couple thoughts. It teaches us invaluable lessons. There are some things that you and I cannot learn in life unless we walk through certain certain difficulties. I was having a conversation with a brother about physical weakness. I said, you know, when you have a man that is physically strong, you know what has to happen to him so that he doesn't rely on himself? He's gotta be broken. Down physically sometimes. When you have a person that's very independent and they're they're strong and they can do it themselves, sometimes God has to take away all of those things. that are alongside of them that are propping them up. And all of a sudden they begin to realize I really am a weak person. I really am a vulnerable person. Why does God do that? Because you need to learn to lessons. I need to learn those lessons. This is something God uses to stimulate growth into Christ-likeness. These circumstances that we walk through in life become the very tools in the hands of God that shape us into what we need to be, that walk according to God's It humbles us, it causes us to depend on Him rather than ourselves. It gives us a context where theology becomes practical. You know, people love to study theology, talk about God, and we love to talk about the sovereignty of God, and we love to talk about the goodness of God and the righteousness of God and the holiness of God. Of God. And we talk about these truths, but the reality is, they're just in your head until you walk through circumstances that allow you to experience. That this is how God is. And all of a sudden you know him personally. He's not just out there and up there, but I know him personally because It verifies the development process. Sometimes we need to see where we're really at in the Christian life And so God allows something to happen that says, that's where you really are. You know what I'm saying? That's where I really am It also provides a basis for future reward. Obviously, the scripture never teaches that we earn salvation. It's by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ's. Alone. There's nothing you and I do to walk into the presence of a holy God, yet trust in the finished work of Christ, and we stand righteous in his righteousness. And we are forgiven in his sacrifice. We're redeemed entirely by his work. But when we talk to the evaluation of our service, and whether or not God is pleased with we could say the stewardship of resources Resources. , The tests of life become the basis by which God says, well done, in that particular circumstance. I remember talking to a pastor friend about a very delicate situation. And in that conversation, something like this was said, well, maybe this works out for good. And something else was said, whether it does or doesn't, it's the right thing to do. And this is what God wants us to do. And if we do it, then guess what? Someday when we stand before Christ, he'll say, Well done. So maybe it doesn't work out here the way that we wanted it to, or the way that we dreamed it would. Doesn't matter. If it's the right thing to do, do it in his courtroom. So what becomes the basis of those things? It's the circumstances of life. Folks, God wants us to draw on his daily strength when we're Tempted. And we all are and we all will be, and it will continue to the day he glorifies us. He wants us to acknowledge our desperate need. So that he will protect us from evil and temptation and deliver us in the midst of these things. He wants us to humbly submit to his providence when it's Not his will to hold back these challenges. He wants us to utilize all the tools he has provided so that we can overcome and endure. And that word endure is important. There are some aspects of the Christian life life that victory is enduring for a season. Maybe not even a short season, a long season. Endurance is part of what gives you the And so I want to encourage you, let's be faithful people. And let's look at the temptation of Christ and recognize He knows by experience. How we feel. And because he does, he can strengthen us. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, you know every struggle and every heart. Use these words to lift and strengthen your people. Father, may we be gospel-centered people. That recognizes the absolute necessity of Christ not only death and resurrection, but his obedience, his endurance. In this life. Father, help us to endure as seeing Him who's invisible. Strengthen us by your Spirit. Help us to walk in conformity to your will I pray that if there's any need in this room, I pray that you would meet that need. If there's anyone that needs to reach out, I pray that they would do that. If there's any one that does not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior, they would turn humbly to you in repentance and faith, trusting in your finished work, the obedience of Christ, his death on the cross and his resurrection. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, please, let's take out our hymn books. Let's turn to hymn 478. The song is It Is Well With My Soul. And as you're turning there, I just want to invite you. Please do not leave this place. If you need to talk to somebody without doing that, if you don't know the Lord as your Savior, please do not leave without reaching out. You can shake my hand, say hello, say, Pastor, I need to meet with you. I'd be glad to I can meet with you today. I can speak with you during the week. We could set up a Zoom call, whatever. There's lots and lots of different ways we can have this conversation. Show you from the Bible how you can be saved. You might say, Pastor, I'm dealing with some heavy issues and I just need God 's strength. Please reach out and uh I'll pray Pray for you, take the Bible, encourage you. Reach out to a brother or sister in Christ who's matured in the faith. You don't have to always go to the pastor with all of your burdens. They're godly people in this congregation. God can use to encourage and strengthen you too. So don't hesitate to reach out to a brother or sister in Christ who's a little further along in the walk than you are. Please make sure that you do business with God. Let's turn together 478. Let's stand, please. It is well with my soul. We'll sing the first, the third, and the fourth verses of this wonderful, wonderful hymn. She 's like a riffer, I changed my mate when sorrow was like sea Here low slow, not ever my lot thou hast taught me to say it is well It is well with my soul , it is With my soul It is what with my soul My sin, oh God bless of its no beas for I said not import But the whole is held to the cross and I verce no more. Praise the Lord Fait adoro my soul, it is well My soul It is well, it is well with my soul on the last. And Lord hast du take, and my face shall be signed. The cloud people that has used. The trump shall be sound, and the Lord shall be send even so It 's my soul it is well it is my soul Amen. I hope it is well with your soul. Might not have been the moment you walked in, but God can strengthen us even in a moment like a service this morning. Uh I'd like to ask if Brother Hansel if you could close us in prayer uh this morning. And I know it's uh Super Bowl Sunday. Um Is who's even playing? I don't know. No, I'm just kidding. Uh please come to church tonight. Um and uh I hope that you'll be blessed by the preaching of the uh the word and I know that it's uh I know it's It's a an American holiday. It doesn't seem to be as American as it used to be, but um but I hope that you'll be able to make it tonight if uh if you physically can can do that. So Brother Hansel, close us in prayer, please As for Heavenly Father, we thank you so much that we're able to come today and worship you this morning. Thank you, Lord, for the wonderful sermon we have heard today. Please be with the people, Lord, who are not here and those who are leaving us and uh coming back again tonight, please be with us allowers as we come back here. In Jesus' name, Amen.