Okay, if you could take your Bibles, please, and turn to the book of Revelation. Revelation chapter 14, and uh we are continuing in our series dealing with Uh, the end times and dealing with the events that are taking place during the tribulation. And the passage we're going to look at this evening is, frankly put, a quite terrifying passage. It is a very uh very sobering passage. And one of the things that I think that's important that we need to do when we come to a text like this It's important for us to see this prophecy in the light of the immediate context of the people that were the first recipients of these words. In fact, if we want to understand the situation that was going on, we need to go back to the beginning of the book of Revelation, looking at chapters 1, 2, and 3. And in first, in those first chapters of the book, we see letters to seven churches. Now a lot of times when we're dealing with the book of Revelation, we tend to not spend a lot of time looking at those seven churches and looking at the letters that were given to those seven churches because we think of Revelation being about End times, not about current situation. And the reality is that the majority of the book is dealing with end times, almost the entire book. But it is important for us to understand that this revelation of the Lord Jesus Christ coming back as the King and as the judge to establish his rule, to establish justice. is not just about us today understanding what's going to happen in the future, but it was meant to be an encouragement to Christians who are going through very difficult times. For instance, when we read those various letters, we find out that almost all of the churches that are addressed in those passages are dealing with some form of persecution. Many of the people who are in those churches are being thrown into prison. Some of those people were being martyred for their Christian faith. They were dealing with a lot of hardship and a lot of difficulty. And in each of those those letters, one of the things that is stated over and over again is Hold fast until I come. We also see this other phrase where it says, he who overcomes will receive. And so that concept of being an overcomer, that concept of holding fast, that concept of being faithful, is something that was really being emphasized to those Christians that were part of those seven churches. In other words, what we're looking at today, if we don't think about the current situation of those people, may seem unusually harsh and unusually difficult to read. But we need to understand that this was written to people who were facing intense difficult persecution I want to remind you that not only was uh each of those seven churches dealing with intense persecution, but from the time period that those letters were written Until we stand here today, as we look at church history, we see a long, a long line of stories of godly people who suffered immensely for the cause of Christ. You know, it's interesting this morning as we are talking about having a godly disposition, how we're supposed to relate to people, and our earn interpersonal dis difficulties that we encounter. We went to the Sermon on the Mount, and in the Sermon on the Mount he talks about those who are merciful and those who are meek. He talks about those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, those who are doing right in their suffering. He's meant to encourage them. You know, it's very easy for us sitting in this time period, in this country, a land of tremendous prosperity. Arguably, we are living in some of the most prosperous days in the lifetimes of pretty much everybody in this room. We are living in one of the most peaceful times. And I hope that that doesn't change anytime soon. But we live in one of the most peaceful times in American history. We really do. As divided as the country is in some ways. As difficult as our political situation is, we still live in tremendous peace and tremendous prosperity. But that has not been the case for many, many Christians throughout church history. Read a book like Fox's Book of Martyrs. And you read the stories of these people, the unbelievable way that they were killed for the cause of Christ. We read about what took place in Rome in the Colosseum. And we're reminded that the story for many Christians has been that we are facing intense persecution. And we look up at God in heaven and we say, God, do you see what's going on? Do you understand? Do you care? Do you have compassion? They looked at God at a time when you have a man like Nero on the throne and some of those terrible rulers in Rome. And they asked the question, God, are you just God, are you going to deal with this hardship? God, you're seeing many Christians die. You're seeing their blood shed. Are you going to deal in justice? That's the question that really is on the minds of those people. And I want you to see tonight that in fact God is going to deal injustice. And we need to understand the weight of God's justice. The fact is that there will be a day when God settles the record as at no other time in human history. The truth is that God is still sovereign, He's still in control, He is still guiding and working in the lives of people, but God allows Christians to suffer immensely. But there will be a day when he stops that. And we're going to see that tonight. I invite you to look at your Bibles, Revelation chapter 14. We're looking primarily at verses 11 to 20, but to get the setting, we have to start in verse number 6. It's a lengthy passage, so bear with me as we work through this passage together. The text says, And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth. To every nation and kindred and tongue and people, saying with a loud voice, Fear God, give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come And worship him that made heaven and earth and the sea and the fountains of waters. And there followed another angel saying, Babylon is fallen Is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. The third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast in his image, and receive his mark in his forehead, or in his hand, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God. Which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation. He shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever, and they have no rest, day or night, who worship the beast and his image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name Here is the patience of the saints. Here are they that keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write. Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord. From henceforth, yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, and their works do follow them. And I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of Man, having on his head a golden crown. In his hand a sharp sickle. And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to him that sat on the cloud, Thrust thy sickle and reap For the time has come for thee to reap. The harvest of the earth is ripe. And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth. The earth was reaped. Another angel came out of the temple, which is in heaven, he also having a sharp sickle, and another an angel came from the altar, which had power over fire, and crowd with a loud cry to him that had the sickle, saying Thrust in thy sharp sickle and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth, for her grapes are fully ripe. The angel thrust in his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vine of the earth, and cast it into the great winepress of the wrath of God. And the wine path was the winepress was trodden without the city, and blood came out of the winepress, even unto the horses' bridles, by the space of a thousand and six hundred furlongs. Now, this is obviously a terrifying passage. It's a passage that indicates a terrible judgment upon the worlds. And the reality is that this is a very descriptive explanation of what is going to happen at a point in time in history coming down the road. The reality is this is not just a picture of what could happen. What might happen, it's what will happen. And the purpose of this passage, of this section in Revelation, is really to contrast the tremendous judgment that the world will face in proportion to their rebellion against God. And on the other side, the blessedness that God's people will experience as Christ comes to establish his righteous rule. The fact is, throughout all of history, God's people have been trampled and crushed. God's people have been the ones who have let God fight their battles, and many times these people have even died for their faith and suffered for their faith. At this point in history, God is going to reverse the rules. He's not going to use the church to crush the world, okay? God's not going to turn the tables and say, now it's time for us to rise up and be the nation that takes over. That's not what he's doing. God himself As the rightful ruler, the rightful judge, the one who's going to establish his rule as king, he's going to step in, and he's going to turn the tide in a moment. He's going to take all of those that have been pressing his people, and he's going to hold them fully accountable for the way that they've handled the Church of God. The way that they've handled God's people, the way that they have responded to the authority of Christ and the gospel, is going to hold them accountable. He's going to take his people who have suffered for righteousness' sake for generations, and he's going to allow them to enjoy the blessedness of his kingdom forever. And that's what this text is all about. So in order for us to understand this text, what I want us to do is begin by looking at a very simple outline of the verses in front of us. Basically, I want you to kind of understand the flow of the text. First of all, we have verses six and seven. There's an angel who announces the coming judgment of God. And it's interesting. It says he preached the gospel, the eternal gospel, to every kindred and every tribe and every nation. The reality is that's a good news if you're being persecuted It's a good news if you're embracing the gospel. It's bad news if you've rejected the gospel. It's bad news if you're persecuting God's people. It's bad news if you're resisting God's rule. The reality is that this announcement is both an encouragement to God's people, a warning to those who are rejecting God, and an encouragement for people to embrace the faith while there's still time. The angel announces the coming judgment. Verses 6 to 7. We come to verse number 8 and we see that there's an angel that announces the fall of Babylon. Now the fact is when he talks about Babylon, when the Bible talks about Babylon, many times it's talking about the literal city of Babylon. And there are other times that he's using it as a picture of a city that's very much like the Babylon of the old ancient worlds. The reality is I don't know which of those two it is. I don't know if the fact is that during this time period Babylon will rise up again and that's going to be a very prominent nation and a very pro uh excuse me, a very prominent city. One that has power and authority like it had in the ancient world. But whatever it means, there is a very powerful city that is the center of commerce. That's the center of rule. It's the center of authority. It's a place that is very evil. It's a place that is very immoral. And it's a place That is going to fall. And it's going to fall hard. And it's going to fall in a moment. God is going to bring down that powerful, evil, wicked city. And all those who have embraced that rule and all those who have embraced that worldview are going to fall with the city. We see the third section, verses 9 to 12. An angel is going to announce the fate of those who worship the beast. Those who take the mark of the beast. We talked about that mark of the beast. And we talked about why the people would take the mark of the beast. The fact is that there are going to be some people that for religious reasons They're convinced that this is their Messiah, their ruler. They're going to worship him as a God. There are some people that may not view him as a God, but they want to eat. They want to do business. They want to be able to enjoy the blessings and the benefits of having his mark and everything that comes with it. And so for pragmatic reasons, they're going to take his mark and they're going to worship the beast. This angel announces what will happen to those that have done that. In verse 13, another angel announces the triumph of God's people who have been martyred. He basically says that there are a group of people who have suffered and endured under this tremendous hardship. You, people in the world, have oppressed them. They're going to enjoy eternal glory. And he announces that. Verses 14 to 16, we see that Christ is standing at the door ready to be revealed as both king and And as judge, we see that he stands there with this golden crown, indicating the fact that he's about to establish his kingdom. We see that he's standing there as the judge, ready to execute justice. And the fact is that Jesus cannot establish his kingdom without conquering the one that is already there. In other words, they're not going to willingly submit to his rule. They've already demonstrated that. He has to remove them injustice in order to establish his rule. And lastly, in verses 17 to 20, we see that Christ's angels will do the work of bringing judgment upon the earth. You know, it's interesting in a lot of Jesus' parables, he refers to this time. He refers to it as when the sheep and the goats will be separated. That's one of the things that he does. He talks about the dragnet and how some of the fish, the good and the bad, will be separated. He's talking about those things and indicating it in this time period. So that's a simple outline of the book, kind of a flow of the section, verses 6 down to verse 20. Secondly, I'd like us to get a very important picture of this illustration that it uses. And that's of harvesting grapes. Look down in verses 14 and following. I'll read again what he says. I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and on the cloud one sat, like unto the Son of Man, having on his head a golden crown. That statement is indicating that he's about to establish his rule as king. On the other side, it says in his hand is a sharp sickle And you might say, well, what is the purpose of the sickle? That's something that they that they used on a farm when they were going out and they were harvesting. Why is he holding the sickle? He's going to explain that in just a minute. But that sickle is really representative of the fact that he's going to establish justice. Notice what it says. Another angel came out of the temple crying with a loud voice that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle and reap, for the time has come. For thee to reap. The harvest of the earth is ripe. Let those words sink into your soul He uses this agrarian illustration, this illustration of someone going and reaping the harvest, because this is an illustration of how God looks at justice. In other words, for all of human history, God has watched the world play out as it does. Now He has not been aloof. God is actually actively involved in the world. And this morning we really emphasized God's providence. So when I make the statement, don't think that I'm saying God is not involved. But the reality is God has given people tremendous liberty. He's given them lots of opportunity. He's let them do a lot in the world. And in many ways, God has let certain things play out. But as God has watched the world, there have been times in history where God steps in and he says, I'm going to demonstrate my justice here now very decisively. They'll give you an example of this, the flood. God looks at mankind and everything that he sees, it's evil. He says that the intents of man's heart at every moment it was evil continually. So what does God do? He judges the world with a flood. And God preserves Noah and his three boys and their spouses and his spouse. Everybody else, all of humanity, is removed. God's justice is demonstrated at that moment. We see an example like Sodom and Gomorrah. And you know what's interesting? God actually, the Lord Jesus Christ goes into the city. The preincarnate Christ. Angels go into the city and they meet Lot. There's a discussion between those individuals and Abraham, and he says, Would you spirit for just these righteous people? Do you remember that story? And he starts with a high number and he goes all the way down. And you count him up, and guess what? If just Lot and his wife and his kids and their spouses were righteous, God would have preserved the city As evil as it was, he would have preserved the city. But they weren't there. When Lot tried to get his family to go with him, what happens? His wife is watching. And she's turned to a pillar of salt. What happens when he goes to his in-laws? They laugh at him. The only people that go with him are his young daughters. That's it. And what do we see? We see that God steps in and he judges the city We look at the nation of Israel and we watch their history and we see all of this evil. One king after another king after another king. We read the Old Testament, what do we see? Examples of kings who didn't follow God. We see examples of a nation that didn't follow God's ways over and over and over again. But at a point in time, what does God do? He sends in the Assyrians. But he doesn't send in the Assyrians to both the north and the south, only to the north. But then what happens? The people continue in sin. And then he brings in the Babylonians and they lay siege on the city, and we see the rest of history. But but what is the point that I'm making? The point is this: before God judges He's very patient. Before God judges with swift and decisive harsh judgment, he always is patient. Before God judged the Egyptians, he was very patient. It's a very interesting story when we look at that. Before God judged the Canaanites, he was very patient. Before God judged Sodom and Gomorrah, he was very patient. How long did it take Noah to build the ark? 120 years. God was patient. And in this illustration, what do we see? We see this agrarian illustration. You plant the seeds, you have the growth. And then over a full season, you take care of that plant and you manage that plant, and eventually there comes a point where what do you have? You have your grapes on the vine. And it finally gets to that point, that season, where you go and you bring in your harvest. But the harvest is something that you have to wait for. It's something that takes time. In other words, there's a very deliberate waiting before you do this. I really think that that's a major part of his illustration. In other words, the passage is telling us that God has been patient with people. He's been patient with people all throughout human history. He has even been patient with people throughout the tribulation. But now is the time where he is going to step in in justice and he is going to deal with those who have lived in great wickedness. Jesus is both rightfully king and judge, and the way that he is pictured in the vision reveals this. We see in this picture that there's an exercise of patience. We see in this picture that there is a right timing to what he's doing. And we see in this picture that it's very graphic. It's not just that he's giving us this picture of reaping a harvest, but he also gives this picture of the crushing of grapes. And he basically says this, just like the harvest is brought in to that vat, and they trample those grapes and they crush those grapes, and then the juice begins to flow out and they collect that juice. This is a picture of what will take place during this terrible time. There will be unbelievable death and devastation. Many people who come in opposition to God That's the picture that we see in the text. We then come to a third truth section. I want to look at that, and that's the contrast between both the righteous and the wicked The reality is that this passage is not just about God's justice and how severe it can be and how decisive it can be and the timing of it and all those things. But it's also about setting this contrast between those who embrace the gospel and those who reject the gospel, those who embrace Christ's rule and those who reject Christ's rule. Those who walk in God's ways and those who trample those who walk in God's ways. Notice their contrast between the way they view the gospel. Verses 6 and 7, I saw an angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the overlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth and to every kindred, tribe, tongue, nation, people. Saying, Fear God, give glory to Him. The hour of His judgment has come. Worship Him that made heaven and earth, the sea and the foundations of the waters. There are some people when they heard that gospel preached, you know what they said? I don't want it. I resist it, I reject it. When God comes, we will triumph over him. That's the way some people thought There are others that heard that message and they said, a little while longer, and we can hold fast. We can be patient. We can overcome. Our rescue is near Do you see the contrast? Think about their relationship to Babylon. He talks about Babylon being a city that has fallen, and it says, She made all the nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. And there were people who were persecuted by the city Babylon. They rejected what the city had to offer. There are others who embraced it. Embrace its values. Embrace its ways. Embrace its oppression. We see the ultimate end of these two groups. In verses 9 to 13, it says: If any man worships the beast in his image, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God. It is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation. That's a really interesting statement. Poured without mixture. The idea is that there will be nothing to limit the results of the wine, okay? In other words, if you took alcohol and you mixed it, what would you be doing? You'd be making it less potent. He said, There will be nothing to remove the potentness of God's wrath. These individuals who have embraced the beast and his message, they will face God's wrath in its fullest fury. On the other side, he says this. He says, here is the patience, verse 12, of the saints, they that keep the commandment of God and the faith of Jesus. Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord, from henceforth, yea, saith the Spirit, they may rest from their labors. Their works do follow them. In fact, it's interesting. This passage is a passage that really does give us a lot of information about eternal judgment. And the lake of fire. And really, we could stop and we could we could deal with that topic. We won't deal with it tonight. We will deal with it another another time. Because there are some people today that are teaching that God does not eternally judge the wicked The scripture is very clear. Those who reject the gospel will face God's wrath forever, in eternal destruction, the lake of fire. But do you see this contrast? You have the contrast of those who reject the gospel, being judged by God, and the contrast of those who've embraced the gospel, who have borne long in patience, who have trusted Jesus. Who have died in the Lord and now have rest. Folks, this passage basically helps us to see something very simple: God judges. And he separates out those who need to be vindicated from those who need to be judged. What practical things can we learn from this passage? Let me mention a few very simply. The first is this. Two kingdoms in conflict can't peacefully coexist. The fact is that there is an established rule, there is, there will be an established rule during the tribulation. The beast and his people will have a mighty, powerful empire. And when Jesus comes to establish his kingdom, the only way he can do it is to remove the kingdom that's there. It's that simple. That cannot peacefully coexist. Christ can't come and say, I established my rule. You can be a part of it, but you'll be under my hand. He can't do that. The rebellion is too high, it's too strong. They have to be removed. Two kingdoms in opposition can't coexist. And we see this illustrated here. Two, justice is both sweet to the one who's vindicated and bitter to the one that is implicated. If you've ever been called into a courtroom to be on a jury, I don't know, have anybody ever been there? I mean, you've gotten to jury seven, but have you been in the courtroom? Okay? You know, it's a it's a scary thing to think about. You are sitting in that courtroom and you are hearing a case. And based on the decision you make, on your understanding of the evidence in front of you, someone is going to prison. Someone's paying a huge fine. Someone is facing tremendous justice. You're making the call based on the evidence. That's sobering. There's another person in that room potentially who's been violated, who's been mistreated. And you know what they're saying? Will there be vindication This was done to me. It's serious. Will this person face consequence? In other words, when you're sitting in that courtroom and you're the defendant And you have done wrong, justice is harsh for you. And when you're the one who has been violated, justice is sweet. Because it's appropriate and it's right. And you see that it's right. My point is this: when we look at a passage like this, God's people will be vindicated. And those who have oppressed them will be judged. We see in number three that God's justice is patient, it's appropriate, it's proportionate to the nature of the offense. God doesn't judge quickly. God is slow. God is patient. He works methodically. That illustration of the grace ripening should instruct us. The fact is, we know that God's patient in his justice because we get frustrated with his justice, don't we? We look at a situation, we say, How long, Lord? God is patient. God is just. He is appropriate. He is proportionate to the offense. Fourth, all the people of the world will fall into one of two categories. There's no middle ground here. Either you've embraced the truth or you've rejected it. 5. Justice says God's grace toward the just is eternal. So is his wrath towards the unrighteous. If you believe in eternal heaven, you have to believe in eternal hell. You don't have one without the other, folks. God's grace that we enjoy as His people, the eternal kingdom that we will enjoy forever, our eternal inheritance. It's real, it's true, and we will embrace it and we will enjoy it. And so is God's eternal justice towards those who reject his gospel. And lastly, this is a very interesting, but I think important point: God's justice should bring a complex response to his people. When you read a passage like this, you're gonna walk away with kind of mixed emotions. You know what I'm talking about? I do. And I think that's very appropriate. In fact, it's interesting in Revelation chapter 10. This is what the text tells us, verse 9. I went unto the angel and he said unto him, Give me the little book, and he said unto me, Take it and eat it up. It shall make thy belly bitter. It shall be in thy mouth sweet as honey. I took the little book out of the angel's hand and I ate it up, and was in my mouth sweet as honey, and as soon as I had eaten it, my belly was bitter. He said unto me, Thou must prophesy again before many people and nations and tongues and kings. You know what he's illustrating here? This message Has both a sweetness and a bitterness. It's sweet when you realize that God is going to vindicate his people. It's sweet when you realize that you will spend eternity with God forever. It's sweet when you realize that God will establish his kingdom and his rule. But as these truths begin to get into your soul and you begin to Ruminate on them, meditate on them, digest them, you realize there's a tremendous bitterness as well. Many people will face God's full wrath. And so we walk away from this text, I hope, with a mixed feeling. One that we enjoy the glory of it, and one that we're sobered by the incredible weight of God's justice. Whenever we come to the scriptures, sometimes we walk away with a mixed feeling. And I think that's the way we should be tonight. Let's bear our hearts together in prayer as we reflect on this passage. Our Father in heaven, we are reminded that justice has both a sweet side and a very heavy side. Father, we are so grateful that you will establish your Son's rule forever. There is an eternal kingdom that awaits God's people. We have an eternal inheritance. We will enjoy your presence forever. And we will glory in you forever. But Father, we're also reminded that there are many people who will reject your gospel and who will not be in your kingdom And Father, I pray that that would sober our hearts. Father, I pray that we would pray for the people that we know and that we would be passionate. To proclaim the gospel to them that they might embrace this gospel while there is time. Father, help us to appropriately think about all sides that relate to this very heavy We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.