Let's turn together to the book of Acts. We are in Acts chapter 19 this morning. And uh this is different than our typical uh progressing through a book of the Bible. During our missions month, we are looking at more of a topic, and that is the topic of missions. If you were here with us last week, we looked at the birth of a church in a very unlikely place. And that was in Corinth, a very pagan, a very dark city. And this morning what we're going to do is look at a second church plant that was in a very dark and a very unlikely place, and that was the birth of the church at Ephesus. And so we're just going to read a small portion of the text this morning. In fact, I just had verses 8 through 10, but looking at what we read earlier, I think I'll also read verses 18 to 20 just to kind of get a little bit of a full setting of what we're going to look at this morning. And so let's begin, Acts chapter 19, begin reading in verse number 8. It says, And he went into the synagogue and spake boldly for the space of three months. disputing and persuading the things concerning the kingdom of God. But when divers were hardened and believed not, but spoke evil of that way before the multitude, He departed from them and separated the disciples disputing daily and the school of one Tyranus. And this continued by the space of two years. so that all they which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. Now look down in verse number 18 it says, And many that believed came and confessed, and showed their deeds, many of them also which used curious arts, brought their books together and burned them before all men. They counted the price of them and found it fifty thousand pieces of silver. So mightily grew the word of God and prevailed. Let's bow together for prayer, as the Lord really speaks our hearts through his word this morning. Our Father, as we dig into this passage of Scripture and we consider all that was recorded for us here in the book of Acts. I pray that you give us clear minds. Father, help us to see the potential in every place. Not just the places that appear to be great places, strategic places for the ministry of the gospel, but yes, some of the darkest places, some of the most unlikely places. Father, as we think about our own nation and some of the turmoils that are so heavy on our hearts, as we think about the United Kingdom and Our missionaries here with us this morning and this evening as they talk about the spiritual darkness in the United Kingdom and Wales and various other portions of that region. I pray that our hearts would not be discouraged. We 'd not be weary. We'd not feel like quitting or just holding on and burying our head in the sand. But I pray that we would see the task before us as it is, but also we would see the power of the gospel. We'd recognize that this is the message that you use to bring people to repentance and faith. This is the message that you use to bring forgiveness of sins. It's the message that you bring transformation to broken lives through. It's the message that you use that can literally transform societies. And so I pray that this morning we would be gripped by not just the darkness of our time, but the power of the light. And I pray that this text would resonate in our hearts, not just for these few minutes together, but throughout the rest of the week, and yes, even throughout the rest of our lives. Father, move in our midst. May we be changed by the word in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is In fact, just a portion of a story, and that story is about the birth of the church at Ephesus. If we were to take the story of the church at Ephesus, it's almost hard for us to even ask which chapters of the book of Acts are dedicated to that church plan. But I'm going to just limit it to chapters 18 to chapter 20. If we were to look at chapters 18 to 20, the main point of that would be the record of this complex story. of how the gospel advanced into deeply pagan places, a city that was centered on idolatry. And through the moving of God, this city becomes a place. that is witnessing a vibrant work, a work that is going to have tremendous influence, not just in the first century, but throughout all of church history. That's what this story is all about. And by the way, history is always complicated. There are always high points and low points. There's always complexity as you look at how God is working. The time we're living in right now is no different There's a lot of complexity to the time that we're living in. There's a lot of darkness. There's a lot of evil. There's a lot for us to be discouraged about. But that's not the only way that we should look at the times that we're living in. There's a lot of opportunity. There's a lot of God's grace and a lot of God's work. And I want us to really highlight the blend of those two concepts this morning. And so as we dig into the Word of God, I hope that what we will see Is that we have a need to refocus on the wondrous power of the gospel. This text in front of us is going to show us what God does when he works through people who are willing. And so with that in mind, I want to begin by talking to you a little bit about the times that we are living in. We know that there is a visible decline of Western Christianity. And I put that And great quotes, because what I mean by Western Christianity is I mean cultural Christianity. I don't mean gospel-centered Christianity, disciple-making Christianity. I'm talking about how Christianity has culturally influenced Europe and the United States. The fact is what has happened on the European continent and here in the United States is in no way what we see today. What we've enjoyed as a people in this land was really built on God's grace through a vibrant church at different periods in our history. What we had is not what we have. And I want to give you some examples of what I mean by that. I mean every day that we pick up our, I guess nobody reads newspapers anymore, we pick up our phones and we read our news, we see these horrible stories. Violence, tragedy, things that make us cringe. And the fact is that there's great decline. Let me give you some stats that I think are very fascinating. The first one is about our own country Those who identify as Christians in the United States right now is just barely above 50%. Now, just so that you know as we go through some of these stats. Just because someone says they're a Christian does not mean that they are born again. But in this land, if if we talk about when I was a kid or Some of our older folks, when you were children, probably 85, 90, 95 percent of the people, depending on when you're talking about it, would have said, I'm a Christian. That means I go to church at Christmas time, at Easter. I don't think church is bad. I have a copy of a Bible in my house. They said I'm a Christian. But this statistic says that in the next several decades, that number is going to drop below 50% for the first time in our nation. In fact, if you were to take research in the United Kingdom right now, 46 % of adults in the UK, it's not that they claim to be Christian, they claim to have no religion. In fact, Brother Tristan this morning in Sunday school said that only 1% of people in the United Kingdom are actually practicing some form of Christianity that they regularly attend a church. Do you realize in the United States that number is actually about 12 or 13%? Do you realize that? Some eye-opening stats for us to think about. 70% of American churches are 100 or fewer people. And by the way, most of them aren't in this area. And if we go a little further north, they're really not in those places. Most of them are down in the south. In fact, if you're talking to talk about the Southern Baptist Convention, this is the largest, uh, we could say Protestant, I know Baptists aren't Protestants, but the largest conservative evangelical organization, we'll call it the 43% of those congregations would be 50 or fewer people. You know what that means? That means that those congregations that are 50 and fewer people are probably not going to exist in 2020. That's really what it means. Because they're not going to have pastures, they're not going to have people that can actually uphold those buildings. And so what's going to end up happening is you're going to have All of these congregations just disappearing because there's nobody to shepherd the people. There aren't people to go to those buildings. That tells you we have a problem in our society. In fact, if we were to talk about the current rate of pastors leaving ministry, in the next 10 years, 50%, 56 % of current pastors. will no longer be serving as pastors either because they died, they retired, or they got burned out and they quit. I guess we could probably all say ministry failure would be in there as well. But that's a pretty large group of people. What does that tell you? There's a massive decline of Christian influence in this nation That's not even telling you the health of those individual congregations, the content of the preaching and teaching in those individual congregations. That's not telling you about how old the people in those congregations are. That's just telling you about their size and those that are teaching them But then we could talk a little bit about beliefs. Their Ligonier Ministry puts out what they call State of Theology in America every year, and this just recently came out. They partner with LifeWay. And I looked through a bunch of different stats, but I want to share with you some of the ones that to me were the most interesting. The first is the one on civic engagement. Over 70% of Americans believe one's religious belief should have no influence on their political decisions. It's kind of interesting. Can you imagine that? What I believe to be true on the most important level is not supposed to influence how I think the country should be directed. That's pretty shocking if you think about it. The Bible, this is to me even more serious, obviously. Only 30% of people in the country believe in what we call the inerrancy of Scripture. And by the way, just because someone says they believe in the inerrancy in Scripture doesn't mean that they actually treat the Bible as if it is without error, the way that they preach it and the way that they teach it may not in any way reflect a high view of Scripture. When it comes to the issue of salvation, only about 30% of Americans believe that we are counted righteous before God through faith alone in Christ, not by our works. Pretty shocking, isn't it? So if 60% of people say they're Christians, obviously most of them are not Because they do not believe in the inerrancy of Scripture. They do not believe in justification by faith alone in Christ. Those who actually are Christians basically have a bunker mindset. And then, perhaps the one that is the most interesting of all, is that only 12% of Americans have a strong conviction they should be committed and engaged in a local church. That's a really small number. In fact, I would say that in most congregations The church that is committed and really consistently there is just a fraction of those who would consider themselves engaged on some basic level with that congregation. Now, why do I share these things with you? It's because I want you to feel miserable. No, that's not true at all. It's because I want you to be a realist. I want you to understand we're not living in great times. But there are some encouraging counter-trends, and I want to mention them just briefly. Gen Z and millennial Americans are more frequent church attenders than their parents and grandparents' generations. I know there's a lot of uh boomers out here who say, look at these horrible millennials and Gen Zers. Don't laugh. It's true. A lot of people think that. But do you realize that that up-and-coming generation is more committed to church than their parents and grandparents? Pretty amazing, isn't it? I'll call that a counter-trend. Another example, Gen Z Americans are slightly more likely to attend than their millennial. American counterparts. That means uh we the millennials, I'm barely in that category, but uh we always tell Gen Zers, look at this, and guess what? They're actually more committed to church than people my age are. That's a counter-trend. Or it could be a blip on the radar. We don't really know. Here's another one I think is very interesting. The divorce rate in America is the lowest it's been in 50 years. I think that's because the people that get married actually believe in it. And the rest don't. Okay, that would probably be a big factor. But millennials are far less likely to get divorced than their parents and grandparents' generation. The reason I do this is to simply say this. We live in a complex time. And the question is What does the future hold for us? Or maybe we should be more concerned about our kids and our grandchildren and for some of you, great-grandchildren. We don't know if Christ's return is in our lifetime. We don't know if the things that are going on will continue to decline as they have been, or if we're going to see a counter-trend. I pray we see the latter. We do know that the church needs to redefine its focus. And when I say redefine its focus, what I mean is what we're going to see in the text in front of us is what we need in the church. And so with that in mind, let's dig into the text for a few minutes this morning. First thing I want you to notice is the unlikely origin of this story, the amazing work of God at Ephesus. Ephesus was an unlikely center for the gospel's advance. Now the first thing I'm going to mention is it was a declining city. We don't see that necessarily directly out of the Bible. We have to go and look at the historical setting of what was going on. But essentially Ephesus at one time had been a place with lots and lots of commerce. It was actually a port city, but historically it silted in and it ceased being a port city. And so what ended up happening at Ephesus was instead of people actually being involved in industry, it became more or less a place that sold religious icons. And that's an important detail because of what happens later in our story when the gospel really takes root at Ephesus. It was also a very dark city. And if you look down at verses 23 to 29 , Notice some of the things that are stated that tell us a little bit about the context that these people are living in. It says, the same time there arose no small stir about the way. Now the way meaning the Christian way. People who were converted and their lives were transformed by the gospel. He 's saying that when that took place, it completely changed and disrupted the city. Now that's not because the Christians became radical and said, we're going to take over town hall. It's because they said we're not buying idols anymore. We're not going to the pagan shrines. We're not going to keep this stuff in our houses. We are Christians. Our lives are changed. There was so much of that going on in that city that a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith who made silver shrines for Diana, not Diana, my wife is Diana, not Diana, brought no small gain unto the craftsmen. He called together the workmen of like occupation and said, Sirs You know that by this craft we have our wealth. Moreover, we see in here that not alone at Ephesus, but also all throughout Asia, and that's Asia Minor, that's the region. That's not China and India, those places. We're talking about a region in the Roman Empire. He says, all throughout this region, this Paul has persuaded the people to turn away, saying, there be no gods. But also that temple of the great goddess Diana should be despised and her magnificence destroyed, whom all age and the world worshiped as the whole city was filled with confusion. You know what this tells me? Darkness. This city survived on one basic industry, and that industry was pagan. And that's where he starts a church. I mean, can you imagine out of all the places to start this church, that would be the place? The third thing I want to mention here is that Paul actually wanted to go to Ephesus and God told him not to. Now, he's not disobeying God now. But the point was that his ministry at Ephesus was delayed. And I think this is a fascinating detail. Go back to Acts chapter 16. And look in your Bibles at what it says in verse number six. We kind of talked about this last week in the planting of the church at Corinth. It says, they were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia. After that, they essayed to go to Bithynia, but the spirit suffered or allowed them not to go, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night, and there stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia and help us. And after that, we had seen the vision. We immediately endeavored to go into a Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us to preach the gospel unto them. They got it. Three times he says, no, go here. And he says, All right, I get it. Now, there are times in our lives we want to do something and it's a good thing, and God says no. You know the story of David? I want to build a temple. And the prophet says, go do it. If it's in your heart, do it. And the next day you had to come back and say, David, uh, actually, you can't do it. I'm sorry. You know what David said? Well, I can help my son do it well. And that's what he did. Yeah, the Apostle Paul says, I want to go to Ephesus. That's a dark city. And God says, no. Not because he didn't love the people at Ephesus, but because the timing was not then. In fact, we see in the story that there are cities that are going to hear the gospel and Churches are going to be started. There are going to be people that are added to Paul's ministry team during that three-year gap of time. And so when Paul goes to Ephesus, it's the right time. And God does an amazing work, but he needed to go to those other places first. God knows what he's doing when he says wait, or when he says no, or when he says go, but wait until. Second thing I want you to notice here is that there was a great spiritual battlefield here at Ephesus. And by the way, this is not just true at Ephesus or Corinth. This is true everywhere. There are no exceptions. When we are dealing with the Word of God, every time the Word of God is opened, every time is expounded, every time the gospel is presented, there's a spiritual struggle going on in the hearts and minds of people. Satan opposes the work. The Spirit of God compels people to repent and believe. The Spirit of God works in hearts. That is always true, no matter how dark the city is. Don't ever think that there are some easy places and some hard places. All places are hard. They need the Spirit of God to work. And guess what? He does Every place is like this. 1 Peter 5. 8. Be sober, be vigilant, your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. That doesn't sound like there's going to be a lack of tension when you preach the gospel. Ephesians 6. 12, we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, powers, against the rulers of the darkness. of this world against spiritual wickedness in high places. Listen to what it says in Revelation chapter two, verse thirteen As John is writing to one of the churches, he says, I know where you dwell, thou dwellest where Satan's seat is And there thou hold fast to my name, hast not denied my faith, even in those days where an Antipas was my faithful martyr who was slain among them, where Satan dwelt. What's the point? That's the way ministry is. In fact, if I'm to look back over my own experience as a Christian minister, either as a missionary in a foreign context or Or here in the United States, I can think of very distinct seasons where I look at the dynamics of what are going on. I see the way that people are responding to the Word of God. I see the way that people are responding to one another. I see circumstances that are going on in people's lives, either in the community, either within our local church, whatever the scenario, and I see this heightened sense Of oppression and this heightened sense of tension and this heightened sense of spiritual opposition. I can think of several times in my ministry experience where that is the case And in those seasons, what I have learned is that the only wise thing to do is get on your knees and say, God, help me to be faithful through this season and use it for your glory. And you know what I've learned? He always does. I have never seen God fail in such seasons. The greatest seasons of growth I've ever seen in any church that I've been a pastor or missionary in has come after the hardest seasons of spiritual attack. And I'm not just talking about me or my family. I mean the church. I have seen it firsthand. Now, why does that matter? That matters because that was the case in this city. The conflict of Ephesus was very intense, and it was on several different levels, and I just want you to get a sense of this as we mentioned some of those from the text. The first example is in verses 8 and 9 of chapter 19. And that is that Paul was slandered. It says he went into the synagogue and he spoke boldly for the space of three months, disputing and persuading the things concerning the kingdom of God. But when divers were hardened and believed not, they spoke evil of that way before the multitude, and he departed from them. Does anybody in here like being talked about in a negative way? Does anybody like being talked about in a negative way and you know it's a lie? And you know it's not true? You want to defend yourself? Do you want to fight back? I mean that's the most natural way for us to respond. The Apostle Paul experienced this. Here he's preaching the gospel. He loves people and they're turning it against him. He even faced demonic possession. I don't mean that Paul was possessed. He faced people that were. Some people say, well, that's just an Old Testament thing, or that's just a first century thing. Let me tell you, there are real demons in the world today And you may very well, at some point in your life, encounter a scenario where the only way to explain it is there is demonic oppression Possession, influence. I personally have witnessed such situations. And listen to what he says in verse 11 God wrought special miracles by the hands of Paul. The disease departed from them and evil spirits went out of them. He dealt with people that were Demonic possess, and by the way, it should make sense in a city that basically survives on idolatry that this would be the case Verse 15, the evil spirits answering said, Jesus I know, Paul I know, but who are you? And the man with whom the evil spirit was leaped on them and overcame them and prevailed against them, and they fled out of the house naked and wounded, and this was known to all the Jews and the Greeks who dwelt at Ephesus. That was not a quiet thing in the city. And that was a part of the story of the planting of this church. That's crazy. But it happened. And then we see the idolatry, verses 23 and following. There arose no small stir about the way. The whole city was filled with confusion. And then you know what the straw that broke the camel's back at Ephesus was that really sent Paul out of the city? It was the greed of the merchants We kind of read this earlier, but it says a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, which made silver shrines for Diana, brought no small gain into the craftsman. Called together with the workmen of like occupation and said, Sirs, you know, by this craft we have our wealth. Moreover, you see and hear that not alone in Ephesus, but all throughout Asia. He says, not only is this our craft in danger, but also the temple of the great goddess Diana should be despised, and her magnificence should be destroyed, whom all age and the world worshipeth. And you know what happened when he got all of his Co-workers together, it actually created this massive tumult in the city. It was complete chaos. Why? Greed. And this affected the church plan. We also see, interestingly, in verses 13 and 14, opportunists who tried to get on the bandwagon, and this often happens. When God's doing a work, there are people that say, I'd like to be a part of that too. Not because they understand the gospel, not because they've embraced it, but because they want to be a part of some kind of movement. And they don't understand it. In fact, even we talk about the American Great Awakening. Jonathan Edwards wrote a book on religious affections. It was to address the issue of some of the things that people were experiencing during the Great Awakening. And some people were saying, if this was of God, we wouldn't have all of these divergent scenarios. And he says, listen, if you have the truth being expounded and people being converted and God moving in a way then just understand that the enemy's gonna bring people along too who are gonna try to imitate what's going on. And they're gonna pee people that join in with what's going on. They don't understand for a period, but later they will. It's a messy time sometimes. times. That's the way that God sometimes works. And we see this in verses 13 and 14. These Jewish exorcists tried to cast out demons by their own power and it didn't end well. By the way, even after Paul has spent a tremendous amount of time in this city, he has to send Timothy back. because of the influence of false teachers. 1 Timothy 1. I besought thee to abide at Ephesus that thou mightest charge Some that they teach no other doctrine, neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies which minister questions rather than godly edifying. What's the point? The point is this. Paul faced a lot of challenge as he did the work at Ephesus. But that challenge is not the end of the story. It's just a part of it. And whenever God does a work, that's what challenges are. They're a part of the story, but not the end. The influence of this church was vibrant, and I'd like us to see thirdly the vibrant influence of the church at Ephesus. First of all, his birth, in verse 19, we see that Paul comes to Ephesus for a very short time with Aquila and Priscilla. Remember that they met Paul at Corinth. That's probably where they were converted. And their relationship was close, and they were discipled by Paul. He leaves them at Ephesus, and then Paul goes on to Jerusalem. But he returns again, and in chapter 19, that's the beginning of our text here, we see that when Paul comes to Ephesus, He meets people that are a bit confused about the gospel. They only knew the Old Testament side of the gospel, pointing to the Savior. They only knew about John the Baptist, who was the one who was pointing them to the Lamb of God who would take away the sins of the world. And so when Paul encounters these people, he expounds to them the gospel fully. It says that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul, having passed through the upper coast, came to Ephesus finding certain disciples. He said unto them, Have you received the Holy Ghost since you believed? And they said unto him, We do not know so much as having heard whether there be a Holy Ghost. Well, obviously, Paul corrects the situation for them, and they're converted. And for the next three months, he preaches the gospel in the synagogue. Verse 8, he speaks boldly for three months to Disputing and persuading things concerning the kingdom of God. What an amazing thing to if if you could have witnessed that. The Apostle Paul answering these people's questions, going through the Old Testament, reading to them what it says, and says, this is talking about Christ. This is why he was crucified. This is why he rose again. This is what the cross accomplished. This is what it says in the Old Testament. And see how God promised and he fulfilled and you need to turn to Christ. You need to repent and believe. That's what Paul did for three months. People had access to the word. Some embraced, some didn't. Then we see that there's a second phase of ministry that is being that the disruption comes there in the synagogue. People's hearts were hardened in verse 9. They speak evil of that way, and he departs from them. And what does he do? He starts a school. And every afternoon he teaches the Word of God in this school. So in verse 90, he departed from them, separated the disciples, disputing daily in the school of one Tyrnis. What was Paul's focus during this time? For two years, Paul spends all of his energy teaching the Word of God to the people. You know what we call that? We call it discipleship. If you've become a Christian, if you place your faith in Christ, if you've been born again, you're going to heaven and your sins are forgiven. But you need to grow, you need to mature, you need to have a life that is built on the Word of God. And the truth is from those who are taught the Word of God on basic discipleship, some God will even raise up and He will place them into positions of ministry. How do people get there? It's through discipleship. And we see what Paul did in 2 Timothy 2, because in verse 2 he talks about his pattern and how Timothy is to follow this pattern. He says, the things that you have heard of me among many witnesses, the same commits to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. In Acts chapter 20, verse 31, he says to the Ephesian elders, Watch and remember that by the space of three years I cease not to warn every one of you night and day with tears. What did Paul do for two years? And then, of course, we know there was another year in there somewhere. The answer is he taught them the word. He discipled them. He poured his life into them. Paul's schedule was rigorous. He worked with his hands to feed himself. He taught, more than likely, from 11 o'clock. to four o'clock. We're talking about a five-hour period of teaching, debating, expounding the word, illustrating, working with people. That's a rigorous schedule. And he does it every single day for several years. What was the fruit of that investment in that very dark city? The answer is in verse number 10. This continued for the space of two years so that all which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. You say, well, I thought Paul just taught in a school. And the answer is, yeah, that's right. So then how did everybody in Asia hear this? Well, the people that he taught, they were motivated people. And they said, we're going to take the word where it's not. You know what happens as Paul invests his energy into the direct people that he gives the gospel to? The work that he's done is going to exp it 's going to grow exponentially because all those who he pours his life into, they become people who pour life into others. That is how a church grows. That's how a society is transformed. It's through one individual reaching one individual who reaches a few individuals who disciple individuals, and all of a sudden, as you start doing this work, the church is built up. The church goes out, and all of a sudden people's lives are being radically transformed because the gospel changes people. So the question is, what principles drove such a powerful work of God? I give you some simple ones right here. The first is that God's timing was perfect, not Paul's. This is such an important thing. This is really important, especially when we are younger, or they, however you want to look at it. When someone is younger and they really want to get involved in the work of ministry. That is an awesome desire. And I would never want to, in any way, diminish such a desire. But let me tell you: just because you want to go out doesn't mean you're ready to do it. It's really true. If someone tries to pastor a church and they're spiritually immature, guess what happens? They wreck whatever church they go and touch. It's just true. The fact is, even people who have grown and matured, they all make mistakes. There are times that they look at the decisions they make and it negatively impacts people's lives. As we grow and we mature in the faith, the truth is our perspective becomes deeper and fuller and richer, and our ability to minister to others hopefully expands. But God knows when we need to step out. And God knows when we need to get engaged and to what extent. And so God's timing has to be observed. He is sovereign and he has purposes. And so as Paul's desire was to go to Ephesus, his desire would be paused, but eventually he would go. And we see that God's wisdom was perfect in that. The second principle is that the preaching of the gospel changes everything. Paul did not go to the city hall and say, I'm tired of your paganism, it's got to change. Now I'm sure he felt like it, but he didn't do that. You know what Paul did? He engaged people one-on-one, or one-on-one however many were there, and he gave them the pure word of God. He preached the gospel because you know what the gospel does? The gospel says, repent, believe, turn to Christ. And when a person turns to Christ Old things pass away, all things become new. They become a new creature in Christ. Their lives are transformed by the gospel. That's what Paul did. The gospel still works, folks. The gospel still changes everything. You want to see this society change? Live like a Christian and engage in people who aren't. And by the way, be willing to be patient in your engagement with those who are not. Be willing to engage them as quickly as God permits, as he works, as he moves. Don't just give somebody a quick Romans road and then walk away and say. Your blood's on your own head because you didn't respond to the gospel. They're looking at you going, I don't even know what you're talking about. Love them. Be patient with them Talk to them about what is in the Word of God. Let them come out with their questions. Answer their objections. Don't recoil when people ask you hard questions. The answer is in the Word of God. It's true. The power of the gospel changes everything. Thirdly, regeneration and new worldview visibly transform people. I don't see anywhere in this text where Paul told them, bring all of your idolatrous materials and burn them in the town square. He doesn't say that. He doesn't give them some rule that they're supposed to follow. This is something they did because they said, why do we have idols in our homes? Why are we practicing witchcraft in our homes? Why are we being entertained by evil? Paul didn't say you want to join the church? Put the stuff away. They did it spontaneously. Why? Well, because they were genuinely converted. They were truly new creatures in Christ. They were regenerate. The Holy Spirit was working on them. And they took their entire life, what they have lived for, and they said That's gone. The old man is dead. I'm a new creature in Christ. I'm going to walk different than I did before. That's what the gospel does. Principle four, young Christians want to tell others about Christ. I have seen this so many times. As we have been Christians for a long time, our desire is that the church looks good, the church stays comfortable, and society doesn't fall apart. That's what we want. But when a person becomes a brand new Christian, you know what their desire is? I want my dad to get saved. I want my mom to get saved. My best friend, the guy that I used to hang out with and party all the time with , the one that we lived just an absolutely miserable life as friends together. I want that person to know what I know. And that person, they don't care about how the church looks. They care about people's lives being changed. And they don't even know how to go about it the best way. But they want to see people change. And so when people get saved and their lives are changed and they're growing as disciples of Christ, you can't stop them from telling other people. Not that you'd want to. But you can't stop them. They're gonna come to the most mature Christians they know and say, hey, I'm talking to this person. They asked me this question. How should I answer this question? I'm gonna write this letter. I'm gonna send this email. I set up a time to meet with this person. This is what I anticipate. How do you recommend I talk to them? Those are the kinds of questions that happen when people have recently trusted Christ. And you know what? That's an awesome thing. That's what happens on mission fields. That's what happens in churches when the focus has been changed, and the focus is in fact healthy and vibrant. Fifth thing I'll mention is this. Focused discipleship really, really works. I think about when we lived in Ghana and we were missionaries. We started a Bible institute and guess what? The Bible Institute was all teenagers. It's true, it's like all the young guys. And we would teach on all these things. And and the truth is I had no idea what was going to happen in the lives of these guys. I had no idea if any of them were going to become pastors. I had no idea if they were going to become deacons in the church. I had no idea what was going to happen. But that's not why I was teaching them. I just wanted them to learn. And if they wanted to learn, why would I not give them an opportunity to learn? Doesn't that make sense? And you know what's amazing? The guys that were in those classes when they were 17, 18, and 20, they're all married. They all have children, and several of them are pastors today. And the truth is we didn't say, well, once you're old enough to go to Bible college and once you've passed enough of these tests, you can come sit in our class. We didn't do that. We just say, if you want to learn the Bible, then come sit down and let's do it. You know what that is? That's discipleship. That's teaching the Word of God, focusing attention, answering the questions, working through the Word of God, letting the Word of God work into us. And ask this question. Why in the world would you not want to be a part of those things? Why wouldn't you want to be a part of those things? Probably everybody says, well I do. Well then look for the opportunities that are right here. And pray for those who are going out and doing These things. How do you apply such a story? An amazing story. The simple application is this. We've got to refocus on the wondrous power of the gospel. There are far too many Christians. That spend a lot of time surfing the net, reading stories online that literally are destroying their minds. They are so angry, they are so disillusioned, they are so fearful. You know what they need to do? They need to get in the Word of God. And they need to spend time in the Word and remind themselves what God does when Christians speak up. And by the way, we all stumble. Nobody in this room does it perfectly. God doesn't save people because your gospel presentation was infallible. He saves them because he saves people. And he decided to use you because you were willing to step in and be a part of it. And it's an amazing thing. So the first thing I mentioned is perspective. We've got to be honest. But don't despair. Please don't leave this room saying, America's done. Even so, come Lord Jesus, I hope the rapture happens tonight, because I don't want to live through another year in this country. Please don't do that. That's not a biblical mindset. What does God say? Be ready. You know what being ready is? It's active, it's working. When he comes. You're just carrying on. And he takes you because that's the time. Not sticking our heads in the sand and lamenting. Be confident in his power and provision. God is sending people out of churches all over this country, and they're going into very difficult places. In fact, tonight we're going to hear one of from one of our missionaries, they're looking at potentially going to a very spiritually dark area. I hope you won't miss that video. Basically, what it comes down to is they're making an appeal. If nobody goes, they're going to go. Because those people need the gospel. We need to get back to the basics of vibrant Christianity. Folks, I absolutely love the church. I love being here on Sunday. I am so energized. I mean, I take a long nap on Sunday afternoon, then I'm energized by that too. I just love being around God's people. This is like the place where we unite. We focus on the gospel. We get excited about what matters. But the fact is, we've got to make sure we're really focused on the basics. The second word is providence. Plead with God to send a revival to his church. I hope that every day you get on your knees. You read the word and you say, God, revive our church. I don't mean our church is dead. Don't get me wrong. I mean revive it. Shake it. Move in such a way that we are not complacent people. People, that we love the word and we love people, and we're actively engaged in reaching people. Plead with him to draw people to himself. I am convinced of this. If this church will preach and teach the word of God, God will bring people here. I know that. He does it. In every church in this country and all around the world, if people will commit to doing God's work his way, He's going to bring people there. That's what he does. If we're going to get focused on the wrong things, why would he send people there? Like, like what a joke, right? Send people where the word is being expounded, the gospel is being proclaimed. Plead with him to raise up strong principled leaders. When I think about that the statistic, 56% of pastors in the next 10 years will be out of ministry because they're dead or retired or they quit. You know what that tells me? There's a lot of young people that are going to need to step into those roles. Pray that God will raise them up. Third is the word responsibility. Let's be a church where people will become spiritually grounded and well equipped to take the gospel to the nations. Let's not sit on the sidelines lamenting rather than getting to the work. Let's be committed to the tools he uses to build the church. Let's be fully invested in his kingdom where we are. Let's be motivated by eternal matters for his glory. And the last word I want to end on is the word word worship. Folks, worship is not just singing or giving. Worship is hearing the word preached and submitting to it. And worship is taking the word as we've heard it expounded, and as we submit to it, we say, by your grace, I want to be a doer of the word, not just a hearer. You came to church to worship. And a central part of our worship is the ministry of the word. May God help us to delight in the transforming power of the gospel. What God did at Ephesus, He could do in If he absolutely can. The question is, do we believe that? Let's bow together for prayer. With every head bowed and every eye closed before we close in prayer, and ask one basic question. And I know this is not a message meant to give a gospel appeal. But it could be that there's someone here this morning who's never placed their faith in Christ. And if you've never placed your faith in Christ and you know you need to do that. I want to give you an opportunity to at least let me know so that I can meet up with you. Take a Bible and show you how you can be saved. Is there anybody here this morning to say, Joel, I have never trusted Christ and I know I need to do that. And I'd like to try to set up a time. And by the way, set up a time may not be in person. It could be over the phone. We can work with your schedule. But is there anybody here that would say that's me? Joel, I've never trusted Christ. I need to do that. Just raise your hand quietly. I won't call you out. I won't make you stand up. I'm just going to notice it. So I know I need to try to speak with you. Anybody at all? You might say, I am not raising my hand. Okay, send an email. Send me an email and say, Joel, I want to talk to you. And I would love to take a Bible and show you how you can be saved. God transforms People's lives through the gospel. Yours can be one of them. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, I thank you for the Word of God. I love Missions Month because it's a time where we focus on The most powerful influence in all of history. The message that brings forgiveness of sins, that transforms broken lives stumbling in darkness. A message that gives us an eternal hope. And so I pray that every person in this room Would look at the times we're living in as opportunity. And that we would be found faithful. Father, I know today could be the day that Christ returns, and I would glorify Glory in that. But may we be living with a healthy and vibrant purpose to point people to you until the day it happens. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.