Scriptures say. I will remember the works of the Lord. Surely I will remember thy wonders of old. I will meditate also of all thy work, talk of all thy doings. Thy way, O God, is in the sanctuary. Who is so great a God as our God? Thou art the God that doest wonders. Thou hast declared thy strength amongst the people. Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people. The sons of Jacob and Joseph, Silah. The waters saw thee, O God. The waters saw thee. They were afraid. The depths also were troubled. The clouds poured out water, the skies sent out a sound, thine arrows also went abroad. The voice of thy thunder was in the heaven. The lightnings lightened the world. The earth trembled and shook. Thy way is in the sea, thy path in the great waters. Thy footsteps are not known Thou ledest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron. If you remember that passage when he talks about his way in the sea, he's talking about the Red Sea. He's talking about how the people walk through on dry ground. This morning we're going to focus our attention on the mystery of God's providence and how much we should be grateful for it. So let's let's all uh bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to bless our service. that as we sing these praises to the Lord, that we'll think about uh the significance of the truths we're expressing in song, as we think about the scriptures, that these truths will take root in our hearts, that God will richly bless our service this morning. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we're so very grateful for the opportunity to gather as a body. Thank you for every uh every person that is here this morning, whether a visitor for the first time, whether a church member who's been a part of this congregation for decades, I thank you that you've brought us together. Thank you for those who've come in the live stream who will be joining us virtually. I pray that as we sit under the ministry of the word, that you would uh tune our hearts to these truths, that the Holy Spirit would take the word, press it upon our hearts, stir up our affections Help our minds to be ready and willing and ready to understand the word and to and to meditate on the significance of Father, we think about those who have faced tremendous difficulty in the last few days, those who have faced this terrible storm. I pray that you would help those whose lives have been disrupted, that they would be strengthened during this season. Father, meet the needs of those who are hurting and those who are struggling at this moment. Moment. I pray that you would provide for them materially when they have great material need. I pray that you would strengthen their resolve to turn to you in time of tragedy and in times of weakness. And I pray that you would minister to them. I pray that during this season you would bring many people in a very humbled and a very vulnerable state. uh into your presence that they might see that you're a God who loves them and will meet their needs and you're a God who saves and a God who strengthens I pray that you would strengthen those who are in difficult times. Father, we pray for your blessing on this service. May you be exalted in it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, good morning. Thank you so much for joining us at Anchor Baptist Church for worship. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number five. Hymn number five, oh four a thousand Tongues to sing. We'll sing all five verses of hymn number five. Oh, for a thousand talks who sing my great revealers' praise The glory of my God and King thus triumph of their praise My gracious masters and my God asked me to proclaim. To his for me of the border, the honors of my name Jesus, the name of the Christ Jesus can that benefit, said life and have a peace. Hear him that you're losing boy Give my behold, Savior, come and leave in a bot. He breaks the power and bloods and he sets the prison free. This blood can make my palace clean. His blood of help for me. And over to hymn number twelve. All hail the power of Jesus' name. Hymn number twelve, and we'll sing all four verses. Oh nail the power Jesus' name, let angels prostrate forth Bring forthayada and Bring Baba Yata and Il chose ainsi la bête went , we say you find this way. Crime by his grace and cry. But every candle, every trust on this ever Sur Hema Swife and Prama Majas. Oh, that's with yonder sacred one. We as it before Well, join me a lot, and bring more Well, join me at last things for and more Amen. Please be seated as we continue our singing. We'll turn over to hymn number 38. Hymn number 38, How Great Thou Art. We'll sing all four verses. Oh Lord my God, when I an awesome water Consider all the world I have made I see the stars, I hear the bowling dungeon By Papuas, the universe plan Then things myself might have got to be How great thou wart, how great thou wast. Than things my soul might say God to thee How great thou art thou Went through the ones and forest plays I wonder And near the birds sing sweetly in the trees when I look down From off the mountain grand drone And hear the frock And feel the gentle free My Savior caught to thee, how great thou wants, how great thou wart. Then think my soul, my favorite daughter. Uh great al And when I think that God is not very Send him to die, I scarce can take it then That I'm not brought my burden gladly every He planned I to take away my sand and sing my soul, my favorite God to thee. How break thou walks, how break thou walk Then it sings my foam, my savour God to thee How pray thou praise thy walls When Christ upon with styles of acclamation And take me home. What soy shall fill my hearts? Then I shall die And humble adovation and there proclaim My God, how great thou art that sing my song. My Savior answer thee, I 'll break down one How great thou art, then sing my fall, my Favor answer thee, how great thou Amen. Great singing this morning. Our scripture reading for this morning will be We'll be reading out of chapter eighteen. Acts chapter eighteen verses one through six. Acts chapter eighteen verses one through six The scriptures say, after these things, Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth And found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus, lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla, because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome, and came unto them And because he was of the same craft, he abode with them and wrought. For by their occupation they were tent makers. And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the Spirit, and testified to the Jews. That Jesus was Christ. And when they opposed themselves and blasphemed, he shook his raiment and said unto them, Your blood be upon your own heads. I am clean. From henceforth I will go unto the Gentiles. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. You put the women for the first time. Amen. Let's continue our singing. We'll be singing out of our blue book. The words will also be on the screen in front of you. For me to live is Christ. Number 105 in the blue book. And we'll sing all four verses. In life or death I'm not to spare my hope and death I'll boldly share To live as Christ To die as gay I seek to magnify his name For me to live as Christ For me to live as Christ Christ, pursuing him by highest price, for me to live this price He came to earth and serve and form to bear the crop, the same thus form With my price , I'll make my own to serve with humble heart alone for me to live this price. For me to live price, pursuing him my highest price For me to let it cause to know my Lord 's past To pray for them by single both, to know his victory all the grace To know had mighty power to save For me to live, for me to live. Pursuing him my highest price for me to live this cross So joy in Christ another cease and run to him, he brings true peace Content and have in every state and all be strengthened by his grace For me to live it's Christ, for me to it 's Christ , pursuing him my higher price. For me to live in Christ. Amen. And please stand with me once more. The words for this will be up on the screen We'll be singing For the Sake of His Name. We'll be singing all four verses and we'll sing the last verse a cappella. Last verse a cappella. Number 402 in the Rejoice Handbook. The words will be on the screen. For the sake of his name. Go to the one for the Sake of his name To a relationship Pray that the spirit wise when open dark and night Pratt in the right to display suspend And in the Christ Christine , for he does all us what Gather from every place , trophy 's sovereign grace Let 's life the waist off Jesus France. Love beyond love for the sake of his name Why Christ be friend of singing shame? Jesus did not condemn, but was condemned for them Trust us for power for we want us Is he the power preach Christ alone? God from every place trop is our sovereign grace Last life be wasted exhaustive as cross Rescue the lost for the sake of his name As Christ comes, snatch them out of the flame, tell that when Jesus died God 's wife was satisfied , hurts them to flee through the Our Christ Christ with almost for Jesus glory counts all us but Gather from every place , trope piece of sovereign grace Let 's flight the waste and call Jesus Christ, what 's it up? Lo to the throne for the sake of his name Think of the throng who will send his rein Song for her souls, we pray. Will share our joy that day Joining our souls for the sake of his name In Jesus power preach Christ to the laws For Jesus Lord Gather from every place , through Jesus' sovereign grace Let's might be waste that it 's of Jesus Christ. Amen. Please be seated. My load has come. I have burned my people across all who bell in darkness. I am respect. I will make the joy of night I will make their daughter, who will bear my mind to hand, who shall I death. Here I am, in here I hope, I have you know. I will go in a rain I will go I will gore so and rain. I am born by people 's pain. I am welcome. They don't win. I will pray I don't want you to. I must be my wife in that You I have no in my own, I have a new following. I will go if it went me. I will go with me. I will have I will stand up for anything, I will stand up each one. My land will say I your friend I will go by till their hearts is sad in my I will give my life to them. Who shall I stand? Who shall I say I am? If it I know I 'm going to I will go in a day , You know I'm thinking what you're doing. Our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back. That is uh, I believe three to seven. I could be wrong on that If you have a junior church child, you know their age. And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you, I have a junior church child or two myself. I know there's some back there. But if you could, let's all turn together to the book of Acts, and we're in Acts chapter 18 this morning. And uh if you're following, we're actually doing a series uh during this month, the month of October. for our mission of emphasis in this series is going to be looking at the founding and the establishing of the church at Ephesus. And The passage that we're looking at this morning is actually a really important piece to what we talked about last week. So we actually went, we talked about the founding of the church at Ephesus. And I mentioned the names of Aquila and Priscilla, and I said something like, next week we're going to find out a little bit more about their story. Because the truth is that Aquil and Priscilla are a very important piece to the story of the founding of the Church at Ephesus and then the influence of the Church at Ephesus that goes on for many, many decades when we read through the New Testament. Acts chapter 18, we're going to look in verse number one and we'll read down to verse six. This is what it says. After these things Paul departed from Athens, came to Corinth, and found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius. Notice the next phrase, lately come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome. Don't miss that little parenthesis. He came unto them, and because he was of the same craft, he abode with them and wrought, for by their occupation they were tent makers. Another just little parenthesis And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. And when they opposed themselves and blasphemed, he shook his raiment and said unto them, Your blood be upon your own heads. I am clean. From henceforth I will go unto the Gentiles. Now this passage of Scripture is a very important piece to the establishing of the church at Ephesus. But this actually is going to happen about a year and a half before Paul actually goes to Ephesus. And we see the first storyline of there being a church beginning to be established. Let me begin by giving you kind of a summary of what's going on in these verses. In Acts chapter 18, we see the retelling or the recounting. of the story of God's catch this, his ordinary providence, which brought together a ministry team which would lead to many fruitful years of ministry. Now when I use the term ordinary providence, what I'm basically saying is this. God is ruling in this world Lots and lots of things go on in this world. Good things, bad things. People have the freedom to make all kinds of decisions, and sometimes those decisions are very hurtful. to us, they frustrate us, they confuse us, they leave us in difficult positions. But God is still in control. And he's in control in those ordinary details of life. And we're going to kind of see that play out in the text before us. Very important concept. God governs in the ordinary affairs of life. God wants us to be a people who delight in his providence and the ordinary details of our lives. And so as you look at this passage of Scripture, I hope that you will be convinced by the scriptures that we need to be a people who are glorying in how God works in what seems like very insignificant, very ordinary things. He's still working in those situations. Before we look at some of the truths that we find in this passage, I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts that help us to understand the nature of the local church. This body that God has assembled together in this building, the church is not where we're meeting, it's us, we the people who are in this building. God has a very unique purpose. for this body, the local church. And if we go to Ephesians chapter 4, we see a little simple statement, a kind of a purpose statement or a summary statement. for really what the purpose of the church is. Here's what it says in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 11. It says that he, that's God, gave some apostles and some prophets, some evangelists and some pastors and teachers. For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. Let me pause for a moment and state this negatively. God did not or ordain the church to be a consumer culture. No, I'm not saying that when we come to church, we don't learn and we don't get encouraged and we we don't actually take in. We do take in And if a church is not teaching the word of God so that your soul is being fed, there's a huge problem there, okay? But we don't come to church simply to just sit there and as consumers just absorb all this knowledge. God created the church to be a place where we grow and where we're edified and then we serve in the capacity that God In other words, God is uniquely fitting each person in this congregation to fulfill a role in the work that He's doing in the world. And by the way, that role is not something that's like, here's what it is today, and it'll always be exactly that the rest of your life. The truth is that he uniquely fits you and gives you opportunities throughout the course of your life that are unique to seasons We grow in areas and we get opportunities that we didn't have twenty years ago, and we have opportunities now we won't have twenty years from now Notice the way he puts it. He gave something to perfect the saints, that's bring them up into spiritual maturity, so that they can do the work of the ministry. So that the whole body together is built up or edified so that they are well equipped to do that work. This is a vital concept. And you're going to see how this vital concept, we could say the purpose statement for the church how it plays out so practically in very ordinary circumstances, but in an amazing way in the text before us. The first thing I'd like us to see in the text before us is that God uses ordinary people in tough places. And verses 1 and 2 of chapter 18, notice how he puts it. He says, after these things, Paul departed from Athens. Now that phrase, these things, needs to kind of be dug into a little bit, because there's a lot of these things that actually are significant to what's happening in these verses. So I'm going to tell you about that in just a moment. He leaves Athens. He comes to Corinth, and then it says he found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius. Lately come from Italy because he and uh with his wife Priscilla because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to depart from Rome. Let me kind of break this down for you. That little phrase, these things Is going to give us some very difficult circumstances that actually are an essential part to this story playing out the way that it does Acts 18 will not occur the way that it did if there weren't three very frustrating things that had to take place. And I want to show them to you. The first one is in Acts chapter sixteen. We know in Acts chapter sixteen Paul was in Philippi. Well when Paul was in uh in Acts chapter 16 he goes to Philippi. But there's a reason that he went to Philippi before he went to Ephesus. We read about in Acts 16, verse number 6. Here's what it says. When they had gone through Phrygia and the regions of Galatia, they were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia. Now Asia is not China, but this is a region in Asia Minor where Paul wanted to take the gospel Now some of you might say, well, why would God not let him go to a place where the gospel needs to be preached? It's about timing. Timing is very important. He then goes on to say this. He was forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word. They essayed to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit suffered them not. So the Apostle Paul had a ministry plan. The Apostle Paul was an extremely driven man, far more motivated than you and I are. He was driven, he was passionate about getting the gospel. He was looking for places that he knew there was a need, places where he could establish a worth and he could reach out into places and he says, I want to go to Asia. And the very first frustrating circumstance was God said, No, you can't do that. Has God ever stopped you from doing something you really wanted to do? That was a really good thing? At least in your eyes? And actually, maybe it was a good thing. But it wasn't the thing you were supposed to do at that moment. We get frustrated, we get bent out of shape, we don't understand why. God doesn't always give us the answers. But this is the first piece that's very important. God said, no, you cannot go to Asia right now. He didn't say you'll never go to Asia. He said right now. Very important. Second, very frustrating circumstance we read about in Acts chapter 18, verse 2, and we just read this. It says the reason that Aquila and Priscilla came to Corinth is because they had been kicked out of Rome by Claudius. In other words, the Jews had gotten expelled from Rome. This couple was not in Corinth because they had a lot of family there that they wanted to go and visit. Or because they thought this is a great place for us to do the work that we normally do. They were in Corinth because their home in Rome was not available to them anymore. Many, many times in human history we see times where a group of people is persecuted because of their ethnic background, because of their religious beliefs, because of their political affiliation, whatever it is. And the truth is that when we talk about Claudius kicking the Jews out of Rome, it was ethnic, it was religious, and it was political. It was all bound up. We don't even have any indication that at the time these two people were believers. They were practicing Judaism at the time. They did not understand the gospel, I would assume. Very frustrating. Number three, Paul's ministries in Philippi, Thessalonica, Berea, and Athens were all very short And very frustrating. Now I want you to think about this for a moment. Paul wants to go to Asia to preach the gospel. The Holy Spirit says, no, you can't go there. He has this Macedonian vision. He says, Come on over and help us. And so Paul goes to Philippi. When he goes to Philippi, guess what happens? He gets thrown in prison. He goes to Thessalonica and a couple of people become believers. And then there's an insurrection within the city. And they and they say, You're gonna die. You're gonna get killed if you don't get out of the city. And so they rush him out in the night. He goes to Berean, the Bereans are a people who want to hear the gospel and they're hungering for the word of God. They're more noble than the people of Thessalonica. And the people from Thessalonica that had that had thrown him out of Thessalonica. They come to Berea, and then Paul is running from Berea. He ends up in Athens and he preaches in the Aropagus. And guess what happens? The people laugh at him when they hear about the resurrection. Let me read it to you from the scriptures. He faces this legal injustice at Philippi, Acts sixteen thirty-seven. It says, They have beaten us openly, uncondemned, being Romans, and have cast us into prison. That's not nice, is it? You know, where are his freedoms? Amazingly, the Apostle Paul said, you come get us You broke your own laws, and we're going to make a point about this. It's very interesting. We could dig into it at another time. But he faced a legal injustice, and that is why he left Philippi Two raging mobs, Acts 17, verse 5. It says, The Jews which believed not were moved with envy. They gathered a company and they set all the city on an uproar, and they assaulted the house of Jason. And so the Christians who had embraced the gospel in that very short time they said, You've got to get out of the city. It's time to go. He goes to the next place, Acts 17, 10. The brethren immediately sent away Paul and Silas by night into Berea. Verse thirteen, but when the Jews of Thessalonica had knowledge of that word, that the word of God was preached of Paul at Berea, they came thither, stirred up the people, and then immediately the brethren sent away Paul. And then where does Paul go? He goes to Acts 17, he goes to Athens. And it says in Acts 17, 32, when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, they mocked. And others said, We'll hear thee again on this matter. So Paul departed from among them. If you are Paul at this time Are you not questioning why God said, Go to Macedonia and help the people there? I mean, every single city he has gone to, his ministry is very short-lived. The few people that believed he didn't even have the time to establish a church and to invest in these people. But there's something going on behind the scenes that's very important. You can't see it if you're Paul when you're living it, but we can see it as we read the Word of God. Because all of these frustrating pieces are an important part of the story. If just one of those events went a different direction, Paul would not have met this couple at Corinth. If Paul had gone to Philippi and he'd stayed there a year and a half, guess what? He wouldn't have met a Quilimbracella. Or if he had gone to uh Berea and he would have stayed there for a year and six months, he wouldn't have met this couple. All of these frustrating circumstances Were tools that God used to accomplish in tremendous work in the life of Paul, Aquila, Priscilla, and countless individuals in the Roman world. The second thing I'd like you to see is that God works through ordinary means Not just ordinary people in tough places, but he works through ordinary means. I think one of the things that people often struggle with in their personal lives Is that they feel like the work that they're doing doesn't have any like lasting value to it. And let me say, sometimes that's true. Okay? A lot of times that's true. But it's also true that sometimes believers who are involved in purposes that have eternal significance sometimes they get weary in the ordinary, mundane matters of life. I want you to notice some very unique statements that are here in verse number three. It says, because he was of the same craft, He abode with them. So the reason that Paul meets Aquila and Priscilla, there's a lot of bad things that happened in cities. Rome and Thessalonica and Philippi and Berea, all those places, asives. But the main reason that they became close was because they did the same work. It'd be kind of like saying they were both carpenters, they were both plumbers They they both worked in the same uh academic institution. They were both working in the same agency. They were they were involved in the same kind of work that put food on the table to support themselves and whoever they were with So Paul needs them because they had the same craft. It says he abode with them and wrought for their by their occupation they were they were tent makers Paul was a bivocational minister at this point in his life. And by the way, a lot of Paul's ministry was bivocational. He was working with his hands during some parts of the day. He was preaching the gospel on certain days. He was meeting with people and discipling them and pouring and investing into their lives. When he wasn't working to feed himself, Paul was a really busy guy. That's what's going on. He becomes friends with Aquil and Priscilla because they have the same occupation. Now I think when we read these verses, we sometimes just skip over these little details. Like they don't seem to really be that significant. Okay, so what? They were tent makers. That's great. I'm glad that they did that. But the the reason we skip over it is an indication of why we miss the ordinary and the value of it. We know as Christians a person's value isn't about how much money they have in their bank account or how big their house is or what car they drive. We understand that our our our our value as people isn't about The work that we do, or how much education, degrees, things like that that we have. But when it comes to the Christian domain, the Christian realm, the church, I think sometimes We almost create in our minds kind of like a caste system. I don't mean that like a Hindu caste system, but what I mean by that is we kind of see like there are certain kinds of work in the church that are more noble. They're more valuable, they're more precious to God than other kinds of work. I think during a missions month we especially feel these kind of pressures. I was a missionary and I went on deputation. And it was like to go into a church context and sometimes people, very well-meaning people, to try to encourage us would be like, man, I could never do what you're doing. I could never go to an African country and and work in a context like that where where I'd have to learn a new culture and and go through so many different challenges I couldn't do that. And it's almost like in a person's mind they start thinking like, there's like a cast of Christians. There's like some Christians that are more dedicated and they're they're more serious and they're more invested in the Lord's work. That's not necessarily true. For instance, when we look at somebody going to the 1040 window, we say, that's the real Christian The person that's willing to go to a poor developing country, that's the real Christian. The person that would go into an urban context and plant a church in a city, that's the real Christian. Well, there's, you know, people that are willing to go into, you could say, westernized cultures. Why 's not as hard as They're real Christians too. They're real ministers of the gospel, but they're a little bit less than the 1040 guy. You know what I mean? They're a little bit less than the guy that's willing to go to uh an urban context and then we look at the pastor of a church in the states, an academic, a Christian school teacher, support staff, and then we're like, well then the rest of the church, there's like a different class. I wouldn't say this if I didn't actually believe that people feel this way. I can tell as I interact with folks that this is something that sometimes settles into our minds. And I want you to realize that this passage pretty much takes that mindset, and in my mind, it completely turns it upside down because the most significant thing about this passage of scripture is that people met each other because they got kicked out of their city and they were making tents together. Very significant. Paul never incentivized restless people to go into ministry. He never created this mindset where there's different classes within the church There's like the full-time ministry people, and then there's the other Christians. Every person in the church has a purpose. Every person in the church has a calling. Every person in the church has been uniquely fitted to do a kind of ministry in the kingdom of God. And for some people it's to go into the 1040 window. For some people it's to be an academic. For some people it's to teach in a school. For some people, it's to be in a support staff. And for some people it's to raise their kids. And train them in the things of the Lord. For some people, it's to financially support the work that's going on out there. We can't do the same thing. We're not all uniquely fitted in the same way. We are uniquely fitted. The question isn't, is my position or my role more noble, but am I doing the role God's called me to do effectively? question. Back to Ephesians 4. God ordained the local church to be the place where we grow up together. Where we serve one another as He has uniquely fitted us and as He has uniquely put us. A lot of times if you reflect on your life, how did you get where you are? Sometimes you go, the reason I'm here or the reason I'm in this role, I don't even know how this happens. Like I don't even know like what were the significant decisions I made. At the time I didn't think this stuff through at all. Ordinary providence. Where you are today, how you're fitted today, it's all in the hands of God. The season of life that you're in right now, it's in the hands of God. The question is. Are you fulfilling the role he's called you to at this moment? That's a very significant question that we need to ask ourselves God gives the apostles and prophets who gave us the word. He gives us the pastors, the teachers, to teach and preach the word. So that we all grow together and we all serve together and we all edify one another and the kingdom of God continues to expand from one generation to the next This is a wonderful concept, but let me tell you, it actually looks kind of ordinary We should be asking, where did God plant us? How did he fit us? Are we growing? Are we faithfully serving? How he fitted us. Are we embracing the eternal value of the ordinary? I'm talking to a dad who's working in a completely secular field. I'm talking to a mom who's homeschooling her kids. I'm talking to a person who's in a season of life where all your kids are grown and they're out of the house. I'm talking to somebody who's a single adult. I'm talking to teenagers, 13 and 14-year-old boys. You are in the role that you're in, and you have the fittedness that you have, and you're in this season for a purpose. Don't be thinking, oh man, 20 years I will. Think about it right now. now. Matters. Third thing I want you to see. God's work isn't just ordinary Don't miss that. His work isn't just ordinary. He uses ordinary people. He uses them even when tight times are really hard. His work appears very ordinary, but it's not just ordinary. In verses 7 through 11, here's what it says: Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his house. Many of the Corinthians hearing believed and were baptized. Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision, Be not afraid, but speak and hold not thy peace, for I am with thee. No man shall set. Now for a moment you may ask the question, why did God do that? Well, it's because He didn't stay very long at Berea, and he didn't stay very long at Thessalonica, and he didn't stay very long at Philippi. He didn't stay very long in these places Because immediately there was persecution and his life was in danger and people said, Get out of the city. And what does God do? He says, Stay in this city. Don't leave this city. I have a lot of people that are going to be reached in this city. And so invest yourself in this city, and nobody's going to touch you while you're doing the work that I've called you to do in this city. That's essentially what God's saying. And that would have been a very stunning thing considering how quickly things broke down in all the other places that it was. It says he continued there for a year and six months. By the way, at the end of that year and six months, guess what happened? The same thing happened at Maria. And the same thing that happened at Thessalonica. In other words, he knew it was time to move on. He knew it was time to move to the next thing. These verses describe a wonderful season, a fruitful ministry, but that's not the end of the story. This very ordinary interaction produced a significantly fruitful ministry of 15 years with Paul and Aquila and Priscilla. And I just want to take a moment to let you see it in the text of Scripture. The first place I want to ask you to turn is in Acts 18, verses 18 and 19. We're in the same chapter, just a couple verses ahead. When Paul leaves for Ephesus, he doesn't go alone. He takes somebody with him. Here's what it says in verse 18. Then took he his leave of the brethren and sailed thence into Syria with him Priscilla and Aquila. Whoa, wait a minute, why? Because of their relationship that had developed in this year and a half period of time, making tents, hearing the gospel preached Discipling people, learning. That's what's going on. And then it says he left them at Ephesus when he goes to Jerusalem. Significant. This is going to be the first indication of a ministry work beginning at Ephesus. It's not the end of the story by any stretch, but it's the beginning. Then in Acts 18, verses 24 to 28, we get a little bit of information about this couple's ministry at Ephesus. Here's what it says: A certain Jew named Apollos, an eloquent man, mighty in the scriptures, came to Ephesus. This man was instructed in the way of the Lord, being fervent in the Spirit. He spake and taught diligently the things of the Lord. Pause. However, there was a problem. You know what the problem was? He was passionate, but he didn't have training. He didn't have training. Who's going to train him Not Paul. Aquila and Priscilla. Listen to what it says. He knew only the baptism of John. When Aquila and Priscilla had heard They took him unto them and expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly. This is an absolutely wonderful statement. So they're there in the synagogue and they're hearing this man teach and he is a passionate teacher. He's an intelligent guy. He handles the word so well. But he doesn't know that Jesus has come and died and risen from the dead and that someone can place their faith in Christ and their sins are forgiven. He's looking for the Messiah. He doesn't know the story They weren't intimidated by his eloquence. They weren't intimidated by his skill and his ability. They came to him and they said, We want to tell you something. Come sit down with us. And they expound the word of God to this man. They said, Jesus, who you preach, who is to come, has come. Let me tell you about it. How do they have the ability to do that? It's because of their interaction with Paul. How do they end up in the setting to actually have these conversations? It's because of all those things we've talked about. It says that after this time, he, Apollos, was come and helped them, the churches much which had belief through grace. He mightily convinced the Jews, showing by the scriptures that Jesus was Christ. So much more we could say about this man, Apollos. But the reason that Apollos knew the word is because a couple took him aside and they expelled him A couple that got kicked out of Rome, a couple that met Paul because they made tents. There is nothing about that story that is anything but ordinary, but the end result is extraordinary. Next we see that when Paul writes the book of Romans, by the way, Paul didn't plant the church at Rome. We don't really know who planted it. But here's what we do know. When Paul wrote to the church at Rome in Acts, Romans chapter 16, verse 3, here's what he writes. Greets Priscilla and Aquila. This is about five years later. Greet Aquila and Priscilla. Helpers in Christ. Who have for my life laid down their own necks, unto whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles. I don't think he's speaking in hyperbole here, folks. If you look at a map and you look at all the churches that we know about In the New Testament, you will find that they nearly all have a connection back to Ephesus. They do. Either they're in the same region or Paul went back and forth. There is a connection back to Ephesus. He says, likewise, greet the church that is in their house. So this couple leaves Corinth and they end up at Ephesus. They end up back at Rome, the place that they were kicked out of. And when they're back at Rome, what are they doing? They're leading people to Christ. They're gathering a group of believers. They're assembling for worship as a very young local church meeting in their house. It's a fascinating consideration. That's extraordinary. But it's not the end of the story. They also ministered in Philippi in 1 Corinthians 16. When Paul is writing back to the church at Corinth, he's writing from Philippi. A place where he had been imprisoned, a place that he had a very short-term ministry, but now he's writing to them again. It says, The churches of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla salute you much in the Lord. With the church that's in their house. Fascinating, isn't it? Why did he say they greet you? Because the church at Corinth knew this couple. What were they doing? There was a church assembling in their home. But it's not the end of the story. They also ministered in Ephesus again at the end of Paul's life. This is 15 years later. In 2 Timothy chapter 4, verse 19, Paul writes Salute Priscina and Aquila in the household of Anepharus. He's writing to Timothy. Timothy is at Ephesus. And again we see them back doing the work of the ministry. What's the point? The point is that this couple, for 15 years, and I'm just focusing on the 15 years, I'm not focusing on everything that goes from there Because we could follow that rabbit trail too. But for 15 years they had a rich, fruitful ministry in Rome, in Ephesus, and Corinth, and in Philippi. At least we know that because the scriptures tell us that. They were personally encouraging Paul in their faithfulness. They opened their home to a young church plant in many cities. They discipled an influential minister of the church. They were personally known to the Christians throughout Macedonia, Achai, Asia, and Rome. God's ordinary work is not just ordinary. What God does In these very ordinary circumstances, you and I don't know at the time the significance of it, but he can take a little thing and he can do an amazing thing with it. It all starts with all those little pieces that we've looked at this morning. So here's the question. All this being true, how do we apply it? What do we personally take from a text like this, from analyzing this historical account of how God worked in the lives of these two people who became very close associates with the apostles? Apostle Paul. Let me give you a couple of very simple practical things that I hope you can take home with you and think about this morning. First is this. We've got to reject a consumer mindset which excuses us from ordinary practical ministry. We've got to reject this consumer mindset. The American Church is a very consumer-oriented church I'm using the word church in a very general sense. We are a consumer-minded people. I mean, that is the way that we're wired There was a great question during our Sunday school time. Actually, my wife she asked great questions. She asked the question, how are these people being funded? And I love the answer. I don't know. Because that's not your focus. Your focus is training them. Their local churches are sending them out. And you said something like this. The vast majority of them are bivocational ministers. I hope you come back tonight because tonight we're going to get to watch a video conversation I had with Michael and Eric, our two brothers in Cape Cosgana. The reason, a huge reason why that church is an is an autonomous church. It is independent of our church, that we are now sister churches. We're not financially under undergirding them. A huge factor is that they are bivocational. And by the way, God has provided for them wonderfully. They do the work of the ministry as a team. And they do it with passion and strength, and they can feed themselves because of this bivocational thing. The fact is, as Americans, we tend to think, what's the bottom line? You give me the money, then I'll take my step. But that wasn't the way the early church thought. The Apostle Paul would not even take money from Corinth because he said, I'm not going to let you say that you support me. It's an amazing concept. We need to reject a victim's mindset that allows past hurts to cripple us and blind us to today's opportunities. Do you know how many people accomplish nothing in life because they can't get over something that happened 20 years ago? I'm serious. Not just 20 years ago to them. How about 20 years ago to somebody else? Aquila and Priscilla didn't sit down and say, you know, I'm not going back to Rome. The way these people treated me, I'm not going back there. No. Forget it. I want nothing to do with that place. They didn't do that. They weren't sitting at Corinth and when the Apostle Paul starts talking about the doctrines of the gospel and God's grace and God's word, and they go, you know what, I'm bitter against God. Look what he let happen to me. They didn't do that. They weren't victims. I mean, they were victims, but they didn't live with the mindset of a victim. They weren't crippled and blinded to opportunity. They seized what was in front of them. We need to reject a restless mindset that fails to see the eternal value of our ordinary work If you're a parent, you are shepherding an eternal soul. An eternal soul If you're a Sunday school teacher, you're teaching someone who's going to spend eternity somewhere. And someone who someday may have a long heritage that follows them, we have no idea when Jesus returns. Your investment of time and energy, it's not insignificant. Don 't view it as if it is. We need to reject a comfort-driven mindset that is inflexible and unwilling to be vulnerable. I could camp here a really long time, okay? But but the fact that this couple was in so many different places means they were willing to get up and go. When Paul said, would you like to go with me? They said, sure. When Paul said, I'm going to leave you, they said, okay. They end up back at Rome, and Paul's writing them. What's the point? These people, it wasn't all about comfort and ease. It was about investing in what was in front of them. This is an incredible principle that we need to grasp. A comfort-driven mindset will make us very ineffective in eternal things. It really well. A lot of people would never open their home to invite somebody in to have a meal. They won't go up and talk to a visitor. They won't open up and share the gospel with someone. They won't take the time to invest in another individual's discipleship because I don't have the time for it. Somebody who doesn't have the time for it 's going to do it in your place. It's true. It always happens. A very busy person who sees the opportunity will take it when someone else says, I'm too busy, I don't have enough time for that. And so we've got to be so very careful that we reject this comfort-driven mindset. We serve a sovereign God whose work is steady and nearly invisible. I didn't say it's invisible, but when you're living in life, you don't see what he's doing so many times. You look back and you go, wow. Some people look back and they don't see it because they don't have the eyes to see it. But God works. We need to cooperate with Him as He's building our lives through these ordinary means. We need to be flexible and available when our life goes through unexpected frustrations and changes. I'm in no way trying to speak lightly or to diminish the sorrow and the pain that people feel in life. But I am saying this: don't let your pain cripple you. Let's purposefully engage in gospel-focused interaction, making disciples in the ordinary ordinary daily lives. You don't have to get up and preach to a hundred people to work with somebody one-on-one. You don't have to have great speaking skills. You just have to love Jesus Study the word. Take a great resource and sit down and spend time with somebody. Share with them what you've learned. Share with them what you're learning. This is so very important. Let's delight in God's providence and the ordinary details of our lives. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, this passage is so gripping. So practical. So worthy of our attention. And I pray that the Holy Spirit would take the word and drive home Some very important principles into the hearts of each person here. Father, there are things that were said that are the Holy Spirit's going to take them and drive them into our heart. And so I pray that that seed will take root and that the word will accomplish its intended purpose. Father, take your word and use it mightily for the advancement and the building of your kingdom. We are all unworthy servants. We are privileged to have a small part in what you're doing and your eternal purposes. Help us to delight in those moments and those opportunities. That stewardship of resources. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, I'd like to ask you to turn in your hymn books to hymn 548. If you're visiting with us today, I hope that you'll stop by and greet myself and my wife. If you're Well, all of you, I hope that you'll stop by and greet the Cassidy family and find out more about the ministry. If you don't know the Lord is your Savior, this was not an evangelistic message at all. But if you don't know the Lord is your Savior, please come and speak with me. I'll take a Bible and show you what it says about what Christ has done for you How he died for your sins, he rose from the dead, and his righteousness can be freely given to you. And so I want to encourage you, if you don't know the Lord is your Savior, please don't leave here without that issue being addressed. Let's stand together and let's sing hymn 548, A Servant's Heart, and let's sing it. As a prayer to God, Make me a servant Make me a servant like you ward, living for others each day. Humble and meek, how big the wig, loving in all that I say Give me, Lord, a servant's heart. Here's my life. Take it apart. Give me, Lord, a servant 's heart. Help me draw so close to you that your love comes shining through. Give me, Lord, a servant saw Give me Lord a servant. Make me a witness like you, dear Lord. Showing the love of the cross, sharing your word till all have heard Serving whatever thou cause Give me, Lord, a servant's heart, Here's my life, take at me part Give me, Lord, a servant. Help me draw so close to you that your love comes shining through. Give me Lord a survey. Give me Lord a survance heart Great prayer. Uh Chris Brown, can you come and close us in prayer please? And uh good to see each of you this morning. I know it was a little shaky, but that's okay. Thankfully we missed the worst of that storm. Don't forget to pray for those who have been very, very painfully affected by the storm And I know within our church we have a lot of folks that we know that live in the areas that were hit very hard. We need to be in prayer for them. So, Chris. Let's pray. Lord, thank you so much for this opportunity to come today to find how you work in ordinary people. How we've also heard, Lord, how you're working in Africa through people who are bi-vocational or completely focused on the ministry and are able to do that financially. Thank you for so many encouragements in that way. Thank you that you can use us wherever we are. Thank you for the reminder that you are at work even in hard times. And that you can use those for your purpose. I ask that you would encourage us to follow you, whether things are going smoothly or things are hard right now, and that we'd be able to bless others as we encourage them today And bring those who can back safely tonight. In Jesus' name. Amen.