Let's bow together for a word of prayer and uh then we'll get started tonight. Let's pray. Lord, we pray that you'll help us this evening as we focus our attention that we would be able to set aside the cares of the day. And the cares of the weak, and that all of our attention would go to you. As the Word of God is opened, I pray that you would uh stir our hearts and bless your servant as he preaches the word, may do it with power. May the Holy Spirit take the word and impress it upon our hearts. As we have opportunity to share testimonies, I pray that as you have been working in our lives and blessing, that we would have opportunity to just praise you publicly. and encourage other believers through the things that we share. And as we sing praise to you, I pray that we would think about these glorious truths that we're expressing in song and that we would do it from our hearts. And I pray that our fellowship one with another would be very encouraging and Christ-centered. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Well, good evening. Thanks so much for joining us for worship. Please stand with us. with me and open your hymn books to hymn number 81. A mighty fortress is our God. Hymn number 81, we'll sing all four verses. We come , we 're going to destroy them. Great, so you please be seated as we turn over to hymn number eighty-three. Guide me, O thou great Jehovah. Him number eighty three. I am we 're right on the Great singing. Our next song will be hymn number 155. Wonderful Grace of Jesus. We'll sing all three verses. Wonderful grace of Jesus, praise of us , I know this. These things you want , by the way, say this. Wonderful Jesus , raising the most new eyes. Oh no , you're not really When the full of fans the swing of sea presentation by the finding darkness Amen. Nine. One day, yes. One day when heaven was filled with his praises, one day when sin was as black as could be That's a good one. Fifty six. And the blue book fifty-six. All I ever want to be Oh I ever want to be as much it wants of me. I give my Alright, let's go over to our hymn book. Alright, so we've got 482 here, which we know the children really enjoy. However, we'll continue doing this one. However, whenever this one gets picked, I'm also going to add one of the other recommended songs that you kids might want to consider if you like energetic outbursts. Um what page is Revive Us Again on? Revive Us Again. What page is that one? So we'll do both of them. But maybe we'll give you some we're gonna try to give you some options here if you guys want some energetic songs here. Uh Revive Us Again, what page is that? Five twenty-seven All right, and the rule is if you guys do well on this one, then we'll do the next one. 527. And when we get to the chorus, we're going to say hallelujah, thine the glory, hallelujah, amen. I want you guys to say amen as loudly as you can. Revive us again. We praise thee, O God, for the love , glory. The move on Four eighty two. Four eighty two. Well done, guys. So now you can have You have another option now. Well I've I've got a few more lined up for you too, so we'll get through all of them. All right. Four For me , but I 'll ears for me. Then I wear my little sick and something we can So now that we can be over there Well that you can 't have that. You guys are holding out on me on that last song. Alright, 459. 459. Leaning on the ever asking arm. Let's stand with both seeing the first and the last When I was a kid we used to lean on the forest. One I should was only find cleaning on the Alabama. Why are we fine cleaning on the Alabama? On the ever likely God, what hell I can turn, what hell I can do, leave me on the ever likely God, why am I dealing? We need not be ever likely Save and secure the Great singing this evening. You may have seen it. Take my day with these passing moments, drink thy heart. Means my trialt me trusting in my father's wind me stomach I now call for you and bring it down in me. I bring it Today entered my sleep every time sleeping Every day I take your books with me. The protection of his child and treasure It's a charge that honest shall be there. As thy day, thy strength shall be immature. It 's a punch to me. I bring it up , the Lord has not been Today with my deep thigh, a bit that we shadamantly And we say my Savior was with me and Tell me that it had retribulation. So to trust thy promises of Lord That I was not shine. Honor me when in thy holy work And bring it in the near me I bring that worthy die I Each other moment sleeps in every time I see your voice. Say I say I say your box. It's not just there, now I hear me boy. It's not just black and red words on white pages. It is the very word of God that's given to us to help us through the times and the trials. And learning to walk with God. And as a parent, you do this and you're hoping that one day your children will do the same. And that you can continue to do so yourself when they ask for wisdom and guidance and direction. And so That was very very good. I appreciated that song. It was very good. We're going to be continuing our study in Ruth chapter 2. Ruth chapter 2. And even the songs that were chosen tonight. Pastor must have been looking through the text just something. I'll know I like the songs that we sang even as a congregation to go with today. Just talking about the grace of God and the different songs that we uh enjoyed together as a congregation kind of go together with this evening's message. So I appreciate that. We're in Ruth chapter two. We're going to skip around, read a couple of highlight verses, and then we'll dig into the text here. In Ruth chapter 2, we'll start the first couple verses, verse 1. And Naomi had a kingsman of her husbands, a mighty man of wealth. of the family of Elimelech, and his name was Boaz. And Ruth the Moabitus said unto Naomi , Let me now go to the field, and to glean ears of corn after him in whose sight I shall find grace. And she said unto her, Go, my daughter. And she went and came, and gleaned in the field after the reapers. And her hap was to light on the part of the field belonging unto Boaz. who was of the kindred of Elimelech. Skip down to verse 15 And when she was risen up to glean, Boaz commanded his young man, saying, Let her glean, even among the sheeps, and reproach her not. And Let fall also some of the handfuls of purpose for her and leave them. that she may glean them, and rebuke her not. So she gleaned in the field until even, and beat out that she had gleaned, and it was about an epha of barley. Skip to verse 21. And Ruth the Mobite said, He said unto me also, Thou shalt keep fast by my young men until they've ended all my harvest. And Naomi said unto Ruth, her daughter-in-law, It is good, my daughter, that thou go out with his maidens, that they meet thee not in any other field. So she kept fast by the maidens of Boaz to glean unto the end of the barley harvest and of the wheat harvest and dwelt with her mother-in-law. Father. As we come before you this evening, would our hearts and minds be focused upon you and your word? Would the Spirit of God speak to His people? that are here physically, and for those that couldn't make, who are watching it online. Father, you know the needs of your people. You know the comfort and conviction, and you can lead and guide where necessary, as the Spirit of God uses the Word of God this evening. We thank you and praise you for this passage of Scripture. And if we just look at some highlights of it, would you use it to exalt and lift up and point people to our Savior, Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray? Amen. After reading this chapter many, many times, I kind of entitled it God's Bountiful Blessings Through Boaz. God's bountiful blessings through Boaz. Now who is this Boaz? He just comes onto the scene here in chapter 2, and this chapter really highlights him a lot. Several different times his word is used in this chapter alone. And we're introduced to him in the first couple verses. So let's just pick it back up in Ruth chapter 2. Verse 1 to see who is Boaz. Who is this Boaz? And Naomi had a kinsman of her husbands, a mighty man of wealth, of the family of Limelech, and his name was Boaz. So we get here that Boaz is a man, was a near kingsman to Naomi, close in relationship with the family. So we see that with relation to her late husband. We also see that he's a mighty man of wealth Now, when we read this passage, many things can come to our mind when we hear mighty man of wealth. This mighty man, this phrase can be used to describe a mighty man of valor one of you know great um character integrity of war to face the enemy. But it could also be one of great integrity and character and one to do what's right. But here it says he's a mighty man of wealth. And as I read and I studied through and as I see and as we walk through this chapter and just unfold, unpackage some parts of it. I think what makes Boaz a mighty man of wealth is he understood how to use money and understood that money is just not for about myself and about my power and about my position. Having money and wealth is not wrong. But what we do with it can be. Sometimes people will give up their entire lives and their effort and all their energies six, seven days a week and umpteen hours just to get more money. For what purpose? To get more money? To get more stuff? Some of the unhappiest people, you can name some of your athletes, your movie stars, your musicians, your whoever, or whatever you want to call them. Some of them have more money than we will ever earn in our lifetime. But yet if you just scroll through articles, if you dare. You'll hear drugs, alcohol, marrying this person, dating that person. They can't decide they seem to be very unhappy. Money is not an end of all things. Money does not equal happiness. In fact, Paul reminded Timothy in 2 Timothy 6. 10, he says, for the love of money. Is the root of all evil, which while some coveted after, they had erred from the faith and have pierced themselves through with many sorrows. So it's the love of money. Why is it the love of money is the root of all evil? Because all of us are sinners by choice and by birth. We're all bent and leaning towards sin And we love to please self. So you give a selfish person lots of money, and what do they like to do? Buy it up for themselves. Get more of it so they can buy more stuff. And it becomes the love and a motivation of their life. Sometimes you might refer to them as a workaholic. And those who are wealthy, it's just never enough. Just another dollar. Just another investment. Just another house. Another company. Here, I think, when it's referring to Boaz, I don't think he's distracted with having a love of money. I think he understood how to use it. And I think God, as we continue to unpackage this chapter, uses what God has blessed him with for God's honor and for his glory as we see this go through. And he used the blessing to how God has blessed him to help others. And we also know that it is very difficult for a rich man to enter into heaven. Because as Pastor said this morning, it is hard to tell a wealthy person that they need something. Because they're used to meeting needs They're used to having everything supplied. They have so much they don't know how to spend it and they're not even happy because they just have more and they don't know what else to do We need to understand that we have need. I think Boaz and one thing that for a good lesson for us that we can learn through the life of Boaz, this man that we're just introduced to in chapter two here is how to handle what wealth or what money you do have. I don't think it's the amount. I think it's what you do with what you have And there's many other passages we can go to on contentment, having food and raiment to be there with content. And many other verses that are similar to that I think Boaz had a good understanding. So when it says a mighty man of wealth, I don't think he was coveting after. I don't think he was just piling up for himself, for his glory. I don't think Job was. I don't think these men were just lifting it to themselves, like, look what I can do. Look what I've accomplished. Because that could be another pride thing is because if sin uh we all have that bent towards sin and we love ourselves, just the more money, the more power, the more it's about me. I earn that money. I can spend it how I please, and I can do and I And I think what we're hinting at here is Boaz was a mighty man of wealth. He knew how to use it He enjoyed sharing with others, and he probably saw it as a blessing, as a gift from God, not look what I've accomplished. It's look what look what God has provided So don't ever feel guilty to have wealth or money. It's the blessing of the Lord. The question is, how are you going to use it? Are you going to be a mighty man with it? So continuing on, who is Boaz? We see he's a near kingsman of Naomi. We see he was a mighty man of wealth, and he repeats that of the family of Elimelech And look at this introduction. I feel like, and his name was Boaz. I just I just when I read this passage, I just feel like it leaves it. It's saying all these things about him and then but his name Was Boaz. I'm like, wow, what what an introduction to the Bible. Never you hear mention of him whatsoever, then all of a sudden, credential, credential, credential, and his name. That's kind of neat. Yeah, maybe I'm weird, but I was like, man, that's kind of a neat introduction to this guy. And then it goes right on through so one, who is Boaz? We see that in verse 2, and we're gonna see in verses 2 through 17 handfuls of God's purpose at Boaz's field. So God is bountifully blessing this mighty man of valor, and we're gonna see how he gives handfuls of purpose. At his field. He uses his field on it to help others and to be a blessing to them. So let's look in in verse 2 here. And Ruth a Moite is said unto Naomi. Let me now go to the field and glean ears of corn after him in whose sight I shall find grace. And she said unto her, Go my daughter. I find this very interesting. Naomi and Ruth here have just, they're traveling back, they're settling down. And Ruth goes to her mother-in-law. And asks her, basically permission, do you think I should go glean in these fields? She's learning of some of the ways apparently of how things and the customs work in Israel. She's understanding there's a way to meet a need. How about I go help meet that need? One thing I appreciate about Ruth is she seemed to be one of character, to work hard, and she probably could have helped write Proverbs 31. When we read this, it's just incredible. She's like, hey, she's not sitting around moping around, woe was me. I lost my father-in-law. Okay, I didn't really like him that much anyway. She's kind of an outlaw. But my husband That is something more special. She could still be mourning, weeping, woe is me. But she travels to a country she's never been before. To start serving God, and she learns of this gleaning and asks her mother-in-law. And she here, it's not like she's a little, you know, 12-year-old girl here asking you to go glean in a field. This is an you know an older you can say teenager so I'm not exactly sure how old she is, but if she's not a little child asking permission I think she was honoring Naomi. And I've explained to teens over the years, obeying is different than honoring. And now that I've got four children of my own, I think I've learned a little bit more what it means to honor, to call up mom and dad, my mom and dad. And still ask them questions, bounce things off of them. They've got more earthly wisdom and things, and they've lived on this long uh earth longer than I have. I think it's just a way of honoring them. I love to call my mom on my birthday. I did nothing, but she worked really hard. She really, really did. And I've heard the story many times. The first child is not so easy. And a long story made short, she just, I mean, I don't, her own father didn't hardly recognize her after she gave birth to me. And they wanted to go in there in those days and they they just they wanted to like put these metal things in to help pull me out and she's like you're not touching my kid. You're gonna scar up his face. And the things that she endured were incredible. So I call her every time it's my birthday. Mom, thanks for everything you did. I don't remember a thing. I have no idea. I just know what I've been told. But thank you. Just my little way of saying, Mom, I appreciate you. I'm thinking about you trying to honor my mother Guys, if you want to steal that, go for it. It's fine. But here, so we see Ruth going to Naomi asking for I just think it's a wonderful thing. And she's asking, hopefully. Maybe I can find a field that will take me. Maybe someone out there is gonna love me and I can have grace extended to me to help provide for a need. Maybe that's possible. What is she doing? She's talking about this gleaning. What is this? I want to just briefly look at this gleaning here. Gleaning is really God's provision by allowing the needs of the poor to be lightened and met. I almost don't want to make the comparison, but I will for the sake of illustration. It's almost like God's welfare program. This is his way of helping those who had need that needed food on the table. To yes, to work, to be able to get it, but it was saved just for them. I just want to look at this really quick. If you're not familiar with what is the gleaning, we're going to look at a couple verses here, going back to Leviticus. A couple verses in one Deuteronomy. Leviticus 19, 9, it says, and when ye reap the harvest of your land, what you planted, what you plowed, what you are not harvesting, this is your field, you own it. Thou shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy field, neither shalt thou gather the gleanings of thy harvest. And thou shalt not glean in the vineyard, and neither shalt thou gather every grape of the vineyard, and thou shalt weave them for the poor and stranger. Naomi is currently poor, and Ruth is currently a stranger And he says, I am the Lord your God. He says something similar in Leviticus 23, 22. And when ye shall reap the harvest of your land, ye shall not make clean riddance of the corners of the field when thou reapest. Neither thou shalt gather any gleaning of thy harvest. Thou shalt leave them unto the poor and to the stranger. Why is his reason? I am the Lord your God. This doesn't make sense. I just want you to obey. I'm God. This is my way providing for the poor and stranger. Don't get every little bit and I can imagine I'm one of those guys sometimes if there's something really good on my plate man I'm like scraping My wife's not in here sometimes you you're tempted to like lick it you know and then she's not here she's in the nursery One little pet piece. I just have this is have them have something good. Like picture of a covido. And when you picture a covido , You can't just have one, you can have them all, right? And then as you eat these things, Cheetos and the Bilites, and the L 'Rios, and the combat Cheetos, and Rios, and well in your readers. You know what that says to me? I want all of that. She looks at me and she's like, don't do it. And I'm like, but that is so good. I want to find it. I mean, I love it. It's my own baby. I'm definitely I just want every little bit of it. I can imagine as a farmer You want every little bit. I want all of it. I labored, I toiled, I paid those guys to do it. I worked it myself. I plowed the field, got the rocks out, replowed it, I fertilized it I planted every bit. I measured every little bit. And I've had gardens in the past. Not like Pastor, but I've had gardens in the past. And man, you know, you're I was out there measuring and trying to get all this stuff. And you want to get all that out. I was like, man, I planted, I toiled, I worked this field. I'm getting every bit of this out I can. But God says, don't take the corners. And while you're harvesting, if you drop anything, leave it. That would be hard for a guy like me. I'm thinking, man, I work for that. I want that. I mean, I I I just want to collect all of it. But what God is saying, He's providing provision for the purpose of the gleaning, for the poor and the stranger, don't Cut the corner. This is one place where it's okay to cut the corner. Okay? Leave it. Just leave it. And if you drop it, it too bad. Hire another servant that doesn't, you know, drop as much stuff. Okay One more verse in Deuteronomy 24, 21. And when thou gatherest grace of the vineyard, thou shalt glean it afterwards, and thou shalt be for the stranger. For the fatherless and for the widow. The purpose of this was not so another farmer will go by, oh man, this is a sloppy farmer. Man, he can't even cut the corn of this field. Lazy bum, I'll take that. No, this is blessed for those that don't have as much. This is God's way of providing for those that don't. But here's what it is. It's not a free handout either They're they're not going, they're not leaving these parts of the field, and I don't think that it's not saying now get out of the corners and go deliver it, be and deliver it to them, each one of them, and if they ask for more you just give it and say next time I'll bring me more next year and they did nothing to get it. That's why I didn't want to bring up the illustration of a modern day kind of welfare type, just gimme because I deserve it, because I'm me. type of mentality. It's the generation we're going into. I think we're cycling that hard. Hopefully it takes a hard drift the other way. But they still had to go to the field as we're going to see you through. She still had to walk to the field. Work all day, maybe she'd get something to eat, and then walk, and then you know beat the stuff and then take it home and get to enjoy a meal. That takes work. And then do it the next day just to have a to eat again But that was God's provision. That's just some history, some background to the gleaning. Now we'll continue on there as we look at handfuls of God's purpose at Boaz 's field. We're going to look at verse 3 real quick. And she went and came and gleaned in the field after the reapers. So she's going behind them. She's going by the reapers. They're dropping stuff. She's picking it up. Her and many others probably And I love this next phrase, and her hap was to light on the parts of the field belonging unto Boaz. Who was the kin kindred of Elimelech? So here's Ruth asking permission to go work all day just to have enough to eat for her and her mother-in-law. And it says she just has to light until you end up on this field that happens to be of relation to her. And after that has happened, I used to when I was younger, I used to think things were coincidental and wow, it's amazing. Everything lined up just right And circumstances all lined up and man, that's cool, that looked out. And then I started learning of the Lord and the word, and I started to see pieces over together. I'm like, you know what? I started saying, I don't think we could. Things don't just don't happen and accidental. Wow, look at the timing. Wasn't that incredible? Wasn't that amazing how that lined up? Ah, that's a freakish actually. How in the world? You know, like these atoms just hit just right and form the first thing. And that thing forms a monkey. You can that monkey form me. Wow, that's an incredible set of circumstances. What a coincidence. No, no, sorry. It's by design, it's purpose. You don't think God helped lead and guide her as she just happened to land on this field that was relation to her? You don't think God put in her desire to want to work and to provide for her mother-in-law and up at that field? And what we're going to see here is you have a young lady who is trying to do right, take care of her needs, and take care of the needs of her mother-in-law. Then you've got a man, a mighty man of wealth, who's trying to run his harvest and his fields the best that he can and have be a man of honesty and integrity in doing so And what do you know? They just happen to run into each other. You know, sometimes I think in life we try and make it complicated and think, oh, what is God's will and I can't figure it all out right now? And I've got a graduating senior in high school thinking, I got the world in front of me, what am I gonna do? Wake up tomorrow, brush your teeth, make your bed, spend time with God, and take it one day at a time. That's how you do it. What does that mean? I don't know what it all means tomorrow, but if you keep doing right today Do you think Ruth was going to this field and just happened to, you know what, I'm gonna pick this field just because I like it and um you know hopefully I'm gonna marry the owner of this this friend Check someday. Do you think that she's thinking that? I don't think so. And in fact, she's just the wonder hoping to get something. And when she does, one thing we don't realize either, this is like this this This chapter this we I'm kind of kind of rushing through here no romantic thing with these two sweet young couples meeting and running off with to the sunset on a white horse. Boaz is quite a bit older than she is. Okay, this is not like your two-year-old young 20s running off into the sunset. Okay, it's more likely that Boaz is probably old enough to be her father, potentially. Oh, that's not what I was thinking. Yeah, I know. Me too. It's not exactly the romance picture thing. I don't think that's what's happening. I really think this is two people trying to serve God and do right day by day. And they just happened to meet on this field doing what God had called them to do Way back in Moab, God put it in Ruth's heart to follow her and mother-in-law and to start serving the God that she was getting to know or already know. I want to serve the God of Israel. I want your God to be my God and your people to be my people. And that's what she's doing. Way back in Moab she said that. And now what is she doing? She's just doing what God had put on her heart to do. She's just doing what she thinks is right What is Boaz doing? He's just trying to run his property and his fields the best that he can before God and be a mighty man with the wealth that he had and take care of it Skipping on here, they both had a reputation. It just is not coincidence. It's not just a mistake. Some verses in Psalm 37, 23, the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. In Psalm 85, 13, righteousness shall go before him, and he shall set us in the ways of his steps. Micah 6. 8. He hath showed unto me, O man, what is good, and what doth the Lord require of thee, but thou doest justly, just do right, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God. Sometimes we can waste our today's about trying to plan and work on all of our tomorrows. Sometimes we worry ourselves sick today because we can't figure out our tomorrows. I've been there, I've done that, and sometimes I've learned, you know what, let's just take care of today. I'm not saying you can't plan for the future. I mean that wouldn't be good, good to just say, oh okay, whatever, I'm just gonna take every day as a whim. That's not what I'm saying But tomorrow may not come. The Lord can go back at any moment. It could be in the next hour. It could be the next hundred years. But we're supposed to live and do right today. Are you walking humbly with your God today? Are you making right decisions today? It reminds me I was uh trying to learn how to play chess against my sons and I'm looking up all these cheats and things because I'm not like a super chess player. And so I was watching this brainiac play and he played like ten people backwards. I can't play one person forward. And he was like memorizing these things and he was whooping them all. I thought, man, that's incredible. I can't even even fathom that But what he said is he said something on the lines of, you know how he plays chess? He just makes the right move right in front of him right now. Oh, he might have plans for the next moves. But he just makes the best move he can at that moment. I was like, ah, he's on to something right there When it comes to life, you don't plan on I'm gonna marry the owner of this field and I'm gonna take him as my husband. I don't think so. She's thinking, I'm just trying trying to provide a meal for the day and take some to my mother-in-law I think that's how the Lord works sometimes. Day by day now we detach the moment. We just live every day walking humbly with thy God And God puts them together. And in verses 4 through 7, we see a snapshot of Boaz is in his field. He's greeting his servants. His servants greet him, and they're greeting in the Lord. It's just like this is, we're just getting a little zoom in of this is every day on Boaz's field. Oh, may the Lord be with you, he says in verses 4 through 7. But he's very observant, and his uh reapers are very much the same. He's talking with his head guys and say, hey, wait a minute, who is she? Now I don't know what stood out. I don't know maybe she was just new in town. And the guy is saying, hey, she's the one Uh this Naomi 's daughter. They she's the mobitist woman. Yeah, she came here to glean and he's like, oh, wait a minute, you said Naomi 's daughter Oh wait, then he is clicking his money. That's family. And then as we see going through here, he starts taking responsibility to take care of family. It's not so much a romance is developing. I don't think that's what's happening right here. It's not like sparks are flying, love at first sight type of stuff. No, this is just he's trying to do right, he's trying to take care of family. Oh, this is this is this is uh my relation and he takes care of her and he starts then he introduces himself to her and as we look through this they're talking back and forth and it says in verse Oh, where's it? I'm skipping through here. Look at verse 10. And she fell on her face and bowed herself to the ground and said unto him, Why have I found grace in thine eyes, that thou shouldest take knowledge of me, seeing I am a stranger? One, I think he says take care of strangers the way he's been commanded in the word of God in Leviticus. He's leaving the corners, he's letting the gleaners do the thing. He's just doing what the Bible says. Two, earlier in verse two, she was just hoping to find grace in someone's sight so she can glean. Because some not everyone wants to obey the Bible, believe it or not. And some people may not have let them glean in your field. And here she's trying to figure out, why am I getting grace in your sight? This is one of those moments, well, didn't you pray for that? In verse 2, weren't you asking to find grace in someone's sight? Isn't that how it works sometimes? You get an answer of prayer and you're like, well, where did that come from? Well, isn't that what you prayed for? Well, yeah. But I wasn't expecting to actually get what I prayed for. Well then why would you pray it? You're supposed to pray in faith, nothing wavering. And I think that's the moment the Ruth is having here is wait a minute, I prayed and I wanted to have grace and someone said it and I found it. And then there it is, sitting right in her face. She goes, I can't believe this is happening. I know, isn't it amazing? Is it Isn't it so wonderful that sometimes God just like amazing spews out his goodness and demonstrates it through answering prayer and doing it in a more blonder way than even a thought or manage possible? Amen. I mean Father can serpent God like that. Wow, that's amazing. After she traveled to a land that she didn't know, after she lost her husband. And she's around a bunch of strangers. And now she's in a time of harvest, if you will, of a spiritual harvest of blessing. And she gets to eat while she's doing it. Wow, this is amazing. You're being so kind and good. Isn't that how God is to us? Isn't it so great that Jesus Christ is so kind and good to us? The sinless, selfless Savior dying for our sin. And sometimes we just treat him like anyone else. And he goes beyond. I read, I believe, in verse 16. And 17. He is going beyond. He is now purposefully telling his people, drop stuff on purpose. Look at this. This is incredible. And let fall also, verse 16, some of the handfuls of purpose for her, and leave them, that she may glean and rebuke her not. Now she's getting extra help. He is telling his people, drop stuff on purpose, just for her. What's he doing? He's taking care of family He's probably not looking at this young lady and going, wow, she's beautiful. I'm gonna marry her someday. I don't think so. And the reason I think that is because when we fast forward to the end, she's there for two harvests, the wheat and the barley harvest. She's there a long time This is not like sparks romance flying in the air. This is just two people trying to live according to how God has them just take one day at a time, and God is bringing their paths together. And as we see in the future chapters, he's going to start obeying God and doing what he's supposed to do as a kingsman redeemer, which is a wonderful picture of Jesus Christ coming to redeem us and to give us bountiful blessings that we don't deserve because we're selfish sinners. That are dirt wrapped in flesh, that love ourselves, and he says, I'm gonna die for you. I'm gonna love you while doing it. Wow, that's like handfuls of purpose. He's doing this for me and for us. Incredible. So handfuls of purpose is at Boa's field. And all this by doing so We're going to see very quickly in verses 18 through 23, blessings that the Lord provide and end up being for the widow's need. By him helping Ruth and taking care of family, he knows that this is going back all the way to Naomi. Let's skip here. Look at verse 19. This is where Naomi now is receives Ruth back home and she's like, well what what happened? She says, where'd thou gleam today, verse 19? And where rottest thou? Blessed be that did take knowledge of thee. Man, this is incredible. And she showed her mother-in-law with whom she had wrought and said, The man's name with whom was wrought today is here it is again Boaz. His name is like at the end. I was at a name I think his name was Boaz. She says, What Boaz And so she says the Ruth in verse 20, Blessed be he of the Lord whom hath not left off his kindness to the living of the dead. And Naomi said to her, The man is near kin unto us. One of our next kinsmen. Do you think Ruth had a clue what was going on there? Apparently she still didn't know because Naomi had to explain it to her. She's going to Boaz, and Boaz is saying all the stuff and she She is falling down and saying, Man, you are being so kind to me. I don't get this. Man, this this God of Israel, these people of Israel are amazing people, and they're blessed to be God imagine that they're stupid, they're just And now Naomi is telling of you who we're at Boaz 's field. He is a relation to us. And now Naomi is telling Ruth what's going on by saying, he is potential that could help us in the future. Ruth knew none of that. And this takes time. They look at this. And as you continue on, she said unto her also, say by the young men in verse twenty-one. And then verse twenty-two, Naomi said unto Ruth, her daughter-in-law, It is good, my daughter. Can I say, it is always good to try and do right day by day? There will be people that will not like it. There will people that will get upset at you. They will think that you're that you're weird. You read your Bible, you go to church, you give what? You give ten percent and then you give the missions? You are crazy. You go to church four times a week, three times in one day. You are weird. And you can just smile and say, thank you. I'd like you to be weird with me. Let me tell you of the Jesus Christ that has saved my soul, and I just can't wait to go to church on Sunday. And the blessings I'm reminded of through him. So it is good, my daughter, verse 22, that thou go out with the maidens. And you know, and she said, don't go to another field, verse 20 23. So she kept fast by the maidens of Boaz, to glean unto the end here it is of the barley harvest and of the wheat harvest and dwelt with her mother-in-law. She stuck with her mother-in-law. She kept on working, just day by day, being faithful. Obeying God day by day. We can get God's bountiful blessings and learning this through Boaz's field if each of us just does our best to obey what we know to do today. And when we make up tomorrow and we do our best to obey tomorrow and to walk humbly with our God He will bring us into the paths of others. He can encourage us. He can bless us. Oh, there's there's challenges and difficulties. Yes, I'm not saying Christian life is all just a bunch of petal of roses and everything. People go to church because they got life figured out. I've told people church is more like a spiritual hospital. People go there to be encouraged to hear the word of God. People go there because they know they need the word of God. God, not because they have everything figured out. Often we go because we don't have it all figured out. It's more like a spiritual hospital. But here Are we receiving that God's blessings by doing right and encouraging us? You want to know how all your tomorrow's? That's fine. You can pray about it. But I think here we've seen two people Just doing what God had called them to do despite their circumstances, one poor, basically destitute, the other one wealthy. Both were doing right, and God brought their past together, and we're going to watch this unfold in the next couple of chapters. But would God help us to understand? That we can receive blessing, that through obedience to him, even through hardship, and sometimes he has bountiful blessings and handfuls of purpose for us. to encourage us and help us along and see how good and gracious God is. Father, I thank you so much for the kindness and the generosity of you demonstrating it to us through this chapter. Of Ruth and Lord, you were good to Boaz And Ruth here was beginning to see your goodness even materially because she trusted in you all the way back in Moab. Each was just doing right, day by day, to take care of their needs and to live before you. With honesty, integrity, and to do what's right. And sometimes you just decide to show off your goodness and kindness at different times for different purposes Would we love you and we trust you and we enjoy both. Help us to be mighty men and women of wealth if you guide that way. Help us to continue to seek and to serve you graciously. And just watch with expectation of how you can answer prayer and trust in you through the process. Father, we thank you and we can praise you for all this, through the precious and glorious name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Pray. Amen. Pastor. Isn't that a great chapter? And such very important things for us to be reminded of. Let's go ahead and pull out our hymn books, turn to 156. And uh this is a great hymn for us to close out. How can it be? All three verses. Let's stand together, please. We'll sing it out. I behold the wonders of thy mind and glorious thy short thou hast. And yet you think thou lovest me, my love, how can it be? Oh my god, be done and gives up on my own. Once Hálod keint, hát kéj That's a great song, that's it. Isn't it? It's been a good day to be in the Lord's house. Fellowship with other believers. Uh teens, you have a singer tonight, so after service, head to the back uh so that you can can be ready for that. And looking forward to our continuation of our series on the Sermon on the Mount. And so hope that many of you can join us back on Wednesday night for that. Um maybe a little snow between now and then. That's what they're saying. So uh Brother Charlie Cross, can you please come and pose us in prayer? And uh good to see each of you tonight. And learn of your word, take the message that we heard tonight. Seal it to our hearts and help us to apply it. We thank you for your love. Now be with us as we leave, keep us safe, and bring us back. For other services, we thank you for these things in Jesus' name. Amen.