Well, good evening. Hope that you have had a great week and I've had a busy week and thankful to be back. Cheryl and I, we got back in this morning at was it 4 15 or something? Uh into JFK and then we got into uh Reagan around 1030. So It's been a really busy week, and I'm really excited about the opportunity Sunday night to talk about our trip and the things that we learned and some of the things we got to see. And I'm not the picture taker, but I have access to the pictures. So I'm I'm excited about that opportunity. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer tonight, and then we will uh dig into the next section that we're looking at this evening. Father, it's so good to be able to gather together as a body of believers. And every single one of us carries uh deep burdens and also uh sweet blessings. And I pray that tonight you'd help us to be able to to focus our attention on your word, and I pray that you would encourage us. Help me tonight to communicate a very practical and important concept. And I pray that this concept would richly bless us Thank you so much for the time that I was able to have in Ghana, and I thank you for the work that you're doing in the church in Cape Coast. I thank you for uh the men that are uh were ordained this past week, uh the babies that uh we are able to uh just uh dedicate to you and ask you to bless the parents as they raise these little ones and Thank you for the folks that follow the Lord in Believers Baptism. Just a very uh blessed weekend. And uh thank you for the week we have coming up with Vacation Bible School. I'm really excited. And I pray that you will strengthen us, strengthen our hands, encourage us in the work, help us to stay healthy. And I pray that the children that have signed up will be able to come and that this week we'll see many families reached. Many young people reach with the gospel. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, if if you could, let's turn together to Galatians chapter 6. And we're going to look at verses 7 through 10. And as you know, on Wednesday nights we're talking about issues related to family and uh foundational issues, but one of the things that I want us to see tonight is that uh The topic we're going to deal with is not just a family-focused issue. In fact, it really goes into every single area of our lives. So the topic that we're dealing with tonight, and it won't just be tonight, but it'll also be the next Wednesday, potentially a three-parter, we'll see, is God's design in a fallen world. The last time we were meeting, we talked about the fact that God designed things well. And when we talk about God's design, there is a purpose behind it. There is dignity, there is value, there is glory. But one of the things that we recognize is though that is how God has created this world. This is now a fallen world. And the question we need to ask this evening is, well, how does this fact that it's a fallen world, how does that affect these areas that we talked about being glorious and designed by God's good hand. And so with that, we're going to look at part one, the law of sowing and reaping. And I know that when I talk about sowing and reaping, we tend to focus on this as a negative concept. Tonight I'd like us to see that it is both equally negative and positive. It really goes both ways. And the encouragement is, let's sow wisely for the glory of God, and let's not be weary in well-doing. So that's really where we're going this evening. Galatians chapter 6, verse 7, here's what the scriptures say. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption. But He that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting. Let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. As we have, therefore, opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially unto them who are of the household of faith. Now, how many of you, when you've heard this passage preached on, it's almost an entirely negative application? Anybody I see some hands, okay, but I want you to notice something about the the way that the passage is presented. He says Let us not be weary in well doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. As we have opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially those of the household of faith. Is that a positive or is that a negative application? It's a positive application. So it is true that there is a negative application in these verses, but it's also true that there's a positive. The point that we're going to draw out is you could go either way with this. And we have to be so very, very cautious that we so wisely. So with that in mind, let's kind of get back into some introductory material and kind of go back to what we talked about the last time we were dealing with Our first topic of God's design and the wisdom of God's design. God warned Adam in the garden that he would die if he ate the forbidden fruit. God's creation was well-ordered. It was purposeful. There was sacredness associated with several foundational matters. For instance, We talked about the dignity of human life. And we're not just talking about dignity, but we're talking about the sanctity or the sacredness of life. God created us in his own image. And so that's why we have value ultimately in a distinction from the rest of creation. We were created in God's image. We are image bearers. A second distinction is that God created us male or female. And there's a fun fun functional distinction between men and women. We were created in the image of God, male and female. Again, that is a sacred matter. And then we talk about the institution of marriage. He says, for this cause a man shall leave his father and mother and cleave unto his wife, and the two shall be one flesh. So we see that marriage is defined. Male, female, one man, one woman, God has established this union. Sacredness there. We even talk about human procreation. Children are a blessing, should be cherished, and molded in the ways of the Lord. Those four issues are issues that we would say are sacred. So when we talk about human life, there's a sacredness there. When we talk about marriage, there's a sacredness there. When we talk about male and female, human procreation, there is a sacredness there. Here is the question we should ask ourselves. We know that before the fall there was a sacredness to these things. How did the fall affect those things? Does that make sense In other words, God created marriage good. Now we live in a fallen world. So is marriage now bad? No, marriage is still good, but there's problem and difficulty associated with marriage. It goes into all these various areas. And so when God warned Adam that he would die if he ate from that forbidden fruit, the phrase literally has the idea of saying Dying you will die. In other words, he's talking about different kinds of death. That's because in the scripture there are actually three different kinds of death that's talked about. For instance, there's a spiritual death. We talk about spiritual death. We're saying that man who was designed to have fellowship with God is now separated from God. That fellowship is broken. And unless God reaches out to this person who is broken and spiritually dead now, that person has no capacity to be able to have fellowship with God. separated from God, unable to have communion and fellowship with God. That's why we need the gospel. That's why we need to be born again. That's why we need to be regenerated. Spiritual death. When Adam sinned in the garden, he spiritually died. That fellowship with God was broken. And tonight I'm not going to dig into all the different objective ways that we can see that that's taken place. We're going to look at that uh Lord willing next week, but we can see that the moment that Adam sinned, there is clear evidence that his relationship with God is broken. The way he relates to God is completely changed. Spiritual death. There's also physical death. So while we are spiritually dead when we are born, we are physically dying, though we're not yet physically dead. Does that make sense? Okay? So the moment that I'm born, yes, my body's growing and it's maturing and it's developing, but every single day I live, I'm getting closer to that day. So while being spiritually dead, I am beginning to die. That's the idea. But then there's the third death that's talked about, and that is eternal death. Eternal damnation, separation from God in the lake of fire. And so when the Bible talks about death, it talks about death in these three ways: physical death, spiritual death, eternal death. That is what took place when Adam sinned. When Adam sinned, he spiritually died. He began to physically die, and he was eternally separated from God apart from the gospel. And we know that God promised a redeemer. So the question is, are there other ways that the fall affected this world in Adam? And the answer is yes. Incredibly so. In fact, we're going to talk about those practical implications at another time. But that uh that difficulty that came into the world did not change the fact that that what God had ascribed dignity to and sacredness to still had sacredness. In other words, when God says, I created man in my own image, and now man is fallen , Men didn't stop being in the image of God. And you go, well, how do you know that? Well, you know that because we we see that capital punishment is introduced During the time of the flood, he says, if you take man's wives, then the government needs to hold you accountable for that, because in the image of God he created him male and female. Or when Jesus is asked questions about marriage, what does he do? Well he goes back to the beginning and he says, Well, what was the purpose of marriage? In other words, what it shows you is that the sacredness that's associated with being created in God's image or the sacredness that's ascribed to marriage, or the sacredness that's ascribed to the distinction of male and female or human procreation, those things are unchanged by the fall. But There's now a complication that's introduced into the picture. You could say that there is now something that has been corrupted. So what is good is still good, but corruption has been introduced into the picture. And that corruption is something that creates a lot of difficulty and trouble. In other words, these areas that still maintain their sacredness and their dignity and their value, they're now areas where the corruption of suffering is introduced. or the corruption of difficulty and striving and hardship, they're all introduced into this issue. And this is something we have to understand. What God created good is still good, but it's good in a fallen world. And because it's good in a fallen world, we have to deal with this concept of corruption. And that brings us to the discussion of Galatians chapter 6. Because in Galatians chapter 6, what we see is that in our lives, we are always showing one way or the other way. We're always either sowing to the flesh, which is going to bring corruption, or we're sowing to the spirit, which is going to, by God's grace, accomplish something that has eternal value and eternal goodness. So with that in mind, let's look back again at Galatians chapter 6 and dig into this concept. Because when we talk about issues like marriage and family and how we raise our kids and how we look at all of these issues. It all goes back to the fact that throughout the course of our lives, we are sowing One way or the other. And truthfully, we are really sowing both ways many times over the course of our lives. And it's the grace of God that pulls us back when we begin to stumble and falter. So Galatians chapter six verse seven again. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. Whatever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. He that soweth to his flesh. shall of the flesh reap corruption. He that soweth to the spirit shall of the spirit reap life everlasting. The first truth I'd like you to see from these verses Is that God's law is sure? Notice what he says in verse 7. He says, be not deceived. God is not mocked. Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. Those words are very important. The word deceived means that there is a temptation for us to believe lies about this particular matter. We can believe that the law isn't true. We can believe that we can somehow get past the rules. We we were having conversation and one of the conversations that we had is that many times when people experience horrific consequences for terrible decisions, it's because in their mind they believed I know it happens to them but it won't happen to me. You know, yes, it's true, when they made those decisions, here's the outcome, but I'm different. I'm going to take my chances. I'm going to roll the dice and hope that it works out in my favor. Well, the scriptures tell us don't be deceived. Don't believe lies. The second is God is not mocked. The way that God designed things is how they're going to play out. If God's established a law, whether you believe the law is true or not, whether you believe that what he says is true or not, it doesn't matter, it's going to happen. If God has created a law, that law is sure. It's something that's reliable. And then we see, whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. This is a principle that has been established. So let's talk about this for just a few moments. First of all, there is a sure and an unshakable law. Like when we talk about things like mathematics. or science. These are disciplines that begin with a certain expectation, a presupposition. You know what that presupposition is? There's order out there Okay? We if we didn't believe that there was order, we wouldn't study science. Because studying science is coming to the to the belief that there are certain laws that can be discovered out there. If there's laws that can be discovered out there, that means they were designed by somebody somewhere. It amazes me that people believe that the universe just kind of created itself. Through random chance, and they believe that there's actually laws that you can observe and that you can you can test and you can actually use. Like those things to me, they don't seem to be logically compatible. A person that's studying mathematics or science begins with the fact that there are real laws that I can use and I can study and I can observe. So we observe and we make theories and we test, and we as we test we begin to make adjustments. We realize I was wrong. I was assuming something that isn't true because the testing has demonstrated that or the testing bears it out or I begin to tweak it and my understanding becomes a little bit more refined. That's what science ultimately is. It's observing, it's theorizing, it's testing, it's adjusting, it's understanding so that we can do what We can discover laws and we can use them for good purposes. We understand the concept of law. It's because God made the universe. He ordered it. He established it. He designed it. It was purposeful. The fall does not change the concept of the law, but it does affect the way things fall out. Now you have both good and bad. Now you have evil and you have good You can take the good purpose of God and you can twist it and you can manipulate it and you can use it in an extremely destructive way. And so these first Statements tell us, look, there's a law. God is not mocked. Don't be deceived. Truth number two. There are two ways that you can potentially sow. Here's how he puts it in verse 7. Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. The word whatsoever means there's more than one way this can happen. You can go to this side or you can go to that side. And you say, well, what are the two ways that are talked about? Well the verse tells us. He goes on to say he that soweth to his flesh or he that soweth to the spirit. So there's two different ways I can sow seed to my flesh or I can sow seed to the spirit. And you go, well, what in the world does that mean? Like, how do I practically sow to my flesh? Like, I don't know, this doesn't make sense to me. I'm going to give you this illustration. And we were over there in Ghana. One of the days we ate fufu twice. This is the local dish and it's like really heavy, heavy food. And it's the kind of food that like like when you eat it, you feel full, and then you sit down and all of a sudden it's like it just keeps Filling and filling and filling and you're like, I hope it stops at some point here because if it doesn't, I'm gonna be in trouble. Well, we ate twice fu on one of the days. And you would think, after eating all that food, when I woke up the next morning, I'd be like, I'm not hungry at all. I, you know, I don't I didn't need to eat for a week. You know what's really funny? That was the hungriest morning I ever woke up. It's true. I ate all that food that just filled me up and the next morning I wake up and I'm like, I'm like starving. You say, why is that? Because when you feed something, it wants more. It's the weirdest thing, but it's the truth. You you you think that when you plant something there's going to be a satisfaction. It's like it's like when I drink the water I won't need anymore. Or when I eat the food, I won't need anymore. No, actually The more you feed something, the more it says, give me more of this. It's a scary thing, but it's a real principle. And so you can sow to the flesh so that your flesh becomes stronger and it dominates you to a greater extent. And it says, feed me more and feed me more, and you just give and you give and you give, and guess what? It takes it, it takes it, it takes it. And the end result is what? It's destruction. Giving in to sinful desires is what he's talking about. We're all made of the same stuff. Every man who is tempted is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lust and enticed. And the truth is that when temptation begins to take root in my heart and I give into those fleshly desires and I feed those fleshly desires, you know what happens? They get stronger. They begin to dominate to a greater extent. And that's what he means when he says The person who sows to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption. Because as you feed the flesh, the flesh says, Give me more. And it's never satisfied. It never says, Oh, I've had enough. It's like the woman at the well. Jesus says to this woman, I can give you water and you'll never thirst again. And you know what? She lived her whole life looking for something to satisfy her, and nothing satisfied her So when he talks about sowing to his flesh, he's talking about giving in to those sinful desires, feeding those desires rather than putting those sinful desires to death. Establishing patterns of life that are giving in to our sinful desires. You know, we are all sinful people. And we are all tempted, but we are not all equally on the same path. Do you understand that? In other words, when I feed a desire, it becomes stronger and it dominates to a greater extent. When I walk down a road long enough, I establish a way of life that is habitual and it is a pattern. And that pattern can come become almost impossible to break. It can dominate me. And so when he talks about Sowing to his flesh, he's saying, you're strengthening sinful desires, you're establishing patterns of life that are going to dominate you, and you will not be able to break them. Don't do it. That's what he's talking about. And you know, we can do this in any area of our life. Any area of life. And don't think that you can get away with doing this and it won't affect your relationships That won't affect your relationship with your spouse or with other Christians or the people that you work with or your children or your siblings. It's impossible. When a person feeds the flesh, they become a raging fleshly person. And when a person walks down the road long enough, that pattern becomes so self-centered and so destructive that it Hurts everyone in its path. And so when he says, Don't feed the flesh, that's why he says don't do it. The second way is we consider the spirit. This is the exact opposite of that. So rather than a person feeding their sinful desires, giving in to their fleshly passions, they're submitting to the authority of Christ by the power of the Holy Spirit. And they're saying no to sin and yes to God. I'll give you a very simple example. For instance, in Ephesians, where it talks about a person who's stealing things. You're a thief. You know what he says? He says, let him that stole steal no more. That is, put to death the theft desire. And you know what's really interesting? He says, and let him work with his hands so that he can give to those who have need. Now you know what that is? That's not just putting to death the sinful desire. But it's actually feeding the spirit-filled response of loving your neighbor as yourself. In other words, instead of me looking at my neighbor as someone that I can take advantage of. So that I can feed my own fleshly passions and get what I want. I put to death those fleshly desires and I work and I give by the Spirit's power and enabling for the good of my neighbor. That's what we're talking about. That's the difference between sowing to the flesh and walking in the spirit. It's the exact opposite. It involves both putting to death fleshly passions and making alive by the Spirit's enabling those godly desires and passions. It involves putting to death sinful passion and cultivating godly passion. You know, God gave us a mind that is active. It's always active. And that mind that is always active can be just in the gutter, or it can be the glories of heaven. The same mind. That mind can be plotting and scheming how to destroy and how to take and how to use this body that God has given you for horrific purposes, or it can be used for the glories of Christ. Same brain, same hands, two different roads. It's all about what you're going to do with those fleshly passions. It involves establishing godly patterns by the Holy Spirit's enabling and delighting in his good purposes for us. You know, when we talk about these issues on Wednesday nights, what we're ultimately saying is this. You and I have a choice in all these areas of life. We can feed the flesh. And experience corruption of a good thing, or we can put to death those fleshly passions by the Spirit's enabling And we can feed godly passions and desires, and we can establish godly patterns, and we can see the fruit of sowing to the Spirit. That's what we're talking about. So what's the result of sowing to the flesh? One word, corruption. Something that's good now becoming flawed. Something that has value becoming soiled. Something that has been set apart for the glory of God, being used to bring dishonor to God. Yeah, I think about in Romans chapter 1 where it talks about this descent into chaos as people reject God. And one of the things that is stated in those verses is it says that people dishonor their own bodies. That's an amazing statement. So God gave you a body that has purposes for his glory, and you take it and you use it in ways that are completely dishonorable against his purposes. That's the point. We're talking about the potential for the corruption of every good gift, the loss of the fulfillment and the joy that God has designed for the good purposes in our life, the painful consequences that accompany sinful choices. You know, sometimes people say, man, God's being so hard on me. I just don't understand why God's troubling my life. It's like, well hold on a second. That's not God judging you, that's God letting you get what you deserve because of what you've done. You know what I mean like that? It's like it's like a person who walks out in front of a car and goes, I don't understand why I'm in the hospital right now. I just, you know, I've got a couple of broken bones. Well that's what happens when you step in front of a car. That's called consequences, you know, cause and effect law here. And so the idea is that we will experience horrific, painful consequences. We make poor choices. Unnecessary confusion. Complications, entanglements. God designed us to be free people, okay? To be free to walk in the purposes he's designed for us. We feed the flesh, you know, we become a slave. We are slaves to our passions, slave to our bellies. We're a slave to Satan's purposes. We're entangled, we're confused, we complicate life. That's the result. When he says corruption, this is what he's talking about. Not just temporary loss, but might even add eternal loss. There's a judgment seat of Christ. One day we're going to stand before Him. If I've wasted opportunity, I mean That's something I'm going to face forever, okay? He's going to say, I gave you this opportunity. Here's what you didn't do with it. That's really what we're talking about. Serious matter. What's the result of sowing to the Spirit? Everlasting life. Now, let me pause for a moment. He is not telling us this is how we get saved. Okay? It's impossible for an unbeliever to sow to the Spirit. He's not talking about how we become a Christian. By grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, that's how we're saved. We receive the gift of eternal life. But what he's talking about is a quality of life that we will enjoy forever. He's talking about the rewards that are associated with faithfulness. He's talking about the kinds of blessings that are associated with a person walking in a way that's consistent with the purpose of God's design. You know, when we went to Ghana , one of the things that you know I'm really confronted with when I go and and I and I go back to uh the church there is I'm I'm confronted with my failures. My faithfulness and God's goodness. You understand what I'm saying? In other words, I cannot look past the areas where I stumbled and I just didn't handle situations well. I probably ticked off a couple of people along the way. I made social blunders. Things I look back at, I'm like, oh, I can't believe I said that or did that. I'm reminded of just faithful plotting. And how when you just day in and day out preach the word of God and teach the word of God, God takes his word and he impresses on people's hearts and to his own glory he does a work in them. I'm reminded of the grace of God and the goodness of God. In spite of our failures, in spite of our weaknesses, He does amazing things. I'm reminded of that. You know what that does? That brings joy. I can't even begin to describe the incredible joy that is associated with seeing the blessings that flow out of just faithfully sowing, as flawed as it may be, in God's purposes. And that's an immediate experience. When you are sowing wisely, sowing to the Spirit, it's not just when you stand at the judgment seat of Christ, he'll say, Well done, good and faithful servant, but there are joys you'll experience now. There are blessings that you'll experience at this moment. That's part of what he's talking about. He's most certainly referring to the judgment seat of Christ. Let me read to you what it says in 1 Corinthians 3. He says, we are laborers together with God. You're God's husbandry. You're God's building. According to the grace that is given to me as a wise master builder, I've laid the foundation and another buildeth thereupon. Let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon. If a man build on this foundation gold, silver, precious stone, wood, hand, stubble. Every man's work shall be manifested for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire. And the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon he shall receive a reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. But he himself shall be saved, it says by fire. You know what these verses are telling us? They're telling us that when God saves us, He doesn't just save us to deliver us from eternal destruction. But he saves us to walk with him. He saves us to invest the time he's given us on this earth into godly pursuits. And however we have built our lives upon the foundation that He has established in Himself, the work that we have done, the quality of the work is going to be evaluated at the judgment seat of Christ. And when that work stands on that day, it's either going to disappear because it had no value. Or it will stay because in fact it was something of true value. And that's what he's talking about. When he talks about sowing to the Spirit, he's saying, do it because on that day you'll want something that has real value. That's what he's saying. But there's a third truth I want you to see tonight. And that is that sewing wisely can be very discouraging. You know, let's be honest. This is a fallen world. This is what makes things complicated. Doing what's right doesn't always immediately give you an easy road. Actually, sometimes it makes it harder. Sowing wisely and sowing to the Spirit may very well put you in a tough place. Listen to what he says in verse 9. He says, let us not be weary in well-doing. Why would he say that? Because you can be doing what's right and you can be getting discouraged in the process. It's true. Any parents? You're trying to raise your kids, okay? And you're just weary. Not not that you hate your kids and not that you hate being a parrot, but you're discouraged in the process. You understand what I'm saying? I mean, you love your kids. You're thankful you're a mom. You're thankful you're a dad. You're thankful for those kids that God has given you. But you're way down big time. Paul says, don't be weary in well-doing. It's not weary of the work. You know it's what you're called to do. You know that it's a noble work, but in the work you feel the weight of it. You're tired. You're weary. We're talking about physical exhaustion. You know, like that that baby wakes up every two hours every three hours. And then when the baby does it, you do because you've been doing it so long. Anybody like that? Oh, there goes another diaper that's got to be changed Oh, I gotta settle another dispute between these children. What did you say your Sunday school teacher told you and you didn't do? Okay, you know what I'm talking about. No, you're not supposed to run down the center aisle in the church. These are the kinds of things that we deal with. That can be physically exhausting. And we all know when we're physically exhausted, what's next? The mind gets tired too. And when the body's tired and the mind's tired, spiritually we feel totally flat. It's the truth. And that's what Paul's talking about. He's saying you may be in the midst of the battle, and you are putting to death those fleshly desires, and you are sowing to the spirit, and in the process You're weary. He says, don't be weary in well-doing. The circumstances of life can wear you down. Satan's deception. You know, you get some thought planted in your head, and you know it's not true, okay? If somebody asks you, is this true? You go, no, it's not true. But it sticks in there. You know what I'm talking about? And it's like, you just can't seem to shake it. Where does that come from? Satan has these lies that he plants into our minds. There's a persistent resistance. And that resistance just doesn't seem to end. You're like, so what's the next domino that's going to fall in this situation? What does that do? It exhausts us, it wearies us. The Christian life is a journey. It's not a sprint. It doesn't happen in ten seconds. It's a long race. And the truth is we actually don't know the day that it's going to end. And we just get up the next day and we do what God calls us to do. There is a faithful, daily endurance that is absolutely needed in the Christian life. And so Paul is not just saying, hey, there's two ways you can sow. Don't sow to the flesh, so to the spirit, because if you sow to the flesh, there's going to be corruption. If you sow the spirit, there's going to be everlasting rewards. He's also saying, you're tired doing right. Don't quit. So the question is How? And here's the answer. In due season we shall reap if we faint not. You say, well, when is due season? He doesn't really say. I mean that's kind of hard. Hey, there's gonna be a day that God's gonna say, well done. There's gonna be a day that that season is finished and you look back and go Whoo, I'm glad I'm through that and I learned some things and I'm glad that God shaped and molded me, but I'm glad it's done. But He doesn't tell you when that's going to be. So what sustains us? It's it's faith. It's trusting God to be faithful to his word. That's why he says don't be deceived, because trusting God is saying, I know that there's a temptation not to believe that this is true, but I'm going to believe it God said it. God is not mocked. It doesn't seem to be working out the way that God says it's going to. But you know what? God's not mocked. In the end, He's going to settle the matter. So what do I do? I have to trust Him. And so he says, this is a sure promise. In due season, you're going to reap if you do not faint. In other words, don't quit. Don't give up. Are you gonna get knocked down? Yep. Are there gonna be days that you don't feel like carrying on? Yes There'll be days that you're totally weary and you just can't keep yes. But you trust that God's word is true. In due season we shall reap if we faint not. We can endure because we believe there is a sure reward on that final day. Like Moses, who was able to endure as seeing him who's invisible, we go, you know what, God, I don't see the end of this trial. I don't know how long it's going to be. I don't know when the next domino falls. But you promise. In due season, we will reap if we faint not. And so you know what? I'm going to keep enduring. I'm going to keep going. I'm going to keep trusting. I'm going to keep showing to the Spirit because there's going to be a day that God will demonstrate that His word is sure. That's what these verses are telling us today. Do. They're not just saying, don't so do the flesh. They are saying that. And I'm not trying to minimize that. And sometimes that's what we need to hear. But I think what he's really saying is, so do the spirit. And when you're tired, don't stop. And so I say to our weary parents or grandparents or someone who's in a very difficult season of life, don't Quit. Don't give up. Just keep doing what is right. God has promised in his word, don't be deceived. He's not mocked. What you sow, you will reap. In due season, you will reap if you faint not. May God help us to be a people who faithfully endure and receive a sure reward. The value of the things that God has created haven't changed because of the fall. But our ability And our willingness to actually take those good gifts and use them for his glory, it's a little bit harder. It's actually a lot harder. Because we're flawed. This world is flawed, and everybody we interact with is flawed. But it doesn't mean that they've lost their value, and it doesn't mean that God is not going to follow through with what he says. I think of this last text I want to give you this in our closing. In Revelation 3. 11, he says this. Behold, I come quickly, hold that fast which thou hast. That no man take thy crown. Let me read that again. Behold, I come quickly. Hold that fast which thou hast. that no man take thy crown. One of the greatest lessons that we could ever learn about living in a fallen world is that, you know what? There is a law, and it is sure. How I sow, I will will reap. It may not look like it right now, it may not feel like it right now, but I've got to trust God and keep doing what's right. May God help us to do. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, please take these truths and use them to encourage your people. I know that on these Wednesday nights we're going to be looking primarily at How we raise our kids, how we teach the next generation, how we think about some very important foundational matters. But the truth is that this principle is extremely important in how we go about this. Father, I pray that in every area of life you would help us to endure a seeing you who is invisible. Help us to remember that in due season we will reap if we do not faint. Help us to faithfully plod and faithfully endure, and to look forward to that day where in fact you will demonstrate your faithfulness. And the truthfulness of your word. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen