Romans chapter actually we'll start in chapter ten, uh ten verse nine. Romans chapter ten verse nine And today or this evening what we're going to be doing is we're going to look at God's story for his people. Now, last week I took on the task of giving you the story of the Bible, okay? That was kind of a heavy-duty task. And uh we all survived, and I hope that you have a big picture understanding of why God gave us his word. Today I'm going to take on a task that perhaps is even bigger than that. That's trying to explain God's purpose for Israel. The truth is that the nation of Israel and how we understand God selecting Abraham and his descendants, the promises that God made to those descendants. And how all that's going to play out at the end of time is a very complicated topic to discuss. There are a lot of passages. huge sections of scripture that we would have to go through bit by bit to really get a good solid understanding of God's purposes for Israel In fact, there's a book in our library. It's called Israelogy. It's written by Dr. Fuchtenbaum. It's not somebody that you know, but it's about that thick. And basically it's just A small theology on the story of Israel, okay? So what I'm gonna try to tell you is that what I'm doing tonight is trying to get a big picture view of what the nation of Israel is and why God called it out and what his purposes for that were. And we're going to start in Romans chapter 10 Because in Romans 9, 10, and 11, God through Paul addresses a very important question. Because the Gentiles have replaced the Jews Or we could say the church has replaced the Jews for that period of time. Is God done with the nation of Israel? Is God done dealing with people who are ethnic Jews? And the question is What do we do with all those promises God made? What's very interesting is in Romans 9, 10, and 11, Paul addresses that question. And really, by the time he's done He just wonders an awe at God's power and God's sovereign purposes and what God is doing through the nation. So with that in mind, let's look at Romans chapter ten. We'll begin in verse nine. I am going to skip over some sections. And so I'll tell you, okay, we're now in verse 11. That way you can follow along. Romans chapter 10, verse 9. That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus. And shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with a heart man believeth unto righteousness And with the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. For the scripture saith, Whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed. For there is no difference between the Jew and the Greek or the Gentile. For the same Lord over all is rich unto all that call upon him. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. We go to this passage of Scripture a lot when we're giving the gospel to people. And the whole point of this little section is that Paul is basically saying, Jews and Gentiles are saved the exact same way. It's through depending on the work of Christ when a person who is repentant before God, who understands that Christ has died for their sins, He's risen from the dead. They can be justified through his righteousness. When they call on the Lord to save them, he does it, whether they're Jew or Greek. And they come to him the same way through the cross of Christ by faith alone. He then comes on to verse 16. But they've not all obeyed the gospel. He's basically saying the Jewish people as a whole rejected God's command, repent and believe the gospel. He then goes on to say this. Isaiah saith the Lord, who hath believed our report? That's Isaiah fifty three he's quoting from. Skip down to verse 18. He says this, I say, have they not heard? Yes, verily they've their sound went to all the earth, and their word unto the ends of the world. But I say, did not Israel know? First Moses saith, I will provoke you to jealousy by them that are no people, and by a foolish nation, I will anger you But Isaiah is very bold and saith, I was found of them that sought me not. Very interesting statement The Gentiles embraced Christ when they weren't seeking him, and the Jewish nation who had the Messiah performing miracles, and he preached for three and a half years. They had all the prophecies of the Old Testament. They rejected Christ, and they're standing there on the day he was sent to be crucified, and they say, His blood be on us and on our children. That's what the nation did. Not saying every individual in the nation, but as a whole, that generation said, kill him, we don't want him, and we don't care, his blood's on our heads. It's a staggering statement. He then goes on to say this. He says, I was made manifest unto them that asked not after me. But to Israel he saith, all day long I stretched forth my hand unto a disobedient and gainsaying people, and I say, Then hath God cast away his people. What a great question. If this nation rejected their Messiah, has God thrown them to the side and said, Every promise I made to them, it's no one void. I don't care anymore. I'm done dealing with these people. That's the question. He then goes on to say this. God forbid. I'm also an Israelite of the seed of Abraham Of the tribe of Benjamin, God hath not cast away his people, which he foreknew. I'm going to stop there and tell you that Romans 9, 10, and 11 is a section of our Bibles, unfortunately a lot of pastors don't preach out of, because there's a lot of complicated aspects to that particular chapter. It's a lot of controversy dealing with election and God's plan and how he brings about redemption and all those things. It's really sad a lot of pastors don't preach out of this passage. I want to encourage you to go through and read it in tremendous detail in the coming week. But I want us to answer this question Why did God move Paul to write that section? And what exactly was Paul trying to communicate in Romans 9, 10, and 11? This is what Paul is trying to communicate. God chose a physical people group, the descendants of Abraham through Isaac, to be a vehicle through which he would make himself known to the nations. And ultimately bring redemption to the world. That's basically what he's saying. And you know what's really interesting in Romans chapter 1 to Romans chapter 8. One of the things that Paul really is emphasizing is that there's absolutely no difference between the Jews and the Gentiles and the Church of God. They're all saved the same way. They all have the same responsibilities before God. They're supposed to be a part of the same local church assembly. And as Paul is doing that, he's doing that because there's way too much division in the church at Rome. He's very concerned about that problem and he's addressing that problem. But one of the things that Paul's concerned about is that as he addresses this problem and as he emphasizes the equality between Jew and Gentile in the church, He is concerned that there will be Jewish people sitting in that church who go, if this is true, then what was the deal with all those promises to Abraham? What was the deal with all those promises to Isaac and to Jacob? What about those promises about land and Jerusalem? What about those promises about the kingdom? Are they gone? Are they done? And if they are, can I trust God? And he knows that the Jewish segment of that church was thinking that way. And so Paul is basically saying, hold on, guys. Let me lay in front of you a concept that I don't fully understand, but to the extent I understand it, I'm going to put it in front of you. And when we're done, we're all going to get on our face before God and say, He is a wondrous God. He is sovereign and his purposes are beyond our comprehension. And so while the Jews have been set to the side, they're going to be re-established, and every promise God has made to that people, He's going to fulfill it. And by the way, he had a reason for it all playing out the way that it did. That's what he's saying. Because God wants you to understand that he had a purpose for Israel, and he still does. How can we understand God's basic purpose for the nation? I want to begin with what would be typically more like a lecture section. I am not lecturing tonight, okay? But I want to talk to you about a couple of different ways that people tend to address it. And I want to make this statement on the front side. There are very godly people. Who love the Lord, they're saved, they're serving God, and they're faithfully pursuing a life of holiness before God, who differ on their understanding of Israel. Now they're not all right, okay? But they're not There is one correct understanding of that. And I would venture to say that nobody has a fully, complete, perfect understanding of that. We all fall short on some level. But I want you to understand that we do have to realize that within the church, and I mean this in the sense of God's body, there are divergent opinions. And I want to kind of mention them, but I want to focus in what I believe is the biblical understanding of the nation of Israel. And to some extent go through some passages that kind of reinforce those things. By the way, if there's a book that 's that full that's expounding all these various passages on that. Probably not going to get all that tonight and the kind of depth and detail you want. But I want to give you a good snapshot. So first of all, there's four basic approaches to dealing with Israel. The first is what we call a post -mill approach. Basically, the idea is this. Folks who believe this believe that the Jewish nation, the church, are basically synonymous with one another. The kingdom of God is not viewed in a literal, physical sense. but in more of a uh we could say kind of a spiritual sense. And one of the things that people believe here is that God is gradually through the preaching of the gospel going to cause good to triumph over evil. You know what's kind of interesting? There was a time when missionary movements were very, very strong in the United Kingdom. There was a time when the British ruled essentially the entire world. Okay? They ruled in Africa. They ruled in parsons of uh the Western world. They obviously had lots of land over in in India and even in China They ruled huge portions of land. And a lot of times people were going on the mission field believing in their mind that if we go out, we can essentially Christianize the world. It's a very, very popular way of thinking. This is what we're talking about with a post-millennial approach. So people thought by preaching the gospel we were going to see Portions of the world that are rejecting the gospel, portions of the world that are not submitted to the authority of Christ. And as time goes on and as the gospel goes to those areas, they're going to become Christianized nations. And essentially the world is going to come to a place where there's worldwide peace, and then Christ is going to come and establish his kingdom. There was something that changed that line of thinking, though. You know what it was? It was called World War One. And then World War Two. And then all of a sudden tremendous upheaval within the British Empire. And eventually what happened is all those colonial satellites began to become independent nations who said we don't want anything to do with Britain. And all of a sudden people started asking the question Is our theology really rooted in Bible, or is our theology rooted in how we're interpreting the history of our day? the post-millennial approach. There's a second approach, and that's the all -millennial approach. And this has been a very predominant position throughout church history. The idea is this. Because the concept of the kingdom of God is viewed as a spiritual rather than physical concept, a little understanding of the Old Testament kingdom passages are generally interpreted spiritually or parabolically. The nation of Israel is seen as a type of the people of God, which are now seen in the church. Therefore, they generally see no future for the nation of Israel. just specific ethnic Jews who place their faith in Christ. This is an extremely prominent position within Christianity. It was especially predominant during the time period of the Reformation. And so all those Protestant denominations During the Reformation period and following on, a lot of them held this particular approach. However, there's a problem. There are a lot of passages in our Bible that when you read them, they're very specific. They're very literal. The kingdom of God is presented both in a spiritual sense and in a physical sense. And so what we have to do is we have to ignore the literal understanding of a lot of our Bible if we're going to come to an a -millennial approach. We then have a third, and that's the covenant premillennial approach, a generally no-recognized distinction between Israel and the church And Christ comes at his second coming to establish his kingdom, but the church, not a redeemed national Israel, is seen as the focus of God's kingdom administration. There's a fourth, and this is what I believe would be the correct approach to take to Israel, and this is the approach I personally take. I guess if I think it's correct, it's the one I'd take, right? Okay. If I didn't think it was correct, I wouldn't take it, right? This is the dispensational approach. And when I say dispensational, I don't want you to think of this as in every single dispensational teacher has this approach and I would follow it exactly. But the idea is this, God has always had a specific role for the nation of Israel and therefore keeps a clear distinction between the church and the redeemed nation. The day of the Lord, which includes the tribulation and thousand-year reign of Christ, are primarily a time of renewed focus on the nation of Israel, whereby God will ultimately fulfill all the remaining promises He has made to the nation and to its forefathers. Now I've made a statement there or a series of statements that really need to be broken down over a series of sermons. And so really what you're going to find out as you sit through the sermons that we're going to have on the end times. is you're going to see an unfolding of that particular position. The fact that God chose Abraham, he chose his descendants, he made promises to them, and he's going to complete, fulfill all of those promises. Not just the spiritual ones, but the physical ones as well. And so when we come to the book of Revelation, we talk about the concept of the day of the Lord. All of those things are really God renewing his focus on the nation of Israel so that he will accomplish what he said he would accomplish. So that moves us to a second question. What exactly is the storyline of God's relationship to the nation of Israel? I want to summarize it this way. God chose Israel to be of a unique people, so that through his relationship to them, in the light of Scripture, he would reveal his character to the world. What God wanted was for people to see the nation of Israel and say, we see God's hand in that people. We see what God's like. We see his character, we see his holiness, his righteousness, his goodness, we see his laws, and this is a group of people who are living out what God says they're supposed to do. There's a problem though. They didn't do it. Though they were chosen out, they did not follow along the path that God told them to walk. And so what we see is that God not only sends prophets who give promises, but he sends prophets who give warnings. And those warnings are not heeded. People reject, they don't listen to what people like Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel are saying. And so by the end of those books, what do we see? Nebuchadnezzar has surrounded Jerusalem, and he lays siege on the city. And by the end of the time, he's destroyed the city. He's broken down the walls. He's destroyed the temple. He's killed men, women, children. The majority of the people living in that city, he kills them. Mercilessly. And the few that he wants to take back with him as slaves, he does. And the few that he wants to leave to take care of the land, he leaves. Very, very terrible what he did. And you see, how in the world did that happen to God's people? There's an explanation. And it's rooted in God's promises And God's covenant relationship to those people. God ultimately wanted to be the ruler of the nation. He wanted to be their king. He wanted his law to be their law. In fact, he went so far as to say in Deuteronomy 17 that when a king was established, one of his first responsibilities was to pick up the law of God. and was to copy an entire section for himself and it would be his personal copy that he would regularly read So that when he ruled over that nation, he ruled in the fear of the Lord, and he lived a righteous and holy life as a king. Probably a lot of them didn't do that, did they? Their history says they didn't. Even their greatest kings probably didn't really do that It says this, Deuteronomy 17, 18. It shall be when he sitteth upon the throne of his kingdom, he shall write him a copy of the law in a book. And of that which is before the priests and the Levites, and it shall be with him, and he shall read there in all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the Lord his God, keep all the words of this law, of these statutes, to do them. That his heart not be lifted up above his brethren, that he not turn aside from the commandments. If you want to know why God related to Israel as he did, that's it. He wanted to be their king. He wanted to reach into the nations through that nation. So the way that God did it is he established a series of covenants. Now we talk about covenants. A covenant basically is a legally binding agreement. In our culture, we tend to talk about marriage as a covenant, and it is. But really the concept of covenant is not just a marriage agreement. In fact, it was a legally binding agreement. In the ancient worlds, covenants were very common between powerful kings And people who didn't have a lot of power. They didn't have an army, didn't have a way to defend themselves. And so that powerful king would make an agreement with them, a legally binding agreement with them, and basically would say this If you want my protection, then you have to do what I tell you to do. Kind of simple, right? You want my protection? You do what I tell you to do. If you want my protection, I expect you to pay me a tax. If you want my protection, and you decide to rebel against me and go the way of my enemies, I'm going to crush you. Pretty simple, right? Well, to put it in a very blunt term, that's a little bit like what God did with the nation of Israel. He enters into agreement with them, the Mosaic Covenant, and he basically says that you are my people. And I expect you to obey my laws. I expect you to pay tithes of everything that you have I expect you to walk in my ways and not go the ways of the nations around. And I will protect you, I will defend you, you will be my people, we will have a unique relationship, and all the nations of the world will look at you and say, Your God is a great God. That's basically what he said But if you don't, there'll be a consequence. God enters into two major covenants with the nation of Israel And the first one was with the nation before it was a nation. It was to Abraham. And Abraham, in Genesis chapter 12, this is what the Bible says. God comes to Abraham and he says, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house, unto land that I will show thee, and I will make of thee a great nation. I will bless them which bless you and curse them which curse you. And I will make thee a blessing. And I will bless. I skipped over that, sorry. We come down to Genesis chapter 15. He makes the same kind of promise to Abraham. He says this. Verse 5, he brought him forth abroad and said, look toward the heavens. And tell the stars if thou art able to number them, and he said unto him, So shall thy seed be. He believed in the Lord, and he counted it to him for righteousness. You know what's interesting is when God makes a covenant promise with Abraham, that covenant promise was about Abraham's descendants being a peculiar nation. And God strengthening that group of people, but it was more than that. God's plan of redemption was tied into that covenant promise that God made with Abraham. He says, I'm going to make you and your descendants a blessing to all nations of the world. In fact, it's interesting when we read the passages dealing with the Abrahamic covenant. What we find out is that it was unconditional. What I mean by unconditional is that God put all of the burden to accomplish the conditions on himself. He didn't put them on Abraham. So if Abraham failed and was unfaithful at some point in his life, it did not change the fact that God had made a promise he was going to follow through with that promise. If Abraham's faithful, if Abraham stumbles, God remains firm and steadfast. And basically what we see over the life of Abraham Is that God continued to press that. Every time that Abraham fails, basically what God says is, hey, get back up. I haven't left you. He goes back to the promise. He re-reminds him. He then does that with Isaac and he does that with Jacob. And then over a period of time, Abraham's descendants, through Isaac and through Jacob, end up being slaves in Egypt. And God brings them out of Egypt. And he brings them to Mount Sinai. They have gone from being a man, a family, to being a nation. And at that point, God makes a second covenant promise with the nation of Israel. And this one has some conditional aspects to it. Let me read to you what it says in Exodus chapter 19, verse 5. He says, if ye will obey my voice indeed and keep my covenant. Ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all the peoples, for all the earth is mine, and ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. Basically what he's saying is if you fulfill your obligation, you will be this kind of a group of people. He then goes on in Deuteronomy 4. It says this. Verse 13, he says, He declared unto you his covenant. This is basically Moses reminding the people of the covenant promise God made. It says this, The Lord commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and judgments, that ye might do them in the land wherewith you go over to possess it. Take heed unto yourselves, lest you forget the covenant of the Lord your God, which he made with you And you make a graven image and a likeness of anything which God hath forbidden, for the Lord thy God is a consuming fire, even a jealous God. I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day, and ye shall soon utterly perish from off the land. But shall surely be destroyed. The Lord shall scatter you among the nations. But if from thence thou shalt seek the Lord thy God, And shalt find him, and seek him with all thy heart and with all thy soul. When thou art in tribulation, all these things are come upon thee, even in the later days. If thou turn to the Lord thy God, he shall be, and shall be obedient unto his voice. The Lord is merciful, and he will not forsake thee. If you go to Deuteronomy 30, and I'm not going to read that section, but the entire chapter basically says this: God lays before the people the way of life and the way of life. And he says this, I've entered into this binding agreement with you as a nation, but if you want to experience the blessings of being my people, you have to obey me. What's interesting is as we read the Old Testament, as we read all the stories of the kings, as we see the prophets coming to the kings, we see over and over and over again God referring back to this covenant promise. He hasn't forgotten the Abrahamic covenant. He's going to keep the nation. He's going to work in the nation. But he has a reminder of the Mosaic covenant over and over and over again. Unfortunately, the people rejected God's warnings, and that's why we have the story of Babylon. We then come to another covenant, one to Phineas, and that's dealing with God making him a priest forever. We come to David, Psalm 89, Psalm 132, Ezekiel 37. And God is emphasizing the fact that David is going to have descendants who are going to rule and reign forever. Who do you think that descendant is? It's Christ, the Lord Jesus. And then after the nation of Israel has failed, we come to the new covenant Where in Jeremiah 31 and in Jeremiah 33, basically what happens is God reminds the people, though you have failed, I go back to the Abrahamic covenant and I say, I haven't left you as a nation. I'm going to re-establish you. In the midst of all the difficulties that you have faced, there will be a day that I raise you back up, that I plant you back in the land that I've promised to you. that I'm going to bring Jerusalem back to its glory. It's going to be your capital. And all the nations of the world are going to come to that place and they're going to meet me again. As I intended it. It's really interesting. Read in the book of Ezekiel. Read Jeremiah 30 and Jeremiah 33. We know this verse. Call unto me and I will answer thee And show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. God says that to Jeremiah, and then you know what he does? He talks about the future of Israel. That's the great and mighty thing that he's talking about. We tend to think of that verse as this blanket statement. But that verse Is go ahead and ask me. And I'll tell you what I'm going to do with this nation, this broken nation. And Ezekiel talks about it being a valley of dry bones And those dry bones are going to come up, and they're once again going to have life and strength. Basically, what we have in the New Covenant is a reminder that God has not set aside his people forever. He's going to bring them back. But God's also bringing the Gentiles in to be a part of his people. We then come to Romans chapter 9. And this is what I want to talk about a little bit. With all that information, I want us to see what Paul says in this section. A couple of simple truths that I want us to focus in on in our last few minutes together tonight. What about Romans 9 and 11? Let me give you some bullet points. First of all, this not all Israel is redeemed. In verse 11 of chapter 10 it says this: The Scripture saith , Whoever believes on the Lord shall not be ashamed. There's no difference between the Jew and the Greek. The same Lord overall is rich and all that call upon the name of the Lord. And then in verse 16 he says, But they've not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah said, Lord, who has believed our report? He brings up this sad reality that though God has shown so much kindness, so much love to a nation, they've rejected their Messiah. He reminds them that because of that, if they reject him, they won't be a part of his kingdom. In fact, think about what Jesus says to Nicodemus, unless a man is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Entrance into God's kingdom is not by physical birth, not by being a Jew, it's not by circumcision, it's by regeneration. By faith alone and the finished work of Christ. And he emphasizes that. We come to a second principle as this. God set aside temporarily the nation as a whole. Chapter 10, verse 20, it says this: Isaiah is very bold and saith, I was found of them that sought me not. I was made manifest unto them that asked not after me, but to Israel he saith all day long, I stretched out my hand. Unto a disobedient and gainsaying people. Gainsaying means they're mocking me. They want nothing to do with me. I said, then, hath God cast away his people? God forbid. I am also an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. God hath not cast away his people, which he foreknew. Basically, what Paul is saying is this, God has not cast away his people, he set them aside from his plan for a season. He's not focusing on a nation right now. He's focusing on the individual. And every single Jewish individual that places their faith in Christ is a part of God's kingdom. Every single Gentile that places their faith in Christ, he's a part of God's kingdom. But that does not mean that God will not once again put Israel back in the forefront and begin to work in them again as a nation. It's a very interesting concept. We then come to a third, and that's this: God hardened a rebellious nation as judgment against an expression of grace on the Gentiles. Now, this is something that people really struggle with. You mean to tell me that God hardened the Jews? Absolutely he did. That's not fair. It's not right. He has no right to do this. What are you talking about? He absolutely has the right to do it If people reject him, does he not have the right to say, I'll stop pushing myself on you? I'll let you go in your own ways, and I'll let you face the consequences of your own actions. God is under no obligation to continue to press people and work in their hearts. And by the way, we ought to be very cautious that when God is working, we don't reject. Listen to what he says in Matthew 13. This people's heart is wax gross, their ears are dull of hearing, their eyes they've closed, lest at any time they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears and should understand with their heart. And should be converted, and I should heal them. The fact is that as the nation was pushing away from God, there came a point when God said, go ahead. And at that point, as a whole, a nation is stumbling in the darkness. We come to a fourth truth, and that's this. God has preserved a regenerate remnant from within the nation. In chapter 10, verse 19, he says this. Moses saith, I will provoke you to jealousy by them that are no people, and by a foolish nation, I will anger you. He also says this. He says, Am I not an Israelite? Am I not of the tribe of Benjamin? What is he basically saying? He's saying God has preserved a remnant within that nation. All throughout Israel's history we see that. We see God continuing to keep a light. You remember the story of Elijah? He says, God, the whole nation's rejected you. And he says, It's true. But Elijah, what you can't see is there's a remnant there. There are believing Jews. There are people who haven't rejected me. They don't have a strong voice right now. They're not speaking very openly, but they're there. I have my people there. I haven't abandoned this group forever. Yes, as a whole, they're on the side, but there are people in our midst. And the fact is that God preserves a remnant within the nation. We come to another truth. God had a glorious purpose in his dealings with Israel. Look down at your Bibles in verses 11 and 12 of chapter 10. He says, I see them. Have they stumbled that they should fall? The idea is, have they stumbled so that I've said I'm done with them and it's over? He says, God forbid. But rather through their fall, look, catch this, salvation has come unto the Gentiles to provoke them to jealousy Now, if the fall of them be the riches of the world, and the diminishing of them the riches of the Gentiles, how much more their fullness? What is he saying? I chose to let a stubborn people fall to the side to go focus on the Gentiles. People that weren't looking for me, people that didn't know me. People who are stumbling in the darkness, I began to focus on them. That's why you and I are here today, folks. Because when the Jews rejected the gospel, God sent it throughout the whole world. And as Jews see Christians embracing the Messiah, there's something inside of them that doesn't seem right. And through that, God is able to provoke individuals to look to the Messiah because of what they see in Gentile Christians. That's basically what he's saying. I let Israel stumble so that I could go and bring in the Gentiles. We have another truth, and that's this. God is once again going to work through the nation. As he formally promised. This section is very important, so please don't miss the details of what I'm about to read to you. In chapter 11, verses 24 and following, it says this. Now, if the fall of them be the riches of the world, and the diminishing of them the riches of the Gentiles, how much more their fullness? For I would not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery Lest ye should be wise in your own conceits, that blindness in part happened to Israel, that the fullness of the Gentiles become in And so all Israel shall be saved. As it is written, there shall come out of Zion the deliverer, and shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob. For this is my covenant unto them, when I shall take away their sins as concerning the gospel, their enemies for your sake, but as touching the election, they are beloved for the Father's sake. For the gifts and calling of God are without repentance. Now let me pause for a moment and say what he's basically saying. There's going to come a point in time When the Gentiles have reached what he says the fullness. And God says their season is done, and now I'm going to turn my attention back on the Jews. Basically what he's saying. And when I focus in on the Jews, I want you to remember something. I'm going right back to Abraham and the promises I made to him, and I'm picking up right back where I was. He says the gifts and calling of God are without repentance. The idea is if I said I'm going to do something, I haven't changed my mind. I'm going to follow through with what I said. All those promises I made, I'm going to do those things. The burden was on my shoulders, it still isn't. I'm going to do it. He says, as in times past, and have not believed God, yet have now obtained mercy through their unbelief. This is an amazing statement. Even so have they also now not believed that through your mercy they all may obtain mercy, for God hath concluded them all in unbelief, that he might have mercy on all. And this is what he says. Of the depths, of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out. For who hath known the mind of the Lord, or who hath been his counselor? Is that not an amazing statement? You say, what's God's purpose for Israel? Let me kind of put it in simple terms. Number one, God said, I'm going to bring redemption. And so I'm going to call it an individual's name's Abraham. Why am I choosing Abraham? Because that's who I chose to choose. Is it because he was more golly than everybody else? Nope, he was an idol worshiper. God chose him of grace alone. And he chooses him and he says, I'm going to make promises to you. I'm going to make of you a great nation. I'm going to bless those who bless you, curse those who curse you. I'm going to give you the land of Canaan and the land that isn't yours. I'm going to bless all the nations of the world through you. And I'm going to do it no matter what you do. As time goes on, Abraham's descendants become a nation. And God calls that nation together and says, I'm going to enter into a second covenant with you. And this one's putting some conditions. While I'm not negating the first. I'm adding some conditions for you to enjoy blessing within that covenant. You obey me, I'll bless you. You reject me, I will judge you. And the nation was judged because of their rejection. And there it culminates with Christ standing before Pilate and there shouting, Crucify Him. His blood be on us and on our children. And you know what God says? Israel, I've rejected you for a season, and I've set you to the side for a season so that I can focus on the Gentiles. But through them coming to faith, when the fullness of the Gentiles has come, I'm going to turn back. And I'm going to use them to provoke you, to bring you to redemption. There's going to be a day, folks, when Israel as a nation is going to be a redeemed people. That's what the text is saying. There's going to be a day when what God said was going to happen is going to happen and He's going to do it. He's going to bring a massive moving of his spirit upon the Jewish nation. And people are going to turn to the Messiah in faith. You know what is going to happen? It's going to happen during the tribulation. It's going to happen when they see the Antichrist commit the abomination of desolation in their temple, and they're going to realize something. We rejected our Savior. And that's going to be a mighty time of God's work. God said, I have a marvelous plan for these people. And because of their rejection, I give you mercy and grace. And because of your embracing, I'm going to turn back and show them mercy and grace again. You know what's the application? God's providence is a mystery beyond our ability to fully comprehend. His ways are just in the big picture. It's glorious to behold. He's going to fulfill all the promises that he made to his people. He is absolutely trustworthy. We understand that God's purposes for Israel as a nation Are going to be a major focus of the tribulation, the day of the Lord, the kingdom When we talk about these concepts in the days ahead, realize something. That is God saying the fullness of the Gentiles has come, and I'm going to focus my attention on Abraham's physical descendants. I'm going to bring those individuals to personal repentance and faith so that as a nation they will be a part of my kingdom and I can fulfill all those promises that I made to those people. Why does Paul include that? Because he knows as he's writing this letter, there's confusion. And he wants the Jews in that particular church to understand God has not turned away from his promises. He's trustworthy. He wants the Gentiles to understand, don't look down on these Jewish Christians. They're the remnant. Don't look down on the nation of Israel. God is showing grace to you through their rejection of the gospel. And one day, when the fullness of the Gentiles has come, I'm going to go back and I'm going to work in that nation as I have intended all along. God is worthy of our praise, is he not? Spare our hearts together in prayer. Father, what an amazing concept that you chose a nation, a people to yourself. A stubborn and rebellious people. And through that people you gave us your Messiah. Through that people you gave us your word. And though they rejected their Savior, one day, that nation is going to embrace that Savior. And you're going to fulfill every promise you made, and we will see your absolute trustworthiness on display in the most amazing of ways in your kingdom forever. I pray that you would work in our hearts, that we would marvel in your wisdom, that as we consider your providence We would glory in how you move in ways that are beyond our full comprehension. We ask that you would speak to our hearts continually through this passage in the coming weeks. We ask it in Christ's name.