Good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our evening service. And let's take a moment to bow for a word of prayer, ask the Lord to bless our time, really minister to our hearts through his word. And we'll get started here. Father, we thank you so much for another opportunity to gather this evening. And we recognize that when we come together, it's a very sweet thing. It's an opportunity to be challenged and encouraged in the Word. It's an opportunity to encourage one another, bear one another's burdens. And I pray that as we gather, that you would meet with us in a very special way, the Holy Spirit would work in our hearts, that we would be uplifted. Challenged. I pray that as we fellowship with one another, that we would encourage each other in the Lord. Pray especially for those that carry heavy burdens at this moment. I pray that your hand would be upon them. That you would grant them a special measure of grace and strength. And I pray that they would sense a very special measure of your presence. And we ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. All right, let's get started singing some hymns. We'll turn to hymn number 413. We'll stand and stretch our legs. Stand, we'll sing hymn number 413. Faith is the victory. We'll sing all three verses. Please stand. And thank you for the bill for you, we greatly want to go , and I 'm not a little bit like a We're getting the floor and help me love and all the way we go. My brain is rounding for me and I went The day is the wheel They let the wave glory Oh glory as the victory Great singing. Please be seated as we turn to hymn number four hundred and eighteen. Trust and obey. We'll sing all five verses When we walk with war in the wine. Not as the price , not the cloud in the card , twice. Not like we have no alms, not that primal cross, but it's not where we got them all back. But we drop them, but we never never On the favor he saw, and the joint he reads for them. Well, for a way , for the way To be happy and to trust and open Then if that was left we will find a day Overwater What is that we will have to When is that we will come? And back a few pages to hymn number four hundred eleven Four hundred eleven the Solid Rock My open down, my man in my cry and my butt down, I dare a cry by the great cry. That's the Darkly pray , what we make , my friend , my meeting, bring every eye , what we do , why Oh may I go to my I pray the water , all the way down in the bed , all the ground late. Great singing this evening. Mun miomani mieli aina omaa muun omaa nimenomaan, että muun haun laina viimeinen, niin on näiden oman miumani on hyvin laina , että M Huomelin oil niin paljon Type forty nine in the red book This is the round. Let's sing it through. I don't know how to set up a round in here. Let's just sing it through twice. I found the gospel. Four eighty-two in the red box. Four eighty-two. Let's sing verse three. We came on the place alone, we ever. . Under meet the father, and we may have bride and whom we do. Actually spent some time looking through our hymn book to try to find I know when I was a kid we had several songs that had moments like that where you could shout out in the chorus. Uh everybody know the old account was settled long ago? That was not in this one here. But that was all I'm gonna recommend. So if you guys can think of any in the hymn book, I'd like to offer our young people a few other songs to add into their repertoire of shouting songs. So you can uh th they're in here I'm sure I just don't know where to find them. So those of you it sounds like a Bruce touches this thing he might be able to hunt them down. Alright, six twelve in the Red Book. Six twelve God is so good. Alright, so we're not well, I don't know, is it easy is do you want to change the keys? Alright. I'll try. Alright. Trying to kill me today. Four fifty two. Four fifty two In times like these, you need a savior. Thank God in my way to be the help of his life. Be married to the regular wall , and bring the road in the cry , then cry. All right, five forty five, five forty-five. So that'll get us right on time. Let's stand. Sing first and last of bring them in. Hearts is the surface voice thy year, calling the dead and thyre , calling the sea. Go by wherever we Bring the day from the man, bring the man, bring the one to see God. Great singing, please be seated. I think if we've got a lot of things that we're going to do, you can't do that. I adore you. Say my night before you Jesus, I adore you , ray my life before you How I love you, spear it I adore you, may my life be for you. How I love you, father, I adore you, I adore you. How I do , turn up my door you 're like all you How I are you, how you are you? I love you. If you would open with your Bibles to Joshua chapter five. Joshua chapter five. Now if you have a moment, I would encourage you to open your Bible or sorry, not just open your Bibles, open your hymns. I should have it on the screen behind me. But 588, there's an old hymn on Jordan Stormy's Banks I Stand. Last time I was up here, I then will talk about the crossing of the Jordan River. There is an old uh philosophy or old thoughts about when they crossed the Jordan River, that was going from this life into heaven. Well so part of the problem is if you were to really think through that is when they cross over into Jordan, they had a lot of battles, they lost some, they had a lot of issues. And that is not hopefully the true if you were to really think of this as an allegory of sorts, really what you would see On the first verse it says, On Jordan's stormy banks I stand, I cast a wishful eye to Canaan's fair and happy land where my possessions lie. You see there in the beginning it says my possessions lie. He's already kind of looking to the future where you know heaven is. I'm bound for the promised land. I'm bound for the promised land. Oh, who will come and go with me? I am bound for the promised land. Again, there's this mentality, especially in verse 3. So you jump a couple verses in verse 3 it says, no chilling winds or poisonous breath. Can reach this healthful shore. Sickness and sorrow, pain and death are felt and feared no more. Even though you look at this And you say, yeah, I could see that this is a picture of, you know, crossing the river into heaven. But rather I would like to look at this and having to see how this is actually more a bet if you were to really take this as a better picture If you have a picture closer to that of salvation, it is you're in the world, you're walking around, you're they're in the wilderness wandering in the world, and eventually they cross over the Jordan they're saved. Well, at the beginning of salvation, if many of you were to talk about, especially if you got saved older in life, there's this process of sanctification, become a little bit more like Christ. What we're seeing here, especially in Joshua chapter five, is that beginning of that sanctification process. Join me as I read verse one. And it came to pass when all the kings of the Amorites, Amorites, which were on the side of Jordan westward, and on the kings of the Canaanites. which were by the sea. Heard the Lord had dried up the waters of Jordan from before the children of Israel, until we were passed over, and their hearts melted. Neither was their spirit in them any more because of the children of Israel. I'm going to jump down to verse 8 and 9. And it came to pass when they had done circumcising all the people that they abode in their place And the Lord said unto Joshua, this day have I rolled away the reproach of Egypt from off you. Wherefore the name of the place is called Gilgal until this day. And I'm going to jump down to verse 13 again. And it came to pass when Joshua was by Jericho, and that he lifted up his eyes. And looked, and behold, there stood a man over against him with a sworn with a sword drawn out in his hand. And Joshua went unto him and said, Art thou for us or for our adversaries? And he said, Nay, but as the captain of the host of the Lord, now I come. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth and did worship, and said him, What saith my Lord unto his servant? And the captain of the Lord's host said unto Joshua, Loose thy shoe from off thy foot, for the place whereon thou standest is holy. And Joshua did so. Now Jericho was straightly shut up before because the children of Israel, none went out, and none came in. What we're really seeing here is up until this point, we've seen a slow progression of getting out of the wilderness to cross over. But when they get back to Joshua chapter 5, it's almost like this pause. Before everything was moving so fast, we're going to cross the door, we're going to cross the door, we're going to cross the Jordan. They cross the Jordan, like, now let's go to battle. And instead, there's almost like a pause. And the Lord starts working on them saying, we need to get back to our basics. We need to get back to being consecrated for the Lord. And then chapter 6 is begins this, the battle process that we see over the next several chapters of the book. And we see the results of doing things God's way. And that's where as we look through this, we're seeing that God wants you to be consecrated for his service, for doing battles his way. God wants you to be consecrated to your battles his way. The question is, what are your battles? Each of us have a different battle: physical, spiritual, emotional. And we could approach those battles in different ways. But when we approach them, the better question is not how we're approaching it, but under whose authority we're approaching. Are we doing it my way or his way? The first point we're going to see about being consecrated for battle. The definition for consecration, or consecrated, just simply means sacred, devoted, or dedicated. We see in verse 2, it says, At that time the Lord said to Joshua, make thee sharp knives and circumcise again the children of Israel the second time. The whole point of circumcision was to be a sign. The people of Israel were to be a sign of the Lord. They were the Lord's people. We start to see that this was kind of a the the whole point of circumcision for was given to Abraham to be before him. And it was given to him all the way in Genesis 1710. And says, this is my covenant which you shall keep between me and you and thy seed. That's in verse 10. Verse 11 it says, Again, the Lord is saying, It shall be a token of the covenant between me and you. One of the things to really note when you start looking at this covenant, this first covenant between Abraham and And God is that it is a conditional covenant. Conditional covenant means that it is dependent on their faithfulness. Now, this is not to say that Abraham and their seed were not there, they were conditional on them having to be the Lord's people. No, that's not the case. There is actually several conditional and unconditional promises in the Bible. If we look at unconditional promises, there are Several. I'm just going to name a few. One of them is Genesis chapter 15, Abraham. And it says he's an heir of the land. Noah, Genesis 9, that the whole earth would never be flooded again. An unconditional promise. In John 3, 36, he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not on the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth him. Salvation, eternal life. Again, it says half eternal life. That is, once you have acceptance of Savior, there is this eternal life perspective that is unconditional. But if we look at conditional promises, there is a greater number of these. You have Levitical laws, given the whole book of Leviticus. There's many laws that are set in place, but towards the end, the Lord just simply says, you can do them and I will bless you. If you don't do them, you won't be blessed. Simple statement there. The Beatitudes. We see that if you are one thing, you are gifted as something else. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for they shall inherit the earth. We see that those are right after. Honoring your parents in Ephesians 6, 1-3. Children, obey your parents of the Lord. For this is right. Honor thy father and mother, which is the first commandment of promise. That it may be well with thee and thou mayest live long on the earth. It's simply saying that, hey, children, if you obey your parents, the Lord's going to bless you with a long life. And you honor them, the Lord's going to bless you with a long life. There is a condition there. Just as there are conditions there for salvation, it is if thou believest, they have eternal life. But on the other side, that's also true. If you believe, you have eternal life. If you don't believe, you have wrath. In the same verse, John 3:36, the Son shall and he that believeth not, the Son shall not see life, and the wrath of God abidh on him. When we start thinking about Joshua chapter 5, that the Lord approaches them saying, We need to get back to the basics. There's a few things to especially note here about the children that were in the wilderness. In verse 5, it says, Now all the people that came out of were circumcised, but all the people that were born in the wilderness, by the way, as they came forth out of Egypt, Them they had not circumcised. If you look back, the Lord doesn't tell them to stop doing the sign. If you were to really think about one line that would define the children that were in the wilderness, that line there would be disobedience. They did not obey the Lord And in that same instance, in verse 5, it says, them they had not. The people that were in the wilderness chose to reject God. They chose to not give this sign to their children. You know, and the unfortunate part, as I said earlier, it was a conditional promise. Genesis 17, 14. This is the end of the passage there that we see that the Lord gives the problem and explains everything that's going on. He says, and the uncircumcised ch man child whose flesh is not circumcised, the soul shall be cut off from his people. He hath broken my covenant. The Lord starts working through them and he's just saying, all right, if you're not going to listen They are in essence they were rejected for a reason. They were choosing to disobey God. They cross over, the Lord starts coming here, and He says, Let's talk about this. Let's look at it. We need to come back to the basics. So why did they have them go through this? This is not to say that the wilderness the Lord was not present with the people. They won battles. The Lord was still there. He still took care of them. He provided for them. They were his people. But they were rejecting God and they could have had so many more blessings. But the point for this to take place here, which almost like I said, seems like to take pause and say, we could have gone to battle, we're ready. The Lord says, No, you need to get back to doing things my way. Verse 9: It says, And the Lord said to Joshua, This day have I rolled away the reproach of Egypt. From off of you. Wherefore the name of this place is called Gilgal. Every time. Gilgal is the camp. They're going to see, and they're gonna you're gonna see hear it mentioned over and over in the book of Joshua. It's the place where they were to meet together to be back. It's their base camp. The name Gilgal just means rolling away. Maybe every time you have this place that you go back to and it kind of reminds you of your salvation, what the Lord did, that He removed The pressures that were upon you, the sin, the guilt that you felt there from your initial sin that you were from before salvation. When they come back after going to different battles, they come back to the place and sort of a constant reminder. Of, hey, just back to the basics. Remember my gospel. Remember the good thing I have given you. Not only did they have the first thing getting back to the basics of having to Getting back to the Lord's sign and having to be a promise, they had the Passover. And the children of Israel encamped in Gilgal and kept the Passover on the 14th day of the month at even the plains of Jericho. One thing worth mentioning is to remind what time of the year this is. If you think back to the beginning in Joshua chapter 3, that they went to Jordan, that the Jordan overfloweth its banks at the time of harvest. They had harvested the land was ready to be harvested at the precise time the Lord wanted it. They were crossing over. The Lord had provided manna for them for years upon years upon years. But you see here in verse 11 it says, And they did eat the old corn of the land. The Lord had provided for them to come over and have food ready for them. Now it says old corn, but I don't think we really understand this whole idea that it was the old corn. There's two reasons that's important that it does say old corn. The first one is the land had, they just had the Passover. They had to have the unleavened bread. They had the feast of the unleavened bread that was supposed to go for the next seven days afterwards. The Lord had prepared the old corn. I think the next thing to really just grasp and understand it says the old corn is that sounds not very appealing to me to think about old corn. I think about corn that's dried up a little bit, doesn't have the quite crunch or the juiciness when I eat corn on the cob. But to these people, this was the first non-manna meal in 40 years. That may have been old corn that wasn't as juicy, but it was probably the best tasting corn they ever had in their life. The Lord was simply having to grasp our attention saying, hey, let's get back to the basics because I want you to be dedicated for my service. We have to make sure you're assigned. Unto everyone else that you are my people. I provided for you in the wilderness. And guess what? I'm going to keep providing for you now. I brought you over at a precise time. And the next thing is sometimes we get ahead of ourselves. When we're ready, we're on fire, we start charging without having to ask too many of the right questions or anything. And the last thing is we see here is it says, the captain of the host says, It came to pass when Joshua was by Jericho, he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, there was a man over against him with a sword drawn. In his hands. And Joshua went unto him and said, Art thou for us or for our adversaries? It's You walk up and you see this man drawing his sword. There's people like to think maybe Joshua had his sword drawn as well to challenge him to a duel. Maybe the whole army kind of surrounded him saying, What's going on? It doesn't give any picture, but you can your mind can wander and think. But what we see here is Joshua starts coming before him and he says, you need to pick a side. Are you going to join us or be against us? And rather than having to say pick a side, the Lord simply says, no. Wrong. That's the wrong question to be asking. As a captain of the host of the Lord. This is the only time this phrase appears in Scripture, and it is believed this is to be Christ. The Christ stands before them. It's one of the first appearances of Christ having to appear in the Old Testament. And he says he stands there with a sword and he says I am captain of the host of the Lord. I now come. And Joshua fell on his face on the earth. It's almost Joshua had this realization of, oh Wrong question. It's not are you on my side or their side? It's are you on the Lord's side? It's having to pause and realize that it doesn't matter what side we think we're on. It's are we on the Lord's side? You know, this in essence the similar thing happened to Paul. Paul at Acts chapter 9, he's on his way to Damascus, and a bright light shows up, knocks him to the ground, and he starts at and it says, Jesus goes like Paul, Paul, or sorry, Saul. Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? And he goes, Lord, who are you? And he goes, I'm Jesus. I think we often overlook what could have happened. Paul had a choice, or Saul at this point rather, could have rejected Christ. He could have easily said, Well, you weren't following our laws, so we had to kill you for that reason. He said, you were against us, so we had to put away with you. Instead Saul realizes He says, What would you have to do with your servant? Similar as Joshua would say here. What saith my Lord unto his servant? You know, when we start going to bat or getting ready, sometimes we have to remember are we on the Lord's side? Are we picking fights that He's asked us to pick, or are we just jumping in and we're having our own battles worth fighting? We think that we can step up and do things. This is right. They're on their way. At this point, they are literally on their way to Jericho. At the beginning it says it came to us when Joshua was by Jericho. They are ready to attack this city with full force. But Joshua took quick recognition of who was God and the presence of God. The question is, do we have the same? Do we honor him before we go to battle? Just as we need to before we go to battle, we've got to be consecrated. We have to make sure we're doing battle his way. I'm going to read verse 1 with me in verse 1 of chapter 5, and then we're going to jump all the way down to verse 1 of chapter 6. And it came to pass when all the kings of the Amorites, pause. Jericho was an Amorite city. Their king was shaking in his boots, weak in the knees, locked up. Jump down to verse 6. Or sorry, chapter 6, verse 1 says, Now Jericho was straightly shut up because the children of Israel none went out and none came in. Worth mentioning here. Um I haven't put a picture of Jericho on the screen. If you look around Jericho, that is a city with multiple layers of walls. There was actually this ditch, a low-hanging area. There was this light, there was um, it's called a revent uh Reventment wall, I don't know if I can say that correctly. Uh it's just like this very steep hill that's supposed to actually allow them to build the wall even higher. They had a first wall and then they had a second wall, even behind that to separate the inner city from the outer city. Remember, it was a time of harvest. Jericho was believed to have a spring inside it as well Joshua could have came to siege that city, and Jericho could have been like, bring it on. We can camp out for weeks, months, if we need to, maybe even a year. We have food and water. We're going to protect her. And the Lord, I think, really even more so when he brought that angel there was saying, are you going to do things my way? Because I have a better way to take this city. Archaeologists, when they look at the city, they they will debate about the time frame and they'll say, oh, it doesn't line up with when Joshua crossed and all these different things. They say it could not have happened. I'm not here to debate the time. But instead, I'm rather to use the archaeologist's discovery to say it lines up with what we see in Scripture. What they saw is whenever that wall fell, is that the wall collapsed from the ditch and covered the rebutment to literally make like a ramp. Allowing them into the city. I will even go even further to say many archaeologists will say that there is a section of the wall that was still standing in the back. They also think that may have seeing that part of the city was maybe a little run down. If there were some precarious jobs that may have been going on there, and that's where we may have found Rahab's house. It's one of the I believe they said it's the only house still intact of that part of the wall. Again, I don't want to, I'm not going to argue with what the time frames. I think that's irrelevant. What I'm saying here is when we look at scripture, we're seeing the same thing happen. So what as we walk through this, many of us have heard this story of the Battle of Jericho. Joshua and fit in the battle of Jericho, Jericho. We're all familiar with that tune, maybe a little bit. I actually don't want to even call it a battle. If you really look at this thing, there are two, maybe arguably three verses to the whole, this in this whole chapter dedicated to them having to destroy Jericho. The walls fell, they go in, they burn the city. That's really the reference of those verses. Giving it a battle, I think, gives more credit to Jericho than anything. So as we walk through here, we're just going to quickly mention what's going on. In verse 2, it says, The Lord said unto Joshua, See, I have given into thine hand Jericho and the king thereof and the mighty men of valor. The Lord pause and say, Hey, remember those spies from a few days ago? Had they they gave a report about what was going on inside the city? It's accurate. The people are terrified and afraid and ready for the picking. Verses 3 through 5, the Lord starts giving instruction. Now I want you to compass about the city. Ye men go around the city, once thus thou shalt do seven days, and the seven priests shall bear before the ark, seven trumpets, rams, horns, and the seventh day. Seven times the priest shall blow the trumpets, and it shall come to pass that when they make a long blast, uh, ram's horns, they hear the sound of the trumpet, and the people shall. And it goes on to kind of just say how they're supposed to you know attack the city. Once for seven days and seventh on this they'll blow the horns. Verses six and seven, we start including the Ark of the Covenant. And how we're supposed to be at verses 8 through 14, the first six days, they circle the city once. And there's this long here about how they were the order they were in. They circled the city. They come back to Gilgal. I think that's a great way. They go out to prepare for this battle, you know, the Lord today, we're ready for tomorrow. We're ready for tomorrow. We're ready for tomorrow. Let's go back and be reminded of our salvation. Rolling away what you've done for us so far, rolling away the wilderness, rolling away Egypt and our disobedience. Verse 15 , the seventh day. And it came to pass on the seventh day. They rose early. They were ready. They got up early because they had a lot to accomplish that day. They were excited. Christmas Day, it's easy to get up early, right, kids? First day of school, maybe not so much, but you're ready On Christmas. You're ready to go on. You're ready to get well they're ready for battle. This is what they've been tr this is what they've been ready for. They've been telling been told stories for the last forty years. We're gonna get to go over and capture the land. This to them I would say is like Christmas. Verses 17 through 19. Instruction on how to sack the city The city shall be accursed, even in it, and all therein to the Lord. Only Rahab the harlot shall live, she and all of her house, because she had hid the messengers that we sent. The Lord makes mention of her faithfulness and her faith of how what she did and that she will be rewarded because the rest of people will be destroyed. One thing I'm gonna mention later is why God destroyed all of them but saved Rahab It was because of her faith, but there's even a greater reason. I'm going to save that for the end to really look at, but I want you guys to keep that in mind is why did God destroy Jericho and why did he destroy it the way he did? There were warnings, by the way, not to take anything. Clearly mentions, that's going to be important for next chapter. All the items that were not destroyed by the fire will be the Lord. If you look actually in 1st and 2nd Corinthians, they talk about all of our works shall be as gold, silver, precious gems, hay, stubble, and they shall be purged by fire. What's left over will be of the Lord's. You see here in the same thing. What is not? Verse 19. But all the silver, gold, and vessels of brass and irons are consecrated unto the Lord. They shall be the treasures, treasury of the Lord. Later it talks about the city being destroyed by fire. That would have made it very easy to take anything of importance. All of those silver, gold, vessels of brass and iron, they're coming to be in the Lord's house. Verse 20 through 25, the city is destroyed. But really, verse 20, the men went in, they blow the horns, the men go in, verse 21, and they utterly destroyed all that was the city, both man, woman, young, and old, and ox and sheep, and ass at the edge of the sword. He just goes, like I said, a battle is not really accurate. It was a decimation of Jericho. One verse. Verses 23 and 25, you see that Rahab was saved. And then 26 and 27, Jericho was cursed. A lot of things starts working in this progression. And I ask you a few things to really consider when it comes to this end. And we look at these two questions. The first one is When you look at the story, if you were to do a Google search around this time, you'll see that people really questioned Our God, if the God of the Old Testament is the same God of the New Testament, and why would you serve this God if He's a bloodthirsty and cruel God? I mean he destroyed them. He went in, he wiped everyone out. No animals, nothing lived, just killed every living person, young and old. Why would he do that? To really understand the why there, you almost have to go back to Genesis 15. Genesis 15 is this first introduction where we see the the call of Abraham. It's good or not necessarily the call of Abraham, but we see that Abraham is given his first covenant. This is the unconditional covenant. This unconditional covenant is given so much so that the Lord is going saying, Hey Abraham, you will be my people, you and my heir, everything. But there's a small little verse in there that says It's almost like saying, what about the Amorites? And says, don't worry about the Amorites. Their iniquity is not yet full. God had given hundreds of years of grace to the Amorites. Not just Jericho, but many other cities. He gave them grace to just say, hey, are you listening? What's the thing about the timeframe? We are actually to go all the way to Abraham. You were to really think about what's going on there. Abraham was alive during the time of Shem. One of the children of Noah. Shem, Ham, and Japheth were all alive at the time. Their descendants were reproducing, and they were having many descendants all over the earth. Many of them, that means every living person at that time for the most part would have had an opportunity to interact first with a first-hand experience of the flood. What that also means is that every person was had that had that opportunity was openly rejecting God. And he was giving them generations to say, Will you come back to me? He was extending grace. And there is a family that was saved. Rahab. Rahab had faith. It doesn't say anything here, but it may but following that train of thought, I wonder if maybe Rahab's parents were also headface. It wasn't just a one person, but it was a generational of having to decide they're going to follow the Lord, but they stayed with their family. I have no idea. Total subjection. The Lord was gracious and he gave them time. But when they were beyond saving, he says, it's time to go in. So why did Jericho fall the way he did? Why did God send them to walk around the city? It's the only time we see it happen. We don't see them go to any other city, not Jerusalem. Why do they go to this city this way? I think it really goes back to having to look at Joshua chapter 5. The whole purpose of Joshua chapter 5 was: are you going to be consecrated? Are you going to be dedicated to me to do things my way? It doesn't make sense to walk around, but will you do it? I understand. Things don't make sense sometimes. The Lord just says, are you going to just trust me and obey? Are you going to stay faithful to my commandments and just do what needs to be done? This beginning here Joshua chapter 5 at the very end there where we see the interaction with the captain of the Lord's host is the same thing you saw in Deuteronomy, sorry, Exodus with Moses. Saying who is on the Lord's side? Who will stand up and take care of the sin that's in this people? It's the same question that Joshua asked at the very end of the book. Choose you this day whom you will serve. If it seems evil to you to serve the Lord God. Alright, so be it. You'll be judged. If it seemed good to you to serve God, so be it. He's saying, pick you a day. Are you gonna are you gonna listen to my thing? Are you gonna listen to me? Are you gonna do battle my way? But all that goes back to going back to the basics of being consecrated, dedicated for his service, having to do battles. Let's pray. Dear Father Lord, thank you today. Thank you for Just the opportunity to look at Joshua. They crossed the Jordan. You've commissioned them. You saw the faith of a single woman. And you brought them over here and you're they just are challenged with, will you come back to me? That's the same question you are asking us today. Are we going to come back to you? Not just as a people, but as a nation. I ask, though, Father, that we will do battle your way, that we'll be consecrated for your service, that each day we get back to our basics and be dedicated to you. Amen. You know, as we think about the conquest of Canaan, um we need to remind ourselves constantly That we see both God's justice and his patience. And that that passage that Brother Braxton mentioned from Genesis chapter 15 is really at the heart of the way that God gave the land of Canaan to the nation of Israel. And I think it's also important to recognize that when God made those covenant promises, not the Abrahamic covenant, But the Mosaic Covenant, he said to them, He said, I'm driving these people out of the land. But if you choose to take their idols and live the way that they're living, I'm going to drive you out of the land as well. And what we're reminded of is that that is exactly what God did. And when the uh Babylonians came in and they destroyed Jerusalem. and they ruined the temple. That was God fulfilling a promise that He made many, many hundreds of years. before. And during that time, God sent prophet after prophet after prophet after prophet to the nation of Israel. And they just rejected it. And so we need to remind ourselves that when it comes to the issue of walking in the fear of the Lord, we absolutely need to do it. And we need to be reminded that the land of Canaan was God giving it to the land of Israel, but saying, This is my land. And if you're not going to follow my laws, I'll remove you from this land. We also see God brought them back. We see that God fulfilled all of his promises through the Messiah. And so there's a lot to process in these verses. Let's remember those things together. All right, if we could, let's turn in our hymn books for our closing to hymn 416. My faith has found a resting place. We'll sing the first, the second, and the fourth verses together. Please let's stand as we sing. My faith has found a resting place. The Lord makes my place not any my And then he died for me on the past. My God is me on the wood , not making words, and by my I need the water, I do men, I need the water being with God. I'd like to ask you for the grant. You can close this in prayer and I hope that you'll be able to join us this week on Wednesday, midweek, for our studying the Sermon on the Mount. And really enjoyed teaching through that. Hope you can join us for that and also our kids' classes in the back. Grant, close some prayer, please. Let's pray. Dear Lord and Heavenly Father, we thank you for this wonderful Sunday that you've given to us. We thank you for the opening of your word, and I pray that you would uh help us to apply what you've taught us today in our lives throughout this week. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.