Okay, if you could take your Bibles, please, and turn to the book of Ruth, Ruth chapter 1. And today I'm going to be doing something that Uh I hope I don't regret and that is I'm going to preach the entire book of the Bible in one setting. And some of you might say, well that's an absolute impossibility, and you're going to try it on Mother's Day for crying out loud. Don't do that. But the truth is I think as we dig into this story The story of really the the the this lady named Ruth, we learn some incredible, wonderful truths about God. And what we're going to see tonight or this morning is that it's not just a story about Ruth and it's not just a story about Boaz. But the truth is the story that we're going to look at is about a woman named Naomi. And I want you to see from Naomi's life that there are some very important truths. that we absolutely need to learn about God as we look at this story of her life. If you have your Bibles, I want to ask you to take it, turn to Ruth chapter 1, and we will be looking at verses 1 through 5 together Ruth chapter 1, verses 1 through 5. Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled, there was a famine in the land. And a certain man of Bethlehem, Judah, went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. And the name of the man was Elimelech, the name of his wife, Naomi, the name of his two sons, Malon and Kileon Ephraitites, and they continued there. And Elimelech, Naomi's husband, died, and she was left of her two son and her two sons. And they took them wives of the women of Moab. The name of the one was Orpah, the name of the other Ruth. And they dwelled there about ten years. And Melon and Kilion died, both of them. And the woman was left of her two sons and her husband When we come to the book of Ruth, we need to understand some things about the timing of this story, a very important story, not just in the Bible, but really in all of the storyline of Israel's history. In fact, when we come to the book of Ruth, we're going to be learning a story about one of David's ancestors. In fact, one of the very important parts of the storyline of how we get King David, and then from King David, ultimately we have the Messiah. This is a very important part of that story, the story of David's heritage. And so when we come to this passage, I want us to kind of begin with just a summary statement. of this story, or really the entire book of Ruth. And here's what I jotted down. The purpose of this book is to remind us of the tender care of God and his works personally in our lives in the midst of hardships, and how it demonstrates his grace as he works in the little details to accomplish his grand purposes. Let me read that again. The purpose of this book is to remind us of the tender care of God that works personally in our lives in the midst of hardships and demonstrates his grace as he works in the little details of life to accomplish his grand purposes. When we walk away from this book this morning, I hope that we will see that God wants us to have a renewed sense of his incredible goodness. When we walk away from this book, I hope that we'll reflect on the fact that in spite of all the hardships that we endure in life God is good. And that is really what we're going to walk away from when we look at this passage. How in the world can we understand the goodness of God in a renewed way this morning from this passage? Well, in order to do that, we need to understand some very important details from this story. And so I want to begin with this first truth. We need to remember that some of life's greatest hardships are not the result of our own doings. Let me say that again. We need to remember that some of life's greatest hardships are not the result of our own doing. Now let me give you a very practical example of that. Right now in our nation, there are lots of people who would like to be working. Not only would they like to be working, but just a few months ago they were working, they had a steady income, they enjoyed their job, they were enjoying what they were doing, and because of some decisions that came down from our government They cannot go to work today. In fact, they don't know when they're going to go to work. And the question is, whose fault was it? Was it the fault of the person who now is sitting in their house and can't work the answers? Of course it's not their fault. They had nothing to do with that decision. In fact, that's what really makes it so difficult for folks as they're sitting in their house saying, you know, I had a job. I liked my job. I was able to feed my family. I went to work and I did the things that I normally do. I enjoyed my life and now here I am. I'm sitting here not knowing when I'll go back to work. I want you to realize. That there are times in life that we experience this over and over and over again. And what we're going to see in this in this passage of Scripture is that that is exactly what happened to Naomi. It was not Naomi 's choice. To leave her family and to go to Moab. It was not her choice for her husband to die And leave her there alone. It was not her choice for her sons to go and marry women of Moab who ultimately were idol worshippers. It was not her choice that those boys died when they were young men without a child. The fact is that when we look at the story of Naomi, we see a woman who is going through tremendous hardship, lots of pain, lots of loneliness, lots of emptiness, and it's not because of choices she made. In fact, many times in life we find ourselves there. Not all of our troubles are the results of someone else's choice. It's true, I've made a lot of bad decisions in my life, and so have you. And I've borne the consequences of some of those decisions. But that's not the case with this woman, Naomi. Notice what it says in verse 1. It came to pass in the days when the judges ruled, there was a famine in the land. Was Naomi the cause of that famine? No. When we talk about the time period in which she lived, the time of the judges, those were tumultuous times in Israel. They didn't have a king. They just had people doing what was right in their own eyes. Terrible stories. Read through the book of Judges and look at the unbelievable things that took place during that time period and say, I'm glad I didn't live in Israel in those days. She didn't choose the day she was born. She didn't choose those things. She lived through hardship She lives through this chaotic time when the judges are ruling. And then we see that her husband decides to leave the land of Israel and to go to Moab. In fact, in verse 1, it says it this way: A certain man named Elimelech of Bethlehem, Judah, went to sojourn in the country of Moab. You know what's interesting? It doesn't say anything about Naomi 's part in that decision. He chose, he led, she had to deal with the consequences of it. We look down in verses 2 to 3, and we see that their time in Moab went a lot longer than they probably originally anticipated In verse 2 it says, They came into the country of Moab and they continued there. It seems as if initially their plan was to go Kind of wait out this famine maybe a year or two, and then when it's all over, they go back and they get back into what they were doing before. Obviously they have land and property and there are things that they can do, but they've lost. And it says they continue in Moab But then it goes on. Elimelech, Naomi's husband, died. And it says it this way. She was left. And her two sons. In other words, the way that it's written is, look, this woman was taken to this land, she has no family, she has no friends, her identity is gone, she goes and her husband dies, and she's all alone. She's a widow, and then it continues. Her sons choose to marry women from the land of Moab. That means These are ladies that were not worshippers of the one true God. These are idol worshippers. They choose to do that. It says they took them wives of the women of Moab. We have no idea about how she thought about that. But it's very clear it was their choice. The story continues. Verse 5. Her sons died, leaving her completely helpless as a widow in this foreign land. And Malon and Kileon died also, both of them. And notice that phrase again. The woman was left of her two sons and her husband. Don't you get the point that the narrator of this story is trying to emphasize something? Naomi is alone. Naomi 's a widow. Naomi has no sons. She's all by herself. She's a broken woman. She's in trouble. And you ask the question: what did she do to cause it? And the answer is from the text, nothing. Folks, sometimes in life we go through these seasons and we look up at God and we say, What did I do to deserve to be in this place? And he says. You didn't do anything. How do we respond in those situations? How do we feel in those situations? What is our attitude towards God in those circumstances? Well, we can see in this text how Naomi responded in those things. And the way that she responded, I think, is a pretty natural, probably normal, probably explainable way. I'm not saying it's right. I'm not saying it was a faith-based response, but it's normal. It's natural. It's how she responded. In verses 16 to 13, we're going to see something about Naomi. And our second truth is this God doesn't abandon us in our darkest days, though we may not feel his warmth and his presence. Naomi at this point in the land of Moab feels abandoned by God. And we're going to see that by the way that she speaks to her daughter-in-laws. In verse 6 it says, Then she arose with her daughters-in-law. That she might return from the country of Moab. For she had heard in the country of Moab how that the Lord had visited his people, in giving them bread. In verse 8 it says, And Naomi said unto her two daughter-in-laws, Go return each of you to your mother's house. And the Lord deal kindly with you. And the Lord grant you that ye may find rest each of you in the house of her husband. Naomi said, Turn again, my daughters, why will ye go with me? It grieveth me much for your sakes that the Lord hath gone against me Now, I don't want us to miss some of the very important details of the way that Naomi speaks, because the way that Naomi speaks is an indication to how she feels at the moment towards God and her circumstances. The first thing that's very interesting is that she's very aware that she is a foreigner in a foreign land. In verse 6 it says, she heard from the country of Moab. Now I don't know if you've ever lived overseas. I know what it's like to live as an expat, okay? And actually I loved being a missionary. I loved living in Ghana have wonderful friends that I love dearly. I miss them a lot. But I will tell you, no matter how long you live in a country, you will never be a true citizen who feels comfortable in that place. You will always be viewed on some level, it appears, as an outsider. That's how I felt. Yes, I love the people. We had this connection with one another. We went to a church together, we worshiped. I invested in their lives. They invested in my lives. Dear friends, but you know, no matter what, I would always be an American living in Ghana. If you've lived in another country and a part of another culture, you realize that it's very, very difficult to assimilate into that culture. And so when it says that she heard from Moab, it's like she's an outsider. Her people have been visited by God. And she hears it through people that don't even view her as a part of their society. They're like, Oh, have you heard that back in your home country God has blessed the people? Have you heard that he's giving them grain again? She's an outsider. We feel this sense that Naomi has been distant from God. The narrator speaks as if she's not part of these people. Verse 6 says, the Lord has visited his people. They didn't say your people. They said his people. In other words, she doesn't really seem at home in Moab, and now she doesn't seem at home in Israel either. She's a woman who's without a country. The third thing we see is that she's really fixated on this need for security in a husband because she didn't have that security Security. Look down at the way she words it in verses eight and nine. It says, The Lord deal kind with you, the Lord grants you that ye may find rest each of you in the house of her what? Her husband Why does she say that? Because in her mind she says, I have no sense of security. I feel so vulnerable. I don't have a husband. I don't want you to deal with that same situation. I'm hoping for your sake you can find this comfort. I want you to understand that Naomi felt very, very alone. And she goes on to lament the pain and her inability to help these two young women by saying it this way in verse 13, it grieveth me much For your sakes, that the hand of the Lord hath gone out against me. When we look at Naomi, we see a woman who has no husband, who has no sons. Who has no country, who has no identity, who believes that she's an outsider, and even God Himself does not seem to be close to her at all. She feels lonely. She feels broken. I want to ask you a question. Have you ever felt like that? You know, it's interesting, as I was studying this passage, I was thinking through it, it began to really settle into my heart. The way that this woman felt. Now I'm not saying that I could feel her pain, but I began to empathize and I say this woman was in a desperate, difficult, troubling position. I hope you feel that. I hope that you understand her plight. Because I want you to realize that in the midst of these feelings that absolutely overwhelm this woman, God had not left her. She felt as if God had left her. She was convinced that God had left her. She was convinced that God was against her. He has dealt bitterly with me. And I wish he had it because I could have helped you But I want you to realize God hadn't left her. God still loved her. God was patient with her. God hadn't abandoned this woman. You see, how do you know that? The reason that we know that is because we see our third truth. God is full of grace. And in verse 14 it says this They lifted up their voice and wept again, and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law. But Ruth clave unto her. Now you might say that doesn't say anything about God. But I want you to realize that as we follow the story As we learn more and more about this woman, Ruth, and how God is going to deal with Naomi and Ruth and Boas and all the people in the story, we're going to see that the first glimpse into God's grace Was that she had a daughter-in-law that, in spite of the pain, in spite of no future and no hope, this woman loved her mother-in-law and said, I will not leave you. If it means that I'm going to go be a foreigner in your country, if it means that I never marry, if it means that I never have security again, I will not leave you because I love you. Who put that in the heart of that woman? It was God. It was God's grace. You know, at the moment that we read these words, but Ruth Claive unto her, we don't understand their significance, but this is the first evidence of God's grace. Her physical security, her ability to put food on the table, the ability to smile again and enjoy her place in God in the community, her confidence in God, her future redemption, her eternal inheritance, all of those things We don't realize it at the time when we're reading, but they all hang on the fact that Ruth said, I'm not going to leave you. In other words, if Ruth would have done what Orpah did and she said, okay I love you, I care about you, but I have my life to live and you have your life to live, and I wish you the best. Goodbye. There's no more story in the book. That's the end. But that is actually the beginning. This is the hinge at which all of the book begins to show God's goodness and God's grace and God's love. All of a sudden we're going to see God pour His love into this woman's life bit by bit, piece by piece. God is going to restore her physical security. God is going to put food on her table. God is going to take care of her needs. She's going to understand that God cares about her and loves her. She's going to be a part of the community again, not an outsider, but one of the people of God. She's going to have a restored confidence in God. She's going to not see Him as the bitter one, but the good and the loving one who's restored her joy. Ruth is going to be the hinge to Naomi experiencing all those things There's even more to it. Naomi 's future redemption. The fact that there will be a savior of the seed of David hinges on Ruth saying, I will not leave you. What an amazing, amazing example of God's grace. God's gracious hand is in every detail of this story. And I want us to begin to look at how God's hand begins to show his love and his compassion and his grace on these two women, but particularly Naomi. The first thing we see is in verses 15 to 18. Ruth purpose, I will not leave you, Naomi. Even if you tell me to go back, I won't do it. Verse 15, she said, Behold, thy sister-in-law is gone. Go back under her people and under her gods. Return thou after thy sister-in-law. And Ruth said, Entreat me not to leave thee. Or to return from falling after thee. For whither thou goest, I will go. Where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people. Thy God, my God, where thou diest will I die, and there will I be buried. The Lord do so to me, and more also, if aught but death part thee and me. We love this statement. It's a powerful statement. A statement of unconditional love. Unbelievable sacrifice. Ruth is saying, I turn my back on all of the securities of my homeland, and I go to live with you, a widow who has nothing to offer me. That's God's grace. God 's hand is in that detail. The fact that she would not leave her mother-in-law is God working in her life and she doesn't even know it yet. In verse 22, we see that the timing of their return to Bethlehem is so important. They could have gone back to Bethlehem at any time. They could have gone during a time when the food was scarce, but that's not what happened. It says in verse 22, So Naomi returned with Ruth the Moabitus, her daughter-in-law with her. Which returned out of the country of Moab, and they came to Bethlehem in the beginning of the barley harvest. You know what's really interesting? That that that town, Bethlehem, means house of bread. It's kind of interesting that there was a time when there was a terrible famine in the land, and Bethlehem, the house of bread, a place where there should have been an abundance of food. They said, I'm leaving it, I'm going to Moab, and here she comes back. From Moab to Bethlehem, and it's in the harvest season. Isn't God good? We then continue on. There's a met there's a mention of this man named Boaz. We don't know who he is yet in the book, but in verse one he says this Naomi had a kinsman of her husband's family, a mighty man of wealth of the family of Elimelech. His name was Boaz. You say, well, why is that important? It's important because Boaz is going to become a central figure in the story of Ruth and Naomi. We then see another detail. All these details come together in the following section as we're reminded of God's grace. As we go to chapter 2, verses 3, and we read down to chapter 14, verse 13, what we begin to see is that God in His wisdom and His kindness and His goodness just happens to have Ruth end up in a field gleaning. And in those days it's very interesting. If a person was absolutely destitute, they had absolutely nothing, they didn't have a land where they could plant a crop and they could get food on their table, they would go to a large tract of land where someone was farming. And that that farmer was required to leave a section of his field uncut so that the poor The fatherless, the widow, the foreigner, a person like Ruth, a person like Naomi could come to that field and rather than getting a free handout, they would go and work in that field And they would have a respectable way of taking care of themselves. They didn't have the land, they didn't have the food. They would go to that field and they would glean in that field. I will tell you in a time like the time of the judges, there were probably farmers who didn't leave very much for those people. They didn't care about the fatherless and the widows and the foreigners. They cared about the bottom line, what can we make our profit? Boaz wasn't like that. And she just happened, she just happens to end up in this man Boaz 's field. And as she's gleaning, it's interesting, it says that the workers knew who she was. That this is a small community and people talk They knew who Naomi was. They knew who her family had been. Let's not forget that Boaz was of the same family as Naomi 's husband was. And they're talking and they say, you see that woman there, Ruth? Yeah, she's not an Israelite. Yeah, I can see that. She's not an Israelite. She's a Moabite. She came with her mother. Yes, she did, yeah. And they start telling the story. And they hear about this woman, Ruth, and they say, She has good character. She's not an idol worshipper. She's turned to serve the God of Israel. And you know what Bo says? He says he lo he says, You see that woman, he's like You make sure that you drop a little extra for her. Make sure that you take care of her. Oh, and by the way, when everybody's working hard, make sure that she has something to eat. Make sure that she has water to drink. You guys need to look out for her. She's a foreigner, folks. She's from a pagan country. And this man has compassion. He has mercy and grace. Why is it that this man is like that? Because God was showing grace to Naomi and Ruth. In fact, it's interesting when Ruth comes back that first day from gleaning in the fields, Naomi says, How did you get here with so much food so early? How did you do that? She says, Well, this man, I went to his field, his name is Boaz. She said, don't leave that mansfield. Keep going. What's the point? The point is that God is taking care of this woman. The story of Boaz showing kindness to Ruth, her appeal to him as redeemer, kinsman redeemer, according to the Jewish custom And his willingness to take quick action and to redeem her, to raise up a child in the name of her deceased husband in the land of inheritance. All of this is an example of the grace of God And then we see in verse 13, God graciously, by the end of the story, gives Ruth a child And there is a significance to this child. It says in verse 13, Boas took Ruth, and she was his wife, and when he went into unto her, the Lord gave her conception, and she bare a son. As we read the story of Ruth's life and how Ruth becomes a wife and Ruth becomes a mother, we're going to find out that this is not so much about Ruth. And it's not so much about Boaz, it's about Naomi. Because our fourth truth that we'll look at is this: God can restore strength and joy to those who are severely broken. When we come to this story, I want you to realize it's the story of Naomi's heart being broken and being shattered and being alone and God coming alongside of her and restoring her joy. Folks, no matter where you are right now, God has the ability to restore your joy. God has the ability to come alongside of you and strengthen and encourage you. Because if he could do it in Naomi 's life, he couldn't do it in your life. You said, well, how does this work? Let's look down in our Bibles at chapter 14. Verses 14 to 16, because there we will see how God begins to restore the joy and the sweetness to this woman's life. It says, the woman said unto Naomi, Blessed be the Lord, which hath not left thee this day without a kinsman. His name may be famous in Israel. He shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life. A nourisher of thine old age, thy daughter-in-law, which loveth thee, which is better unto thee than seven sons, has borne him. And Naomi took the child and laid it in her bosom, and became nurse to it. I want you to realize this story is about God taking this hurting, broken woman, Naomi, and restoring her joy. God 's grace wasn't just directed to Ruth. Verse 14 the lady said, Blessed be the Lord who hath not left thee this day without a kinsman. We see that the child would be a sign of God's love for her, an instrument through which he would bless her. And he puts it like this in verse 14: He shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life. A nourisher of thine old age. This child is significant. It's a reminder of God's goodness And his love. This morning we opened up our service in Psalm 68. And I want to remind you what we read. It says, Sing unto God, sing praise unto his name, extol him that writeth upon the heavens by his name, Ja. Rejoice before him. He is a father to the fatherless. A judge of the widows is God in his holy habitation. God setteth the solitary in families. He bringeth out those which are bound with chains. Folks, that psalm is talking exactly about what God did in this text. God took Naomi, a widow. God took Ruth, a widow. God took these ladies who were desperate and who were hopeless And who were stigmatized and who had nothing to help themselves with. And he reached down into their lives and he said, I'm going to put you in a family. I'm going to restore your joy. I'm going to take care of you. I'm going to nourish you. I'm going to remind you that I love you. Folks, that's the way that God works. That's God's grace on display. This book is a display of the goodness and grace of God. But then I want to show you one final truth, truth number five. God can take our pain. He can bring good out of it. Now, I'm not suggesting that pain is good, and I'm not suggesting that evil is good. That's not what the Bible's saying. But what the Bible is saying is God can take difficult evil, painful circumstances, and he can go down into those situations and he can pull good out of it He can restore people who are hurting and broken and troubled. God did that with Naomi. He can do that with you. He can do that with me. Verse 17, the women said to this woman, This son, chapter four four, verse seventeen says, The women, her neighbors, gave it, the child a name, saying, There is a son born unto Naomi. They called him Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David. You know, I think about Mother's Day. I am so thankful for my mom. I'm so thankful for my wife. I'm so thankful for my grandmothers. And you know the truth is that I have so much to be thankful for and I have so many things that I should say to them to honor them and to show them how much I appreciate them. But you know, not everybody has that kind of a family situation. There are some ladies that don't have children. There are some ladies who never marry. There are some ladies who lose children. There are some people who grieve a mother who's passed, a grandmother who's passed. This day can be a very troubling, a very painful, a very hard day for people. And the truth is that on a day like this, sometimes it's good to be reminded That God can take in our pain good out of it. God can restore our joy when we're hurting and when we're broken. And the reality is that God gives a child to Ruth who ultimately will be a tremendous blessing to Naomi. That child wasn't Naomi 's offspring. That child did not come from the fruit of her labors. Ruth wasn't her daughter. This child came to Ruth through Boaz. Yet, this child restored joy and comfort to this woman Naomi. And it's not just that he restored joy to this woman, but this child was significant in the line of David. And the line of Christ. I want to take you back for a moment to that one truth where we talked about the fact that when Ruth said, I will not leave you. And she was steadfast in her heart. And she said, Naomi, no, I will not go back to my people. I will be with you no matter what happens. I will not leave your side. I want to go back to that statement. And I want to remind you again that when it says Ruth Clave unto Naomi, that this was the most significant event in the book. And not just the most significant event in the book, but it was the first example that we could visibly see that God is good to Naomi, that God loves Naomi, that He's not abandoned Naomi. His grace is found in that statement. And I want to remind you what I said. Her strength, her physical security was going to be bound up. In God's work through that woman. She didn't know it at the time, but it would. Her ability to put food on the table was going to be bound up in God's provision through that woman that said, I won't leave you. Her ability to smile again. Her ability to realize that God loves her and cares about her. That God is good. It was going to come through that instrument, that woman Ruth, a foreigner. A Moabite. Somebody that she said, Leave. I don't want to deal with you. Go back to your family. I can't help you. God has been bitter to me. I wish he hadn't been. Then I can help you. But I can't. Go back The woman that she said that to, she would be the tool God used. Her confidence in God would be restored ultimately because this woman said, I will not leave you. But to me, the most significant of all of those details is that her future redemption, her eternal inheritance, all hung on that woman not leaving her. This is a part of God's plan of redemption, a part of the storyline of God giving his Messiah. Think about that for a moment. When we go to the book of Matthew, you know whose name we read in that in that genealogy? We read the name of Ruth. We go to this book and we see the end. We see that he mentions the genealogy. Why? Because she is significant in the line of David. God is going to bring redemption because Ruth would not. Leave her mother-in-law. That little detail in the story is so significant. And the reality is that God works in these ways in our lives, and many times we don't even see it. We don't even realize it. We don't realize that this little moment right here that seems so passing and so insignificant, down the road, we'll look back and say, that was a big deal right there. God used that in an amazing way. If it hadn't been for that moment, I would have been here, but now I'm here. God is good. That's the kind of event we're talking about. When we look back at the fact that God promises a Redeemer and he follows through, we realize that this is part of the story. He's working behind the scenes. In spite of all the pain, all the summering, all the suffering to keep intact his plan of redemption, Naomi 's Redeemer. Not just her kinsman redeemer, but her redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ, would come through the line Of that little baby that God gave to Ruth that Naomi held in her bosom and was her child in her old age. I want to ask you a question this morning. What can you learn from a story like this? By the way, I didn't go into all the details. I'd encourage you this afternoon or I'd encourage you this next week. Go to the book of Ruth and read it and really dig into the details. Feel the emotion of the It's a beautiful story. It has high points. It has low points. But it's all about reminding us of God's grace and God's goodness. What can we learn from this story? Let me share with you a couple of very simple truths that I hope will help you this morning. The first is this life can be difficult, even for God's people We don't know all the details as to why God allowed it to unfold how it did. It's not all answered. But I can tell you part of the reason, part of the reason Was that God wanted to keep intact his plan of redemption? That's part of the plan. I don't know all the other details. I can't lay them out to you. No living person can. But what we do know is this. God allowed the difficulty to keep intact his plan of redemption. God does allow his people to suffer, but it's not without cause. Two. When we feel isolated and broken, I want you to realize something. God has not left you You may feel very isolated right now. You can't wait to get out of your house and say, I want to go to church again. I want to go to the grocery store again. I want to go to work again. I want to go to the park again. I don't like being bound up and confined. I want to see someone face to face, have a conversation with them. I want to shake somebody's hand again. I feel isolated. I feel troubled. I can't take it emotionally anymore. God, where are you? Folks, God doesn't leave us. He still is there. He still cares for us. About us, he still loves us. Third, we are reminded that he is full of grace. And he's waiting to demonstrate his love for us many times even when we don't yet have the eyes to see it. I want you to realize that though you may not see the goodness of God and you may not recognize his compassionate hand in your life today at this moment, it's there. It doesn't change the fact that it's at work. And one day you will look back and you'll say, now I see where God's hand was. I wish I'd seen it at the time. Folks, before Naomi was holding that baby in her hands and looking up at God and saying, You do love me, you do care about me. This child is a representation of your love for me, and I hold this child and my joy is restored. My confidence in you is restored. I know you're a God of grace. As she holds that baby, God was showing his grace many, many years before that moment. He was still at work in her life. Fourthly, God can restore our joy and our strength even when it's been severely broken in our lives. You know, we're a little child and we look at our lives. We are generally speaking optimists. Now not every child is. Some child children grow up through very hard homes. And they're not opti optimists when they're little kids. But a lot of people grow up in secure homes and they look at life and they say, I can't wait till I'm twenty. I can't wait till I'm forty. I can't wait till I'm an adult. I can't wait till I get married. Can't we tie my kids Can't wait till I get in my career, and everything seems like it's going to be great for them. And then they get there, and it's nothing like the anticipated. They had no idea that things were going to go the way that they did. And when they get to that point, they are broken. And they are miserable. And they are hurting. And they feel like there is no more strength. And they feel like they can have no joy. And they say, God, where are you? Everything I thought would happen didn't. And they're hurting. And I ask you the question: can God take us in those times and restore our joy? Can he take us when we are broken and defeated, having no hope? And can he restore that strength and that vitality and that energy and that joy? The answer is he can. He does it. He did it in this woman's life. He can do it in your life. I want to encourage you this morning that God is the one who can restore joy to even the most broken and downcast of people. You might say he doesn't care about me anymore. He has thrown me to the side. I have no hope. That's not true. God does love you and care for you. And lastly, I mentioned this, God can bring good out of our most difficult circumstances. Again, I say this, I'm not suggesting, nor is the Bible suggesting, that what is evil is now good. Or that what was painful is no longer painful. That's not true. But what the Bible teaches is that God can take evil And he can reach into that circumstance, and in his goodness and his sovereignty he can draw it out and turn it to good. Reminds you of Romans chapter 8, verse 28. All things Work together for good, to them who love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose, whom he foreknew he predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son God can take the most painful and challenging and difficult of circumstances, and he can use that to draw us more and more into his likeness. I want to encourage you this morning. I want you to look at this story. And I want you to be reminded, this is not fiction, folks. This is a real person. She really lived, she really experienced these things, and God really worked in her life the way that this text shows to us God wants us this morning to have a renewed sense of his goodness. Let's remember that today he is good. You know, you might be overwhelmed this morning and say, I feel like I have no hope. I want to encourage you, if you feel that way, please reach out to somebody that can encourage you and help you. Don't hold that burden inside. Don't withdraw from people that can come along and shoulder that burden with you. Don't withdraw from people that want to minister and help you. Reach out to those who love you and can be an encouragement to you. If you feel isolated and you feel uncertain of what you should do or what you can do, please reach out to us. Reach out to our church office and say, I need prayer. I need to talk to somebody. I need to discuss this issue with somebody so that somebody can pray with me and encourage me. Please reach out. We want to help you. You may say, I I'm not a Christian. I have no hope of eternal life. And I don't even know how to become a Christian. Send us an email. We want to help to you. We want to take the Bible and show you how you can be saved. If you need help and encouragement, please do not hesitate to reach out. I pray that this story will have been a tremendous encouragement to you. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to take these truths and help And settle in our souls. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we thank you for the opportunity we've had this morning to dig into the Bible. This story is a beautiful story. But more than anything, it's a reminder of your love, your grace, your goodness, your compassion, your tender care. Father, help us to walk away from this passage of Scripture, having a renewed sense of how good and gracious you are. May you strengthen your people through it and those who are hurting. and needy, may they reach out to those that can truly be an encouragement and a help to them. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.