Има сема низа нима няма, няма да низа нима, нима името да имаме само и няма ними само And looking forward to what the Lord has for us tonight. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we'll get started with our service. Our Father, we're so grateful for this church body, and we're thankful for the Lord's day. I pray that as we leave this place tonight, that our hearts would have been richly encouraged and challenged. I pray that as we think about the testimonies that we'll share, the songs that we sing, I pray that Christ would be exalted and that each of us as your people would be exalted. Edified. Be with uh Pastor Josh as he preaches the word tonight. I pray that you would guide his thoughts, help him to preach with clarity and power, and I pray that the Holy Spirit would take the word Use it in our hearts and lives. And I pray you bless our meeting after the service. May that go very well. And we ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. All right, and good evening everyone. We're going to take our handles or follow along on the screen. We're going to turn to page 410 to begin with. Page 410. Let's may flip that over to make sure I'm on the right page. Let's try 411. I'm looking at 410, but we're gonna So stand with me as we sing all four verses on the solid rock. And Amen. Go ahead and have a seat. I know it's hot. Folks, stay hydrated out there. Just take you a moment to get dehydrated. That's not good. Page 413, stay in the 400s for the next couple songs. Faith is the victory. Off reverse. Of course, we're going to do it this time, okay? So watch this. Two, three , one. Hey man, I like that song. It's in 6-8 time, but I couldn't couldn't tap out the 6-8s. So you got two beats and you did a great job. Okay, page 415. Page 415, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. So seek ye first. We're going to do this as a round. So I got half the congregation's going to start off, and then we'll bring you in on the second part over here, okay? Let's see who's a little loud today, tonight, and we're going to sing both verses, okay? Seek ye first. Go ahead, keep I'm sorry. You know, when I have more than two or three windows open on my computer, I can get lost real easy. So you did you did good. Sorry, Doug. Imamo imam Tämä on ihan huomaa , mitä Ja nimenomaan mahdollisimman muu, niin kuin mahdollisimman muun mua niin mahdollinen You know, you know, you know what I mean? It's four hundred and eighty two. What do you know about? What One person I think was a little sharp on that one, so Okay, couldn't miss that. You know, if one person is sharp, they can stand out. All right. Page 583. Page 583. Okay, somebody else wants to come up and sing with us. All right, 580. Oh, hold the fourth. All right Well I don't have my bone. All right, okay, page four hundred and sixty-three. Page four sixty-three. I think some of those kids still have a little pent-up energy from VBS, I tell you. Singing out loud and getting with the program. Blessed assurance. Now just a few pages back. To page 456. 456, stand with me as we sing the first and the last of I and You belong to the King. If your blood bought Bueno, ya que la de la vez que se van a dar pasado, una vez que van a la voz , a mí hablar con la gente, estamos con el mundo de escritura, eso es que el cuerpo. Amen. Have a seat. nimenomaan moni Smallly baby , and ruin. Amen, isn't that amazing truth? But he died alone for you and me. That's truly amazing. We're going to open the word of God tonight to Joshua chapter 1. I get the privilege and opportunity to start our study on Sunday evenings in Joshua. I'm looking forward to it. You can open to Joshua chapter 1. Uh this book had always been encouraging to me. Uh shortly after I was saved and I was sixteen years old. The Bible seemed so big to me, I didn't know where to start. And so shortly after being saved I'm flipping around and I go to the front and I find out, hey, they named a book that for me. I don't think that's how it really was. But that's where I started. I actually opened up I mean I didn't know where I opened up else to start no one told me anything no one said oh read the gospel of John or you know start in Romans or Genesis and no one said anything like that I just picked one and so these are some of the first words that I actually ever read for myself out of the Bibles, out of Joshua 1. So we're going to start our study here and I'm very privileged to read And just study through this together tonight. So Joshua chapter 1, we're just going to look at a couple verses to get started as we read the first couple. Joshua 1, verse 1 says, now After the death of Moses, the servant of the Lord, it came to pass that the Lord spake unto Joshua, the son of Nun, Moses ' minister, saying, Moses, my servant, is dead. Father, we just thank you and praise you for the privilege of gathering together as a church body this evening. That we can quiet our hearts and minds, that we can be open and tender to the Spirit of God, that He uses the Word of God in our hearts and our lives. You know the needs and encouragement that your people need And Father, we are just so thankful what Jesus Christ has done and for the word of God that can be an encouragement and blessing to us this evening. Would you do your work this evening as we are open and tender to it? And we ask all this through Christ's name. Amen. So here in Joshua 1, we're going to look at God's encouragement to a new leader. God's encouragement to a new leader. And I know the first couple verses didn't seem so encouraging. Just look at it again really quick at the first is now after the death of Moses. The servant of the Lord. It came to pass. So Moses is dead. And then in verse 2, it starts out the same way. Moses, my servant, is dead. That's an excellent way to start an encouraging message, isn't it? Man, he's dead already. Now, can you imagine for a moment being Joshua? We're gonna look at how God is going to encourage Joshua when someone like Moses has just passed away. And we don't have just talking like anyone. This is the one who God used to raise up in Egypt, had an excellent education. was trained in the best knowledge of one of the greatest nations of the day, and then later was used to help deliver the children of Israel out of Egypt Used ten plagues, used of God with the rod in his hand and some help from Aaron. Ten amazing plagues, gets cornered in the Red Sea, is used to divide it. This great man that had great wisdom that would help the peoples that were walking and wandering through the wilderness. This is the one Who is now dead. And now Joshua here has some very big shoes to fill. And we're reminded already at the beginning that Moses, the servant of the Lord, is dead. I don't think that was the most exciting time for Joshua at these moments. So what would God do to encourage a man to step up? What would encourage this guy to be used of the Lord? And we're going to look at that this evening. In verses 1 through 9. We're going to see how God 's encouragement to Joshua, and really it's two main areas that we're going to look at tonight. He's going to encourage him with the presence of God being with him. And he's going to get encouragement, being reminded of what the Word of God says. So let's look at this again. Verse 1. Now after the death of Moses, the servant of the Lord. We covered some of what he did. He was known as a servant of the Lord. That's what he's doing. And then it's very interesting. I think it's kind of funny. I can't help to pass this up. And it said unto Joshua, the son of none. Now what it's not saying is that Joshua doesn't have any parents. Okay, it's not like he doesn't have any parents. None happens to be the name of his father. And so I've been around teens a long time. That's a joke. Oh, who didn't have any parents? They could argue Melchizedek, but here, Joshua. So that is not the case. That is the name of his father. So it's kind of just interesting there. You have this servant, this great man of God, and you have Joshua. Oh yeah, the son of Nun. But here's a great description right after that. It said, Moses ' minister. You know who started coming along in the ministry of Moses doing some of these amazing things? Was this man named Joshua? He was serving under Moses, helping him out greatly, really came in in Exodus 17 when he's battling against the Amalekites, and Moses has to choose out men. And who is the one that he chooses out? Joshua said, Choose you out men to go fight. He was there, and Joshua continued to serve at Moses ' side, being prepping for this day. I challenged the teens last week in a message out of Exodus 4 that God is preparing you today so we'll be equipped for tomorrow. And I kind of feel like that's kind of how Joshua is. You don't understand all that God is doing to you right here, right now, and what he's done in the past. But God has his reasons, he has his purposes, and God is going to prepare you like he's been preparing Joshua here. To help lead Israel in place of Moses. So verse 2, Moses, my servant, is dead. Joshua's like, I got it. I know. I don't need the reminder. Okay, Moses is dead. I got it. Then he encourages them with this. He says, Now therefore arise Sometimes when things don't go our way, when a tragedy happens, when someone closer to us passes away, and it's not like Moses was slowly dimming and they saw this coming. God just had to take Moses due to his past disobedience, and Joshua got to continue because of his obedience and his faith in God. So here it says, it says, now therefore arise. When we are tempted to have our own pity party. When we are tempted to just give in to the challenges that life brings our way outside of our control. Sometimes we can just get caught thinking about ourself. And I think Joshua, I don't know what's going through his mind and his heart. I'm assuming he was very sad. I'm assuming he was very hurt. Losing a great man, a great leader like Moses. So God here is saying unto him, and you know, verses one through nine, this is God speaking to encourage Joshua. And he says, now therefore, arise. Don't sit down. Don't be having a pity party. You have been chosen for this moment. I've been training for the last several years. You are going to step up and help Israel. to take over the land that I'd promised to them years ago. And this is how it happened. It just doesn't happen one day all of a sudden. God chooses men and women who desire to be used by Him that sometimes don't always feel qualified. That sometimes are not expected to lead. But God desires those who are willing , those who are already serving God And if you're doing that, God can then sometimes put you in a position like Joshua. Some reminders of this is Joshua, as the minister of Moses, that he is now encouraging him to rise up. He says in Matthew 23, verses 11 and 12, But he that is greatest among you shall be your servant, and whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abase. And he that shall humble himself shall be exalted. Now I thought Pastor Joel was looking at my message notes this morning. I was like, wow, he is like stealing half of my point here. But I chatted with my wife Becky very quickly after the service. I said, Man, I said, I I he was relieved. She's like, Well, you know, if that's what the Lord wants to do, that's what we do. But God He's not going to use a proud person. If Joshua rose up and said, Yep, pick me, I'm the one. Who else would it be? I mean, come on. Who's been helping Moses? Me. Who's been leading the children of Israel of this military? Me. I mean who's been I mean who else would God pick? Me, Joshua. Yeah. That's not what's happening here. Moses has been served by Joshua. Joshua stepped up over the years preparing for this day. I don't think Joshua was built up with pride. I think he was a humble servant. And in Matthew 20, 28, it says, even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many, even Christ himself. Didn't say, I'm the creator, I know all things, now you will worship me because I am God He took time to bring a little child into him as we were reminded this morning. He took time to wash dirty, stinky feet of the disciples. He came to serve others as the Creator, as God. That's incredible to think about. And God here, I think, is encouraging Joshua. Joshua, I know Moses was a great servant. But you have been serving me. And I told you this day would come. We're reminded in Proverbs 25, 7. For better is it to be said unto thee, Come up hither, than that thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the prince whom thine eyes have seen. Basically, you don't have to boast about yourself, your accomplishments, what you've done, how you should be the one. If we want to be used of God like Joshua, it starts with the simple things in life. Start serving God now. Spend time with God every day. It's just simple. How do I serve God? Hey, you spend time in God's word. Let God's word speak to you. Ask God for wisdom. Pray. Ask Him. Talk. Show up to church services. It is so great to have everyone here on a Sunday night after Vacation Bible school. If there was ever a Sunday night where you could be like, you know what? I just want to stay home and just shellac, okay? I just need to chill. This this would be the one. And it was a wonderful blessing. It was very exciting Seeing all those kids and it is I like working with kids too because you get them so excited and you get excited because they're excited and they're like, ah what are you excited about? I don't know, but I'm like fun And then I almost lose my voice in the process. So if I'm a little squeaky tonight, I'm blaming Ooga Booga. If you don't know what that is, ask one of the teams. They'd probably love to share it with you. So God here is encouraging Joshua greatly. And I kind of see this as I pondered this passage in this truth. Moses and Joshua knew this day was coming. And I couldn't help but think of Paul and Timothy. And I think it's very similar. In 2 Timothy 3, 10 and 11, the Word of God says, But thou hast fully known my doctrine. Manner of life, purpose, faith, long-suffering, charity, patience, persecutions, afflictions, which came unto me And he lists some places, Daniel, and Ikomi and Lystra. What persecutions I endured, but out of them all the Lord delivered me. Don't you think Joshua had a little bit of inside of seeing the work of God through Moses? Some of his frustrations with the people, little things like just leaving Egypt and then they want to build a calf. Oh, that would have been frustrating. I probably would have thrown the tablets too. You know, if really, after everything God showed to you guys of who he is, revealed to the world And yet you want to build something that he was just against? God showed that those gods were puny, pathetic idols. Joshua would have had an inside track with these experiences with Moses as Moses served and took a stand on God's word. So God is encouraging Joshua here and reminding him: yes, Moses is dead. Don't get caught in the pity party though. He tells them, now therefore, arise. Go over this Jordan and all the people in the land. Which I do give to them, even to the children of Israel. He's reminding them. A lot of Joshua 1 is already reminding both Joshua and the children of Israel of things they already knew. That's a lot of what God is doing here. He's reminding them of the truths and his word. God keeps his word and he's gonna be reminding of that. You know this land that you were supposed to get, yeah, forty years ago? Joshua, remember the stand that you took against the ten, and it was just you and Caleb? That is the faithfulness that Joshua has displayed over this time. Joshua stood up on the truth and the word of God, and he believed it. And we're going to see that more in verses to come. So he's encouraging him to arise. Don't allow yesterday's discouragements To stop you from serving God today. Don't allow yesterday's discouragements to stop you from serving God today Fast forward a little bit. Don't let today's discouragements stop you from wanting to serve God tomorrow. Don't allow discouragements from today. To stop you from serving God in your tomorrows. God is worth serving. He is faithful. Joshua was faithful And God is seeing this in Joshua and is reminding him, this land is already yours. You just have to take it. Joshua's like, yeah, I know. I remember. So I think so Some excitement is building up in Joshua at this point as he's reminded of some of these truths. And he gives them the area there in verses three and four. He gives them the area that they're going to conquer. It's in the same areas all the way back from Genesis and Exodus and other places it's repeated. And he reminds them though that wherever you go, wherever your foot feet walk, the people that you conquer, it's all yours. Talk about that talk about encouraging, go forth and conquer. That makes you want to go, oh, we're gonna take these people out. All right, God said we're gonna wipe these. Oh, and there's people over there. Okay, we'll go all the way over here, because everywhere I'm walking It's mine because God said it is. If that's not encouraging before going into battle, and Joshua's like, I've seen it, I've been there I was a spy going through there. So he's encouraging me everywhere that you go. And Joshua probably has memories coming back. I remember God. I remember seeing these things. I remember hauling all the fruit with those guys. He's encouraging them. Everywhere that you walk, Joshua. God has promised to you, now is the time to take it. I know Moses has just passed away, but Joshua, now is the time you are going to lead the people in who I've already promised. Arise and go do it. Don't allow discouragement. Everywhere you walk is going to be yours. Then you get to verse 5. This is probably one of the most encouraging things, I think, and truths of all scripture, this concept here that we're going to look at. There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life. That's encouraging. As I was with Moses , so will I be with thee and will not fail thee nor forsake thee. Did you catch that? God is encouraging Joshua here and saying unto him, as I was with Moses, remember the ten little plagues? That wiped out the greatest army, you know the Red Sea and it came crashing down, you guys walked through and drive. Yeah, you remember that? I'm gonna be with you Wow, talk about power, talk about might. If we can take out Egypt, God, we can take out anything, and He's gonna be with me. The presence of God is a theme throughout Scripture What did Adam and Eve lose? Yes, they died spiritually. But what did they have to do? What did God have them do after they ate of the fruit? He told them to what? To be removed from the Garden of Eden. And he wanted to hide himself from the presence of God. You know, God is trying to restore us to his presence. And when we trust in Jesus Christ as our Savior, we had a taste of that. But we wonder what happens with eternity. If we trust in Christ as our Savior, what do we get? What is the end reward? Eternal life with who? God in his presence. God is reminding Joshua here. I am going to be with you. Remember all the things I did with Moses? I'm that same God, and I'm going to do that through you. That's encouraging. I have God on my side. Or am I on God's side? But either way, God is saying he's going to do that with me. That's encouraging. And no one can stand in your way, Joshua. And I think the interesting part about this is, I think Joshua already knew all this. He believed it 40 years ago, when it was just him and Caleb. But God is reminding him, I know Moses is now dead. But I'm going to be with you as I was with him, and no one's going to stand in your way. And he says, I will not fail thee nor forsake thee. I think he's reminding Joshua that you you've been faithful. Now you're going to see me work through you. That's encouraging. Knowing that the presence of God is with you. Because when you are in a point in your life where you're maybe discouraged, you've just recently sinned. You've had challenges come into your life. Sometimes we feel like we don't want the presence of God. It's too convicting. I failed God again. I can't believe it. The same trap, the same place, the same people. Lord, I knew better. We don't feel like being in the presence of God. Sometimes we want to be like Adam and run and hide. But God's encouraging him, you've been faithful. And I'm going to be with you. The presence of God. What can be more encouraging than knowing that God is with you? No matter the place, no matter what you've done, If you draw nigh unto him, he will draw nigh unto you. And if you confess your sin, he is faithful and just He forgive you of sin and he cleanse you from all unrighteousness. He's faithful and just. He'll do it every time, and it's the right thing to do. You could be as close to God as you want to be. God is encouraging Joshua. He says, I'm going to be with you. He's not perfect. Joshua is not perfect. And I think maybe at the beginning here he was a little bit bummed, but I think he's starting to get a little excited. Oh, I remember. This God, you are good. And you, if you're going to be with me, I can do it. So we continue on here By verses six and seven. Be strong and of good courage For this people shalt thou divide for an inheritance of the land, and I will swear unto their fathers to give them. Only be thou strong and very courageous. This phrase is used four times. in chapter one alone, to be strong and either very courageous, or to be strong and courageous, or to be strong, you know, of very good, or not very good, be uh be strong and of good courage. We see that in verses 6, 7, 9, and 18. He is encouraging Joshua to be strong and to be have good courage. And here's what's interesting about that. So in verse 6, he says to be strong and in good courage. Verse 7: only be thou strong and very courageous that thou mayest observe to do. According to all that the law. Remember how I shared at the beginning? God is encouraging Joshua with too many things. The presence of God is going to be with him. And also he's going to encourage him. Encouragement comes from the Word of God. Do you know why sometimes we get discouraged and we don't want to serve God? Because we're not being obedient. You become a child of God and you will always be secure in that relationship with God. But your fellowship can have challenges. You know, you're born again. You can't be unborn. You can't change that. Any one of my kids can move to the far corner of the world, change their name, hate my guts, and do everything I've asked them not to do. But it won't change the fact that they're my child. But it might change our relationship or our fellowship one with another. Our relationship is the same. There will always be my daughter or my son. That will be constant. But our fellowship, that sweetness together. I think what God is encouraging Joshua here, as he speaks to him, is be strong, be very courageous. And I want you to observe, to continue to do what I've commanded you to do. And as we are obedient to God as his children, we can be encouraged because there's not that broken fellowship. It stays sweet. Our sin account with God is short. And so God is reminding him, hey, listen You can keep doing and observing all these things that are in God's law. But be strong, be very courageous. It takes faith Because sometimes I think that we choose to sin because we don't believe in the promises of God. We want to believe in what I can understand. We want to believe in my own thinking as opposed to God. Joshua would understood this. Especially with the ten spies. God had promised them the land. Joshua and Caleb, let's go take it. It's ours. But they're big. We're like grasshoppers. So they were a touch taller than me, apparently, okay? Okay. But they're like grasshoppers. They're gonna squash us But if you believe, be strong and of good courage. Sometimes I think the strength is not physical strength. Because ten of them physically thought, we are dead. There is no way. They're big, they're strong, they got weapons, they got walled cities. Oh, and we're going just because God said we would? And Joshua and Kalar are like, yeah, that's all we need. Sometimes I think we choose to sin because we're not believing in the promises of God. We want to believe in my own understanding. We want to just what I can understand. Sometimes we have to be willing to stand on God wants me to be obedient to his word, am I? God wants me to love my wife and to train my children and to be kind to others. And when others are mean to me, I can still be kind back. That's not easy. But with God's help, with understanding of His Word, we can do these things. We can love the unlovable. I can tell my children to get along. I can try and be an example to love my wife and my children as I should. With God's help, if I try and do it his way, we can. It's not gonna be easy But we can be strong and take courage because we can believe in what God has done in us and through us and what he has done and what he will do because we believe in the Word of God. And that leads us to verse 8. This book of the law, you see how this is surrounded here to be strong and very courageous, is sandwiched all between verses 6 six, seven, and nine. But here in verse eight, it's saying, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that's written therein. For then Thou shalt make thy way prosperous. And then thou shalt have good success. The only time you see the word success in all scripture is right here. And what is it? It's God encouraging Joshua to be obedient to his word and to think about it, to meditate on it. I've heard it described this way and I've never forgotten it, so I'm going to share it with you. That word meditate. Do you know what it means? Think of a cow out in a field. He's sitting there is looks like he's chewing nothing. What's he chewing? Already chewed grass is what he's chewing. He's chewed a second time is he's enjoying it again. Almost like ABC gum. You know, you get it the next day and there's a little more flavor, although it's rock hard. But only this is grass. Key, you're chewing it again. You're meditating. You're you're bringing it up again and chew not to think about it. That's what God wants. He just doesn't want us to. I read my proverb for the day. Check the box. Done. Good. All right. Go about my rest of my day. Is that gonna do you any good at lunchtime? Your coworker comes to talk to you? At the end of the day, when you're frustrated, you're about ready to head home and You know, your wife's in her pajamas, the kids are fighting, and you're just tired and hungry, and you're thinking, what do I say? What do I do? Does God God's word helping you then Everyone everything that works if it could have gone wrong, it did. I'm frustrated. Are we just checking boxes with our Christianity? Or are we chewing on it, thinking about it? This is what God is encouraging to us with. Stay in the law. If you want to have good success, stay, meditate, think on, chew on throughout the day the word of God. That's what God is encouraging Joshua to do here. And here's what's interesting. Look at the end of the verse. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous. And then thou shalt have good success. It's almost coming across like if I obey God, in a sense, I am creating my own success. Now we have to pause for a minute because today when we say the word success or to prosper, we think houses and white picket fences and cars in the driveway and our bank accounts. Is that how a Christian measures success? They shouldn't. You'll be greatly disappointed, or you are disappointed, or you're very frustrated still. Because the eyes of man are never satisfied, and you will never have enough of whatever it is you're desiring unless it is God Himself. So we have a part in this, for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous. So if I'm in the Word of God and I believe it to be true, and I'm taking being strong and of good courage, you mean I can help with my own success and be prosperous? Well yeah, God gives you that option. He gives you that choice. You can't do that. We must continue on. In verses 1 through 9, we've seen God's incurrent to Joshua. Very quickly, in verses 10 through 15, we're going to see Joshua's encouragement to the officers. Joshua's encouragement to the officers. So he commanded the officers in verse 10 and the people saying, So no, God has been talking all the way this whole time, from verses two through nine. Now Joshua takes what God has said, takes the encouragement that he's received from God himself. And now what is he going to do? Joshua now goes to encourage the officers. So he brings up the heads of the tribes and he tells them this This is what we're going to do. We're going to pass over the Jordan. We're going to get this land. Oh, and uh, Reuben, Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseh, by the way, I know you guys are going to stay on this side of the Jordan. But you're still part of children of Israel, and God still wanted you to fight to encourage the rest. You don't get to stay here and just, you know, you got everything that you want already without the fighting. He's encouraging them. You tell them they still need to come along. He's saying the children of Israel need to work together. This has been the plan from the beginning. And just to put in quickly, the church is designed to work together. It's not just a couple people, okay, I got what I want out of the church. Okay, that's good. It filled my cup, God. Are we serving God each and every day? To help the brethren to help those. I got the house and the white picket fence and the car and the dog and a nice bank account. So I can just come and show up and I I'm good. Filling, warming a pew. Joshua's encouraging them, there's still work to be done. You need to help others. They don't have that yet. And I know we're talking physical things here with possessions and that, but even spiritually speaking. there's work to be done here. So Joshua now is taking what God has encouraged him with. Now he's encouraging the officers. And he reminds them in 12 through 15 here, if you look down in verse 13, remember the word which Moses, thy servant, the Lord commanded you? I think this is another way of Joshua showing humility and hey, remember what Moses said? Yeah, I'm telling you the same thing he said. Because God is telling me the same thing he told Moses. So he's reminding them. He's not shelling Moses, I'm in charge now, I'm the leader. So forget Moses. You listen to me. No, no, no, no. That's not what he's doing. Joshua is saying, hey, it's the same thing. You know those promises that God made through Moses to you? Yeah, it's it's the same. The word of God hasn't changed And I'm just encouraging you. God has put me now to encourage you to remember what God has promised. Oh, okay. So he's encouraging officers. And he tells them about their little ones and all that staying over there and all that. And then we get to verse 16 to 18. So first we've seen God's encouragement to Joshua. Then we see Joshua's encouragement to the officers. Then in verses sixteen through eighteen, we're going to see the officers' encouragement to Joshua. They reverse and encourage him. Look at this. So now they, the officers And Sir Joshua saying, all that thou commandest we will do. That's great. I mean, that'd be wonderful if you were at work and you're a supervisor and you say, all right guys, this is the plan. We're gonna do this and that and everything and they go, all right, we'll do it. Your wish is our command. Woohoo! That would be great. That would be wonderful. I mean if the teens always did it every activity and every time we went to like camp or VBS and they did everything you said, that'd be pretty awesome. It doesn't always happen that way. Parents, wouldn't it be great if you gave a bunch of things to your kids and you came back and they not only did the list They doubled and did everything even better than you imagined on the list. You'd be like, What happened to my children? Wouldn't that be encouraging to you? After you pick yourself off the floor from fainting, you'd say, Wow, that is encouraging. That's a hey, listen. We're going to do everything you say. That is encouraging. It continues on. According, verse 17, according as we hearken unto Moses in all things. So we hearken unto thee. Only the Lord God be with thee as he was with Moses. Hey, if God's with you, we know how God used Moses, so we're certainly going to be with you. I mean, we don't want to die in the wilderness or anything. We saw what what God did with them And then they take it a step further. Look at verse 18. This is incredible. Whosoever he be that doth rebel against thy commandment. And will not hearken unto the words that thou commandest him, he shall be put to death. Wow, that seems pretty stiff. Now you can take that responsibility of Joshua. I better be careful what I command. But these people are saying, if I could borrow the phrase from camp, hey, we are all in. We will hold nothing back. We are going to trust, we're going to obey, and we're going to follow everything that you say. And we know this came to pass. You think of a man named Achan? Did he obey the commands? Joshua 7, he disobeyed the commands. He took the stuff for himself, Babylonian garment and stuff included, hides it under his tent. Not only did he die, his possessions and his children have no , they all died with him. And they left a heap of stones on top of it. They really meant what they said. That's encouraging. Now Joshua probably didn't know that at this time, but he's thinking, wow, these people are really going to follow me. That's encouraging. Whether you're a parent or grandparent, you're in a position of authority, and you tell someone something and they do it, that's encouraging. That's incredible. That's what they're saying here. But look at the end. It ends with only be strong and of good courage for the fourth time in this chapter. Joshua is encouraged to be strong, not flex your muscles, not swing your sword harder than the next guy, because it's all centered about obeying the word of God, observing to do. Following God's commands, just as we did with Moses. Joshua, meditate in God's word. Take courage to do what God has instructed you, and we will follow you. But stay strong. Have character. Have integrity. Joshua, when we didn't believe you before, now we do. We should have believed you and Caleb. I lost a lot of family over those 40 years. In fact, I was 19 years old, lost my parents, my aunt and uncle, my grandparents, all of them. Joshua, I wish I would have listened to you then. Do you think they're learning their lesson now? It certainly seems like it. They're learning their lesson. Hey, you continue to be strong. You take courage. You stand on the truth of the word of God. And we'll follow you. Paul said it this way in 1 Corinthians 11. Follow me as I follow Christ. Hopefully, this is encouraging to you to know that God's presence is with you and that you can receive encouragement from God's Word, and that we too can be strong in the Lord and the power of his might by believing in what the Word of God says. When you need encouragement, where are you going to turn to? Google? Siri? Or are you going to ask for the presence of God through the Word of God to help you to be encouraged? Father, we thank you and praise you for who you are, for your word. Lord, you are a good, great God. And sometimes our sin blurs our vision of who you are. You were encouraging Joshua To follow you, to remember your commands, would we do the same? Father, would we look to draw nine to you? That your presence would be with us, and would we know you more through your word? That we would obey, follow, and meditate on the truths of your word word for the honor and glory of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen I've been recently reading through the book of Joshua in my own personal study, and one of the things that really comes out to me as I read through the book of Joshua is how much a lot of the conflict was written in terms of The God of Israel versus the gods of the land. It was constantly emphasized. And really, on paper, the nation of Israel should not have been able to do what they did. And the reason that they were able to conquer the land and they were able to be established as a people in the land is because God promised it. He was with them and they trusted him enough to actually go out and do it. And so there's a lot of parallel to the Christian life. The reality is that we have daunting tasks in our generation. Different obviously. Very different. But the fact is that we as God's people need to walk with Him, and we need to be a people who are constantly in the Word, and the Word is getting into us. And we trust him to do what maybe on paper doesn't look like it's going to work out, but he is the one who ultimately accomplishes his purposes. And it's through us. And we're thankful for that. Let's go ahead and pull out our hymn books for our closing hymn. And that is number 418. Trust and obey. 418. Trust and obey. We're to see the first, the second, and fifth together. Please let's stand. When we are live in the light of a given word , what a war we are with If you give you the will , you 're like this will cross in a noise in a home. I love that we saw. And speed , we will have his team , but my sight alone. What we have to do , where we have to be well , never here won't be brought to our Okay, I want to remind you that we'll be having a business meeting after we'll take a little break and uh those who have children in the back nursery please go and get your children during the break time and uh we should start our meeting oh let's say just a little after 7. 15 probably closer to 72 We'll get things set up. And if you don't have a copy of the financials, please let us know so that we can get that for you. for the meeting. All right. Frank, can you please come and close us in prayer and then we'll take a short break and then get set up for our meeting. Let's pray. Our Father in Heaven, we thank you for this opportunity to come again and to worship you and uh uh just set our hearts on you and Lord and and hear from your word. Thank you for this good message. And uh it it's an encouragement to us too, Lord, and we look at someone like Moses and um look at the the magnificent things that he did, Lord, and to to realize it wasn't Moses doing any of these things, it was you working through him and that as you uh made this promise to Joshua that uh you would be with him in the same way that you would you were with Moses and uh in that power, Lord. Thank you that that we can rest on that promise too and uh that we might have the courage and obedience to uh to do the things that you have for us to do in your power and your strength and for your Glory. It's in Christ's name I pray. Amen. Yeah, I'm going to