Turn with me to the book of Colossians and uh we have been working our way through a series of more or less topical uh discussions during our missions month, which is a little bit uh different from what we typically do typically do where we Take a a a large chunk of scripture, a book of the Bible, we just work verse by verse, chapter by chapter. We've kind of paused and just focused on a very important topic. However, when we deal with a topic like missions , Passages like this have got to be at the core of what we are talking about when we talk about missions. And so what I love about this text in front of us is this is a passage that talks to us about how the gospel has both a personal and also a corporate, and might I even use the term international aspect to it And so we're going to look at this passage of Scripture, and I hope that as we break it down and dig into the various parts of it, you will see the great need of the world for the gospel, and you will see the great need to be properly motivated. from the heart in this area of worldwide evangelism. Colossians chapter 3 will begin in verse number 1. If. Ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth. For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth, fornication, uncleanness. Inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness which is idolatry. For which things sake the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience And the which you also walked sometime when you lived in them. But now ye also put off all these anger. Wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth. Lie not one to another, seeing that you have put off the old man with with his deeds And have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge, after the image of him that created him, where there is neither Greek nor Jew. Circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian, Synthian, bond, nor free. But Christ is all in all. Let's bow together for prayer. Lord, as we dig into this text of Scripture, I pray that the Spirit of God, who indwells every believer in this room, would take the truths of Scripture and we begin to open our understanding to the significance. and the weight of these precious truths. I pray that our hearts would be stirred. And I pray that the Spirit of God would move in our hearts. Father, as we think about who we are in Christ, as we consider the union that we have with Him as believers, as we think about how our wills And how our affections have been liberated to be turned to God, and we can turn to you with love and warmth and affection in our heart. And we can love you with all of our being, and we can worship you in spirit and in truth. I pray that this morning the word of God would take root in our souls. As we see how the gospel not only saves us from wrath, but also how it transforms us in our most fundamental, on our most fundamental basic measure. I pray that you would open our understanding to these truths. I pray that by the end of this text our hearts would have worshipped you, our hearts would have been stirred, our hearts would have been challenged, we would have learned And that we would be properly motivated to engage in the need to reach the lost all over this world. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a fascinating passage. This passage really talks about the mystery of the church. And not just the mystery of the church, but the mystery of the church as it relates to this this concept that we call missions. And we use the word missions. What we really need to recognize is this is about the gospel going from a place where there is a church going to a place where there's utter darkness. And that could be a place within our own cultural context. That could be a place just a little bit beyond our culture into another. That could be Anywhere in the world where the gospel is not being proclaimed, where Christ's glories are not being proclaimed, where people do not know the risen Lord Jesus Christ and the power of the gospel. And so when we deal with the text in front of us, we've actually got to step back a little bit and see what is talked about in the chapter before we come to this one. When we talk about the church, we are talking about this beautiful union of people who were formerly estranged from one another. And this estrangement really comes in two different senses. We see this in verses 20 through 22, where we see that we are, as lost people, estranged from God. In Colossians 1. 20 it says that he made peace through the blood of his cross, and he has reconciled all things unto himself. And he says that you, or we could say all of us, we were sometimes alienated and enemies from God, but he has now reconciled us into the body of his flesh through death. That's an amazing statement where we see words like peace through the blood of his cross. We are reconciled, we were alienated, we were enemies, we have been reconciled to God in the body of his flesh. When we talk about the church, we're talking about people who are born into this world estranged from God, alienated from Him. and needing desperately to be reconciled to him. And there's only one hope of that reconciliation. It's the grace of God through the finished work of Christ. And so when we talk about the church, we're talking about people estranged from God being reconciled to him and now being made his dear children. The second estrangement, and this is a very interesting one for us to consider, and that is the estrangement from one another. Not only are we separated from God because of our sin, but the reality is that our sinfulness as individuals estranges us from one another. And he really talks about this, not just in Colossians, but especially in a parallel context in Ephesians chapter 2. So I want to kind of highlight what he says in Ephesians 2 because this really grabs this concept very, very well. He says, remember that ye being in times past, Gentiles in the flesh. At that time, you were without Christ, being alienated from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope without God in the world. Now that's so foreign from our thinking, but the greatest distinction in the early church was not the distinction between two different people groups in Europe or Europeans to Asians or Asians to Africans or Europeans to Africans or something like that. That was not the greatest contention in the first century. The greatest contention of distinction was those who were Jewish and those who were Gentiles. And when the Apostle Paul is preaching the gospel in these various regions and establishing churches, he said, this gospel is so powerful that it not only saves your soul from eternal destruction, but it takes people from radically different con completely different ways of life, completely different cultures. And it plants them together into the same body where they're now considered one as a people, the people of God in the church. And that distinction that has brought so much stigmatization between them, it is lost in the gospel. That's what's going on in these verses. He says that you had no hope, you were without God in the world, but now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. And he hath made both one and broken down the middle wall of partition between us. Now he's kind of speaking in two senses where he's talking about the the breaking of relationship between God and man, but also there was an exclusion of Gentile from Jew when it came to the worship of the temple. There was a court of Gentiles. There was a wall of partition. The people could not come into certain regions within the temple. And when the cross came, that was removed. It's an amazing thing. He says he abolished in his flesh the enmity. He is made in himself of twain or two, one new man, so making peace that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross. That is an absolutely stunning thing for the Apostle Paul to say in the first century. And it is today too. So it's not just about estrangement from God and man, but peoples of the world from one another. And it is the establishment of something that is built up through one thing and one thing alone. That is the preaching of the gospel. Back to Colossians 1, verse 25. He says, I am made a minister to fulfill the word of God, even the mystery which has been hid from ages and from generations, but now is made manifest to his saints. To whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. And so when we think about the text in front of us, what we're seeing is every generation, from the Apostle Paul to where we are today, needs to embrace the duty that Paul is talking about of taking light into the darkness. We see this a city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. We are the light to the nations. These are the concepts that we've been talking about all throughout this month. And so Paul and all the apostles they take the gospel from Jerusalem to Judea, Samaria, to the uttermost parts of the world, as they place the gospel before these people and people are converted and they begin to disciple them and churches are established. The disciples eventually They die, and those whom they have discipled are now the leaders of those churches, and what do they need to do? The same thing in their generation And so here we are today almost 2,000 years removed from these events, and we have the same responsibility. We need to reach the nations with the proclamation of the gospel, the establishment of local churches that are vibrant in discipling young Christians. And what is the motive for this? Well the motive is the text in front of us. We need to understand who we are in Christ We need to understand what that union has done to reorient us on our most fundamental, foundational level, and we must long to see the gospel transform lives that are broken. And so with that in mind, let's look at the text in front of us, which talks about this unity that we have with Christ this radical transformation that that union enables us to have and how the gospel takes broken lives and it transforms them Let's dig into this text. The first thing I want you to notice here is that mission starts with our union with Christ. Look down in verse 1 and then into verse number 2, it says this. If you then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things which are on the earth. Now there are three little simple pieces to what Paul is saying. There's a word if, and that tells us that there's a condition that's being considered here. If this is true about you, and he's assuming that it is because he's talking to a church, then he's going to say, here's what you're supposed to do. Because this is true about you. So the if is the condition, the reality is risen with Christ. He's talking about our union with him. And the New Testament is filled with language talking about our union with Christ. I'm going to delve into that just a little bit in just a couple moments. Then the third thing we see here is the logical response to the condition and the reality of the Christian. If this is true that we are risen with Christ, then the most natural, the most logical thing for us to do is not to live for those broken worldly pursuits that so consumed us as unbelievers, but rather to seek those things which are above That is a logical conclusion that all of us should come to. I guess I could put it like this. If we really understand who we are in Christ, then it makes no sense for us to live for the world. No sense at all. And so I want to ask a couple of questions about that little statement that breaks down if reality logical conclusion. What is the significance of our union with Christ? This union is something that the Bible says unites us to both the death of Christ and the resurrection of Christ. Look in verse Number three, it says that you are, it doesn't say you're supposed to be, it says you are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. That's not talking about what I'm supposed to be or what I'm supposed to do. That's talking about who I am. And that's something that God does. I don't do it for myself. He does it for me. I'll put it like this. When I became a Christian, I was united to Christ. When you became a Christian. You were united to Christ, and the Bible teaches that the old man who you were before you were a Christian is dead. And you are now a new creature in Christ. I put it like this. We're called to walk in a new way because we are new creatures in Christ. And we see this in verse 5, and we see this in verse 8. He says, Because this is true, you're dead, your life is hidden Christ with God, then you should mortify your members, and you should put off all of these things. That's because God has empowered us to walk in a new way as new creatures. Let me give you a couple of interesting passages that say this in a little bit different way or maybe a little bit more fully than what is stated here. The first one is Romans chapter 8, verses 3 to 5. This is one of the most amazing texts in all the New Testament. Listen to what it says. It says, what the law could not do, and that it was weak to the flesh. God, sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin condemned sin in the flesh. so that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. He says, for those that are after the flesh , do mind the things of the flesh, but they that are after the spirit, the things of the spirit. Now, whenever we deal with a passage like this I think we tend to look at it in one of two different ways. , Either one, we tend to approach this passage of Scripture to explain to someone, here's why it's impossible for you to be saved by keeping the law. What does it say? The law could not do it. Why? Because it was weak through the flesh. You and I do not have the ability to earn our way to God. We are unrighteous. We are spiritually dead. We are estranged from God. And every attempt that we make to try to keep the law just reveals that that is the position that we have. And so what does he say? You needed Christ to do it for you. You needed him to come in the flesh. You needed him to go to the cross. You needed him to be nailed to that cross. You needed him to die in your place, to be punished for your sins. And then he needed to rise from the dead the third day. You needed him to do that. Why? Because you did not have the power to keep the law. And he did. He dealt with sin in the flesh. And so that would be a very appropriate way to apply this text, to say you cannot save yourself by keeping the law. You're spiritually dead. You need Christ to obey the law. You need Christ to deal with your sin on the cross. and both his death and resurrection, you need to be redeemed through him alone. But there's a second piece to this as well. And what's really interesting about it is it indicates how a person fundamentally changes when they're saved. He did this so that the righteousness of the law would be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. That's talking about the transformation that follows position in Christ. And that's a fascinating concept. Those that are after the Spirit do mind the things of the Spirit. Or let me give you another passage that has the similar concept: Galatians 2. 19. He says, I threw the law. became dead to the law. You're like, what? Yeah, the law showed me I was dead and that I needed Christ and through the Spirit's work drawing me to Christ, I repented, I believed, I became a new creature in Christ. I threw the law, became dead to the law, so that I might live unto God. It's saying the exact same thing that Romans chapter 8 is saying. He says, I'm crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. The life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. You know what? That passage is saying the exact same thing that Romans 8 is saying. Slightly different. Why? Because he's filling out a couple of details, but it's the same concept. And then we really see this in Romans 6. 5. He says, if you have been planted together in the likeness of his death, We also shall be in the likeness of his resurrection. Knowing this, our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. He that is dead is freed from sin. So I pause to say it like this. If you're a Christian, the moment you were converted, you were united to him. Both in his death and in his resurrection. Who you were is not who you are. That man is dead. You are now a new creature in Christ, and as a new creature in Christ, how you relate to God and how you relate to sin and temptation has fundamentally and forever changed. And this is where mission starts. United to Christ. Mission means absolutely nothing if you're not a Christian. And sadly, there are a lot of people, they want to lift people up when it comes to the physical struggles of their life, and that's not bad. I think it's good that people desire to help people physically. But Real Missions deals with the soul. It deals with the heart. It starts with the gospel. But then that moves us to a second fact, and this is important. This union liberates our affections. It liberates our affections. It frees us to love God. It frees us to have a passion for his glory. It frees us to walk in conformity to his purposes. And so if you're looking at a person who is not a Christian, this is a person who is striving to try to earn God's favor. And if you're looking at a person who's a believer and understands the gospel and is living in the light of it, they're loving God because of what he dealt with at the cross. Their orientation toward God has completely changed. And one of the most significant ways it's changed is in affection on the heart level. God gives us the ability to love the way He wants us to love. It says that we love him because he first loved us. How will people know that we are Christ's disciples by our love for one another? Romans 8. 28, all things work together for good to those who what? Love God. Why do people love God? Because they're new creatures in Christ. Because that is the effect of being a Christian. We don't love God to become a Christian. We love God because we are Christians. And he talks about the affection. He says in verse number two, we are to set our affection on things above, not on things of the earth. Another way to put that is we have a new living source of affection, but we have choices to make on a daily basis. Romans 8. 4, he says that we are saved that they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh, but the Christian, those who are after the Spirit, they do mind the things of the Spirit. We were dead to God and we were alive to sin at that time. Our affections were consumed with self and this temporal world. Our identity was disordered. Our passions were disordered. Our pursuits were misguided. Our gods were idols. That's how we all were before before we're Christians. We may have looked a good part. We may have been very kind and benevolent to the people around us. But if we were not Christians, at that time we were dead to God and alive to sin, and it manifested itself in literally every area of our lives. But when you became a Christian, you're now alive to God and dead to sin. Do you see the difference between those two things? Dead to God, alive to sin, alive to God, dead to sin. What's the difference? It's called regeneration. It's called our union with Christ. It's called being a new creature in Christ. It's called our affections being liberated to love. and to worship and to honor and to be passionate about God and his glory. Our broken identity has been restored in him. In fact, if you look back at these verses, he will say, you were dead and your life is hid in Christ in God. It's an amazing statement. So our identity is now restored in a person, and that person is Christ. Our broken passions have been redirected to God. Our empty pursuits have been replaced with his pursuits. Our idols have been replaced with the true and living God. That's what the gospel does to people. The gospel saves us from the penalty of sin, but it also saves us to God, and it completely reorients our entire life to Him. But you can see in the verse that this is a command. It says we are to set our affections on things above. Do you see the difference between what he says in verse 1, he says, if you are risen with Christ, versus set your affections on things above. One is this is who you are, God did it. The other is here's what you're supposed to do because God did it. You see the difference? This is something we have to choose to do. It's not automatic. We can do it. We must do it. It's logical to do it, but we've got to do it. We've got to choose to asset our affection on Him And so that's why we see it stated that way in verse number two. And then if we go back to Romans chapter 6, notice how he puts it. In verse 11, he says That you are to reckon also yourself to be dead to sin, but alive to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Same thing. I'm supposed to make a choice because I can based on who I am. It's all about affection. And in these verses you can see that there's both a positive and a negative side to this. It's not just negative, it's not just positive, it's both. You have to do both. I can't go to God without turning away from something If I'm turning toward the things of the world, who am I turned away from? God. I can't be going both ways at the same time. They're incompatible with one another. So if I'm pursuing him, I'm turning away from those things. If I'm turning toward those things, I'm turning away from him. They're incompatible with one another. And you see the two sides, the positive and the negative of these verses. Well, what's the negative? He says, put to death your disordered affections. Verse 5. Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. Even though you are a new creature in Christ, even though you have been implanted with life from God. You have the Spirit of God inside of you. You still live in a fallen world. You still live in a fallen body, and you can be tempted by evil. And you know what you're supposed to do when you're tempted by evil? Put to death those passions that flow from your flesh. That's what it means when he says mortify your members. And it's very specific. Fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection. Isn't that a very interesting way to describe that concept? Affection that's been turned upside down. By the way, that's what every single lust is. Lust is taking a good desire and twisting it for a sinful purpose. Inordinate affection. What a very good description. Evil concupiscence. Covetousness. Which is idolatry. Whenever we have lustful passions that well up in our hearts, we can't play with them. We can't entertain them. We can't manage them. We can't say, well, I'll do the best I can to not let it get out of hand. We've got to kill it. We've got to kill those sinful desires. And we can because we're alive in Christ. He says, put off disordered responses. Verse 8, put off all of these anger. Wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth. It's not just the affection, but it's how the affection affects what we do in the body. And then verse number nine, consider yourself dead to sin. Lie not one to another, seeing that you have put off the old man with his deeds. That's kind of like what Paul says in Romans 6, where he says, reckon yourself dead to sin, but alive unto God. So if you want to walk with God and you want to live the way that he intended you to live, you have to be alive in Christ. And then you have to choose to put away these things, to put off these things, and to pursue one thing, and that is God alone. Verse 10, be transformed through the renewing of your mind, having put on the new man which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him. Now, my goal today wasn't to spend a bunch of time on the uh the lusts that are mentioned and the expressions of those lusts that are mentioned, though we really could do that. My point is to kind of get the big picture here. If you're an angry person, if your life is dominated by sexual passions, does that work for your good or your bad? Does that work for the good or the bad of those whom you relate to? If you are dominated by your lusts, by your greed, by your anger. Is that good or bad for you and the people around you? The answer is it's horrible. It's horrible for your marriage. It's horrible for your relationship to your siblings. It's horrible for the people you work with or the people that work under you or the people that are over you. It's horrible for how you relate to your neighbors. And you know what? That's what sin does. Sin destroys and corrupts on every single level. And so this text of Scripture says, you are risen with Christ, so seek those things that are above, and set your affections, your passions on those things that are above. Live for God. Live for his glory. Live for his kingdom. Live for the purposes that he has for you. That moves us to our third truth, and that's this, godly affection produces a transformed life. And I think verse number 11 really captures this very, very well. It says, where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision. barbarian, Synthian, bond, nor free, but Christ is all and in all. Now I get this question If a person becomes a Christian, do they stop being the person that they are when it comes to their ethnic background? If they took a DNA test, would they still have the same background? The answer is of course they would. They still have the same parents, they still have the same siblings, they still have the same uh skill sets and all those different kinds of things. But here's what it's saying. Your identity has fundamentally changed because of the gospel. Maybe another way to put it is Who you are is not this asterisk Christian, it's Christian. Did you catch that? This asterisk Christian It's I'm a Christian. I place my faith in Christ. I'm a new creature in him. Old things have passed away, all things have become new. Those things that were once my identity before I became a Christian, they are secondary. Maybe they don't even exist anymore because I am a new creature in Christ. The gospel brings a transformation that reorients our core identity. And as we grow, we will become more fully, as we grow, we will more fully realize who we are in Christ and reflect that. Let me put it in some simple ways. You are not an animal, you are an image bearer. But you know a lot of people live like animals. You say that's kind of demeaning. Yeah, people demean themselves by living according to their passions Why did they say that? Because they followed the passion of anger. Why did they involve themselves in such a debased lifestyle practice? It's because they were simply following their gut and their sexual impulses. Why did that person say and do and think it's because they're not living like an image bearer, though they are? Why is that? Because they are bound by their sin. Though image-bearers, we are enslaved to our sinful passions as lost people And the Bible has a lot to say about. I'm going to mention this text in just a few minutes. Enslaved to destructive and dehumanizing activities. Look at Romans chapter 1. When man knew God, he did not glorify himself, did not glorify him as God. He became vain in his imagination, his foolish heart was darkened. Professing himself to be wise, he became fool a fool. And what's interesting about it is as you look at the way he describes it, he really emphasizes how dehumanizing human behavior is apart from God. These enslavements were destructive. They caused us to fall short of God's purpose for us. And the gospel transforms what's broken in us. If you see a lost person who's a slave to sin, rather than cringe at that, pray for their soul. Pray for their salvation. Pray that the gospel will come to them with power, and that they will repent and that they will believe and that they will be born again and their life can be completely transformed by the gospel. Love their soul as they are in darkness. Realize that their only hope is the light of the gospel. And God might use you, he might use someone else, but that's what people need. And when we talk about missions, we need to realize it doesn't matter what culture we're in, it doesn't matter Constitutional republic, dictatorship, whatever it is, people in those places need Christ. And the things that identified us before our conversion, they fall by the wayside when we become a Christian. He talks about the ethnic identity. That's the point of verse 11. There's neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision, uncircumcision, barbarian, or Scythian. By the way, barbarian was another way of the Greek saying you're not a Greek. Okay. Believe it or not, Scythians were people that lived in that time period Russia. And so you have people that in the first century living in a Greco-Roman world, in their mind there's Jews and there's Gentiles because there was such a distinction. And then there's the people that are out there who they don't have a a civilized way of looking at life. And that's what they're saying. You know what Paul said? Who cares about that stuff? Who cares about that stuff? Their souls. They need Christ. It's interesting. During our Sunday school hour, there was a picture. In that picture, our brother asked, what do you see in that picture? People are sitting behind me and said, I see I see somebody wearing something yellow. And then he he kind of highlights it. And he said, you know, everybody's thinking, oh, it's a picture of this particular animal. In the background, you see that person. I thought that was a great way to put it. It's true. That is the way that we tend to look at life. We look at the picture and what are we interested in? The animal, the sunset. The mountains, how about the people? They're the ones that have eternal souls. They're the ones that are going to spend eternity either separated from God in destruction or that are going to enjoy his eternal kingdom forever. They're the ones that are raising children and they're married and their lives are impacting people all around them. They're people that are stumbling in spiritual darkness and need the light of the gospel. And so that ethnic identity becomes secondary. It doesn't even matter. A lot of what Paul has to say in the book of Romans, a lot of what he has to say in the book of Ephesians, yes, even what he's saying here in the book of Colossians. A lot of what he's saying is helping people to understand it's about Christ, it's not these other things. Secondly, our social identity, bond or free. Slave or free man? That's what he's saying. You realize in the Roman world more people were slaves than free. And far more people were non-citizens than citizens in Rome. And what Paul is saying is when somebody embraces the gospel and they're a part of a church, Who cares where they sit on the pecking order in society? That doesn't matter at all. What matters is their brother and sister in Christ. The book of James has a lot to say about that. A brother comes into your congregation, he's dressed all nice. Oh, come sit here. Come sit here. Hey, move aside. Give this guy some space. He says, that should never happen in the church. Why is that? Because the gospel is what matters. It's the value of the soul. The gospel is the great equalizer. Whether you're a king or whether you're serving in the king's house, you could be of equal status in the kingdom of God. And the judgment seat of Christ, the one servant in the house, might be the one who is More wholly rewarded. But here's one that's not really hit on here as much, but it is clearly here in other places, and that is our sinful passions. 1 Corinthians 6, he says, Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? And he lists off this whole list of sinful passions that have become core identities to the people of the time. And guess what he says? He says such were some of you. But You are washed, you are sanctified, you are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. Your identity is no longer that, it is Christ. Christ. United with Him in His death and in Resurrection, you have been cleansed, you have been forgiven, you are declared righteous, you've been set apart to God. When we relate to one another, that is our core identity. So wherever people lack access to the gospel, what are they doing? They're stumbling in the darkness. And we really see this in Ephesians 2. He says You at the quickened are is made alive who were dead and trespasses and sins. In times past you walked according to the course of this world, you fulfilled the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and you were by nature a child of wrath Under wrath, slaves to lust, blind to truth, defining everybody by their ethnic identity, their social identity, their sinful passions, and he says, preach the gospel and let that change everything That's what we need. God saves people from the darkness by the preaching of the light. And you and I have the light. We have so much access to the light in this land. I know we get frustrated by the darkness that we see. It's here, absolutely, there's no question about it. But there's a lot of lights. We come to this place week after week after week. And we hear the gospel over and over and over again. And it's on the live stream and it's on YouTube and Facebook and sermon audio and all of those places. Guess what? There are places in the world where someone could live their entire life and never once hear that. That's so commonplace to us. How does the light get there? Second Corinthians 4:6, God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, has shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. He gave the light to us so that we could be channels to take the light to them. That's what he did. So how do you apply a passage like this? I want us to look at it in two senses. One would be the personal implication, and the other would be the corporate, because I think both of them are here. First of all, the personal. If you are not a Christian, there is one simple application for you. Repent and believe. Turn to Christ and place your faith in his finished work. And who you were is not who you're gonna be. You're gonna be alive in Christ. You're gonna have the Spirit of God indwell in you You're going to be a new creature in Christ. The old man will be dead. Your sins will be forgiven. Your heart will be cleansed and washed. You'll be declared righteous by God. You'll be made his child. If you're not a Christian, the one application of this text is repent, believe in the gospel. And if you don't know for sure what I'm talking about, please talk to me after the service. I'd love to take a Bible and show you how you can be saved. But for the overwhelming majority of us here, for the Christian, the application is embrace who you are united to Christ. Embrace the reality that you have been united to both his death and resurrection. Cultivate godly affections. As the Spirit of God stirs your heart to the preaching of the word, let those passions grow. You say, how can I stimulate and stir up godly affections? Read the Bible. Read good books. Listen to sound preaching. Reflect on the gospel. Interact with godly friends who will stir up your heart to love and to good works Do not neglect the local church. You will become cold and you'll become complacent and your love for God will not be what it can be Cultivate godly affections by the work of the Spirit through the Word of God preached, read, communicated through everyday life. Put off the old affections and the old ways and replace them with a vibrant, well-ordered Christian life. Put off. Put on. Let God stir up your affections. Embrace your true identity as a redeemed image-bearer. Far too many Christians have an asterisk next to their I'm a Christian I'm of this kind of Christian, I'm of that kind of Christian. Just be a Christian. Embrace the gospel. It's not about being an American Christian, a Western Christian, African Christian, an Asian Christian, whatever. It's about being a Christian. All of those things are secondary. In fact, I might even say perhaps sinful. Do not let your identity be rooted in something outside of him. Submit to God's tools as you grow in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. There's a lot that could be unpackaged there. But God works through means. There's stuff that he uses in our life, and through those things, he changes us. If you neglect those things, guess what? You don't see those things manifest themselves as they should be And it's nobody's fault but your own. It's just the honest truth. If we neglect the tools that He's provided, it's our fault, not His. Not the people around us. We've got to pick up those tools. We've got to reflect on the gospel and how it has made all the difference. We need to let that fact motivate us to take the gospel wherever it might lead us. There might be people in our congregation that need to go to the mission field. I don't know that. And I'm not saying that because I want to guilt trip anybody. There might people might be people that want to go to the mission field and there's no question you shouldn't. None. If you tried to come to me and say I think I should go and I really got through it, I might try to talk you out of it because I could see there's a lot of growth that needs to happen One of the things I love about uh Pastor Lehman is he has these conversations with people. He's not gonna talk you into being a missionary. He's gonna talk you out of it because he's gonna try to see what kind of resolve you really have. What is your true motive? Are you really taking serious the need to prepare yourself and go do this? But when it comes to being light in this place, we all need to do it. We all need to do it so that we are well equipped to handle every conversation God and His providence brings along our way. Then there's the corporate side. The concept of the church is one of the most powerful testimonies to the power of the gospel. When I say I love this church, I don't say that lightly at all. When I think about all the different backgrounds and all the when I know your stories of how you came to faith in Christ, what you were saved out of. I just, I, I am so thankful. I am so blessed to know those stories. I'm glad that God has saved people in this congregation from all different walks of life, all different backgrounds. And you know what unites us? Certainly not the football team you root for. The gospel. And that's the only thing that really matters. If you don't have that, a lot of us don't have anything. with each other. But that's enough to unite us on on one of the most personal and loving ways you can imagine. When we as a church are vibrant, God will use us to draw people to Himself. If there are people out there that their lives are falling apart and they're starting to ask questions, where will God take them to get the answers? A place that preaches the truth. A place that when they walk in, they go, there's something here I don't understand, and it's beautiful. And I want that. One of the pastors in Ghana, before he became a Christian, when he first came into the church, he said, I didn't understand a lot about what was being preached, but I did see in the people That there was a genuine love between one another that I'd never seen anywhere else. And I knew there was something in that place that was quite profound. Now, it's not the context that saves people. It's what sometimes makes them realize they need to ask more questions. That's one of the things God uses. We should embrace the beauty of the local church. We should contribute to its health and unity by being healthy gospel centered Christians. Some of us might say, you know, it's it doesn't really matter if I get a little complacent, if I get a little cold, eh, it's not gonna affect the church. That's not true. It just takes a couple of individuals who start really not growing and being who they should be, and it can really hurt the church in tremendous way. way. But when we are all growing together into Christ's likeness, none of us have arrived, none of us will arrive. We're just sinners saved by grace growing into Christ's likeness. It's amazing how God uses it. Do not do not contribute to trouble in the church. Contribute to the unity and health of the church. church. May God help us to understand this truth from His Word and to live in the light of it. Let's bow for prayer. Before I close in prayer with every head bowed and every eye closed, I have a simple question. Is there someone here this morning that would say, Joel, I do not know for sure that I'm saved? You mentioned the gospel several times. And I really don't think I understand that. And I really need to talk to somebody about that. If that's you, would you just quietly raise up your hand? Maybe you're struggling with doubts. Maybe you say, I know I'm not saved. Maybe you say I just have questions. I don't know. I'm not going to call you out. I'm not going to ask you to come up here and say anything to anybody. I simply want to know that you need to have a conversation. Anybody like that at all? If you didn't raise your hand but you you feel like you need to, don't hesitate. After the service, come and talk to me. I'd love to take a Bible and show you how you can be saved Let's bow together and ask the Lord to bless the preaching of his word. Our Father, we thank you for this text. There's so many truths that are built into this passage. I pray that we would understand the core of it, our unity, our union with Christ, the change of our affection. The way that our lives are completely reoriented toward you by the power of the gospel. I pray that our lives would bear the marks of true, genuine faith in Christ. That comes with power to transform our lives. I pray that as people come into our church, as they rub shoulders with people here, they would recognize there is love here, there's unity. There's a conviction about the gospel. These people love Jesus. And that's why they love each other. And that's why they're burdened for the nation. May we be a healthy, vibrant place where you will draw people to yourself. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.