Let's bow for prayer. Father, we're so grateful for the gospel message. It gives us forgiveness of sins, of righteous possession. The guarantee of eternal life with you. And Father, I thank you that we can gather together tonight and we can be reminded again of the way that you work in our lives. Father, as we share testimonies later tonight, I pray that our hearts would be encouraged by the remembrance of how you are at work in our lives. As Pastor Chris preaches this evening, I pray that you would guide his thoughts and help him to communicate the Word of God with clarity. As we sing these praises of Well, just remembrance of your goodness, I pray that we would think about the truths that we're expressing in song. And I pray that you would encourage us as we corporately worship together. We ask these things in Christ's name, Amen Okay, if you could, uh let's turn in our hymn books to hymn number 417. Hymn 417, Faith of Our Fathers. Let's stand together and we'll sing the first, the third, and the fourth verses together. The faith of our fathers, four hundred seventeen. Think of our fathers living still in spite of judge and virus Oh how our hearts keep Wheneer we hear that joyous word, they not our father know we may Will be true till death. With the part of others, we will strive to win on nations. Unto thee, and through the truth that forms from God, mankind shall set truly free. We will be true to thee till death on the last Take up our father 's we love, both friends and foe in all our sight, and preach me to us. And virtuous life with the father for men. He will be true to me to die. Great singing. Let's turn over to four hundred and sixteen, my faith Has found a resting place. That would be just one page in the other direction. 416. My faith has found a resting place. We'll sing all four verses. Together, please. My faith has found a resting place, not in division. I trust he have the living one. His what for me shall be I need no other argument, I need no other before. It is enough that Jesus died and that he died for me He not for me that Jesus says This ends my fear and doubt A sinful soul might come to him, he'll never cast me out I need no other argument, I need no other thing. It is enough that Jesus died and that he died for me on the third. My great face is John Heals , almost he came to save me. For me his passion's blood he shed, for me his life he gave I need no other argument, I need no other thing. It is enough that Jesus died and that he died for me on the last. My heart is leaning on the word, the written word of God, Salvation by my Savior's name, Salvation through his blood. I need no other argument, I need no other play. It is enough that Jesus died and that he died for me. Great singing. You may be seated. And the last song we're going to sing before we take a few moments for our testimonies, hymn 397. So just a couple pages forward, 397. And that's the song Higher Ground. All four verses, please. Upward wind and high sun taking every day to pray as I'm onward bound, Lord plant my feet on higher ground, Lord lift me up and let me stand. My faith on heaven 's stable land The higher plane that I have found Lord place my feet on higher ground My heart has no desire to stay Where doubts arise and fierce dismay, though some may dwell where these are found. My prayer, my game is higher brown. Lord, let me up and let me stand. Meet on heaven 's table land, the higher plane that I have found, Lord land my feet on higher ground I want to live above the world, the same stars, and ye are hurled, for faith has fought a joyful sound, My song of seeks is higher ground. Lord lift me up and let me stand, my faith on heaven in stable land, the higher plain that I have found, Lord my feet on higher ground on the land. I want to scale upon the heart And catch a dream a glory bright But still our prayers have not found Or lady not to higher ground Let me up and let me stand, my faith on him and cable land , wait and I have found my right feet on my hand. Okay. Well good seeing. Uh what we'd like to do now is take a couple of minutes to uh give you an opportunity to share testimonies of how the One hundred and thirty-eight. Love lifted me I was thinking deep And sin, far from the peaceful shore, very deeply stained within, sinking to rise no more. But the master of the sea heard my despairing cry From the waters lifted me now Save am I love lifted me, love lifted me when nothing else could help love lifted me. Love lifted me. Love lifted me when nothing else could have love lifted me. Great, number uh 174 in the blue book, and this is the second verse. 174 Blue book verse number two. See the Christmas See the Christ, the Son of Man, in obedience to God's plan , came for us the sinus that casting out in His final breath, see him on the cross of blood , knowing there is one part, trust a father with your life. Very good. That one might not be familiar, but it's a good one. Number 21 in the Red Book Number 21. Praise God from whom all blessings flow. This is the doxology. So I feel like I need uh an organ to do this one. Here we go. Praise God from whom all passing for praise. Him all creatures, give me more. Praise him above me, happy mouth. Praise Father, Son and Mo. I tell you, we needed something with a little more. All right, that's that's good. That's really good. W whenever we had uh chapel services when I was in college. We always open with the doxology and we didn't sing it with majestic force. It was quickly and rushed and you you can't sing the doxology like that. You gotta you gotta really hang on every word 'cause it's It's great. All right, number fifty seven in the blue book. Fifty seven in the blue book. Spirit Sword. I believe that they wrote this song the first year we went to camp, took the teens to camp. Yeah, twenty eighteen. There you go. This is one of the songs that they featured at the wilds when we took the teens and twenty eighteen the word of God, the spirit soul. Divine made it happens for intrudes from God 's mind No punish marsh it's perfect shine The sword of thy sword, a beast of our own word, the holy spirit Can never have to write. Jordan, you picked this in Sunday school this morning. Yeah, all right. I was like, we sang this this morning. Very good. Alright, the last one before we take a couple more will be number eighty in the blue book. Number eighty. Wonderful, merciful savior. Wonderful, merciful Savior, fascious redeemer and friend, who would have thought that I've been? Good, rescue the souls of men. Oh, you rescue the souls of men. You are the one that we praise. You are the one we adore. You get the healing and grace for our hearts always hungerful. Oh our hearts always hungerful. Alright, we can take a couple more. Favorites? Alright. Joel? 158. Is that in the blue book or red book? 158 in the blue book? Okay. Kelly? 625. 625 in the red book. Okay. Addie? 1535. 156 in the red. Okay. Nat. One twenty-four in the blue book? The others? Yes. Five seventy-nine in the red. I'll take one more. Mrs. Everhart. 93 in the blue book. 93 in the blue book. All right. Chris, I know that you have a tendency to preach a little shorter, so we can kind of drift into the I was just messing with kind of No. Whenever whenever we travel and Chris has the evening service, we always we always watch it. And I think you ended at quarter till this test time. All right. So we can take we can take a little a little bit longer on the songs here. Alright, the first one we're going to is 158 in the blue. Watch he'll he'll And if you don't know, we are gonna be singing this uh the choir is actually uh preparing this one, so it's a beautiful song. It's hard for the congregation to sing, but we're gonna go for it. So one fifty eight God of Heaven. God of heath, God of all the earth as God creating eternal. Of all nature Who gets back to snow from heaven also waves and oceans as gives the orders to the morning? Each dawn is placed to shine, God of heaven, God of all kingdom and sky. It's a very pretty song. Six twenty-five in the Red Book. Six twenty-five All right. Wonderful Jesus Medley. All right. We'll see how this goes. Isn't he wonderful, wonderful, wonderful? Isn't Jesus my Lord? Wonderful. I sustained years have heard it's recorded in God's word. Is in Jesus my Lord. Wonderful. Wonderful, wonderful. Jesus is to be counsel. Hello, Prince of Peace, mighty God is he, saving me, keeping me from all sin and shame. Wonderful is my redeemer, praise his name, precious table, how sweet. Oh my birth and joy of hand Preciously Oh birth and joy of earth Heaven is a wonderful place filled with glory and grace. I wanna see my Savior 's face. Heaven is a wonderful, heaven is a glory, heaven is a wonderful. A wonderful place, but until then my heart will go on singing Until then with joy I'll carry on. Until the day my eyes behold and said, until the day God calls me. This world is not my home. I'm just a passing through. My treasures are laid on somewhere beyond the wood. The angels that can be from heavens opened. And I can't Feel at home in this world anymore. Jesus More Jesus More In force sea in for this work for me, man. Kelly, you picked like five or six songs and just blended them all into one, but I I remember it it's uh it's all under one number. It's that is technically true. I r I remember singing this song when I was uh I guess junior high and high school w I think it went by a different name, but the hash course, is that what they called it? Yeah Scrambled egg cores. Okay, the next one. 156 in the red book, please. 156. How can it be? Very good Oh Santa 's mind, I speak. No wonders of thy mind until the glorious light of natal as the function thou hast made and yet That 's whose things thou lovest me, my heart dies out, how can it be? How can it be? How can it be? Me that was so like me, oh how can it be like 124 out of the blue book. 124. My Jesus, I love thee. My Jesus, thy love bee, I know thou art mine, for thee of his I resign my gracious redeem, my shame good word in an My love by Jesus. Great. Five seventy-nine in the Red Book. Onboard Christian Soldiers. Five seventy-nine Onward Christian soldiers. Unword Christian soldiers marching as to all with the cross of Jesus. Jesus coming on me for Christ the Royal Master leads a gastop for wording. Soon by all see his banner roll Onward Christian soldiers punching as a war with us And our last one, number 93, bow the knee out of the blue book. Let's stand together as we sing both verses, please, of very worshipful song. Number 93, bow the knee. What a privilege to come into God's presence Just to linger with the one who set me free. As I lift my eyes and see his awesome glory, I remember who he is and bow the knee, bow the knee, bow. He is king of all the ages bow to me God of all on his throne see him high lifted And you live to love him more now than me on the last in his hands. And he holds up our creation. With his voice he spoke, and all things came to be. Yet he hears each simple prayer I bring before him when I humbly seek his face and bow bene. He is king of all the ages found for me. God alone on his throne. See him high lifted up and bow. You'll be more gym all adore him as you live to love him more powerful. Great job singing. You may be seated. That's a good money up and preach the word Turn your Bibles please to Genesis 25. Genes 25. As Pastor remarks on my short preaching, I would like to mention that my preaching tends to be short mainly because I do not like to add to what is there in the passage. Now as we turn in our Bibles to Genesis twenty-five, we're reaching the end of the accounts. of the life of Abraham and we're transitioning into the next saga, if you will, in God's story of redemption. And as we look at this transition, we have to examine and acknowledge the way in which God sovereignly uses the choices of these men and women, whether those choices are good or whether they be. But before we get into that, I want for us to picture in our minds sort of a diagram of your life to this point, this diagram. Imagine the the choices that you've made kind of put there and all the effects that those choices made, all of the ripple effects or the the the choices that resulted as a result of the choices that you made. And not just how they affected yourself, but how they affected those around us. It would be a very sizable diagram. It would be an infinite diagram. So even if we say consolidated to one choice Well then we still would have an infinite size chart because one choice has a ripple effect that goes far, far beyond where we are within even our immediate present context. Yet what we don't see in that diagram is really how God used any of those choices. But the fact is he did. And when we look in scripture, particularly this passage, we see how God seems to put a transparency. You know, you remember in high school or in school the transparencies, little overhead projectors. God seems to put a transparency over that diagram and indicates where each choice was influenced. Influenced by his sovereign hand, and how those effects ultimately played out into fulfilling God's ultimate plan, not just in Scripture, but even in our own lives. We can see examples of those here in our passages. We see the account of how Abraham died, how Jacob and Esau were born, and how ultimately Esau gave up his birthright. By doing so, we're going to see that God wants us to accept his sovereignty over our freely made choices. So let's begin by reading here in Genesis 25. We'll start in verse 1. We'll read actually all the way down to verse 18. So then again Abraham took a wife, and her name was Keturah. Now, this is after Sarah's death, and he's now marrying his second wife And she bare bare him Zimran and Jokshan and Midan and Midian and Ishbach and Shuah. And Jokshan began Sheba and Diddan, and the sons of Diddan were Ah Ashuram and Letsuam and Lemumim, and the sons of Midian, Epha, Ephir, and Hanok, and Abidah, and And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac, but unto the sons of the concubines which Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts. and sent them away from Isaac his son while he yet lived eastward into the east country. And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life which he lived in a hundred threescore uh a hundred threescore and fifteen years Then Abraham gave up the ghost and died in a good old age, an old man and full of years, and was gathered to his people. And his sons, Isaac and Ishmael, buried him in the cave at Mekpalah. In the field of Ephron, the son of Zohar the Hittite, which is before Mamre. The field which Abraham purchased of the sons of Heth, there was Abraham buried in Sarah his wife. And it came to pass after the death of Abraham that God blessed his son Isaac, and Isaac dwelt by the well Laharoi. Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian Sarah's handmaid bear unto Abraham. And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael by their names, according to the generations. The firstborn of Ishmael, uh Nabajath and Kedar, and Abdil and uh Mipsum, and Mishmah and Duma and Masa and Hadar and Timah, Jitor, Nafish and Kedemah These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names by their towns and by their castles, twelve princes according to their nations. And these are the years of the life of Ishbiel, 137 years, and he gave up the ghost and died, and was gathered unto his people. And they dwelt from Havila unto Shur, that is before Egypt, as thou goest toward As Assyria, and he died in the presence of all his brethren. As I mentioned tonight, we're going to see how God wants us to accept his sovereignty over our freely made choices. Now that may be difficult to see it. face value, but as we examine the choices that were made and everything that uh resulted as a r uh were was the result of those choices, we're gonna see how God fulfilled his ultimate plan of redemption. in influencing and sovereignly using these choices. We see first of all how God used Abraham's choices. That what's what we read here in those first eighteen verses. Now, first of all, God blessed Abraham's scriptural obedience. Despite Abraham's sinful indiscretions, we know about Hagar. It mentions here that he had concubines. Despite those, Abraham was only married to one wife. He had, at least in some sense, an understanding That God intended for marriage to be between a husband and one wife. And that's despite the fact that Abraham was a very wealthy man. Extremely well off, and in his day, it was pretty normal, if not almost expected, for a man of his wealth, a man of his status, to have many, many wives. Again, I'm not trying to ignore Hagar and the concubines. But he clearly had an understanding of what marriage was because when Sarah died, that is when he decided to marry his second wife. And actually God blessed that union. I don't know if you noticed the many names that we read, but in verse 2, one of the children that was a result of that marriage was Midian. And I hope that name stands out to you because Midian is the father of the Midianites. And if that does sound familiar to you, you would would remember that it was the Midianites. with whom Moses lived for 40 years after being 40 years a prince of Egypt. And it was from the Midianites that Moses married the son of of or married the daughter sorry, not the son. Married the daughter of the priest Jethro. And in that union, God blessed Moses with offspring and with a priesthood that ultimately would picture our Lord Jesus Christ God bless this union, this scriptural biblical union between Abraham and his wife. Now when we simply do things the way God intended, whether it's us getting married and having children and raising children, or even it's just living in simple obedience to God's word. There is both an inherent and a providential blessing. You and I know how wonderful it is to be married and to have children. Whether we are married or not, we know that it is a blessing. But you and I have no idea how our sovereign God can have a hand in shaping those future generations for his glory. And that is only as a result of our simple obedience to Scripture. That's a choice that we make that God will use. But we know that Abraham, of course, was not a sinless man. We know, unfortunately, Abraham did disobey God's commandments. And that's where we see how God used Abraham's scriptural disobedience. Now, of course, Abraham did not possess God's written word. He did not possess the promises of God in the sense that we do. But what he did have was some of the promises that God gave it to him through the promise of His son Isaac, through the promise of the blessing that his descendants would be a nation from whom all the nations of the world would be blessed. Abraham did possess some of the promises of God, and yet he chose still to circumvent God's plan. By fathering Ishmael and all these other unnamed sons, we see that he did in fact try to do things in his own way for his own purposes. And yet God used this. I don't know if you've thought about this before, but it was Ishmael's descendants who ultimately would bring Joseph. into Egypt. And in Egypt, Joseph would be a slave to Potiphar and then be thrown in prison and then from prison be providentially brought into second the position of second in command. over the most powerful nation in the world. Despite the sinfulness of Abraham's decision, the wickedness God ultimately used this to preserve life, and not just the life of untold thousands and millions. but the lives of those who would ultimately bear the lineage from whom the Messiah would come. Now when it comes to our sin, which we of course are wholly responsible for, our sin is wretched and it is an offense to a holy, righteous God. But the same God whom we offend with our sin has infinite foreknowledge and wisdom and is able to use that sin even for good. You know, we often quote Romans 8, 28 and 29 when things are difficult, when things are happening to us. But have you ever considered the fact that all things work together for good in spite of us? Or because of the things that we do. It doesn't just speak of all the things that happen to us, it speaks of the things that happened because of us. And our sin, as wicked and as filthy as it is. Can still be used by our sovereign, infinite God in unimaginable ways, if only to simply keep us humble in our growing conformity to his Son. God shows his mighty sovereignty as he uses the decisions, the choices that Abraham makes. But he continues to do this as we go on in this passage to see how God used Isaac's choices as well. Notice in verse 19. And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son. Abraham begat Isaac. And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah to wife. the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Pederum, the sister of Laban the Syrian. And Isaac entreated the Lord for his wife, because she was barren, and the Lord was entreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived. And the children struggled together within her, and she said, If it be so, why am I thus? And she went to inquire of the Lord And the Lord said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, and two manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels, and the one people shall be stronger than the other people, and the elder shall serve the younger And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb. And the first came out red all over like a hairy garment. And they called his name Esau. And after that came his brother out, and his hand took on Esau's heel And his name was called Jacob, and Isaac was three score years old when she bare them. And the boys grew, and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field, and Jacob was a plain man dwelling in tents. And Isaac loved Esau because he did eat of his venison, but Rebekah loved Jacob. Now there's two different kinds of choices being made here by Isaac primarily as well as Rebecca. But we're going to focus on how God used Isaac's choices. We first see, of course, in verses 9 to 22 how God blessed Isaac's steocentric or God-centered pursuit. You know, in Isaac's 40 years up to this point, he at some point had to come to an understanding of who his father's God was. And whether or not he was aware of the blessing that God would, of course, give to him in the very next chapter. That we're not sure of, but we know that he at least knew who this God was. And he prayed and asked God to help him. Whether that's in hopes that God would, of course, fulfill his promise to bless the earth. Or simply because he wanted to be blessed with children, we see that Isaac had a theocentric, he had a God-centered pursuit, which the Lord, of course, honored with two sons. Now it seems kind of trite maybe to say, you know, seek the Lord and He'll bless the choices you make. But you know what? That's That's what the Bible says. Who can deny the promise that is given over and over in Scripture? I'll just give some and Many of them coming from Psalms. Think of Psalm 910. That they that know thy name will put their trust in thee, for thou Lord hast not forsaken them that seek thee. Psalm 34, 10 says, they that seek the Lord shall not lack or want any good thing. Psalm 37, 3 through 5, you know it well. Trust in the Lord and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land. Delight thyself also in the Lord. He shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord. Trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. Lamentations 3. 25, a book of sorrow and of pain in the midst of a destroyed Jerusalem. Rider Jeremiah says, the Lord is good unto them that wait for him, to the soul that seeketh him James 4, 8 and 10, draw nigh to God, he will draw nigh to you. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up Matthew 6, 33, you can probably quote it by but seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Probably the most powerful verse. On this subject is Hebrews 11:6. Without faith it is impossible to please him, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Not can be a rewarder, not may be a rewarder, he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him So we see as God used Isaac's theocentric pursuit, he too can bless our pursuit, our God-centered pursuit of him. In all of our choices. But you know, Isaac also possessed a very worldly philosophy. As we read in verses 23 to 28, by the end of the passage, we are very aware of the fact that Isaac and Rebekah were playing favorites. And this was honestly not a very unique concept in that day. Why? Because Esau wasn't just the oldest, but you know what? Isaac really liked the food he made. We see God even using this worldly philosophy to ultimately bring about his purpose. We don't really see God explain to Isaac the prophecy that the younger would serve the older. And while we can speculate and uh assume that Rebecca would probably reveal that prophecy to him. We're not sure of that based off the passage that we have here. Nevertheless, when it came time for these two to be born, Esau was the eldest while Jacob was the younger. And while the promise would later be clearly passed on to Jacob. Isaac retained this worldly philosophy that only the eldest would be the benefactor to all that a father would bless him with. We see this later when Isaac calls to Esau and says, you know, fetch me this stew, this venison. And I will bless thee. He was intending for that ultimate blessing to fall on Esau. That was Isaac's intent. It was a worldly mindset. And what's worse is that scripture tells us that really Isaac loved Esau More than Jacob because as Philippians 3. 19 says that his God was his belly. His glory is in their shame, his shame. He only minded earthly things. And yet God used That wicked worldly philosophy, as it played itself out to its ultimate consequence, Esau forsook his birthright. And lost the blessing. And this allowed Jacob to become the recipient of God 's promises. Jacob was the second born. Whether it was the second or few minutes after Esau was born, the fact remained. And yet God used that circumstance to ultimately bring about his purposes. You know, as American Christians in the 21st century, it'd be an understatement to say we can be really caught up by worldly philosophy. I mean, think about it. Our decision making is often pragmatic, if not emotionally driven, rather than biblically principled. Our worship is often consumeristic rather than sacrificial. Our friendships are often self-serving rather than self-sacrificing. It is difficult from our vantage point to see how God will use this worldly philosophy that's crept into our churches and is even present in us on a day-to-day basis. But be sure that God will use those decisions. For his ultimate glory. You say, how can you say that, Pastor Chris? Well, God used the problem of worldly Gnostic Christians, so to speak, to bring about doctrinal unity in the early church, did he not? God used the problem of the worldly sinful Catholic Church to bring about the Reformation in Europe. God used the problem of worldly unregenerate church members to bring about the Great Awakening. in the American colonies. You can be sure God will use the problem of sinful worldly Christians or so-called Christians in the church today to bring about his sovereign will. We see that as we looked at how God used Isaac's choices. We of course looked at how God used Abraham's choices, but let's take now time So look at how God used Esau's choices. Notice in verse 29 It says, and Jacob sawed pottage, and Esau came from the field and he was faint. And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee. With that same red pottage, for I am faint. Therefore is his name called Edom, which means red. And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright. And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die. What profit shall this birthright do to me? And Jacob said, Swear to me this day, and he swear unto him. And he sold his birthright unto Jacob. Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage or blentels, and he did eat and drink, and rose up and went his way. Thus Esau despised his birthright. That last summary statement there at the end, Esau despised his birthright, isn't to say that from that point on Esau hated his birthright. It's a description of what he just did. He made light of his inheritance. Now what's interesting is according to Jewish tradition, You can take this with a grain of salt. Jacob and Esau were probably about 15 years old about this time. And this event took place either on the day of or around the time of Abraham's death. That tradition also says that the lentils which Jacob was preparing was a mourner's food. It was intended either for Isaac or Rebecca, probably for Isaac. And then when Esau came in from the field, he was, it says faint, but the word there is not so strong as to say he was exhausted. He was just tired. It's really a petty term. And rather than preparing his own food, he begged for the food which Jacob was preparing, and was willing to give up what would in many ways have been the most his most important possession. His birthright. That birthright would have legitimately made him the direct heir to the promises which God gave to Isaac and Abraham. Aside from the fact that God knew, of course, that Esau would do this and prophesied the transfer of the blessing before their birth. That birthright not only included the status and inheritance of Abraham and Isaac, but probably would have allowed the promise of the future Messiah to even pass through Esau. This is what Esau made light of. This is what he cast aside. Now we We neither hold inheritance so our inheritances so highly as they do in the Near East, nor do we possess the promise that one day our descendants will give birth to the Messiah. But we do possess blessings and promises from God. And those blessings and promises are held in infinite measure We are saved, we are bloodbought, we are recipients of daily mercies and the gifts of eternal life. Yet how often do we We take those for granted? When we accept needless, often sinful trinkets in exchange for Say spiritual growth and in exchange for God's glory, we do so making light of the grace which Christ earned for and extended to us. Through his death on the cross. We cannot, as Esau, make light of what God has given us And yet, God, of course, in his foreknowledge and his sovereignty, knew exactly what Esau would do. And he used it We know this particularly and soberly in Hebrews chapter 12. If you would turn there. Hebrews chapter 12. And we'll finish here as we look at Hebrews chapter twelve, verses fourteen through seventeen. It says, Follow peace with all men and holiness, which Without which no man shall see the Lord. Looking diligently, lest any man fail the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled. Lest there be any fornicator or profane person as Esau, who for one morsel of meat or food sold his birthright. For ye know how that afterward When he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected. For he found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears. The sobering reality is this. In using Esau's choice, God also chose to affirm Esau's. Choice. You know, it's put this way by one commentator. Esau preferred the gratification of the flesh to the blessing of God. This passage in Hebrews is a sobering reminder that there's not only a consequence to sin , but there's also a consequence to the pursuit of fulfilling the flesh. And that's that God will allow us to get what we want. For Esau, he wanted a bit of food so that he he th that food so much that he was willing to give up his inheritance and his blessing for it. But after God gave him what he wanted and providentially allowed Jacob to steal the blessing from Esau, it became too late to for Esau to attain what he had already given away. As badly as he wanted it after the fact. Jacob didn't just simply steal the blessing and get get away with it. God gave Esau exactly what he asked for. A piece of food in exchange for a great blessing. And while this is what God used to bring the blessing upon Jacob Esau , after the fact, he refused to accept his foolish decision and the consequences of them. You know, whenever we sin, we do so by really exchanging a blessing which we could have received instead. When we give it to temptation, we exchange victory over sin for fleshly indulgence. When we lash out in anger, we exchange love and patience for a temporary release or satisfaction. Sin at its core is the perversion of God's good gifts. But often we give up the rich blessing of God's gifts for these cheap perversions. And when we make such an exchange, God is under no obligation to reverse the consequences. And we certainly have no power to undo what was done. I would note here, though we may not restore a blessing that we exchange for a fleshly desire, we can accept what God has allowed to happen. And such acceptance is necessary for a personal growth and maturity. Listen, if we can't learn how to accept the consequences for our own sin , And we will not allow God in His grace to help us grow beyond them It's like a smoker who smokes for decades and gets lung disease and then decides instead of quitting and trying to help maintain whatever health he could restore. He chooses to maintain his eviction. Listen, you can Accept the sin, the choices, the poor decisions that you've made in your life, and the consequences of it. And by God's grace, you can allow God to use it. In unimaginable ways to help you grow and mature and be humbled. God wants us to accept his sovereignty over our freely made choices. You know what? We can't fully grasp the extent. to which God's sovereignty relates to man's free will. But we are called to accept that fact, that there is a balance. And we see this in the way that God used the choices of Abraham and Isaac and Esau, which he used to ultimately accomplish his ultimate plan of redemption. We can be sure, just as God used those men's choices, that He can use our choices in His sovereignty for His glory Let's worship in awe of our sovereign Lord by accepting his sovereignty over our choices Father, we stand before you humbled and sobered by the reality of who you are. We can't fathom the influence that our sin and our choices have beyond ourselves. But you see every facet, every ripple. And ultimately you use all things for good. I ask, Lord, that as we reflect upon the choices we've made, some are wonderful choices and some are very bitter. I ask, Lord, you would encourage us in our hearts to know. That when it comes to you and your sovereignty, your will shall be done. And we love you and we give you the glory for all these truths. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. One of the greatest truths we can take comfort in is that God rules and reigns. And He He's good and he has ways of taking absolutely tragic and devastating situations and he can use them to accomplish good. And that's never an invitation for us to be presumptuous and disobedient. But it's also very humbling. And it's very encouraging. And so thank you for that challenge this evening. If you could, let's turn to hymn 391. And the song that we're going to sing for a closing is I Am Resolved. Hymn 391, we're going to sing the first and the last verses. Of this song. Let's stand together and sing it out, please. I am resolved no longer to linger charmed by the world's eyes. Things that are higher, things that are nobler. Peace have allured my sights, I will hasten to him. Hasten so glad and free Jesus great as highest I will come to thee. I am resolved to enter the kingdom. Leaving the paths of sin. Friends may oppose me, foes may beside me Still will I enter in I will hasten to him. Hasten so glad and free, Jesus , greatest highest, I will come to thee I hope that you've uh been blessed today being in the Lord's house and gathering with his people. Um just want to remind you that tonight uh several folks So if that's something you enjoy doing, this is a really good night for that. And if you just want a fellowship, that's fine too. Just a reminder that we are starting a new series, or we start a new series for Wednesday night, and we're looking at issues related to the family in your bulletin today. you would have received a list of the topics that we're going to be moving our way through. So I hope that that will wet your appetite for some very important topics. And some topics that I hope will be a help to you no matter what season of life you're in. I believe that these can all be an encouragement and a challenge. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we'll be dismissed. Father, we thank you so much for what we have heard and what we've been challenged with today. I thank you so much that we were reminded in Psalm 12 that in fact you will preserve your people. And no matter the hardships that we encounter as your people, and the frustrations, the fears, the anxieties. In fact, you are preserving your people and you're preserving your work. There's a reason to strive in faithfulness and there's a reason to submit to your will and your ways. as a reason to be active in your kingdom's work. And so I pray that we would be encouraged by that. Then this evening we are challenged by the way that you work. uh in your your sovereign ways through the decisions that people make. How you bless obedience, how you are so very gracious uh when we stumble, how even when people are resistant and rebellious. you still take those decisions and you still in a marvelous way are able to continue your work for our good and ultimately accomplishing your redemptive purposes in our lives in this world. I pray that these truths would be things that we chew on this evening and throughout the week. I pray that we would be encouraged and strengthened by these things. Father, I thank you for our men and our fathers. I pray that you would encourage them today and help us all to be faithful in supporting our fathers on this day And I pray that you'll bless our week, help us to be faithful in the duties that you've called us to, and bless our sweet fellowship together. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.