Well, good evening. Good to see each of you tonight. Hope that you had a good afternoon and looking forward to our service this evening. Let's bow together. Father, we're so grateful for just a lovely day, opportunity to gather to fellowship with other believers. And I pray that this evening you would really speak to our hearts in a very special way. As Pastor Chris opens the word, I pray that you would help him to be able to communicate your word with clarity. And I pray that the Holy Spirit would take those things and press them upon our hearts. I pray that as we spend time together in your word, that you would richly bless and encourage us. And as we have opportunity to share testimonies, I pray that the things that are shared would be very Christ-centered and encouraging. And we ask it all in Christ's name. All right, and good evening. For our first song this evening, we're gonna turn to page two hundred and thirty-four in the red book, or follow along on the screen. Screen page two hundred and thirty-four. Alas and did my savior bleed. First, second, and the last. Stand with me. Alas and did my save your bleach. Had in my subrand would that sacred head for Sovjet children as I was it for crimes That I have done agrand upon the dream Amazing city grace unknown and also But crops of free can never replay the death of love. I owe Inhort I give myself away to all that I can do. Alright, a couple pages over to two hundred and fifty-two. Amen. Two hundred and fifty-two, right there. Nothing but the blood, all four verses. One can go a show wise in nothing but What can make me hold on here? Oh precious is not more that makes me like yes no brother and no I think that the blood of evil for my heart and it is nice. I think but the blood of evil Oh pressure is the war that makes me like a water down to Nothing but the father nothing can force you no Nothing but the water , Madam All the pressure that I make me like no loving no Let me back the world, the dream of all my both and me , I think what the blood of eating. But you know what I 'm like. Go ahead and have a seat. We're going to turn back three pages to 247, the old rugged cross, and all three verses. On a hill far away , stood an old rocky cross. So what you don't know because I 'm for you Imma jimma minn maximum jim Minimum minnhominhominhom il-minim minimum minimum minimum Yes. I think he's got his load that he wants to dump modest before he leaves. So it may be a long sermon tonight. No, page two hundred and sixty-five Well Christ arose. I'm glad that wasn't an episode. I don't think that could have hit that enough. Okay, now 105 in the red hook. 105. Is that the blue book? Never mind That's a good song. But 105 is for me to live this trial. Ah, my notes I love this here, I always care to live with Christy to bring the mind later for me. Okay. Now I know page three ninety-one is in the red book. Page three hundred and ninety-one And I am resolved. First verse. I will wonder to linger up your eye, being the right , the water I Okay , page sixty three in the blue book. Glorious indescribable Oh we are in the water. Another F. You guys are getting up there for me. Okay, we got time for a couple more. That was all guys. Let's go with some ladies this time. What do we got? Kelly. Two thirty in the red book. Red book. Young lady. One? One in the blue box. Okay, and I saw a young lady, young lady. Four eighty nine in the red. Four oh it's four eighty two. Okay, okay Okay. I I tried to slide it in there, so oh sorry. Four eighty two in the blue book. The red book. Okay. Hold on just a second. Let's see. I don't know that what's what's 238? Okay. All right. Let's do number one in the blue book. Number one, can I count that low? Yes I can. I grew up on computers, I can count ones and zeros. But that's about That is Servants Heart. Make me a delivery Amen. That song was written by Ron Hamilton, who went to be with the Lord just a few days ago. So patch the pirate has sailed his last sail cross the Jordan. Okay, now we're going to go to page 482. Four hundred and eighty-two. I don't know if the kids are gonna be able to handle it tonight. They look like they're down a couple numbers. So we'll have to see. Page four hundred and eighty-two Verse first. Oh yeah, I love it. No cree paper , I don't know , I don't know. You know, I can hear the kids singing the rest of the song as well. Not the two the two words, okay? Now we're going to go to page two hundred and For our last congregational here, page 230. Glory to his name. What a wonderful song to end with here. Let's sing the first and last, and please stand with me. Now we'll have to brother. Wording, glory glory , and Amen. As we draw to the cross, as we dwell upon it, and as we bow to the one who was hung upon it, we enter into the presence of our God. And that is the theme of our evening, isn't it? So let's turn over to Exodus 25 and continue in our theme. As we begin tonight to look at the tabernacle. And in all transparency, this is one message where It was extremely tempting to get very bogged down in the details of all that we are going to be looking at in what are I think six or seven chapters. I can't do math. But we're gonna be looking at the entirety of what Exodus twenty-five to thirty-one has to tell us about the Tabernacle. These chapters are extremely instructive in nature, and they are for the nation of Israel, but they provide for us an opportunity to consider some rich truths relating to the personal presence of God with his people. Now I don't normally do this, but I wanted to provide a bit of an illustration To help us kind of get into a mindset where we can appreciate the truths that we're about to look at. So when I was very small, I had this electric car you probably are familiar with what I'm talking about, those little electric cars that look kinda like big cars, but you could sit in it as a toddler, as a young child, and you can ride around with it. And sometimes we can see our kids doing that either at the church or uh when we're visiting. But imagine if I were to dig one up uh from somewhere And you know, we go out to play volleyball tonight and while the toddlers are riding around on little tricycles in the parking lot, I decided to bring that little electric electric car and sit in it. And instead of talking to with the adults or playing volleyball with the adults, I decide I'm gonna hang out with these toddlers. I'm gonna ride around my little electric car and you're probably gonna see that and say, What is he doing? Why is he first of all trying to fit into that little car this you know I'm not gonna tell him you might weight, but six foot uh man sitting in his little electric car. Why is he hanging out with these toddlers in that And why would he choose not to be with the adults? You'll probably be asking some other questions too. But those two questions, you know, what is he thinking? He can't sit into that car. At the risk of Sounding irreverent, that kind of and then on a small scale illustrates for us kind of the questions we should be asking in relation to God and a tabernacle, even maybe the temple. Now, how could the creator of heaven and earth, the God who, with the stand of his hand, can contain the universe, how could he contain himself? In really what's a glorified tent. And how could a God who has transcended, is transcendent above all creation Who is holy and high and lifted up? How could he condescend himself to dwell in the immediate presence of sinful human beings? Who realistically would reject him for centuries to come Our pastors tonight should give us a little insight into that. You see, Exodus twenty-five to thirty-one provides The instructions for not only the building of the tabernacle, but of the ark, of the courtyard, of even the consecration of the priests who would serve in the tabernacle And as we look at these passages, we'll see that God wants us to marvel at his beautiful holy presence. And we can do that by taking into account two very distinct purposes of both the tabernacle and those who worked in and to build it. So, to start out with, we're going to need to understand the purpose of the tabernacle's components. And I'm going to begin reading in chapter 25 of Exodus, verse number one. It says, And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, that they bring me an offering. Of every man that giveth it willingly with his heart, ye shall take my offering. Gold, and silver, and brass, and And stones to be set in the ephod and in the breastplate, and let them make me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them. According to all that I show thee after the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all the instruments thereof, even so shall ye make it. So we're going to look at some of the components of the tabernacle. And I understand there's other passages within the first five books of the Old Testament that speak to this, but I want to focus particularly on this passage. Because what we're going to see is that these components really speak to the fact that God 's presence is beautiful and holy. The first set of components that we're going to look at are the ark, the table of bread, and the candlestick, all described here in chapter 25. You see, verses 10 to 22 describe the Ark of the Covenant. And if you're familiar with a certain movie, you know what it might look like. It is a magnificent gold-covered container housing several artifacts that were significant, particularly to this period. in Israel's history. But the significance of the ark wasn't what was in it. But as much as what it was what it was used for. You see, upon the ark was placed the mercy seat. And this also is to be understood as the atonement cover. In other words, this was the lid. And verse 22 indicates the whole significance of this object. It says there, and there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee from above the mercy From between the two cherubims, which are upon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel. And so we have the Ark of the Covenant, then we have the table of bread, which is often neglected or even relegated to a simple side object where the priests eat. By the way, did you know that Jesus spoke of the showbread more than he spoke about the Ark of the Covenant? It's an interesting fact. But consider this fact that the term showbread It's a compound word that literally means bread that is before a person's face. You see, the word show carries the sense of presence. So again, we see an object here that relates to being in the presence of God, and it is eaten before him, much like you would eat something placed in front of you by someone with whom you're fellowshipping with. Then there's the candlestick. Beautiful and ornate. This was the primary means of lighting the holy place within the tabernacle. But what what does this have to do with these other objects? Why is it here in chapter 25? Well I would say, although it's highly symbolic, I can think of no other passage that conveys the concept of why this lights. Relates to really what these three objects represent. In 1 John 1, 5 through 7, we see this very passage. Where it states, This then is the message which we have heard of him, and declare unto you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not betray But if we walk in the light, as He is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanseth us from all sin. So these three objects we've just looked at, did you see the connection there? These are objects that convey to us that God truly wishes to commune with His people. His presence there communicates and all these objects communicate that God genuinely wants to have fellowship with his people. But because of our sinfulness, there are limitations. And that is very evident in the next set of objects or objects that we find in chapter twenty-six. Where we move from looking at the ark and the the the uh table of showbread and the candlestick to looking at what is the the structure of the tabernacle itself. We see in chapter 26, particularly the curtains, which actually the veil that separates the holiest of holies and the holy place is considered a part of in a sense. You see, the structure of the tabernacle consisted of shatim wood. That's also known as acacia wood. It's a very uh distinct pie of kind of wood that you can only find in the wilderness where they were at. And along with this structure of acacia wood were these beautifully woven tapestries, which allowed the uh the tabernacle to stand at 45 feet long. Fifteen feet wide and fifteen feet high. Not exactly a huge structure. But all of these readily available materials allowed them to create a tabernacle, a tent, which would essentially serve as God's dwelling place. Just as the Israelites dwelt in tents as they wandered through the wilderness, it it's it was meant to be moved with them as God led them visibly. Through the pillar of fire and of cloud. And in this, God shared an experience unique to this generation of Israelites that would, of course, foreshadow Christ's dwelling here on earth. But walls and veils do not make windows. The curtains, and particularly the veil that separated the holiest of holies from everything else Separated all that was external from the place where God dwelt and communed with the priests. It meant that there was a distinction. Where God dwelt is holy and distinct. And because He is holy and cannot mingle with sin , We move on to the next component of the tabernacle in chapter 27. In chapter 27, we have the altar. And the court in which the altar was placed. And that altar was used for blood sacrifices. Access to God was clearly limited due to the sinfulness of people. And because the people were sinful, there had to be a continual atonement for sins. Even the priesthood who who we're going to look at here uh in further detail momentarily They were required to receive atonement through the blood sacrifice offered in the court of the tabernacle upon the altar. Notice what it says in verses 1 through 8 in Exodus 27. It says, and thou shalt make an altar of chitim wood, five cubits long and five cubits broad. The altar shall be four square, and the height thereof shall be three cubits. And thou shalt place the horns of it upon the four corners thereof. His horns shall be of the same, and thou shalt overlay it with brass. And thou shalt make his pans to receive his ashes and his shovels and his basins and his flesh hooks and his firepans. All the vessels thereof thou shalt make And thou shalt make for it a grate of a grate of network of brass, and upon the net shalt thou make four brazen rings in the four corners thereof. Those were to tie down the sacrifice By the way. And thou shalt put it un under the compass of the altar beneath, that the net may be even to the midst of the altar. And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves of shatim wood, and overlay them with brass. And the staves shall be put into the rings. And the staves shall be put upon the two sides of the altar to bear it. Hollow the board with hollow with boards shalt thou make it, as it was showed thee in the mount. So shall they make it You say, why did you point all of that description out there? Because as beautiful as we could describe the tabernacle with all its tapestries, with all its gold. We can't get to that part unless we take a look at the altar, which reminds us that as beautiful and as intricate as the tabernacle was. We didn't have direct access to God. God plainly states the purpose of a tabernacle, though Back in Exodus 25, 8. He says it very plainly. That although there were all these Intricacies of the tabernacle, although there was this division between us and God, he said the whole point of it was not so that we can get super focused on all these little details. But he says, Let them make me a sanctuary that I may dwell among them. God wanted to be with his people He imagined the this unprecedented, unique means by which God would somehow, in all of his infiniteness. Contain himself to a place within his creation. The eternal God would dwell in a tabernacle. He would actually dwell within the temple. And then you would eventually even leave that temple, as we would read in Ezekiel 10. It's an awesome thought to consider. Yet while God sought to dwell with them, he clearly indicated that there would be separation between himself and the people, and that their access to him would be limited because of their need for blood. Atonement. And to ensure that their access wasn't cut off, God instituted the erotic priesthood in chap chapters twenty-eight to thirty-one. In chapters 28 to 31, we find, of course, not only the Iranic priesthood, but we'll also see those builders which God instituted. To build a tabernacle. But please note that these were all sinful men. And because of that We understand that everything that God describes here points us to truth. That we who are sinful. yet have access through God's means to him. Notice in chapter twenty-eight Verse 1 says, And take thou unto thee Aaron, thy brother, and his sons with him from among the children of Israel, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office. Even Aram, Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, Eliezer, and Etamar, Aaron's sons. And thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron, thy brother, for glory and for beauty. And thou shalt speak unto all that are wise-hearted, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they may make Aaron Aaron's garments to consecrate him, and he may minister unto me in the priest's office. In looking at the introduction to the priestly garments, we will find that every aspect described uh uh uh uh every aspect of this these garments describes in some way, points to in some way, God's holiness The ephid, which was a skirt or an apron worn by those associated with service to the Lord, was a memorial before God as the priests entered into the holy place, the place of communion with their holy God. There's the breastplate which was worn like the ephid into the holy place. Upon it were the names of the tribes of Israel, and contained in it were the Urim and the Thumim, used by the high priest. To discern God's judgment. Along with these, the priests wore a robe and a girdle, a turban, lace, and an embroidered coat, and even more. And every aspect of these garments pointed toward God's holiness in such a way that these sinful men called priests could be identified as those who commune with God. God clothed sinful men with holy garments. He also consecrated sinful men. As anointed priests. Exodus 29 continues discussing the establishment of the Iranic priesthood. In verse 1, it introduces us to the means by which a priest was hallowed or consecrated for service in the priesthood. He says, and this is the thing that thou shalt do unto them to hallow them, to minister unto me in the priest's office. And then he goes on to describe this very lengthy procedure. This intricate, very bloody ceremony was necessary because the role of the priest was vital to the communion between God and his people. People. That role is given here in the very passage we are looking at. In verse 38, he says, And now this is that which thou shalt offer upon the altar. Two lambs of the first year, day by day, continually. The lam one lamb thou shalt offer in the morning, and the other lamb thou shalt offer at even And with the one lamb a tenth deal of flour mingled with the fourth part of a hen of beaten oil, and the fourth part of a hen of wine for a drink offering And the other land thou shalt offer it even, and shalt do thereto according to the meat offering of the morning, and according to the drink offering thereof, for a sweet savour, an offering made by fire. This shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your generations at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the Lord, where I will meet you. to speak there unto thee. And there I will meet with the children of Israel, and the tabernacle shall be sanctified by my glory, and I will sanctify the tabernacle of the children I will sanctify also both Aaron and his sons to minister to me in the priest's office, and I will dwell among the children of Israel and will be their God. God consecrated these sinful men as anointed priest Priests to maintain that fellowship between him and Israel. He also provided sinful amends, a means of sanctified Worship. Chapter 30 provides instruction mainly for the priests, but also for the congregation of Israel as well. They were given instructions for the altar of incense. Which was used perpetually and annually, both. Atonement money was also stipulated in verses eleven through sixteen. It was not only used for the service of the tabernacle, but was also for a memorial and an atonement. The bronze basin in verses 17 to 21 was vital for the ceremonial washing of the And finally, the anointing oil at the end of chapter 30 and the instance that is described there was unique and could not be replicated for any other purpose. These were vital at this point of the tabernacle's instructions because it indicates that God was not haphazard About what he expected in Israel's worship and communion with him. He didn't leave it up to them to figure out the details. He provided a very specific sanctified means of worship because their coming before God was a unique and a serious matter. That's also why God summoned some spiritual men for very wise workmanship in chapter 31. Because the worship of God was a unique and serious matter, and because the tabernacle was expected to express the beauty of God and his presence, God specifically designated Bezalel and Holyab, along with a group of people whom God describes as wise-hearted in verse 6, to create everything that was just described in the chapters we've just discussed. While, of course, these were sinners just like anyone else, these men were specifically stated to be filled with the Spirit of God and wisdom and understanding and knowledge and all manner of workmanship. You know, this is kind of interesting because at no point do we see Moses or Aaron or the priests being filled with the Spirit of God in this way. It tells us that these men had unique abilities which God was able to utilize for his own historical purpose to create the tabernacle in which he would dwell with his people. But lest the Israelites get caught up in the creation of this beautiful sacred tabernacle and lose sight of God's commandments. At the end of chapter 31, the Lord sternly reminds them of the commandment to keep the Sabbath. And this might seem a little out of place. Look in verse twelve of chapter thirty-one. It says, And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak thou also unto the children of Israel, saying, Verily, my Sabbath ye shall keep. For it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations, that ye may know that I am the Lord that doth sanctify you. Ye shall keep the Sabbath therefore, for it is holy unto you. Every one that defileth it shall surely be put to death. For whosoever doeth any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among you. Among his people. Six days may work be done. But in the seventh is the Sabbath of rest, holy to the Lord. Whosoever doeth any work in the Sabbath day, he shall surely be put to death. Wherefore for the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, to observe the Sabbath throughout their generations for a perpetual covenant. It is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he rested. And was refreshed. While God surely desired them to rest on the seventh day His primary motive in putting this right here at the end of the description of the tabernacle and of the priesthood. Was to ensure that their focus was not on their work as much as it was on him. The Lord stated the Sabbath was a sign between Himself and Israel throughout their generations, that they may know that He is the Lord that doth sanctify them. And the punishment for neglecting the Lord and his commandment was death. The bottom line is this: God understood that the people with whom he desired to dwell were a sinful. People who would repeatedly and repeatedly rebel against him He provided a means for them to maintain fellowship with him and then demonstrate their faithfulness to him as a people, so much so that he allowed his spirit to indwell some of them For the purpose of constructing this place wherein he would commune with them. Yet Israel still demonstrated failure after failure. after failure in the centuries that followed revealing that not only them, but all mankind as a whole cannot commune with God on a personal, permanent basis with a system that requires repeated blood sacrifices. So what had to be done? Well God already had in motion The very plan that would remedy this issue. God provided the ultimate permanent blood sacrifice. Sacrifice given through our Lord Jesus Christ. For the children of Israel failed to uphold the commandments, let alone appreciate the beauty of God's holy and beautiful presence. God provided a means by which all people could do so without sin for all of eternal eternity in this life and beyond. This glorious truth is powerfully stated in Hebrews 9. I know that we read a portion of this last time, but this time I would have you look at this passage as we Draw to a close. Hebrews nine If you were to read Hebrews eight, nine, and ten, those chapters In conjunction, speak highly in high rev relevance to what we are discussing here with the tabernacle. But I want to point out to you verses 6 through 14 of Hebrews 9. It says there now when these things were thus ordained, the priests went always into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God. God. But into the second went the high priest alone, once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself and for the heirs of the people. The Holy Ghost is signifying that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest, while as the first tabernacle was yet standing. Which was a figure for the time then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices that could not make him that did the service perfect as pertaining to the conscience. which stood only in meats and drinks and in diverse washings and carnal ordinances imposed on them until the time of Reformation. But Christ, being come and high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building Neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood. He entered in once unto the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption. For us. For if the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling the unclean sanctifieth the purifying of the flesh, how much more Shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? Christ fulfilled all that the tabernacle was meant to point the Israelites toward. That God would provide the ultimate means by which we can enjoy God's beautiful holy presence for all of eternity. We don't need a sacrificial system anymore. We don't need a tabernacle or a temple or any kind of building with all of its ornateness. To draw close to God, we can draw close to God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Let's marvel at his beautiful holy presence Knowing that we have access to it through Him. Father, I thank you for what you teach us. Through the tabernacle, not in of itself, but in light of Christ, who is our high priest, who is our means of access into the personal, holy, and beautiful presence of our Creator. Lord, let us marvel at this. Now and in days to come, that when we enter into your glory, is nothing else that we can do but to lift up our voices of praise. and of all. Magnify yourself in this in Christ's name. Amen. What a great reminder. An excellent, excellent reminder. And aren't you so very thankful that we have access into the presence of a holy God, and it was entirely dealt with at the cross of Christ. Tremendous truths. All right, well our closing hymn will be a very appropriate one. It's 355. Jesus paid it all. It's almost like he and I might have talked about what he was going to preach. Tonight. We try to we try to coordinate. We try to do that. Let's stand together and as you sing this song, really think about the significance of it in the light of what we just heard tonight in the tabernacle. Three hundred and fifty five. Jesus paid it all. One, three, and four. I hear the Savior says Thy strength is me as long , shall we? Jesus did not all to give us all sin and other princes name he was in a Or not he should have I whereby I wish to place of wise Stand out of the prison say he was his wife, and when before the throne, I stand And you come please Jesus not to stay by just a retreat. Jesus pain all things in my own. Spain as the princess say he was in my What great truths. Well, I want to remind you that Wednesday night we're continuing our series on family and we're dealing with some really practical issues uh in that topic. And uh also I know that uh assuming it's not raining right now, um we have the volleyball net set up and it'll be a really nice night for that. Um Scott Moore, can you close us in prayer, please? And it is great to see everybody here tonight. Thank you so much for this beautiful day that you provided to us that we can enjoy you in your creation and just see uh just a glimpse of what uh you are capable of. Just pray, Lord, that with this reminder we might dwell on all that you are and the sacrifice that you made for our benefit. And Lord, we thank you for that and ask that you would go with us now. And uh be with us for the rest of the week. In Jesus' name. Amen.