Please take your Bibles and turn to 2 Kings chapter 6 tonight. 2 Kings chapter 6. And the passage of Scripture that we're going to look into this evening is a fascinating passage of Scripture. It's actually got some uh some humor built into it, uh some irony, and uh it gives us a lot of fascinating detail about how God works during very difficult times in a nation. And I think that sometimes in our minds we get this impression that when people are wicked, that God just writes them off, He does not give them opportunity, He almost ignores them. But the truth is the passage in front of us shows us that's a that's that's not true at all. In fact, when we work our way through 1 Kings and 2 Kings, we see some of the most difficult, some of the most stubborn, some of the most obstinate kings in Israel's history. There's a lot of information about how God very graciously worked in their lives. how God worked through them, and how God gave them opportunity and revealed himself to them. And this passage in front of us is one of those kinds of passages. So let's look in our Bible, 2 Kings chapter 6. We'll pick up in verse number 8 as we look at God's merciful work in an apostate nation. Here's what it says, verse number eight. Then the king of Syria warred against Israel and took counsel with his servants, saying, In such and such a place shall be my camp. The man of God sent unto the king of Israel, saying, Beware that thou pass not such a place, for thither the Syrians are come down. And the king of Israel sent to the place which the man of God told him and warned him of, and saved himself there, not once nor twice. Therefore the heart of the king of Syria was sore troubled for this thing. And he called his servants and said unto them, Will you not show me which of us is for the king of Israel? What an interesting observation. One of his servants said, None, my lord, O king, but Elisha the prophet, that is in Israel. Telleth the king of Israel the words that thou speakest in thy bedchamber. He said, Go inspy where he is, that I might send and fetch him, and it was told him, saying, Behold, he is in Dosan. Therefore sent he thither horses and chariots, great hosts, and they came by night and compassed the city about. And when the servant of the man of God was risen early and gone forth, behold, an host compassed the city, both with horses and chariots. And his servant said unto him, Alas, my master, how shall we do? He answered, Fear not, for they that be with us are more than they that be with them. And Elisha prayed and said, Lord, I pray thee, open his eyes. that he may see, and the Lord opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw. Behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots. A fire round about Elisha. When they came down to him, Elisha prayed unto the Lord and said, Smite this people, I pray thee, with blindness. And he smote them with blindness according to the word of Elisha. And Elisha said unto them, This is not the way, neither is this the city. Follow me. I will bring you to the man whom you seek. And he led them to Samaria. And it came to pass that as they were come into Samaria, Elisha said, Lord, open the eyes of these men that they may see. The Lord opened their eyes and they saw, and behold, they were in the midst of Samaria. And the king of Israel said unto Elisha, when he saw them, My father, shall I smite them? Shall I smite them? He answered, I shall not smite them. Wouldst thou smite those that thou hast taken captive with thy sword and with thy bow? Set bread and water before them, that they may eat and drink and go to their master. And he prepared great provision for them when they had eaten and drunk He sent them away, and they went to their master, so the bands of Syria came no more into the land of Israel. What a really interesting passage of Scripture. And there's a lot for us to glean from these verses. So what I want to do is just kind of work our way piece by piece through what is in front of us and just allow ourselves to observe some fascinating details that the text tells us. about how God worked in the life of a king who was not named through a man that had a very long ministry in Israel. So first of all, let's look at the setting of these verses in front of us. In verse number 8, we see the following statement. Then the king of Syria warred against Israel, took counsel with his servants, saying, in such and such a place Now this passage of scripture opens up with the setting being a constant conflict between the land of Israel and and the nations around them. And when we say the land of Israel, realize that we're talking about the northern tribes of Israel. And by the way, it's important for us to recognize that if we look back at the verses that Pastor Josh dealt with Talking about Naaman, there's a reason that Naaman had a Jewish servant girl in his household. It's because Naaman was a soldier. And when Naaman went into battle, he captured people. And he brought those people back into his land, and he took one of those little girls that had been kidnapped, for lack of a better way to put it. And he made her a servant in his household. Okay? And what's also important to recognize is even though God showed mercy to Naaman And Naaman was healed, that did not mean that the king of Syria all of a sudden said, Now I worship the God of Israel, and now I'm going to uh cease from all of my uh extracurricular activities and going after the people of Israel. No, there was a constant conflict. A little reprieve here, a little reprieve there. But the the the continual problem was that there was conflict between these peoples. And by the way, even in verse 23, when he says the bands of Syria came no more into the land of Israel, again, he's still not talking about something that lasted forever. Because in the very next verse, verse 24, it says, It came to pass after this, or after a period of time goes on, then Hadad, king of Syria, gathered all the hosts and went up and besieged Samaria. And so what we're looking at is something that's going on during a time of break, then conflict, break, and then there's going to be a continuation of conflict. And the reason that I bring this up is to simply say this. During all that time, God did not abandon his people. When you see that that phrase, the man of God, you need to recognize this is not something he's just like a pastor. This is a prophet. This is someone who received direct revelation from God. This is someone who was able to perform miracles to vindicate or authenticate his office. This is a person who God spoke directly through, straight to a king, who desperately needed to hear from God. And so when you hear that that phrase, the man of God, don't think, oh, he's just a servant of the Lord. He is But he's someone who actually is spoken through by God Himself. Very, very important detail. But when we talk about Elisha, Elisha ministered in Israel for probably 50 years. Isn't that amazing? Elijah served for a very long time. Samuel served for a very long time. And during the time that these men who are prophets ministered in Israel Lots of kings came to power, lots of kings were brought down, some of those kings were good kings, some of those kings were wicked kings, but God continued to work in the nation during that time. And during that time, though there was a voice of God speaking through Elisha, there was still a lot of turmoil and a lot of confusion. And so what we see in these verses describing described in chapters 5 and 6 are God showing mercy to a young man, Jehoram, who is the son of some of the wickedest kings in all of Israel. Ahab was his dad. Jezebel was his mom. So giving you a little bit of background about the setting, the second thing I want you to notice in these verses. is God's grace that is shown in verses 9 and 10. Notice what he says. The man of God sent unto the king of Israel saying Beware that thou pass not such a place from thither. The Syrians are come down, and the king of Israel sent to the place which the man of God told him and warned him of, and saved himself there not once. Not twice. Isn't that an interesting way to put it? He actually doesn't tell us how many times this happened. It wasn't once, it wasn't twice. He could have said it happened three times, but the point that he's making is this. This is something that happened several times. And when this happened, this wasn't God working through a man that feared him and honored him and reverenced him. This is God showing grace to a man who we know from other passages of Scripture was a very evil king, just like his father and just like his mother. So what is God doing here? He's showing kindness. He's showing grace. You realize that God shows tremendous kindness to people that throw him off and ignore him? Sometimes in our minds we think that God is good to good people and God is bad to bad people. He makes the wicked miserable and he makes the wicked have easy lives. That's not how the Bible teaches these issues. It is true that there's a law of sowing and there's a law of reaping. And when you sow to your fresh flesh, you reap corruption. When you sow to the spirit, there is life that flows from that. But what is also true is that God makes his rain fall on the just and on the unjust. And God is good to people, even though they don't know him, and even though many times they are rejecting him. Jehoram is an example of this. He's a wicked king, but God showed him grace. In each of these instances, God spared his people, he validated Elisha's ministry as a true prophet, and God intervened for the good of the nation of Israel. And by the way, when he talks about how these people were warring against the nation of Israel, it's important to realize that there's a distinction between what we read on in verses 8 through 23 and then what we'll read about in verse 24. And verses eight through twenty-three what you're looking at is basically someone being a nuisance. It's like somebody going into the fields and they say, you know, you planted your field, you're going in to reap your harvest, and instead of you getting to reap your harvest, We're going to come in and we're going to take everything out of your field. We're going to make your life miserable. We're not going to control the region. We're not going to establish ourselves as the force who rules. Instead, we're just going to steal everything we can steal. And we're going to make your life as frustrating as possible. That's what's going on. When we go to chapter 6, verse 24, this is different. This is the Syrians coming in and saying, We're going to lay siege on your city, we're going to conquer your city, we're going to destroy all the inhabitants, we're going to take what we want, and we're going to establish this as our dominion, not your dominion. That's what's going on. And so, in the midst of all of this frustration, what does God do? He shows kindness. Third thing I want you to see, and this is where the story gets, I guess, maybe a little bit humorous. Is that God shows us how foolish it is for people to presume against God's wisdom and knowledge and presence. Look down in verses 11 through 15. This is what it says. Therefore the heart of the king of Syria was sore troubled for this thing. He called his servants and said unto them, Will ye not show me which of us it is, which of us is for the king of Israel? Now what does the king of Syria assume is going on when it seems like every time he he establishes plans He goes to a place, he's going to attack the city every single time he does this. It seems like the other side is ready. What does he assume? Someone is giving the information to the other side. I have a traitor in my camp. Who is the trader? I need to know. That would be a pretty natural thing to assume if every time you have a plan, it seems like the other side knows it. It's like you're playing a football game and it seems like the other team knows exactly what plays to run and it's not because they watch lots and lots of film, it's because it seems that somehow they've infiltrated your side They're stealing all of the signs that you're giving, and they know what the plays are going to be. In fact, there's actually been some times this has happened in sports, interestingly. That's what the king thinks is going on. He's convinced he has a traitor. But guess what? He's wrong. There's no traitor. There's no one giving the information who is working within his inner circle So how does the king of Israel know what is going on? Some of you go, I wish that as a parent I had such knowledge at times Or I wish that in my workplace I had such knowledge at times. Or some of you might be saying, I'm glad that we don't have people that have such knowledge today. How does he know? Well the answer is that the true source is not a leaker, but in fact it is someone who God speaks directly to who is speaking directly to them. Verse number twelve, it says, One of his servants said , None, my lord, O King. But Elisha the prophet, that is in Israel, telleth the king of Israel the words that thou speakest in thy bedchamber. Say, what? That's what he said. When you sit down with all of your generals and you decide that this is going to be your plan and this is where you're going to go and this is the course of action that you're going to take Somebody is not going from your unit to talk to this man. There is a prophet in Israel, and this prophet's name is Elisha. And Elisha goes to the king and he informs the king, this is a miraculous thing that is going on. Now, if you were in the shoes of this man, the question is, how would you process this information? Well, some of you might go, well, let's get him on our side. Or maybe someone would go, I think we have a problem here. We go and we worship and we serve our gods, and our gods don't have the ability to do this. The God of Israel does have the ability to do this. Maybe we're on the wrong side. I mean, after all, Naaman was able to see firsthand God's power. He was able to see firsthand what God was able to do. The king who knew Naaman was able to understand what's going on. Obviously, there are servants under these people that recognize that there is real power, there's real communication from God. Something is going on, but that is not how the king decides he's going to handle the issue. The king's solution is that he's going to kidnap the prophet. Now, let's just pause for a moment and ask the question. If the prophet can tell the king what your moves are , Don't you think that the prophet could possibly know what you're planning to do? Well, the answer would be of course. That is exactly what the king should have thought, but that is not the way that he processes information. And so in verse 13 it says this, he said, go and spy where he is, that I might send and fetch him. It was told him, saying, Behold, he's in Dothan. Therefore sent he thither horses and chariots and a great host, and they came by night, and they compassed the city about. So basically what the kings decided he's going to do is he's going to surround the city and he's going to kidnap the prophet, and if he kidnaps the prophet, then the prophet can't Tell the king what his next move is. You know what's really interesting about this? We laugh at how foolish that logic is But do we sometimes have the same logic? Do we sometimes act as if God doesn't know what's going on in our lives? Do we not sometimes act as if there are things that we can do and somehow God is just unaware? That somehow we think we can lie and we can manipulate and we can make all these little moves and God's just like, wow, I didn't see that coming. But that's how we live sometimes. It's really easy for us to look at this guy and go, wow, that doesn't make any sense. But sometimes we have the same logic We serve a God in heaven who we stand before at all times. He knows everything that's going on in our lives. He knows our thoughts, he knows our actions, he knows our behaviors, he knows our words, the things that we can conceal from others. He knows all of these things. And by the way, that knowledge isn't something that should terrorize us. It should comfort us, but it should also warn us. That this God who we serve is a God who knows. He knows all things. And so here is Elisha, and here is his servant. By the way, it does not appear that this would be Gehazi. And if you think back to last week, you know why, it's because Gehazi had a little problem. He got leprosy. And when Gehazi got leprosy, I would assume he was no longer serving Elisha. And so it states in the text that this was a young man who was his servant. And here he looks out his window and he says, Elisha, we have a problem. Notice what it says in verses 15 and 16. And when the servant of the man of God was risen early and gone forth, behold, and host compassed the city both with horses and chariots, and his servant said unto him, Alas, my master. How shall we do? He answered, Fear not. They that be with us Are more than they that be with them. Now just pause for a moment and ask yourself this question. If you are that servant talking to Elisha, do you not think that Elisha's lost it? You're looking out your window here and you're like, I see chariots and I see horses and I see soldiers and everywhere I look they're there in the mountains around us. We're in trouble. I think we're just a little town that's going to get wiped out. What are we going to do? Elisha says, don't worry about it. We're good. We got more on our side than they got on their side. And you say, how is that possible? Well, humanly speaking, it wasn't. But there's a factor that this servant did not consider in his analysis of the situation. And by the way, this is true, not just for him, this is true for us a lot of times. Have you ever gotten in a situation and when you begin to calculate and you analyze everything that's there, you go, I don't think I can make this work? I don't think I can get out of this situation. I don't think that there's really a course of action for me to take. I'm in trouble. I'm just going to give up. Have you ever been in such a situation? I have. The odds are stacked against us, and we go, I don't think that there is a good solution to this problem. And if all you have is what's right in front of you and what you can see, that may very well be true. But there is another calculation that needs to be factored, and that is that we serve a sovereign God. We serve a God who rules and reigns. In fact, when the Bible talks about him, he is referred to as the Lord of hosts. I think about something as simple as the salvation of a soul. When you think about how much opposition there can be in a person's heart to the very simple plan of salvation, I'm a sinner I need to be saved from my sins. Christ died for my sins. He rose from the dead. I need to place my faith in Christ. And a person can become so resistant and so hardened and so callous to that very simple, basic gospel message. And you look at them and you say, there's no way in the world this person can be saved. Guess what? With God all things are possible. You don't know what God's going to do. You don't know how God's gonna work. You don't know about all the tools that are at his disposal. Maybe you have a a health situation that's right in front of you. And when you look at all the analysis, you go, humanly speaking, I'm in serious trouble. And in fact, that may very well be the case. We serve a God in heaven. That we can get on our knees before Him and we can say, God, you know my situation. You know the obstacles. You know everything that's right in front of me. You know that I can't But I know that you can. And if it be your will, you will. And guess what? You don't know what God will do We serve a God who works providentially in our lives. And so notice what it says in verse 17. We have this insight into the providence of God. Working in this situation. He says, Elijah prayed and said, Lord, I pray thee, open his eyes. Now The guy wasn't blind. Okay. He had the ability to see. When he says open his eyes, what he's basically saying is this, God Give this man the ability to see something that is real, that is there, but is hidden from him. He doesn't have the ability at the moment to see what is actually the true analysis of the situation. In other words, there is a heavenly realm, and there is a veil there between this man who is a servant of the prophet and what is actually there. And God's God is He's perfectly able to open up this realm and allow this man to see it. And so what does he say? He says, open his eyes. Take the veil, roll it back, let him see what is actually going on here. And says the Lord opened the man's eyes, and he saw. And behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha. Now I'm just gonna pause and I'm gonna say something here. I do not know what the spiritual realm looks like. Okay? I don't have that ability. I hope that doesn't disappoint anybody in here, but I just don't, okay? But here's what I can tell you. I do know for a fact That the conflict that we encounter in life is not just what we encounter in the physical realm. There is a spiritual dynamic or a spiritual dimension to the things that are going on in the world all around us. I mean, just go to Ephesians chapter 6 and notice what it says. It says that we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, powers, rule of the darkness of this world, spiritual wickedness in high places. When you go to the book of Revelation, you read chapters 2 and chapters 3, there are several times that he talks about things that are going on in these cities. And what's going on in these cities, he says, Satan will throw some of you into prison. You say, hold on a second, how does he do that? Well, he moves and he works and he influences people. There are very powerful people all over the world. They think they're in charge, and there's a sense in which they are. They think they can do whatever they want, and there's a sense in which they seem to be getting away with that. But what they don't know is that there's a God in heaven who says, here are your boundaries. You can't see them. You don't know they're there, but I'm not going to permit you to go outside these boundaries. Is that an incredible thing? There are people who you say, how in the world did that person end up in the position that they're in? Like if you wrote down their story on paper, you go, this is like one of the most shocking situations you can imagine. Do you realize how many people that have risen to power in human history have come to power in those kinds of ways? You you wouldn't have realized that they were going to end up in this position. They they came from very meager uh types of circumstances. The way that they ended up in those positions was something that the only way to explain it is that there's a God in heaven. Who lifts people up, he puts people down, and he moves in the affairs of people. The heart of the king is in the hands of the Lord as the rivers of water. He turns it whithersoever he will. What really amazes me about the book of Daniel is how many times the emphasis of the book of Daniel, these are kings that were not godly people. These are some of the most ruthless, tyrannical rulers that have ever walked this planet. They were not nice people. They had slaves in their palaces. They had massive harems of women that they captured and put into those places. These are people who would kill someone just because they looked at them the wrong way. They were not nice people. But you know what we see? God worked through them. God put limitations on them. God revealed himself to these people at unique times in their lives. God brought prophets into their lives who spoke the truth to them. And there were times that God worked through them in ways that you could never ever believe would happen had it not been seen by people's eyes and recorded for us in Scripture. And you know what? The times are changing, but God's work isn't. We live in a time where the same God rules and reigns, the same God works in the lives of people. And so while it is true that there is the influence of Satan and the demonic realm, there's also the work of God. And in these verses, what you see is God permits this young man to be able to see something that is real and active, but he would not know it unless God had allowed him to see it. And guess what? The same thing is true today. You and I can't see what's going on in DC. What's going on in Annapolis? I mean, we can see what people do. We can celebrate or we can get very upset about it. But what we don't realize is there is a realm where God is working and there is battle and God is demonstrating his sovereignty in those places. If human wisdom and strength were the determining factors, Elisha and his servants were in big trouble. The Syrian king and Elisha's servants did not consider the complete picture. Elisha prayed, and God allowed his servant to see. Listen to some of these verses that talk about God being the Lord of hosts. 1 Samuel 17, 26. We know this story. This is David going out to kill Goliath. Listen carefully to what he says. He says, who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God? I asked this question. What armies was he talking about? Kind of a fair question, isn't it? Because it's not like Saul was this godly man who was leading his people in a godly way. But David understood these were God's people. And God had made covenant promises to these people, and he is their God. And this man, this Philistine, though he was a massive giant of a man. Though he was an incredible soldier , should have been afraid of Israel's God. 1 Samuel 17, 46, he says, This day will the Lord deliver thee into mine hand. That all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel, and this assembly shall know that the Lord saveth not with sword or spear, for the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands. Pretty amazing statements. Is David saying, I'm a mighty soldier and I'm gonna go take you out? He's saying, Nobody's stepping in, I'll do it. God's in charge and we're gonna prove it. That's what he's doing. By the way, there are times as Christians that we look around, it doesn't seem like too many people stand up and do the right thing. Just be willing to step in a gap. You don't know how God will use that. Psalm 34, 6, it says, This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him. He delivereth them, O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. O fear the Lord ye as saints, there is no want, that is lack, to them that fear him. You don't taste and see unless you see yourself as a poor man. It's important to notice that. In verses 18 and 19, we see the irony of this verse, of this text Elisha prays that God would temporarily blind these soldiers. In verse 18, by the way, when you read this verse, don't think that Elisha's like I just want to crush these people and I want to make an example of them. What's kind of interesting is by the end of the verses, uh, they get a banquet and they get sent home. It's kind of interesting. His point was not to really hurt the people It was to humble them. And by the way, God often does that in our lives. His desire is not to push a harsh hand on us because he hates us. Not to be cruel to us. He is firm because he loves us. And he wants us to wants to bring us down so he can lift us up. That's what he's doing here. And so in verse 18 it says, When they came down, Elisha prayed and said, Lord, smite this people with blindness. And he spoke them with blindness according to the word of Elisha. Then this is very interesting. In their blinded state, they don't know that they're standing in front of Elisha. And so Elisha's like, hey guys, come here. I know who you're looking for. Let me help you find the guy you're looking for. Verse 19. Elisha said unto them, This is not the way, neither is this the city. Follow me, I will bring you to the man whom you seek. And he led them to Samaria. Isn't that crazy to think about? They didn't know that the guy they're looking for is leading them in their blinded state. When their sight was restored, they realized that they were in a big time problem. Verse 20, it came to pass that as they were coming to Samaria that Elisha said, Lord, open the eyes of these men that they may see. And the Lord opened their eyes and they saw, and behold, they were in the midst of Samaria. Now, what do you think went through their heads at that moment? I think we're in trouble. And guess what the king of Israel said? You want me to take him out? I mean, that seems like a pretty logical thing to do, doesn't it? They've been giving us all this grief. God blinds them, leads them into the city. This is our opportunity to take care of business. But that is not what God wanted them to do. And what we see is that God shows grace and kindness, and there is a temporary reprieve from this tension between Israel and Syria. In verses 21 to 23, it says, The king of Israel said to Elisha, When he saw them, Father, shall I smite them? Shall I smite them? He answered, Thou should not smite them. Wouldest thou smite those that thou hast taken captive with the sword and with the bow? If you have somebody that's given up, are you just going to kill them in cold and callous blood? What kind of a person are you? He says, show them mercy. He says, set bread before them in water, that they may eat and drink and go to their master And he prepared great provision for them. And when they had eaten and drunk, he sent them away, and they went to their master. Now what kind of a story did those people have to say? Hey, how did it go guys? Well, uh we had a little problem. Well, what was that problem? Well, we like we went blind for a while and then we ended up in Samaria. Okay? And then They decided they were gonna let us live and then they're like, hey, let's have a banquet and go back and tell your king that everything's good now. You say It's weird. It's called grace. Sometimes grace is the response that doesn't make a lot of sense, but it's the right one. There are a lot of things in life that we encounter that humanly speaking we can't really fix them. I wish that that wasn't the case, but it is. There are times that people cross lines, there are times that decisions are made, there are times that a situation goes a certain direction and the end result is really, really complicated. And guess what? You can't go back and fix the past. You can't go back and clean up the whole mess and say, all right, start over again. We're going to change everything that's happened. We're going to go back. We're going to turn back the clock. We're going to fix it all. You can't do that. Sometimes the only thing you can do is show grace and say, let's start over. And that's basically what happened here. By the way, it's not the end of history. But that was a short reprieve in time for these people. God showed kindness to the nation of Israel. who was not following him, and God showed kindness to the Syrians who were obviously not following him, and it was grace to both. God used this event to provide a temporary reprieve. So the bands of Syria came no more into the land of Israel. In fact, it's kind of interesting if you go back and you kind of read about some of what was going on in their culture. For an enemy to show this kind of mercy to another enemy was something that was not normal. I'd almost use the word unprecedented. And when someone showed that level of kindness, the only natural and right response would be, we're going to give you some space. Isn't that interesting how that works? So what do we learn from these verses? I mean, there's a lot that I could say here, but let me just give you a couple of real basic lessons that I hope can be a challenge to you tonight. The first is this. God actively works in lives even when they fail to acknowledge him. Israel was not a godly nation at this time. In fact, if you read the story of Israel's kings, the northern tribes, there weren't any. May I say it again, there were not any godly kings. God could have very easily just kicked him to the curb and said, I'm done with you, and I'm not going to show my kindness to you in any way. I'm going to take my prophet, I'm going to send him to Judah, because at least there's a few people down there that love me. That's not what he did. God actively worked. God sent Elijah to people like Ahab. God sent Elisha to people like Jehoram. God was very, very kind to these people, and that's how God is. Second thing we see is this. He gives people opportunities to witness his power in ways. Two nations. Two kings, people around them who did not acknowledge the Lord, yet they had opportunity to witness the power of God. By the way, just because you have seen what God can do, doesn't mean you'll embrace Him as your Savior. Sabbath is true There are people that experience God's mercy in their lives over and over and over again, and they just blow it off like it never happened. That's a great tragedy. By the way, they're going to answer to God for that. But just because a person has gone down this path of great destruction and lots of sin and lots of rebellion doesn't mean that God just ignores them. that. He works in their lives. And that should be very comforting to us. Fourth lesson. God works through prayer as his people lift up requests to him. The passage mentions three times that Elisha prays. He prayed when his servant needed to acknowledge God's active work in the spiritual realm. He prayed when the presumptuous enemies needed to be restrained. He prayed when their enemies needed to see their vulnerable situation. This is obviously something that is being highlighted in the text in front of us. When there was a problem, Elisha prayed. And this is how we need to respond when we find ourselves in difficult circumstances. We shouldn't be fretting. We shouldn't be angry. We shouldn't be plotting and scheming and figuring out how we can work it out in the arm of the flesh. We need to get on our knees and say, God, please work. And trust Him to do it. The fifth lesson is that God consistently treats people better than they deserve. By the way, we could add to that, and he has a sense of humor. It really does. I mean the text in front of us definitely shows that God has a sense of humor. But you know what it really shows you? God is kind to people that don't deserve it. He intervened for Israel's king for his good. He intervened for the people for their good. He intervened for Elisha's servant for his good. He showed mercy to the Syrian soldiers. By the way, all those servants could have been wiped out. All of those soldiers could have been wiped out. He didn't do that. He showed them mercy. He extended mercy to Israel for that period of time, even though they were in an apostate condition. That's the God that we serve. And so as we think about the text in front of us, let's not miss these very simple, yet very powerful, lessons. This is how God works in our life too. Thousands of years have passed. God doesn't change. Don't forget it. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, we thank you for your word tonight. Thank you for this very interesting passage of Scripture. I pray that you would use the things that we have heard to speak to our hearts. You know what's going on in our lives. You know the struggles. Maybe we're in a position where we need to be reminded you're merciful. Maybe we need to be reminded we need to pray. Maybe we need to be reminded that you don't give up on people. Whatever the situation, speak to our hearts through it. Help us to respond humbly and appropriately to your word tonight. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.