Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we are back in 1 John chapter 3. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and turn with me to 1 John 3, verses 23 to 24. Again, that's 1 John 3, verses 23 and 24. I'm going to go ahead and begin reading it now. And this is his commandment that we should believe on the name of his son, Jesus Christ. And love one another as he gave us commandment. He that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he in him. Hereby we know that he abideth in us by the Spirit which He hath given us. Let me give you a simple summary statement of this passage, and then we're going to dig into what's really one of the most simple statements of God's will in the Bible. John wanted to simplify our understanding of God's will. So he narrows it down to its two most basic responsibilities. Let me begin with this first statement. This passage is all about simplifying God's will. And I know that especially when someone is young and they're getting into that stage of life where they're going to make really big decisions. Who do I marry? What do I study in school? Where do I go to school? Do I go to college? Do I go to tech school? Do I go and get a job? What do I do? These are some of the questions that people ask themselves, and they're very fixated on what is God's will. Well, when they talk about God's will, they're tending to talk about it in a very subjective manner. What do I feel inclined to do? Is this the right thing or not? And they get really consumed with that. Well I want you to realize that sometimes it's more important for us to focus on what we know is objectively truth and the subjective side of this issue of God's will. We can get into that discussion quite a bit on how God moves people and works. But let's focus on the simplicity of what God wants every person to do. This verse is going to give us the two most basic responsibilities of every single person. Let me give you an example of ways that the Bible gives, just simple statements of how we are to know what God's will is. In Ecclesiastes 12, 13, It says, let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments. This is the whole duty of man. God's will for us could be summed up by saying, fear God and keep his commandments. When we go to Micah 6. 8, he says, He has showed thee, O man, what is good, and what does the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, to love mercy, to walk humbly with thy God. In other words, we could summarize God's will by saying, Do what is just Love mercy and walk humbly with God. 1 Thessalonians 4. 3 says, this is the will of God, your sanctification, that you should abstain from fornication. And that every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor. The idea is that we're supposed to use our bodies in a way that honors God. We're supposed to be careful about this issue of sexual immorality. 1 Thessalonians 5. 18, and everything gives thanks. This is the will of God. in Christ Jesus concerning you. So I'm supposed to rejoice and be thankful to God no matter my circumstances, because I'm rooted in my confidence is rooted in His sovereignty and His goodness. Romans 12, we're to present our body as a living sacrifice to God. Matthew 22, 37 to 40, Jesus tells a man who asked him, What is the commandment? He says, Love God and love your neighbor as yourself. on these two commandments, hanging all the law and the prophets. So when we talk about God's will, we need to understand that there are many places in Scripture where God states his will for us in very simple terms. Well, here's another example of that. And so let's look at the two categories or the two aspects to God's will, what he wants of every person. Here's what the verse says. This is his commandment, that we should believe on the name of the Son of God and love one another as he gave us commandment. We could say that we have two basic responsibilities, and the order is very important. We are to trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. When he says that we should believe on the name of the Son, of his Son Jesus Christ, there are a lot of implications to the gospel. We're talking about Jesus of Nazareth. We're talking about him being the Christ, the Messiah. We're talking about the fact that he died for our sins. He rose from the dead. Salvation comes through him. So the most basic responsibility, the primary will of God for every person is that they believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. John 1. 10. He was in the world. The world was made by him. And the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him , To them he gave the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name, which are born not of blood or of the will of the flesh or the will of man, but of God. And it says that there's really no middle ground when it comes to the Lord Jesus Christ. God wants every person to turn to him in repentance and faith. And so when we talk about this statement, they need to believe on his son. Basically we're saying people need to respond to the gospel in repentance and faith. They need to recognize that they're a broken creature that has sinned against God, that has absolutely no ability to come to God through their own righteousness. that they deserve God's justice and his wrath. And if they reject the gospel, they will indeed be separated from God and be judged eternally. And that if a person would repent and turn to Christ and trust in his finished work, God would save them from their sins. When we look at this passage, that's what God wants of every single person. He wants us to turn to him in repentance and faith. And I ask you this morning, have you trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ? Are you depending on his work on the cross, the fact that he died for your sins and rose from the dead? But then there's a second responsibility, and that is to love the people around us. In 1 John 4. 7 he says, Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment. Because as he is, so are we in the world. God wants us to love our neighbor as we love ourselves. Love is practical. That means that it expresses itself in how we talk to people, how we interact with them, whether or not we're willing to forgive them, whether or not we're willing to be patient with them, if we treat them fairly, if we take advantage of them. If we show them dignity and respect or not. Love is practical. Love involves sacrifice. It means releasing my rights. s for the benefit of other people. Love isn't about self. Love is self-sacrificing. Love doesn't take advantage of other people. Love puts them first. In 1 Corinthians 13, it says that charity or love suffers long. It is kind. It does not envy. It does not vaunt itself. It's not puffed up. doth not behave itself unseemingly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth, beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. If you want to know what God's will is for your life, it's to trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, and it's to treat other people with love. And the reality is, if you're not willing to come to the place where you trust Christ as your Savior and begin living out practically Your faith in Christ by loving the people around you, you are not in a position to make the right decision about where to go to college or what to do with your life or who to marry. The reality is if you will not address the most basic responsibility that God has for you, then it's really pointless for you to ask those other questions. God wants us to love Him, to love the people around us, and that our lives would be a practical reflection of the power of the gospel. So I want to be really practical this morning. How can we take this and apply it? Well, I want to ask this question first of all. Have you trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ? Are you a child of God? Has there been a time when you've come to a place where you've recognized your sin has separated you from God, that you deserve his judgment? and that Christ died for your sins, he rose from the dead, and you've trusted in the finished work of Christ. Are you saved? Secondly, how do you relate to the people around you? I'm talking about your wife. I'm talking about your husband. I'm talking about your kids. I'm talking about the people that work for you. I'm talking about your boss. I'm talking about other people in the church. I'm talking about your neighbors. How do you relate to them? Are you cruel and harsh? Are you condemning? Are you a person who's very Very difficult to interact with? Are you unforgiving? Are you vindictive? Are you patient? Are you kind? Do you think the best of people? Are you willing to forgive? Are you willing to give of yourself? Are you willing to lay down your rights? Do you treat people impartially? Or are you partial in how you deal with others Do you relate to people in Christian love? I'm talking about by the way that you use your words. I'm talking about the demeanor that you carry with other people, your body language. Talk about the way that you think. The reality is we need to love people as the Bible commands us. I asked this question too. Do you have the capacity to love? The truth is we don't have that capacity apart from the gospel. If it's not for the finished work of Christ and that new nature and the power of the Holy Spirit, we will not love as we ought. And then I ask you, are you growing in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ? God's will is simple. And it's stated very simply in this text Trust in his son and love the people around you. And if you will do that, then God will be very pleased Let's bow together for a word of prayer. If this has been an encouragement to you, hope that you'll share that and uh just leave a comment in the comment section And we'll look forward to catching up with you next time. This weekend, um, I won't be recording on Saturday and Sunday, but Lord willing, we'll be back on Monday. All right, let's pray. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study your word. Help us to be a blessing to one another. I pray if anybody who's listening is not trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ and is not loving their neighbor as they ought, I pray that you would convict them of their need to turn to the Son. and their need to live out practically their Christian faith if they're not. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well we'll look forward to catching up with you again next time. I hope that you have a wonderful day and a wonderful weekend. Bye now.