Good to see each of you tonight and looking forward to our service. Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer and then uh Tori will come with our songs. Father, we thank you for the opportunity to gather again tonight, and I pray that you'll bless the preaching of your word and the opportunity that we have to share testimonies. I pray that That time would be very encouraging. And I pray that as we look into your word, that you would speak to our hearts and help us to understand the significance of these truths. And we ask it in Christ's name, amen. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number five hundred seventy-seven. Be strong in the Lord. 577. We'll sing all three verses this time. Be strong in the Lord. And be a good commerce, your wisdom and the rest always. Please come on, please go, please go in the world , and we 're out. So I thought the place may be amazing. I think a manner will then battle when the victim He will protect. Wherever you go, make wrong, make draw, make broad and alone, and be up and for me. Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and we join for the victory. Great singing. Please be seated. Now we're going to turn over to 625. 625, and I have to assign Next one. Alright. Wonderful. This is a medley. So a couple of pages. Pay attention. We'll be changing songs, changing keys, so watch carefully. We're going to sing several songs in succession about Jesus. We'll start with Isn't He Wonderful? Isn't He wonderful? Wonderful Wonderful Isn't He the My Lord Wonder Lord. I dunno presentation I know I would go, one more in the name. Alright, excellent work. Keeping up with all that. Let's go back to 610. 600. This is an around echo echo song. We'll have the gentleman start. The ladies carry the Oh, all right, that's true. We'll see it through twice. That's what it's like. For the world always as well as mine , my words to work before. Alright, let's get on to the blue book, 93 in the blue book. Alright, let's jump to one thirty and the blue button for three. One thirty. One ninety-two in the blue book. Complete in the Okay. Thirty-five, no good. Thirty-five. Uh the late words. I'll stand for both uses. Great thing, we didn't think that in a silver stretch is good for us adults to be remote for that too, isn't it? Okay, well if you have your Bibles, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to the book of Exodus. We're in Exodus chapter 16 tonight. And the passage that we're looking at is a very practical one. It's not going to be a comfortable one, I'll be honest with you, but it is a practical, practical text of Scripture. If you would, let's look together at verses 1 through 7, and then we're going to skip down a couple of verses to the end of the chapter. We're going to look at verses 32 to 36. Here's what the scripture says. And they took their journey from Elam, and all the congregation of the children of Israel came unto the wilderness of sin, which is between Elam and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departing out of the land of Egypt. The whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness. And the children of Israel said unto them, Would to God we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt When we sat by the flesh pots, when we did eat bread to the full, for ye have brought us forth into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger Then said the Lord unto Moses, Behold, I will reign bread from heaven for you, and the children shall go out and gather a certain rate every day, that I might prove them. Wherefore they will walk in my whether they will walk in my law or no. And it shall come to pass that on the sixth day they shall prepare that which they bring in. It shall be twice as much as they gather daily And Moses and Aaron said unto the children of Israel, At ease in, then ye shall know that the Lord hath brought you out of the land of Egypt. In the morning, then ye shall see the glory of the Lord. For he that for for that he heareth your murmurings against the Lord. And what are we that ye murmur against us? Now if you turn down to verse 32, it says. And Moses said, This is the thing which the Lord commandeth. Fill an omer of it to be kept for your generations. That they may see the bread wherewith I have fed you in the wilderness, when I brought you forth from the land of Egypt. Moses said unto Aaron, Take a pot, put an omer full of manna therein, and lay it before the Lord, to be kept for your generations. As the Lord commanded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before the testimony, to be kept. And the children of Israel did eat man of forty years Until they came to a land inhabited. They did eat manna until they came unto the borders of the land of Canaan Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us to really understand this passage of Scripture and then to have the eyes to see if maybe we are in the same position that these people were in themselves. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we open up the word tonight, I pray that you would open our hearts. Father, help us to be honest before you. Help us to recognize if in our own hearts there's a heart of sin against you. One where we have an arrogance, one where we have a heart that is not consistent with reality, one that has an offense that we carry against you or against those who are over us. Father, I pray that as we think about the Scripture, we would recognize that this is a sin that we are often prone to ourselves. This is a constant area where we struggle, and I pray that we would be able to look at this text with fresh eyes. So that we'll not just learn the lesson, but that we'll be able to appropriately apply it in our own lives if and when that is necessary. Father, help me to be able to communicate this text with clarity, and I pray that ultimately the Holy Spirit would take the word and impress it upon our hearts so that we can appreciate exactly what you have for us tonight. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Exodus chapter 16 teaches us that despite the children of Israel's constant ingratitude and distrust God lovingly preserved and nourished his people. In fact, this isn't something that I planned in the text, but this morning as I was reading through uh the the uh the plagues that we have been preaching through over the last couple of couple of weeks, there was a little phrase that really stuck out to me that I thought was was intriguing. And in that phrase When God sends Moses to speak to the Pharaoh, he says, let my people go. And I notice that there's a distinction between the way that the people in Egypt thought of the gods of Egypt versus the way that God thought about himself and his relationship to his people. For instance, the people in Egypt had their gods. God had his people. Do you see the difference between those two? Do you know why that distinction is there? It's because the nation of Egypt created their own idols. They served gods that they had fashioned in their own likeness, you might say. Whereas God, the Creator, chooses of his own goodness to call out a people unto himself. And part of what really stands out to me about this is that as God sets his heart, his affection, his love on the nation of Israel, they've not yet set their heart and their affection on him as their God. He is the initiator clearly in the text. And what we see in these verses is though God has seized these people and he loves these people and he's nourishing them. and caring for them and displaying his glory and demonstrating who he is in spite of all of that which they have seen and experienced, they still doubt his goodness. They are still ungrateful as he has lovingly preserved them and nourished them as his own treasure They are upset at him, and they are complaining against him, and they're angry, and they're bitter, and they're murmuring, and we'll talk about what that means in just a minute. The thing that I think God wants us to see in the text is that we need to learn from their ingratitude. We need to be able to look at this passage of Scripture and say, God, am I guilty of this myself? Could it be that in my own heart at this very moment I find myself in a position of ingratitude and I'm talking to myself in anger against God or some other individual And as I do that, ultimately it's going to boil up in a murmuring and complaining and bitter spirit. Is that me And then why is that that we do that? And how should we actually respond in such circumstances? That's really the intent of what we're going to look at this evening. So before we do that, I want to give you just two very simple principles that I think are important for us to consider as we come to this text. The first is this: God gives good gifts because he is good. Now you might say, oh, of course we know that, Joel. We know that God gives good gifts because he's good. But I really do believe that deep down in our gut, in our heart, we tend to think that God gives good gifts because we are good. And God punishes us because we are bad. Let me say this. God gives good gifts because he's good, periods. This passage of Scripture is really going to demonstrate that. God didn't treat the nation of Israel with goodness. Because they deserved it. In fact, the thing that really stands out to me in these verses is he says, because I've heard your murmurings, I'm going to give you food. A lot of times we kind of find ourselves in a totally different situation. Think about it this way, Mom. You put your food out on the table and your child looks at you and says, Oh, this again? And you say That's your dinner. If you don't like it, go to your room and sit down and be hungry tonight. I'm sure no mother's ever done a thing like that. Well, who knows? Why do we have that kind of a a tendency in our own hearts? Maybe we don't say it, but we think that. Why? Because we kind of work from a totally different mindset than God does. That's not what God did. God gave them food. He took care of them. He nourished them. Why? Because He's kind. He was able to look past their rotten, bitter, complaining spirit and love them anyway. And he does that with us too. He does it with us all the time. Matthew 7. 9, he says, What man is there of you whom the Father asked bread? Will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? He says, If you then, being evil, know how to good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him I think of another passage where Jesus says that when we love our enemies, we are like our Father who makes his rain fall on the just and on the unjust. And the idea is that God is good to people who despise him, who complain against him, who mock him, who disregard his ways. God gives good gifts because he's good. The second thing I'll mention is this. His provision is a daily provision. Now, we don't necessarily want it to be this way. Anybody a planner here? Any we have any planners here? Okay, I see some hands. I see some hands. Some people are planners and some people live off of the plans of other people, all right? They just kind of go with the flow. But the reality is that when you are a planner, you want to know, okay, on this day I'm going to do this, and then I'm going to do this, and then I'm going to do this and this and this, and we kind of lay it all out. You understand what I'm talking about? But you know how God takes care of us? He takes care of us today. And then tomorrow, guess what he's going to do? He's going to take care of us when tomorrow is today. And then he just does this day after day after day. In other words, God doesn't like give us this long plan and say, here's all the things that I'm going to do in your life, so just go ahead and enjoy what I'm doing. He says, trust me today. Let me take care of you today. That's the way God works. You know what that does? That forces us to trust Him. And that makes us uncomfortable sometimes. It makes me uncomfortable. I'm sure it makes you uncomfortable too. He says in Matthew chapter 6, verse 11, he says, give us this day our daily bread. Why didn't Jesus say, well when you talk to your Heavenly Father, say, give me today the bread that I need for the next month? He says, give me today my daily bread. Because that's the way that God takes care of people. He provides for us daily. He gives us good things because he's good. Keep those things in mind because those are very important principles for how this particular passage is going to uh unfold as we look at it. So the first thing I'd like us to do this evening is I'd like us to look at the problem that the people had. And verse number one it says this. And they took their journey from Elam, and all the congregation of the children of Israel came unto the wilderness of sin, which is between Elam and Sinai. And by the way, it tells us a little bit later in the text how much time there went from Elam to where they are at this time. I believe it was like about two plus weeks is how long it was. Well, I want you to just think about this for a moment. There's this massive group of people. I mean, think about what what's going on in Europe when When Russia invaded Ukraine and all these people were fleeing for their lives, and there are these massive camps of people who were refugees. Massive camps. You know what happens when a huge group of people get together and they don't have the ability to farm and they don't have the ability to establish an infrastructure and they're just living a nomadic lifestyle and intent. Do you know how much pressure that would put on a piece of property? How difficult and unnerving that would have been to live like that? The fact is that the people really did have a problem. They had a legitimate need. They needed food. They needed water. And when we look at the story in Elam, they came to this place and they they had water, but the water was bitter, they couldn't drink it. And so they're like, what are we gonna do? We're gonna die in the wilderness. And then God says Throw this this uh this branch into the water, it becomes sweet, then they're able to drink the water, God's provision. There was a legitimate area of need By the way, a lot of times we find ourselves in a place where these people found themselves. We have a murmuring spirit. There is a really legitimate situation that is the cause of frustration. Now I'm not saying that it that our attitude continues to be illegitimate after the fact. How we process it, how we respond in the situation. That's where the problem lies. But the issue itself might be a very legitimate concern. They need to eat. If people don't eat, if they don't have water, they die. They're in danger. It's true. The way was very difficult, and it would be easy for us to understand how discouraging it would be. There's another passage of scripture when we see the bronze serpent, you know this story. That in that particular passage it says the people became discouraged because of the way, and then they began to murmur, and then they began to complain. It's really easy for us to have a critical attitude toward these people, but to be very honest, if we had lived through their shoes, had lived in their shoes or sandals. We would have probably felt the same way. They had a very difficult position. People's lives provide countless opportunities to encounter these kinds of pitfalls. These kinds of difficulties. The next thing I want you to notice is that their perspective had a problem with it. Look down in verses 2 and 3. It says that the whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured. Against Moses and Aaron. Now I don't know how many of you remember back to your English days when you were learning different uh types of language, but This is called an onomonopoeia. In other words, you say the word and it kind of sounds like the word. So when we say murmur, it kind of sounds like somebody's talking under their breath. Do you understand what I'm saying? Like murmur, murmur. If we all said murmur a couple of times, all of a sudden you just hear this like blah blah blah blah blah blah in the room, all right? That's what's going on. What exactly is murmuring? I'll come to that in just a second. It says they murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness. Now, pause. Why did Moses and Aaron take them to the place that they were? Because they're cold and calloused and heartless. No, it's not. Because they were doing what God told them to do. Yet they were complaining against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness. The children of Israel said unto them, Would to God we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt. Maybe they were thinking back to what happened at the Passover. And they're like, yeah, it would have been better if we would have ended up like the people who were killed during the Passover. Or what would have been better if we would have been like the people that were out in the fields when this hail comes and it just destroys the fields and it kills everything that's outside Why couldn't that have happened to us? Does that make any sense? What a senseless mindset. But that's exactly how they felt. They said we sat at the flesh pots, we didn't eat bread to the full I thought they were slaves. I mean, it sounds like they lived these great lives. Like things were really going well for them in Egypt, but that's not really the way that it was. He says, You've brought us forth to this wilderness to kill the whole assembly with hunger. Exactly. God led them through the Red Sea because he wanted to kill them in the wilderness. And God gave them water to Elam because he wanted to kill them in the wilderness. And God delivered them through all those places because he wanted to kill them in the wilderness. Does that make any sense? The answer is of course not. But you know what's amazing? Sometimes we think like this. Sometimes I think like this. Sometimes you think like this. They wanted to die. They remembered the past in a way that wasn't consistent with reality. You know, people always say, you know, the past seems either a lot worse than it was or a lot better than it was. Than it was, and this is a clear indication of them thinking that the past was way better than it used to be. They unjustifiably accused God of being hardened towards them. But that couldn't be further from the truth. They accused him of taking them into the wilderness to kill them. There was no truth to what they were saying. They took out their frustration on Moses and Aaron. Moses and Aaron were not leading them into the wilderness because they enjoyed being in the wilderness. They were just doing what God told them to do. That was their problem. The second thing I'd like us to see tonight is God's perspective. Now, let's just pause for a moment and let's ask ourselves this question. If we had been in the shoes of God, how would we have reacted or felt about what these people are saying? And before we start getting high and mighty saying, oh, I would have been so gracious and so kind to them, and I would have been very understanding of their predicament, and the wilderness was hard and all those things. Let's just think about how we relate to people in normal life situations. Just a really simple thing happens that can just set us off like that. Something little can happen that just completely devastates us. God isn't like that. God isn't up and down because of how they're responding. He is steady, he's calm. He's good. As these people are running their mouths and complaining against Moses and Aaron and God and throwing all these accusations at God, they just have to He bears it. He's big enough and strong enough to handle our nonsense. It's a good thing he is. Here's what it says in verse number three. It says, Would to God we had tied by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt. He has the ability to give them their wish. Just like that. We didn't do that. He says, we sat at the flesh pots when we did eat bread to the full. No, you did it. He's brought us forth into the wilderness to kill the whole assembly with hunger. Come on. Is that really what God's doing? Folks, when we get into a place like this, what we're saying doesn't make sense. It's foolish. It's not true. It isn't consistent with reality. And God saw all of it. So what is murmuring anyway? Murmuring is the unconscious overflow of an unhealthy, sinful perspective. So, you know, when we're thinking about things, our minds are always working. Okay? Even when we're sleeping, our minds are always working. If you wake up a lot in the night, that probably is an indication something's going on in your mind, and you're thinking, and you're thinking, and you're thinking. Our mind is always moving in a direction somewhere, always thinking about what's going on. And so when a person is murmuring, what's really going on is that inside their heart, there is frustration, there is anger, there is bitterness, there is resentment, there is Discouragement. I mean, it can come in lots and lots of different forms. And what's inside that we're not going to express to somebody around us It is so much consuming us that we begin to talk about it, we don't even realize we're doing it. Comes out in a reaction. Comes out when we're having a conversation with somebody, and then we're like, I can't believe I just said that. I thought it was buried down, nobody could see it. That's what murmuring is Once one person starts complaining and you've got the same mindset and you guys just happen to be interacting, guess what? All of a sudden you start it starts coming. I mean it starts coming. And it might be against somebody, it might be about some situation and work out the way that you want it to. There's lots and lots of different ways this can happen. But it goes from something inside to communication. This is going on all throughout the camp. And now all these people are complaining and they're angry and they're frustrated and they're venting that frustration. That's what murmuring is. To put it in the simplest terms, it is the indiscipline failing to live a truth-saturated life. The opposite of murmuring is meditation. Meditation is a discipline. I know that the situation worked out the way that I wanted it to. And I know I'm struggling with this, but I'm going to remind myself of the truth. I'm going to dwell on the truth. I'm going to think on the truth. I'm going to let the truth take hold on my heart. And so meditation is a discipline where I'm directing myself to the scriptures, to the truth. Murmuring is indiscipline. I'm just letting my flesh take over. I'm letting my mind wander. I'm just going without any kind of restraint. That's the difference. So how would God have seen this? Well, he would seen it as something that was completely short-sighted. God had an eternal purpose for the nation of Israel. By the way, he wasn't like hiding this eternal purpose. He goes to Abraham and he says, I'm going to make of you a great nation. I'm going to bless all the nations of the world through you. I'm going to give you the land of Canaan as your eternal possession. He tells the same thing to Isaac, and he tells the same thing to Jacob, and we see this promise rehearsed over and over and over again. God had an eternal purpose for Israel. And those are promises that are rooted in his character, his nature. He's not just going to let those things pass by. He's already explained what's going to happen in their history. When he speaks to Abraham in Genesis chapter 15, he says That your descendants are going to live in a land where they're going to be oppressed for 400 years. So this wasn't a surprise. He's got a long-term view for what he's going to do through them. He's predicted their history. He's made promises about their future. He has demonstrated his faithfulness over and over and over again. Their murmuring was short-sighted. People in just one moment will say something, do something, think something that completely does not factor in the long-term effects of their thinking process and their responses. Their murmuring was illogical. Why in the world would God take such an effort to demonstrate his greatness, his superiority over the Egyptian gods? And then destroy his reputation by killing the people in the wilderness. Would God do that? Why would he make all these promises and then fail to meet them? Why would he undermine his own eternal purposes? God would never do that. And obviously, he would never do that. And that's why their thinking was completely illogical. And guess what? Ours is too sometimes. Their murmuring was an unconscious attack on God's very goodness. Is God sovereign? Of course He is. But when we murmur and complain, we're saying we don't believe he's in control. Or we believe he's in control, but he's not good. It's literally an attack on the goodness of God. Or maybe we question his power, or maybe we question his faithfulness, or maybe we question his wisdom, or maybe we question his loving-kindness. But when we murmur and we complain, we are unconsciously attacking the very goodness of God. We're saying in our own hearts, we do not believe you're sovereign, you are good, you are powerful, you are faithful, you are wise, you are loving, you're full of loving kindness. We might say, I know what the Bible says, but I don't believe it. Because our actions say we don't believe it. The third thing I want you to notice is how God responds to all this. And that is He provides. And verses 4 through 7, this is what God says. After listening to all this stuff, he says, Behold, I will wipe out the people with rape. That's not what he said. He said, I will raid bread from heaven for you. Did you see that? He didn't respond in anger. He wasn't vindictive. He wasn't Spiteful. He said, I'm going to take care of you. So God does. That's what love is, folks. Love can look past the nonsense and treat people With goodness. That's what love does. He says, I will reign bread from heaven for you. The people shall go out and gather a certain rate every day that I might prove them. Whether they will walk in my law or no, it shall come to pass on the sixth day. They shall prepare that which they bring in. It shall be twice as much as they gather daily. Later on he says, at even Then you shall know that I am the Lord that brought you up out of the land of Egypt. By the way, he says the they're going to know this like he says it over and over and over again because they need to be reminded over and over and over again. He is the Lord, he brought them out of the land of Egypt. In the morning, then you shall see the glory of the Lord, for that he heareth your murmurings against the Lord. What are we that ye murmur against us? By the way, Moses and Aaron just kind of throw that out. Why are you guys upset at us? We're just doing what we're told. So notice a couple of key statements here. The first one is this: verse number four: I will rain bread from heaven for you. What's God saying? I'm going to take care of you. Verse number four, he says, I'm going to prove them. This is very fascinating. God established a law that six days you're supposed to work, and on the seventh day you're supposed to rest. A Sabbath's rest. A day where he invites us into his presence, we rest from our labors and we enjoy him, we delight in him. We rest our bodies, we rest our minds, we focus on the Lord. You know what's amazing? Even in the way that God provided, He actually expected them to follow that pattern in how they gathered the food. He left them responsible. Verse number five. It will be twice as much as they gather daily. God wasn't expecting them to go hungry on the seventh day, on the Sabbath day. He expected them to live off of what they were given the day before. By the way, that was not true any other day of the week. It was only true on that day of the week. Very fascinating. God's wisdom is care. He's very deliberate in what he's doing. Verse number 7, he says, In the morning you will see the glory of the Lord. He heareth your murmurings against him. God says, I'm going to demonstrate who I am. So let me put it in very simple terms. God takes ownership of his people. Even though his people are stubborn, even though his people get weary, even though his people sometimes are ungrateful, and sometimes they complain, he doesn't abandon them. He owns them. He loves them. He's compelled to demonstrate his faithfulness and his might. The way that he provides is good and it's consistent. And we see this all throughout the passage. He still expects us to be responsible. All of those simple principles are laid out in the verses before us. This is the way that God works in our lives. This is not just the way he worked in their lives. These principles flow into our lives as well. He provides for us day by day. He puts up with a lot of nonsense from us as his people. His love is consistent. He is faithful. He is kind. He owns us. He is compelled to demonstrate his faithfulness in our lives. He provides for us despite shocking ingratitude many times. This is how God works. The fourth thing I want you to see tonight is that there's a need to memorialize when God is faithful. Look down at verses 32 and following. It says, And Moses said, This is the thing which the Lord commanded. Fill an omer of it to be kept for your generations, that they may see the bread wherein I have fed you in the wilderness. When I brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, later on it says, And the children of Israel did eat manna forty years until they came to the land inhabited. They did eat manna until they came unto the borders of the land of Canaan. Now there's a reason why God did this as well. And by the way, this is not the only place that we see God establishing memorials for people. And when when the nation of Israel crossed over the Red Sea on dry land, or not the Red Sea, well they did do that, but when they crossed over the Jordan River on dry land. The elders of each of the tribes took massive boulders and they moved those boulders and they set those boulders in the center of the river. You say, why is that? So that when people came to the river they go, What what's going on? How'd those border how'd those big boulders end up in the middle of the river? Oh well, they were put there because it was dry land. And they're like, What? Yeah, God caused the nation of Israel to to cross over in in in the in the rain season when it was flooded. It's a reminder. The Passover was something that they they had every single year. It was the very first month of the year. And so they remind that they are reminded that that they have pa that the death angel passed over those who who trusted by putting the blood on the doorposts. Even in the New Testament, we have this when we have the Lord's table. Every single time we partake of the Lord's table, we remember the Lord's death until he comes. Even when we witness a baptism, when we witness that baptism, we we see buried in the likeness of his death and raised to walk in newness of life, and we see this picture that reminds us about the nature of the gospel. This concept of memorials is a very important thing in the Christian life. These memorials are not idols that they worship, they're reminders that point them to God. We need these same kinds of memorials, reminders, a continual reminder of how God has taken care of us. That's what God is doing. So I asked this very simple question. What do we take away from a passage like this? Perhaps you've already taken some things away from it. I hope that you have. But let me draw your attention to a couple of thoughts in closing. The first is this nobody here is immune to Israel's problem. It doesn't matter how well you know the Bible. It doesn't matter how long you've been a Christian. It doesn't matter the incredible blessings you've experienced throughout your Christian experience. You are not immune to this. I am not immune to this. In fact, it's stunning, but it's true. Sometimes, after the greatest moments of encouragement and victory in the Christian life. Right after we come crashing down and we are discouraged. Anybody ever experience that? It is said that many times the most discouraging day of a pastor's life is Monday morning. Okay? I don't think that's always because Monda uh Sunday's a horrible day. I think sometimes it's just that you're exhausted And all of a sudden you start thinking in ways that you wouldn't normally think. It's very, very common. It's very, very common after God has demonstrated his power in a situation in your life and you've experienced this tremendous reminder of his goodness. But some little thing will set you off a couple days later. And you feel wounded and discouraged. You start complaining and you feel like you're hopeless. We're not immune to this. No matter how much God reveals Himself to us in our lives very practically, we still deal with these issues. Just like they needed to take a step back to see what they were doing, sometimes we need to take a step back to see what we're doing You know, they're making police officers wear body cams now. Could you imagine if you wore a body cam and then you could go back and review the footage of how you related to your kids throughout the day? Or how we handle a conflict with another person. We look at that situation and all of a sudden we see what other people see. We go, Well, that's not very pretty. Anybody remember when you were in speech class as a high schooler and they made you watch like a video of the speech that you gave and you're like, oh or you had to listen to recording and you're like, oh man, I can't believe this. Sometimes we need to take a step back and ask ourselves, what am I doing? That's really important for us to do sometimes Like their perspective was ungrateful and illogical. Sometimes ours becomes ungrateful and illogical, too. God graciously preserved and nourished them, and you know what? He graciously preserves us as well. God is so good to us. While they had access to a much more visible expression of God's presence and power, We have access to a much fuller revelation than they had. They didn't have Genesis to revelation, we do. They didn't have the Holy Spirit indwelling them as New Testament believers. We do. It's true that they saw the pillar of fire at night in the cloud. It's true that they walked through the Red Sea. It's true that they experienced God's hand in so many situations. But it's also true, you and I have far more than they have. Because we can read about it, and we have the Holy Spirit indwelling us to press us in a way that they did not have in those days. We have the completed story of redemption. They had pictures and they had promises. So the point is this: the greatest takeaway from the passage that we have in front of us. is we need to ask ourselves this one question. Is that me? Such a simple question as that. You say, well, what if it is me? Well, if it's you, then it's time to direct your attention back to him. It's time for you to sit down and remind yourself of how good He's been to you. It's time for you to sit down and pull out your Bible and remind yourself of what you have in Christ. What it costs for you to be forgiven and cleansed and made right with Him. Remind yourself of how sure and secure your position is in Christ. Remind yourself of the presence of the Holy Spirit. Start recounting some of the blessings that you have most definitely taken for granted as your eyes have been diverted away from his goodness. And you focused in on things that might not even be true, or maybe they are true, but they're not proportionately being viewed at the moment. Remind yourself of those things I mean, get a piece of paper and get a pen and sit down. And if it's got to take you a couple of hours, sit down and do it. It'll be well worth your time. Sit down and rehearse the blessings of God. And then verbalize them to Him. Tell Him how good He's been. And say Thank him. Romans 1, one of the most devastating passages in all the Bible, when it speaks of human nature, you know where it started? When they knew God, they did not glorify him as God. But we're what? Unthankful. That's where it all started. Ingratitude is a very serious sin You could say it is the mother or the root of so much evil in the world today. We need to be a people who are honest with ourselves And we do business with God. This is something that we need to be sobered about, and it's something that we're not immune to. But you know what? There's a way out. If you will go back and remind yourself of God's goodness and you write those things down and you rehearse them and you thank God for his goodness, I guarantee you your heart's perspective will be changed. That process of reminding yourself the meditation on the truth is so clearing to your heart. It's something that God uses to refocus us and reshape us. It's a very necessary thing for us to do. So let's bow together and ask the Lord to help us if that's what we need to do tonight. Father in heaven, we are so grateful that we have scriptures like this that are so transparent about human nature. Human nature that's common to all of us. I pray that you'd help us to be truly honest with ourselves about where we stand before you. Father, if we need to humble ourselves in your presence, if we need to go back and remind ourselves of truths, I pray that that's exactly what we do. It is the most necessary thing for us to do at this moment. And I pray that as we get into the word and as we reflect on these truths, and as we express gratitude and thanksgiving to you in our hearts, I pray that you would use those things. To richly bless us as your people, to reorient our thinking to you, where we might repent of sin and we might glory freshly in your goodness. I pray that you give us the eyes to see how truly kind, patient, loving, and good you are. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, if you have a hymn book in front of you, please take it and let's sing the song 571 when we all get to heaven. You know what's great about when we all get to heaven, we aren't gonna we aren't gonna murmur and complain anymore. We won't be dealing with sin and temptation. That'll be a great day. But till he says it's time, we need to be faithful. Let's stand together and sing 571 when we all get to heaven. Let's just sing all four verses together, please. Sing the one dress love of Jesus, sing his mercy and And in praise, in the mansions , pride at blessing, he'll remember us a place when we all get to heaven with While we bought all the rose happy common little friends, while it 's happy is all When we all get what a dead shell be When we are seeing and children With the eye, I think. The Lord might be When we all get the head for the day of the God Hold on. When we shout the victory, let's do I am asking us. I'm working on people we will be gave up. And we all get where we are. Go with it, all right. Oh, that's it. Pastor Chris, can you close us in prayer? And uh hopefully we can see many of you on Wednesday night uh for our kids program and for our continuation on Wednesday night. Uh we're dealing with on Wednesday night, I know it's on the family, but we're talking about how as parents We can prepare our kids to be able to deal with temptation. So it's not just directed to our kids. This is very practical for all of us. So I hope that you'll be able to join us for that whether in person or on the live stream. And uh we got a lot of prayer requests. So please do uphold uh our church members in prayer and um hopefully we'll see y'all. So Yeah, he had his surgery last night and um it went successful and actually I uh chatted with him this morning, so I'm assuming he was watching a lot. stream. He said he was praying for us this morning, so um I don't know when he's going to uh be able to go home. I I wanna say probably on Monday is what I was it was sounding like but if everything I I know so far is good. So Pastor Chris. Father, it's been good to be in your house among your people. Under your word. We've heard tonight a very powerful reminder of how we fall short. That you and your grace love us and show compassion upon us. And it lifts our eyes to you in a way that should usher up rejoicing and gratitude in our hearts. Lord, help us to do that as we leave here tonight, as we go into our homes. To our workplaces, to our various spheres. And may we share that gratitude with those who are in desperate need of your love and compassion. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.