Matthew chapter 1. Have you ever been reading in your Bible and come across a passage of Scripture where you said, Why in the world? Where those details preserve for us to read. Anybody ever read a passage like that? For instance, should I go there? Think about when the Hebrew spies were sent into Canaan. You know, the scriptures could have just said that they met a person named Rahab. Didn't have to say anything about her occupation, didn't have to say anything about the fact that they went to her house and stayed there They could have just said they met this very nice woman named Rahab who feared the God of Israel and said, we know that you're going to come. And destroy this city, and we can't stop you. Why did he include that one little detail? That one doesn't hold a candle to another story about a woman named Tamar. Tamar got to marry into the patriarch family. What a neat opportunity. Except she just happened to marry into the patriarch family that was quite dysfunctional. And the man that she married, the scripture says, was an evil man, and God killed this evil man. Well, they had a practice in those days called leverett marriage. We don't have them in the United States. Some of you are probably very thankful for that. Some of you might have wished that that was the case. I don't know. But it was a very common practice in those days. In fact, even when we were in Ghana, that's something that still to some degree is a little bit practiced, or kind of an expectation a little bit. But the idea is that one of those sons was going to have to marry that widow and was going to have to raise a child, not in his own name, but in the name of his brother. That man was also a very evil man. And rather than having a child that he would raise up in the name of his brother, he decided to disgrace his now wife. And God in his anger killed that man as well. Well, Judah decided he didn't want to uh spare any more of his sons. And so as the story goes, by the end of the story, this woman Tamar is impregnated with twins. And the father is Judah. It's a horrible story. It's a terrible story. And you ask the question: why in the world did God choose to have Moses write that story? And preserve that so that you and I could read an extremely dysfunctional story. Sometimes we wonder why God's word had to include the story about David and Bathsheba. Why it had to talk about how not that Ruth Samoabitis married Boaz, but that she was a pagan idolater. And the reason that she ended up marrying Naomi was because Naomi 's family, rather than trusting God, went to Moab to get bread. And that she becomes a young widow because God chose to take the lives of Naomi 's husband and two sons. When we read the Bible, we come across a lot of difficult stories. And they're true. You know, that's what history is. History is the record of what happened. Not the record of what you wish happened, not the record of what you want to pretend happened, it's what actually happened And when Jewish young men were hearing those stories being told by their father, their grandfather, they probably turned a little bit red from time to time. Like maybe some of you might have Felt like if I had given all the details of those stories. You ask, why did God include that? Turn with me and your Bibles to Matthew 1, and you're going to find another interesting text. Over the next several weeks leading up to Christmas, I want us to look at several Christmas texts. This is not one that you would think of. as a Christmas text. But I think by the end of our message today you'll find out it's actually a glorious passage. It has some wonderful truth packed away within the history of the names that are mentioned on this record right here. But over the next several weeks we're going to look at passages related to the birth of Christ. And then on Christmas Eve, we're going to have a wonderful service. We're going to have singing. We're going to have special music, and we're going to read through these passages. as part of that service. So I hope if you're here in town on the 24th, you'll be here for that Christmas Eve service. But I'm going to be preaching on the texts that we'll be reading in that time together. Matthew chapter 1, verse 1 says this. The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham Abraham begat Isaac, and Isaac begat Jacob, and Jacob begat Judas and his brethren. And Judas, speaking of Judah, begat Ferraz and Zerah of Tamar. And Ferez begot Ezraum, and Ezraum begat Aram, and Aram begat Aminadab, and Aminadab begat Nassan, and Nassan begat Solomon. And Solomon begat Boaz of Rahab And Boaz begat Obed of Ruth. And Obed begat Jesse, and Jesse begat David the king, and David the king begat Solomon. Of her that had been the wife of Uriah. Let's put our hearts together in prayer as we look at part of our biblical history, the genealogy of Christ. Father, as we look at this text of Scripture, I pray that you'll help us to be able to understand that woven into this list of names Are the lives of people. People who were broken, people who were sinners, people who made terrible decisions. People who suffered, yet people that were a part of that wonderful tapestry called the gospel story. I pray that as we look at this text, you'll help us to understand what would have gone through the mind of a Jewish person reading this passage. As the names of these women one by one are mentioned. Father, help us to consider the glory. Of your plan of redemption, your power and your wisdom and your grace and your love. May we get a fuller and deeper sense of that this morning I pray that you'll help me as I communicate these truths to do it in a very simple, clear manner. I pray that you'll speak to our hearts We pray for those who are not with us today. I know there's folks that are dealing with health issues, folks that have traveled, people who are with family, people who can't be here today. I pray that you would in a very special way be at work in their lives. Help them to be around your people. Help them to be encouraged in the Word. Help them to have a time of worship with your people today. I pray that you would minister to their hearts. strengthen the weak, give good health to the sick, and encourage those who are discouraged and brokenhearted. I pray that you might be exalted and our hearts might be encouraged by the passage before us. Today. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I want to begin by this question: why did Matthew take the time to not just record the genealogy of Christ, but to do it in a very unconventional manner? The most normal and natural way to record a genealogy would be to mention the names of the men who fathered the children that were in your lineage. In fact, when Doug read the second time, he went to the Luke passage. In the Luke passage, I don't think a single woman's name is mentioned The Luke passage goes all the way from Joseph all the way to Adam. Yet in the Matthew passage he begins with Abraham. Well, didn't Abraham have a lot of fathers that preceded him? Of course he did. Why didn't he take the time to go all the way back to Adam? Because it really wasn't part of his intent. Why did he write this section? Well Matthew is beginning to present Jesus of Nazareth as the Messiah. And his audience is a Jewish audience who understood the Old Testament. And Tamar are mentioned, the Jewish audience knows the story of Tamar. When the husband or the wife of Uriah is mentioned, they know the story of Bathsheba. When the story or when the name of Ruth is mentioned, they know that there's a little book tucked away next to the judges where they have a wonderful story of God's redemption and his work in the life of a Moabitus young lady. When they read this, they know the stories far better than you, and I know them, because frankly speaking, we don't speak on those to our Sunday school kids. Maybe Ruth, but not Tamar. Probably not a whole lot about Bathsheba either, and a condensed version of Rahab. When he writes this, he wants them to understand the lineage of Christ And they wanted to, he wanted to connect these Old Testament prophecies to this person, the Lord Jesus Christ. But not only does Matthew want to do that, where he's connecting the Old Testament prophecies and those Old Testament stories to the person of Christ, but he also wants to display the glory and the goodness and the power of God. When he gives that genealogy. Because all these people are the pieces of a puzzle that when you look at it, we call it the good news, the gospel. Rahab's a part of that story. She's one little piece in the puzzle. Tamar, believe it or not, is one little piece in that story. Rahab and all these individuals, they're just one little piece in that story. When he mentions their names, things come to the mind. He wants to present Christ the Messiah, but he wants to connect him to those Old Testament prophecies and all those histories that are recorded in the Old Testament. What does God want us to get from this passage? I think God wants us to glory in the beauty of the gospel. And not just the beauty of the gospel, but the beauty of the designer and the one who purchased the gospel message for us. The one who accomplished it. The one who did the work. He wants us to glory in him. So today let's take a few moments to reflect. On some truths that are connected to this genealogy today. I want to begin with this first truth. And the word that if you're writing it down, write the word brokenness. Brokenness. If something is broken, it's not the way it's supposed to be. Okay? If I'm broken, that means I need to be fixed It means that I have problems. It means that I have faults. It means that there are parts of me that are not whole and they're not where they need to be. The word brokenness should jump out and catch your attention when we look at this group of people. Because when we read this list of people, when we see Tamar, and we see Boaz and Ruth, and we see the story of David and Bathsheba, what are we reminded of? We live in a messy world. And God's word speaks honestly about human nature. You know, it's kind of interesting. We talk about media bias. What is media bias? People take a story, a history, and they put their spin on it. Okay? So if you want to look at the story in the news You can go to CNN, you can go to MSNBC, you can go to Fox News, and guess what? The same story three different ways. Well, maybe two different ways. I don't know And if you watch that that news illustr that that news uh well all those news over and over again throughout the day, you're going to begin to have a bias. Why is that? Because the news can be spun. You pick up one newspaper from a more conservative-leaning organization, if there's any out there, and then you have another that's a more like liberal leaning uh organization and you look at the headlines and they'll be so different. You look at the details that are recorded, they'll be so different. Why is that? Because we want people to get out of history what we want them to get out of history. Think about what it would be like to read about the Civil War if you lived in Savannah growing up 50 years ago. And if you lived in Baltimore 50 years ago, I promise you, I promise you, it ain't the same history. Okay? Same details? No, they won't give you the same details There's going to be a bias. If you grew up in the South, how you look at that time of history, and if you grow up in the North or in the Midwest, how you look at that history is so different because we present the facts we want people to know. It's interesting, we went to the Bible Museum a couple weeks ago, and we were seeing some artifacts there, and as we were reading about the artifacts, they said, This is a record of what happened during this Jewish-Phoenician conflict. And it was the Phoenician version of that particular conflict. And they said, if you want to read the Jewish version of that, then you go to this passage in the Old Testament. You know what's really interesting? They were very different. Why do you think that is? Because the Phoenicians didn't want their history to look bad. One of the things that is so amazing about the Bible is that the Bible is different than the news Your newspaper, it's different than Fox and CNN and MSNBC, the New York Times. You know what the Bible does? It gives you the facts as they actually are. God tells you not only about David's triumphs, but about David's darkest hours. He doesn't only tell you about the wonderful story of Ruth, but he begins with the details that led you to Naomi saying, why don't you go back and worship your parents' gods? He tells her that. It doesn't just tell us the story of Joseph being benevolent and kind and merciful to his brothers, but it tells about his brothers selling him as a slave into Egypt. It doesn't just tell us about Jacob being called Israel, but it tells us about Jacob fathering a son named Judah, who ends up having offspring through his sister-in-law or daughter-in-law. These are unbelievable stories. Why does the Bible do that? Because God wants us to understand we live in a messy fallen world. You're a part of it, I'm a part of it. We sin. We sin against one another. People sin against us. Things work out the way that we want them to, on rare occasions, but generally they don't work out the way that we want them to. And these stories are the stories of people who were broke and messy people. Tamar, go to Genesis 38. And I'm not asking you to turn there now, but write that down and go to Genesis 38 and read that story in its entirety. And understand that the details recorded there are true as they happened. And God chose to record that and to preserve that because that was part of the background for Matthew chapter 1. Go to Joshua chapter 2 and Joshua chapter 6 and you read the story of Rahab. And Rahab is an idol worshiper. And Rahab is involved in prostitution. And those Jewish men who went to spy out the land of Cain and decided to go to her house. There was a reason that they went to her house. It wasn't a good reason, was it? What do we know? What we know is that the Bible records that The story of Ruth. But then 2 Samuel 11 and 12, the story of David and Bathsheba. I don't know if you've thought about this a little bit, but the more that I Study that passage of scripture and think about it, the darker it becomes. You realize that Bathsheba's grandfather was David's closest, most trusted advisor? Do you realize that Bathsheba was easily Of the age of David's children. David was probably 50 plus years old. This is a girl that's probably in her twenties. Do you realize that David knew that girl's family? Her husband was one of David's mighty men. What a dark time in the life of David. David would have been in jail for a real long time if he'd been living in our day, huh? Yet that's recorded for us in the Bible. And then you think about Mary. You know, we talk about how wonderful it would be to be Mary, the mother of Jesus, and how it would have been so wonderful to hold in her hands. the promised Messiah. But did you ever think about the fact that she was pregnant before she got married? You ever think about the stigma that she had to carry throughout her entire life? Did you ever think about the kind of pain that she felt as she looked at Christ hanging on that cross? Did you ever think about the incredible confusion that went on in her heart? As she dealt with this child who is both her son and her creator There are a lot of things in the Bible, I think, as we get older we start thinking about more and more, and we start realizing these people's lives were difficult. The first truth I want to emphasize today is this. We live in a broken world. We live in a messy world. And the lives of the people that are mentioned in this text tell us the story of broken, messy people. But I come to a second truth, and that that truth is this. Write the word sovereignty. While God does not overlook our sin, He chooses to use broken vessels. To accomplish his wonderful purposes. Listen to what Nebuchadnezzar says in Daniel chapter 4, verse 35. He says, All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing before God. He doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven. And among the inhabitants of the earth, none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? This is one of the incredible things that we think about when we think about God's nature. God is sovereign. He rules and he reigns and he controls and he works in the lives of people. Yet he gives them freedom to do what they want to do. Isn't that not amazing? And you know what they do with that freedom? Destructive things. You know, there are some people that should never try to start their own business. They should just work for other people. Because if they ever tried to start their own business, it would be one of the most terrible decisions they made in their lifetime. They wouldn't do a good job with their freedom. They don't work hard enough. They don't have the skills that they need. They wouldn't do the job well. Well, whether we realize it or not, we don't do so well with our freedom, do we? And these people are living examples of what happens when God lets people make decisions. They make bad decisions. You have the stories of Jacob's funk dysfunctional family. You have the story of those spies going to the harlot Rahab's house. You have the story of Judah's misery because of what he did with this young lady. We have the story of Judah and famine. I'm talking about the the nation. And those people, Ruth's family, Naomi and her husband and her boys, going into Moab because Of what was going on in Israel. We have the story of David's family at war. When we read about David's life, when we read about Judah, and we read about Rahab, and we read about Jacob. What we learn is that there are consequences for how we use our freedom. These people experience tremendous pain because of their sin. But there's a second side to that story. While God does not overlook sin, God does use broken instruments. You get that? God doesn't overlook our sin. We suffer when we make bad choices But God didn't kick these people to the side and say, I'm done using you. God chose to set them into that picture of what he wanted to accomplish. Third, the word mercy. The birth of Christ is a stunning display of God's willingness to include the most unlikely in his purpose. Take your Bibles and turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 26. Listen to what Paul says to the church at Corinth. By the way, there's a reason that he makes these statements to the church at Corinth. The church at Corinth put a huge emphasis on power and giftedness and all these kinds of gifts that people had and how they looked good in public. By the way, we can do the same thing. Where people who seem to have it all together, we put them in real prominent places, and people who don't seem to have it as put together, we kind of push them to the side. But listen to what Paul says to this church 1 Corinthians 1:26. Ye see your calling, brethren. Not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. But God hath chosen the foolish things of this world to confound the wise. God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. And base things of the world, the things which are despised. Hath God chosen, yea, the things which are not, to bring to naught things that are, that no flesh should glory in his presence But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who in God who of God is made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption, that according as it is written, He that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. Let me tell you something. In the world, if you want to get ahead, you gotta be smart, you gotta be hardworking, you gotta have it all together You've got to be the most dominant personality, and you've got to crush everybody along the way to get what you want. Some people think that's how it works in God's economy too, but it's not. God says, I choose to work through the broken people. I choose to work through the humble people. I choose to work through the people that don't seem to have it all together, but they're willing. They got the right kind of heart. This is actually pass over the prominent ones to work through the simple ones. I don't think that Paul is suggesting that we should be like, you know, as inadequate as possible. Let's be sloppy in all that we do. That's not what Paul's saying. What he is saying is this: God uses all kinds of people. He uses strong ones, he uses weak ones. He uses gifted ones and he uses people that don't seem to have a lot going for them. And when we look at this story, you know what we see? A stunning display of God's willingness to include the most unlikely. And it's not just that God included these people. But he moved Matthew to leave for us a record that he included them. Matthew didn't have to mention the names of any of these people. But he chose to do it for a reason. We then come to a fourth truth, and I think this one is also very important. And that's the word perfection. When I think of perfection, nobody on this list even comes close, except for the one who's behind the scenes. His name isn't mentioned, but he's there. You know who that is? It's God. God is working behind the scenes As people stumble and as people suffer, as they do the things they shouldn't do, you know what God says? It's okay, I'm gonna keep doing my plan. I'm gonna keep working, I'm gonna keep moving. You know, I think about the story of the wheat and the tares. And there's the story of this farmer. He goes out and he plants the his his weed out in the fields. Well Jesus tells the story. And as he plants it out there, they go to bed that night and guess what? His enemy comes out there and all his buddies, they go and they plant the tares in the fields. Well, after a little bit of time, those plants begin to come up. And that farmer's men go out and they're working and they come to their boss and they say, Hey sir, we got a problem. We planted wheat, somebody's planted tares. You know what those guys said? Let's get rid of them while they're little. The man said, no, don't do that. You pull up those tears. Everything else comes with it. Leave them. Let them grow together. And at the end of it all, when the harvest comes, we'll separate them out. The wheat will go here and go into the barns. The tares will go here, they'll be burned, and then our we'll have a solution to our problem. Well, we forget that when he gives that parable and he gives that story, that's where you and I live, folks. People love to check out their DNA, right? They want to know like where they come from What was my father like and my grandfather and my great grandfather? Hey, listen though, the di the the more you dig, the less you want to know Okay? Just keep that in mind. The more you dig, the less you're gonna want to know. Because what you're gonna find out is you are related to some really prominent people And some people that, well, they weren't so prominent. When we were driving in the car, we were listening to this little thing with the kids. And it was it was a guy, he's talking about somebody who was wanted in twelve states. And he wasn't wanted in all the others. You just might find out that you got some people in your family tree that were wanted in twelve states, but not in any others. And you know what? God takes people as flawed as they are and he continues his purposes. He continues to do what he's doing. Romans 8. 28 says this: We know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose I I actually meant to bring this this evening uh this morning and I forgot. I have this local African wear, they call it a fugu And it looks like a like a big sheet. Like I look huge when I wear this thing. It's more than a power suit, let me tell you. But the way that thing starts out is it starts out as just a bunch of cords And they have this huge loom, and basically they take all these cords and they start weaving them together. And each individual strand is just one collar cord. And they take that thing and they basically make a huge piece of cloth, and then they take out of that cloth and they begin to make those wonderful looking fugus that people wear and they look nice. Every single one of those fugus is just made up of all these individual strands. And somebody takes those strands And by themselves, they're not that strong. By themselves, they're not that attractive. But when they take them and they weave them all together into that piece of cloth, you know what you have? You have something that's very attractive. It looks good. You realize that that's what God does with us? He takes all these little decisions, takes all these little circumstances, He taught takes the failures, He takes the good days, He takes the bad days, He takes This family member and that family member, all these circumstances, and he weaves them together and he makes something beautiful. By themselves, they're not By themselves or not. But when God takes them all as the fabric pieces that He uses, He makes something beautiful And that's what this story is all about. Tamar is not a beautiful story. Rahab is not a beautiful story. Parts of Ruth are beautiful, parts are not. And most certainly the story of Bathsheba is not a beautiful story, but it's one strand of thread and the tapestry that God is weaving. And when we step back, what we see is that wonderful message of the gospel. The only perfection in this genealogy is the God behind it. And what does God do? God demonstrates his incredible grace. Those names are the names of people who were undeserved, but God showed them favor. God showed incredible favor to Rahab. God showed incredible favor to Tamar. God showed incredible favor to Bathsheba. God showed incredible favor to Ruth. They did not deserve for God to deal with them in such kindness and such love and such compassion, but that's what God did. And that's what he does in your life, and that's what he does in my life. And God's grace is on display in that genealogy of the stories. God's love. God loves the unlovely. We choose to love because of what we think we can get from people. Well, if God dealt with us that way, then he wouldn't love any of us. None of us. Because we're all unlovely. We all got our warts. And we all got our our frailties and our failures and our rebellion. He looks at us and he says, I set my love on you, not because you earned it or deserve it, but because that's my nature. I'm good. I love the unlovely. And you know what? God loved those people. God loved Rahab. He loved her deeply. He preserved her family. God demonstrated tremendous love to Ruth. And you imagine that out of all of David's wives and all of the messes in his family, the one that birthed Solomon was Bathsheba. We see God's power. When you read the records in the Old Testament of all these stories, you know what you see? Obstacle. Obstacle. Obstacle. And you know what God says? Move that aside. I'll deal with it. No problem. He accomplishes his purpose. His power is on display. His sovereignty. How he takes meticulous care. He lets people make decisions. He gives them that freedom. He holds them responsible, but he continues to weave. He continues to work. He continues to accomplish his plan. That's how God works. The last thing I want to say is this. We see God's beauty. We see His majesty displayed in the gospel. Why is there a gospel? Because we're sinners. Why is there a gospel? Because of God's incredible love? Why is there a gospel? Because of God's grace? Why is there a gospel? Because of God's sovereignty? All of those things are demonstrated in this little genealogy. Why does Matthew start here? I think he wants to make a point. He wanted to make a point to those Jewish readers that all these people whose names are mentioned, the ones you don't want to talk about I'm going to put them there so you can read their names. Because I want you to realize that's why I sent my son. I want to ask you a question today. Do you glory in the gospel and in Christ? The gospel is about his story, not ours. It's a beautiful story. But its beauty is because of what it overcomes and what is ugly. What's beautiful is what God did in spite of what men did. What's beautiful is God's power and God's care and God's sovereign purpose I want to ask you, have you embraced this gospel? Have you been redeemed? You might say, Pastor Joel, I don't know what it means to be saved. I I don't even understand that terminology. Well, if you don't understand, basically when we talk about salvation, we're saying Christ died for your sins. You can be redeemed and you can be forgiven. You can become God's child, not because of what you do for God, but because of what he did for you. Have you trusted in what Christ did for you on that cross? If you say, I don't know, then please before you leave, stop and let's have a conversation. Let me open up my Bible and explain to you how you can be saved. And I want to say this to the Christian. We need to glory in Christ. As we come into this Christmas season, we're going to look at some amazing texts. I think a lot of times we skip over some very lovely texts about the birth of Christ. And this year we're gonna we're gonna take some time and we're gonna reflect on them. Glory in the gospel, glory in God's sovereignty, glory in his willingness to work for these people. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to ask you this question. Is there anyone here today that says, Pastor Joel? I I don't know for sure. If I'm saved, I don't think I've trusted in the Lord Jesus and I need to talk to somebody. Is there anybody like that? I'm just I'm just looking around and see anybody that would raise their hand and say, Pastor Joel, I'm not sure I'm saved. You may not feel comfortable raising your hand right now, but I want to encourage you, if you don't know for sure that you're saved, please, after the service, shake my hand and let me take some time to go through the gospel with you. Let's put our hearts together in prayer. Our Father, thank you for this text. It's not really a biblical exposition, it's a reflection on The history of the lives that are mentioned in this passage. There's some interesting stories in the genealogy of Christ. There's some stories we wouldn't want to talk about, too. You included them because you wanted to display your grace and your love and your goodness. Help us to not miss what is there. Speak to our hearts. Stir us up. May our hearts be Consumed with a desire to glorify and honor you, and may we be overcome by gratitude and praise. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.