So every time it tries to go live it just hangs. Alright, Joanna, it looks like it's up. Not without protest. I think we're live. Yes, we're live. Yes, we are live. Let's verify. Verify, verify. We can trust but verify. It's not up yet yet, Jonah. It is up. Alright. Well, let's make sure we got this right. Alright. Well we're gonna have to do a little bit of camera work for this. Because alright. Hi folks, I'm so sorry for the delay. We were actually ready uh 15 minutes ago But technology wasn't cooperating. That's okay. We're here now, and that makes it all the better. So um this is uh going to be a interactive uh Sunday school lesson. Anyone who's had a Sunday school with me knows that we we do stuff in in Mr. Snow's Sunday school class. So You're going to want to be ready. In order for we're going to play some games, and in order for me to play the games, I need to know who's playing the game. So uh you're just gonna have to um if you're with your parents have them uh let us know who is going to be playing the games and who's gonna be participating. We're going to sing some songs, we're going to play some games, and then we're going to do our story time. But Before we get too far into that, I just want to let everyone know that this is going to be the Sunday school program for the junior your grade that's third through sixth grade. Um we're going to go through these things. So we'll give you guys a few minutes to invite some friends that you you may have uh want to join 're going to and this is gonna be really exciting and there's gonna be prizes. Uh I still have to figure out how to get the prizes to you but someone's gonna win a prize. No you're not eligible But uh there's going to be some prizes uh to to be given out, so um we need to know who's gonna win win the game. So let us know if you're here. Just give us a little wave. Just type a comment in there letting us know that you're there and I will add you to our teams. And my helper here, Drinian, is going to help me keep track of teams. To get things started, I want to give folks a chance to get started. So while people are gathering, we're going to do a little bit of a quiz here. Uh and you guys can play the quiz. We've got uh Judah here, and Maxie Judah can participate. Uh but Jane 's helping me, so that's okay Um we're gonna do a quiz while people gather and anyone can play. Uh I'll I'm gonna read the the question and then all you have to do is type the answer in the comments and um when you get an answer right then there will be something that you get to do. So let's start with some basic questions. Here we go. Here's a basic one, a very easy one. And all you have to do is type the right answer. Even if you're not the first one, just type the right answer and you will get credit for that. So first question, name the father of Abel. Who was Abel's dad? Name the father of Abel. Uh Judah actually you can go in the other room with mom because she's watching it as well and just type your answers in um into the comments there and I will give you credit for that. Okay? I'll give you guys some time to do that while folks join in on our live stream. And let's get a second question. No, I have them all here. I'm guessing Maya's doing another one. Maya 's doing another one? Okay. Well then but you have to type your answer. So that's okay. You can guess it. Alright, what's your guess? Isaac. Alright. So Judah's saying that it's Isaac is Abel's father. Um type your answers in there. Alright. Anchor Baptist Church says the answer is Adam. That's not actually uh Anchor Baptist Church, but uh I think that is Joel participating. That is that is Joel's answer. So um we've got one answer. Who was the father of Abel? Uh I'm going to give you another question while we gather and we're going to get started in three more minutes. Okay. This one is really oh, here's an interesting one. Who said in more less Who said let me feel the pillars? Who said let me feel the pillars? Huh? No, you can't. You're helping. You know the answers. And hopefully you know the answers anyway. Yeah, I do. Who said let me fill the pillars? What's your guess, Judah? Samson. Okay, Judah's guessing Samson. And um we are going to wait for and then we're going to ask one more question. We've got so we've got two questions so far. The first question is Name the father of Abel. Type your answer in the comments when you have that. The second question is, who said, let me feel the pillars? Let me fill the pillars. Okay. And the last question, the last question is, what do we call the meal Jesus and his disciples had just before Jesus? was crucified. What do we call the meal that Jesus and his disciples had just before Jesus was crucified? So you have three questions. All you have to do is type a right answer. And it's not just the kids that can play, the adults can play too. Put your answers in here. The first question is, name the father of Abel. The second question is, who said, let me feel the pillars? The third question is What do we call the meal Jesus and his disciples had just before Jesus was crucified? Judah, what's your answer? You forgot the answer. All right. Now, I'm going to I'm going to share with you why you need to know those questions and why it was important for you to answer them. Uh so one more minute. You're running out of time to put your last questions in uh and then we're gonna get started. But the reason you want to answer these questions is I'm gonna move the camera here Just a little bit. So you can see we've got a secret phrase here. We've got a secret phrase. Okay? And when I turn When I turn these tiles over, there are letters under them, and your goal is going to be to guess what the secret phrase is. Alright? You're going to guess what the secret phrase is. And when I pick you, you're going to give me a letter. And I will tell you where there are letters and reveal the letters. Okay? So, um, do you have a a guess for the third one? The Sabbath. Alright. So we have all of our guesses here for our little pre-questions. Alright. So the answer to the first question, name the father of Abel. The answer to that is Adam. Adam is the father of Abel, and we had one person get it correct. I believe that is Joel got it correct. So Joel, what I need from you is I need you to pick a letter from the alphabet and type it in the comments so I can flip over the tile that has that letter in it. Okay The second question that we asked is, who said, let me feel the pillars? Judah, you said Samson. Yes. Okay? And we also had a correct answer from Joel as Samson. Okay? That is the correct answer. It is Samson. So again, Joel, you get to pick two letters. Okay? Two letters you get to pick because you got two answers right. Judah, you got one answer right, so you get to pick one letter. The last question is that I asked is what do we call The meal, the last meal that Jesus and his disciples had before he was crucified Judah, you said the Sabbath. Uh Joel, uh, I'm guessing that is Joel. Joel. No, that's not Joel. I'm I'm thinking that there's two different ones. I'm thinking that Joel is one and Nate Nat is the other, maybe. So, um I don't know who's who, which one is which, but we'll they can let us know. But uh their parents can help help us sort that out. Uh and throw a letter up there if you got it right. Someone said the last supper, that is the correct answer. It's the last supper. We had a guess for the Passover, and that is not the correct answer. It is the Last Supper. So, whoever guessed the Last Supper, I think that's Joel, gets to put another letter. So I'm looking for three letters from Joel. I'm looking for one letter from Judah. And if anyone else wants to participate, whether you're a child or an adult, you can throw it up there and we'll come back and we'll do some more questions later. So first we do have our first letter. We have the letter E. We have the letter E and Drinian. I'm going to need you to hold the camera so we can see the thing there so they can watch as I turn them over. Alright. Letter E. This is not an E. This is not an E. This is not an E. This is not an E. This is an E. This is not an E, this is not an E, this is not an E. This is an E. This is not an E, this is not an E. This is not an E. This is not an E. This is an E. And that's not an E. Alright? So that's the first letter that we saw of Judah. What letter are you going to guess? T. T. There's a T. No more T's. Alright? We're looking for two more letters from Joel While we get that letter, we are going to go ahead and get started with our Sunday school program. And we're going to, as always, we open it up in prayer. So I'm going to ask you all to pray together with me. And I will pray as we get started. Dear Lord, thank you so much for this day. Thank you for being so kind to us and for providing technology so that we can enjoy uh learning about the truths from your scripture this evening. Help us to remember the sacred holiday that is before us as we celebrate the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Give us a good evening. Help everyone to be as attentive as possible. And we ask these things in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen. Alright. Now We're going to uh check to see, we're going to sing some songs, and we'll come back to our letters in a bit Okay, we're gonna sing some songs and then we'll come back to our letters in a bit. So the very first song we're gonna sing, I want everybody to stretch. I can't stretch because there's not much going on but I want you to stretch okay I want you to stretch Judah I want you to stretch stretch stretch stretch stand up stand up stand up all right Drinian, do you know the actions too? I've got the joy, joy, joy? I've got the joy. Yes? Alright, well Judah, do you know the ans the actions? The actions. Well, if I have more room I would do it, but I think you guys know it, so let's sing it together. Here we go. Ready? I've got the joy, joy, joy, joy down in my heart. Work down in my heart Work down in my heart, I've got the joy, joy, joy, joy down in my heart. Work down in my heart to stay, and I'm so happy, so very happy I have the love of Jesus in my heart. That you're so happy. So very happy I have the love of Jesus in my car, and if the devil doesn't like it, he can sit on a taxi Don't sit on attack. Don't sit on attack. And if the devil doesn't like it, he can sit on attack. Oh, sit on attack to stay And I'm so happy, I'm very happy I have love of Jesus in my heart, I'm in my heart, and I'm so happy So very happy I have the love of Jesus in my heart. Alright, we got the wiggles out. Hope we've got the wig We've got I know all of those. I am leading the song So, uh yes, I know that there are more verses to that one, but I just wanted to get the blood pump in there because we got uh we've got a lot to get through today and I want to make sure you guys are active And engage. So I hope you're doing uh the the actions along with us. Let's sing another song And I think that the song that we can sing is hold on what I had it marked here. Here we go. All right The wise man built his house upon the rock. Okay? The wise man built his house upon the rock. Here we go. Ready? The wise man built his house upon a rock. The wise man built his house upon a rock. The wise man built his house upon a rock, and the rains came tumbling down The rains came down as the floods came up. The rains came down as the floods came up The rains came down as the house came up, and the house on the rock stood firm The foolish man built his house upon the sin, the foolish man built his house upon the sin. The foolish man built his house upon the sand, and the rains came tumbling down. The rains came down as the floods came up The rains came down as the floods came up. The rains came down as the floods came up, and the house on the sand went So build your life on the Lord Jesus Christ. So build your life on the Lord Jesus Christ. So build your house on the Lord Jesus Christ and the blessings will come down. The blessings will come down as the prayers go up. The blessings will come down as the prayers go up. The blessings will come down as the prayers go up. So build your life on the Lord Jesus Christ. I know there's a little bit of confusion. Are we supposed to build our house on the Lord Jesus Christ? Or are we supposed to build our life on the Lord Christ? Well you can do both because sometimes I th when Jesus was giving the parable he was using the house as a symbol of our uh he was using the house as a symbol of our life. So it could be both. You guys tell me which one should it be? Should it be build your house on the rock or build your life on the Lord's Jesus Christ. A lot of people learn it differently. Well, let's get back to our game real quick before we move on to a few other things. So we've got a few more letter guesses. And I see we have we were permitted three guesses here. And so I have what is A O and U I O. No, so you have to guess, you have to guess one letter One letter, but three letters total. So we're gonna pick the letter that hasn't been guessed. Uh let's pick A. Okay. Is there a letter A? Yeah, I can hold it. Yes. Alright. Let's pick the letter A. Is there a letter A on here? Well you gotta hold it straight because look, it's crooked on there. You gotta hold it so that it's like straight up and down Down like that. Yep, like that. Okay, I can do it. All right. Um Is there an A? A? There is an A. There is an A. There's an A there. Okay, there's your letters, okay? There's your letters. Alright. And then we have one more guest. Oh, he's getting all of those vowels out of the way. Maybe I should make them bivalve Let's pick from his letters. Let's do O. Oh. There is one O. There we go So there's all of your letters there. There's all of your letters there. And we're going to continue with our program as we sing some more songs. We're going to have a time of prayer, and then we're going to give you guys a chance to answer some more questions as we move on to our next thing. So Many of you know that this is a very special weekend, all right? This is the weekend that we celebrate the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And uh uh we uh have had a lot of conversations. If you've been paying attention at church, Pastor Joel has been preaching and and uh Mr. Wagner has been preaching and we've been talking an awful lot about what Jesus did for us on the cross. And we're going to continue that discussion. But one of the main things so important about to the holiday we're going to celebrate tomorrow is the fact that our whole salvation Our whole being, who we are as Christians, entirely hinges on the fact that Christ rose from the dead. And one of the things that he did, he did many, many things, but one of the things that he promised us was that he would rise from the dead and that he would come back uh to receive us. He would come back and he would uh save us one day. He promised his disciples that he would return. And when he rose from the dead and talked to the disciples, he challenged his disciples to go out and win the lost by reaching them with the gospel. And if you know the story of Jesus Christ, you know that he did this when he first met the disciples as well. And he used a phrase to when he was talking to disciples the uh Peter the apostle he said I will make you fishers of men well what he meant by that is he says I want you to reach people with the gospel Well, we all know a song on being fishers of men. We all know that there's a song that talks all about that. So let's sing that song. I will make you fishers of men. Here we go. Here we go. I will make you fishers of men, fishers of men, fishers of men. I will make you fishers of men if you follow me. If you follow me. If you follow me, I will make you fishers of men if you follow me. And We can continue that theme because part of following Christ is not just reaching people with the gospel, but it is also listening to the fact that Jesus Christ gave us commands. He told us that there was a certain way that we needed to live. So we have a song about that. It's called Obedience. If you don't know it, then you're gonna learn it. I know my kids know it and Do you want to do the ups and downs? We can do the ups and downs. Alright, gotta back the tears up. Alright. Hope you guys are ready for this one. We're gonna sing this song, and when we get to the spelling part, we're going to do the actions. Every other letter, you stand up And then you sit down, stand up and sit down. Alright? Here we go. Obedience is the very best way to show that you believe. Doing exactly what the Lord commands. Doing it happily. Action is the key, do it immediately And so you will receive Obedience is the very best way to show that you believe. Let's sell it. O B G D I E N C E Yes sir. Obedience is the very best way to show that you believe. Very good. You guys are good at that. I hope that you guys got a little bit of action in. Let's do a few more questions. We've got to get some more of these letters revealed. We've got some more of these letters revealed. So let's ask some more questions. Questions, questions, questions Here is your question, ready? What did Pilate mean by washing his hands in front of the crowd? What did Pilate mean by washing his hands in front of the crowd? Now remember, put your answer in the comments so we can see it if you get the answer correct. then you will get an opportunity to guess a letter for our phrase so that we can complete the phrase. What did Pilate mean by washing his hands in front of the crowd? This is as a hint, this has to do with when Jesus was being tried for crucifixion. Your next question is Who did Moses' older sister watch from a distance? It's a tricky one. Who did Moses ' older sister watch from a distance? The scripture tells us that Moses' older sister watched someone from a distance It's a little tricky one. He has an older sister. Your last question is Your last question is, in which book of the Bible do we read About the Tower of Babel. In which book of the Bible do we read about the Tower of Babel? Put your answers in the comments. Put your answers in the comments. We're gonna sing another song while you get a chance to think about your answers. Okay Put your answers in the comments so we can look them up and then we'll be able to put them in our thing. While you think about that, we're gonna sing another song and then we'll come back to get your answers. So quickly get your answers in. This is plenty of time. And then we're going to sing another song. Alright Our next song is going to be, this one might not be one that you've heard in a while, but it's one that I used to sing all the time when I was little. And again, it reminds us that when Jesus Jesus was here on this earth. He gave us commands. He said that I want you to obey me. I want you to do the things that I tell you to do so that you can be known as my disciples. And at one point, Jesus had a conversation with someone, and they said, well, what is the greatest commandment of all? And Jesus answered, and he said, Well, the greatest commandment is to love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. Alright. That was the greatest commandment. But he said there was a second commandment that goes with it. And it's like unto it. It is love thy neighbor as yourself. Love thy neighbor as thyself. Well we have a song about that and it goes like this This is my commandment that ye love one another that your joy may be full This is my commandment, that ye love one another, that your joy may be full, that your joy may be full That your joy may be full. This is my commandment, that ye love one another, that your joy may be full. Alright. Now that you guys have heard that one for the first time, we're going to sing it again and we're going to sing it together. Alright, here we go This is my commandment that ye love one another, that your joy may be full This is my commandment, that ye love one another, that your joy may be full, that your joy may be full. That your joy may be full. This is my commandment, that ye love one another, that your joy may be full. Alright. That sounds like uh I don't like your fish image. Yes, very similar. Yep. Very similar. A lot of a lot of the songs are very similar too. I haven't sung that one in a very, very long time. Time. Alright, let's look at some of your answers. We've got some of the questions here. And hi. Oh, Jay joined us. Hi, how's it going, Jay? Thanks for joining us. All right. Our first question that we had asked, our first question that we had asked, what did Pilate mean by washing his hands in front of a crowd? Judah? Um, to clean led to um Yes, basically saying I don't want to crucify Jesus, that he was an innocent man. That is correct So Judah's going to get one guess. What answers do we have here? We've got uh from, I think that's Joel says that they found no fault in Jesus. That's correct. That's correct. That he found no fault in Jesus. So both Joel and Judah get one guess. Alright. The next question that we ask who What uh who what or who did Moses' sister watch from a distance? We have a couple of answers here. Um the who did Moses ' sister watch from a distance, Judah. Um, does Moses even have I didn't even know. What's the answer? What do you think the answer is? Do not know? Um think oh, um, um We have the Pharaoh's daughter. That is close, and I'll take it. I'll take it. He watched the Pharaoh's daughter. She watched Moses from a distance. I remember Remember she put him in a basket in the bull rushes and she watched Moses from it. That's why I said it was a it was a tricky one. Good job. Way to pick up on that one, Joel. So Joel gets two letters. Okay. Judah gets one letter to guess. Alright. The last question is, in which book of the Bible do we read about the Tower of Babel? We've got what do you think, Judah? Genesis, that's correct. And then we've got Genesis from Joel and Genesis from Jay. Awesome. So you guys all get three letters. So you need to put a letter. Okay. No, you get one letter. No, you get two letters. Okay. Joel f uh Joel gets three letters. So you get put three letters in the comments so we can reveal them on our board. And then Jay got I saw one answer on there. Um from the previous one too, yes. Uh the Last Supper. So I want two letters from Jay. That was from the previous group of questions. I want two letters from Jay. Two letters from Jay. Alright, let's get the camera ready. Oh wait, no, I don't have any letters yet, but we'll go ahead and go with Judah's letters. Judah, what letters do you want to put? N. N. That's correct. There's one here. And there's an N there. Alright. We've got an H from Joel. Yes, there's an H there. And that's it. And any more letters. I. I. We do have an I And J is guessing H. Yes, we already have H and R. We've got a R there And he chose you as his last one. You is the last one, there's no you. Alright. I said one. Hmm? I said one. You still have one? Yes. Um You're not three. Oh wait, wait. Yes, he gets two, yes. Can you look at this? Hmm? Yeah, he can look at it. Everybody can see it. Yeah. You can you can look at the oh yeah, right. You can see it. Everybody can see it. You. You. Uh you can look at this and you exercise. So let's see so three, two, one? And I already chose N. G. Yes. There is a G All right. I'll bet you guys have plenty of information to figure out what the answer is going to be. So Jay have two? Yes. J guessed H and R. Oh, H and R and both of them are on there. Joel chose. Joel chose H, I, and U. There was an H, there was an I, but there was Alright, very good everyone. Alright, we're gonna come back to this in a minute. Now was our time to reflect on the passage of scripture that we're going to be so if you have your Bibles to go ahead and open up your Bibles to the book of Matthew chapter 27 Matthew chapter 27 While you get that ready, we're going to sing one more song just to get our hearts and minds ready. So uh we've been really active and wiggly and everything. Hopefully you got all the wiggles out. Now we're going to sing a nice quiet song. We're going to use our choir voices for this song and the song we're going to sing is we've got a couple of options here but I think I want to sing this little white one Nope, nope. We're gonna sing thank you Lord. Um thank you Lord. Thank you, Lord. What? What Um thank you. We're gonna sing thank you, Lord. Ready? Here we go. Thank you, Lord, for saving my soul Thank you, Lord, for making me whole. Thank you, Lord, for giving to me Thy great salvation, so rich and free. And that's the chorus to a song that we've sing. We're awfully grateful to the Lord for saving our souls. Well, it's Easter Sunday. Well, it's not Easter Sunday yet, but it's close. We're getting there. It is the day before Easter, the day that we celebrate the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. And those of you that have been paying attention, if you've been listening in church and if you've been listening to many of the other things, you will know that Pastor Joel. Can you hold that up so that everyone can see it? Pastor Joel has been talking an awful lot about the Christ, the price that Jesus Christ paid on the cross for our sins. And we had our Good Service Friday yesterday, and we talked about the fact that Jesus Christ was placed on the cross. He was hung on the cross with two other people. um on either side of him and he died and the scriptures give us the account of a centurion who was watching And you can see it yourself in Matthew chapter 27. Matthew chapter 27 and verse 54 says, Now when the centurion and they that were with him watching Jesus saw the earthquake and those things that were done, they feared greatly, saying, Truly, this was the Son of God. And many women were there beholding afar off which followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering unto him. And among which was Mary Magdalene, and Mary, the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of Zebedee's children What a sad day this was for so many people. And we think about the centurion and everybody that was watching They knew right away when Jesus was crucified that they made a very, very big mistake. They crucified an innocent man and after multiple opportunities they tried to free this man, this Jesus who was the king of the Jews, who was the Messiah, who was the Son of God, who is God, they crucified him on the cross. And God made it clear that this was not a good thing. But even despite all of these horrible things that are happening, we have to remember that Jesus Christ said this was going to happen. He says, I need to be lifted up so that all men can come unto me. And one of those men was the centurion. Well, time passed and Okay, you can put that down. Time passed, and of course, Jesus passed away. He died. And his body came and was claimed. By a man named Joseph of Arimathea. He got permission to come and get the body of Jesus. He took the body of Jesus and prepared it in a way we call the process embalming. And that's where they take the body, they wrap it up, they they do different things. That's part of the tradition to making sure that things are handled in a healthy and appropriate way. And he was very, very sad. But he took the body, prepared it, and he buried it and placed it in a tomb. Now we don't use tomb to tombs too often anymore, but a tomb is like a big cave. And part of the the process of taking Jesus and burying him in the tomb was that the Pharaoh, I mean the uh the Pilate and the Romans said, we need to make sure that once we put Jesus in this tomb, that nobody can come in and steal the body. So the the Romans hired some soldiers to come and Place a big giant stone in the mouth of the tomb so that nobody could go into the tomb. And not only that, they also posted Roman soldiers To make sure that anyone that came near couldn't get by and steal the body of Jesus. That just wouldn't be a good thing So a watch was set up, and that was the command that was given by the Romans. Well, the scriptures tell us. On uh the scriptures tell us in Matthew chapter 27, starting at verse 62, it says, Now the next day that followed the the day of the preparation The chief priests and the Pharisees came together unto Pilate, saying, Sir, we remember that deceiver said while he was yet alive, After three days I will rise again. Command that the sepulchre be sure made sure until the third day, lest his disciples come by night and steal him away, and say unto the people he is risen from the dead, So shall the last error be worse than the first. Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch, go your way, make it as sure as ye can. So they went and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone and setting the watch. They made 100% sure that nobody would be able to get in and steal the body of Jesus Well But they made a m they made a mistake. They made a mistake because they were so focused on nobody getting into the tomb that they didn't even consider that someone could get out of the tomb, but all the same, with all of the precautions and with all of the steps they took, don't you think that it would be even harder to get out of the tomb than to get into the tomb. It would be very, very difficult. Extremely difficult. You have to move the stone all by yourself. And then you'd have to deal with all of the guards and everything, it just would not work. But that just tells you how arrogant the people were, that they were so focused on the disciples wanting to steal the body that they never once considered that Jesus' words were actually true. Well you and I know, hopefully That Jesus' words are true. He said, I will rise again. And sure enough, on the third day, Jesus rose from the dead And the tomb couldn't hold him. The tomb could not keep him in there. And as a matter of fact, the scriptures tell us, and we know from other from other passages, that the soldiers that were guarding it weren't even awake. They didn't even know what was going on. They had no clue what happened when they woke up and the tomb was empty. How amazing was that? This was the ultimate, the ultimate sign that Jesus Christ was exactly who he said that he was. He was the son of God. He was God. And he has the power to raise himself from the dead. Well, we do know that the next morning on that third day, that the women that were in his life, including Mary and a few others, they came to come and offer uh some incense and some perfume for the body of Jesus as part of the normal preparation rituals Well, when they got there, not only was the tomb empty, but there was a messenger there. There was an angel there, and he was saying, he is not here, he is risen. That 's what Jesus said he was going to do. Well, they saw this and they were astonished. In fact, why don't we read what the scriptures say itself in Matthew chapter 28? It says in verse 1, In the end of the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and other Mary to see the sepulchre. And behold, there was a great earthquake. For the angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat upon it. His countenance was lightening, and his raiment was white as snow. And for fear of him the keepers did shake and became as dead men. The angel answered, and said unto the women, Fear not ye, for I know that ye seek Jesus Christ which was crucified. He is not here, for he is risen. That's what he said he was going to do. Well, of course. The lady said, We have to tell the others. We have to let them know that Jesus rose from the dead. So they ran and they told several of the other disciples, and two of the first men that they found were Peter and and John. So Peter and John came and rushed to see what was going on. And they looked in and saw that the tomb was empty. Well now this was puzzling. But it shouldn't be, right? Jesus said he was going to rise from the dead. It shouldn't surprise us that Jesus said he was going to to do that that it would actually happen. be We believe that God is who he says he is and he will do what he says he will do. Jesus is God, so we have to believe that Jesus is who he says he is and he will do what he says he will do If he says he will rise from the dead, he will rise from the dead. Well, Peter and John rushed over. They saw that the tomb was empty. Well, the problem was nobody quite knew where Jesus was. Mary Magdalene, for example, who loved Jesus greatly They knew he wasn't in the tomb, but she didn't know where he was. She came to the tomb and she was weeping. She was sad. She didn't know. She was confused. She didn't know what was going on. And as she was weeping and she was crying and she was so sad she didn't know, Jesus Christ Himself came and comforted her That's the kind of Christ that we serve. That's the kind of Savior that we serve. The kind who knows when we're sad, who knows when we're discouraged, and comforts us even when we don't understand what's going on. Of course she should have believed that he rose from the dead. She should have trusted that he was doing the right thing, that he was going to uh do what he said. But you know what? Sometimes we're human beings, right? Sometimes we don't behave and we don't do the right things. We make mistakes and we goof off. But Jesus understands that and he encourages us and wants to encourage us and challenge us to do the right thing. Well not only did he appear to Mary Magdalene, but he also appeared to many of the other disciples He made sure that they knew that he did exactly what he said he was going to do, and he began to preach, and he began to encourage his disciples and remind them of the things that he taught them so that they would once again. be able to change the world with the saving power of the gospel. Jesus Christ wanted them to know that there is a God who loves mankind. And that even though the horrible, horrible price for our sin is death, even the death on the cross, Jesus Christ died. So that he could pay the price for those sins. He challenged them to go and spread the gospel everywhere. And we reflect on some of his last words that he gave his disciples, his followers. He said, Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son. and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I've commanded you. And lo, I am with you always. That's the kind of Jesus Christ and we serve. That's why Easter is such an important holiday. That is why it is such a sacred day, such a holy day. And I hope That as you begin to see all of the preaching and as you sing songs tomorrow and as you begin to do all of the things that we do to celebrate the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you won't ever forget. That Jesus Christ came to die on the cross for our sins. The scriptures tell us that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. We are all sinners. And remember, folks, sin is anything that we do, anything that we say, even anything that we think that displeases God. But you know what? The scriptures tell us that the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. We don't have to pay the price for our own sin if we accept the gift that Jesus Christ gave for us. And it's very simple. He doesn't ask us to do good things. Of course, he wants us to But he doesn't ask us to, you know, climb upstairs on our knees or to do all sorts of little things. He simply asks us to believe that he is who he says he is and that he will do what he says he will do. The scriptures tell us that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. You know, if you are someone who is unsure about the gospel If you would like to know a little bit more about what it means to be saved, maybe you have a parent who knows the gospel. Maybe you can talk to them and if they have questions, they can send an email. to the pastor, Pastor Joel, and he would love to chat with you about that. Or you can send a message to this Facebook page and we can talk to you about the gospel. The gospel is so important. When Jesus Christ rose from the dead, he conquered He made it so that we wouldn't have to pay the price for our sin. And that is the amazing truth of the gospels. Now as we think about these things, let's all bow our heads and close our eyes for just a moment. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes and let's just pray. Father, thank you for this truth that we have from this Scriptures. Thank you for the resurrection of Jesus Christ and help it to encourage us and to challenge us so that we do the right thing. Help us to live according to the image that you want us. to live in. Help us to make wise decisions and to spread the gospel to those around us. And we ask these things in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen. Alright. Well, we're almost done for today, but we need to see our puzzle here. And someone claims that they can solve the puzzle Someone claims that they can solve the puzzles. You have plenty of clues here. And I would like for you to type in the comments what you think. The pub that the solution to the puzzle is. What you think the solution to the puzzle is? Just type it right there in the comments, and anyone who puts the correct answer in there is a winner. And again, I want to give prizes. I just have to figure out how to do that do the prizes. We'll have to I'll have to think about a way to do that. But go ahead and type what you think the answer is in the comments. And we'll take a note of that and we'll see what we can do to get a prize. Judo, what do you think the answer is? Do you have enough information? May I guess? Do you want to put it? No, you cannot guess. You're a helper, remember? Nat can solve the puzzle. Nat thinks he can solve the puzzle. Nat, we'll put your put your comment in there and We'll go ahead and do that. Now, you're running out of time, okay? So you have to put your answer in, but I'm going to have to reveal it so that those that are playing who may be watching it later can know what the answer is. Jay put in the rose garden and that is correct. That is correct. In the Rose Garden. Just uh just a random phrase. Wait, oh wait, wait, wait, wait. In the rose garden Um and looks like Joel or Nat put the same thing. Good job guys. Good job. We did you guys did a great job today. I hope that today's Sunday school lesson was an encouragement to you. We're going to continue to try to new do new and different things as we uh work with the social distancing and trying to do Sunday school from home. But I really appreciate you joining me today. I appreciate you uh uh paying attention to the lesson and I hope that it is an encouragement to you. Hopefully we'll see you at the same time, 630 Saturday night for your Sunday school next week Have a great night, everybody. See ya tomorrow. Bye