Well, good evening. Good to see each of you. Hope you had a good afternoon and uh looking forward to a great service tonight. Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer and then uh we will go ahead and do our Let's pray. Father, thank you again for wonderful Lord's Day. Thank you for your many blessings, and I thank you for the service we had this morning. and how you worked in our hearts. I pray that tonight you would continue that work. Be with me as I preach the word. Help me to have clarity of mind. And I pray that you'd use your word to penetrate our hearts and to really work in us. Bless the opportunity to share testimonies. I pray that we would be encouraged by the way you're working in each person's life. We ask these things in Christ's name, amen. Okay. All right. Good evening. As we uh start our song services off this evening. We're going to turn to that page where Morgan was playing, page 343, or look up on the screen. Springs of living water. Please stand with me. And we're going to sing all three verses of Springs of Living Water. Sing out. Alright, first that ends up current. And nothing satisfying there I found, but to the blessing from the fright one day I had two or springs of living water to the bath. Drinking at the springs of living blood Happy now am I spy Drinking at the springs of living blood Oh wonderful and full of The waving water from the hills of God England and happy all the day, bringing, loving mark of the I 'm bringing everyone. Just a couple pa Don't just flip the page. A new name and glory page three hundred and forty five. Just flip a page All three reasons that will turn the both nice things. I have drowned over yet, written down in every day, I mean flyable , my sister, I am found. I know that I am no more, but we know it 's fine. Amen. Good singing. Have a seat. But turn just a couple more pages to your right to page 350. Page 350, all three verses of now are you washed in the blood. You better do the chills that let 's take out for you lost in the blood. I think that of the Lord , I 'll be gonna screw the culture and fly out of the man You want me for the way? The price of me white passion of that small bearing for the wretches , right? What we got to do. Okay , lay aside the I know that it says three, but let's play that last one. I girls are saying building and before the man will look out and You know what the guys go to the uh the uh Put all four verses up there. We're going to sing them all. You know they go through all that work. We've got it good. Okay, Pastor. Lord find us faithful. And then Hanzel's favorite at the end. before the special. Page three hundred and ninety-eight. God, may the Lord find us paper Given us the range new rain. And now mine will be a badly fine for being at the shiny man alright. Okay, we'll go to page four hundred and forty-seven. Four hundred and Forty seven. Four hundred and forty-seven. Wow. All right. Shirley. We'll sing the first and the last if you'll stand with me. Surely goodness and mercy. First and the last. Yeah, let's After the second verse? Yeah, after the second verse. After the second verse. Yeah, very good. Good question Shall we go just converse? Shall I walk in all the way? Shall we go everything? I said there will not be his breaker will be to the witches on. Shall we go on the magmercy shall boss be all right? My God just called me all the day of desert God is from the world and world And I shall be at the table for me a person. Amen. Please be seated. No, I say we'll have it with I filled with his praises One James was sent back into me Jesus came for to be born of a virgin. He says he carry carry my sins for away. I think he justifies freely forever One day you know me or glory I did. One day they let him off Calvary's mountain. One day he knew him to You die on the tree , suffering English, just my sandwich and just Larry, my things, my receiver. Living he loved me , I think he saved me. Very he carry my pins far away , right? I believe forever one day plumbing or glory that day When they the three could conceal him no longer, when they the soul rolled away from the soul, then he Your road over murder has hung on now we must end in my Lord evermore. One day the trumpet will sound for his army. One day the trumpet skies with his glory will shine. Wonderful day might be loving one bringing glory as Savior's is See the new boy living you are meeting safety, carry carry my things far away. Line thy God Okay, well thank you for that. If you could, let's all turn in our Bibles, please, to the book of Genesis, and we are in Genesis chapter 18 Genesis chapter 18, and we are working our way through Old Testament passages that are pointing us to the gospel. And the passage that we're looking at, we're actually going to kind of Drift away for just a little bit away from our chronological study, and we're going to kind of follow a theme that we introduced the last time that I was preaching through this section. The last time we were together and we're talking about the life of Lot, we talked about the fact that life's Lot was a terrible tragedy. And one of the reasons that Lot's life was a tragedy is because he was a very self-centered person. And when Lot chose to set his heart toward what would ultimately be Sodom. By the end of the story, Lot is living in Sodom. Lot has lost his family. God destroys the city of Sodom and Gomorrah, the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, because they were very wicked cities. And at the end of this story, Lot is in a position where he is involved in terrible, terrible tragedy What I'd like us to do this evening is I'd like us to recognize that what we're looking at is a part of that storyline. It's a part of us going from Lot's decision to set his heart towards those well-watered plains. and ultimately ending up in Sodom to recognizing that God is going to be demonstrating several aspects of his character through the way that he deals with Abraham, Lot, and the city of Sodom and Gomorrah. So with that in mind, let's look down in Genesis chapter 18, and we're looking at verses 16 through 33 together tonight, and we're going to be looking at God's patience and God's justice. God's patience and God's justice. Here's what it says in verse 16. It says, and the men rose up from fence and looked toward Sodom. And Abraham went with them to bring them on the way. And the Lord said , Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do? seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him, for I know him. That he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord, to do that which he hath spoken of him. The Lord said, because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, because their sin is very grievous. I will go down now and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it, which is come unto me. And if not, I will know. And the men turned their faces from thence and went toward Sodom. But Abraham stood yet before the Lord. And Abraham drew near and said, Wilt thou also destroy the righteous with the wicked? Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city. Wilt thou also destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are therein? That be far from thee, to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked, and that the righteous should be asked the wicked, that be far from thee. Shall not the judge of all the earth do right? The Lord said, if I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sake. Now, when we're looking at this passage of Scripture, what we're seeing is that Genesis 18 is giving us incredible insight into how patient God is. How long suffering God is. You know, one of the things that we see when we read the Old Testament is that there are several times in the Old Testament where God demonstrates very swift and very severe and very painful judgment on groups of people. Sometimes it's on individuals, sometimes it's on cities, sometimes it's on nations. Sometimes it's on the entire planet when we talk about the great worldwide flood as Noah is building that ark. But one of the things that we see in each of these passages Is that when God demonstrates his righteous justice and the pouring out of his wrath, God is not whimsical in any way in the way that he demonstrates his justice. God isn't flying off the handle. It's not like God woke up one day and he all of a sudden had a bad day and he decides, you know what, I'm gonna just destroy this city or I'm gonna destroy this group of people One of the things that we're going to see in this passage of Scripture is that God is very patient with people. In fact, we're going to see that God's patience It's something that goes far beyond the patience that you and I have most of the time with the people around us We're to see in these verses that God extends his very long hand of patience to a group of people that as we read through the Old Testament, we're going to find They were a deeply, deeply depraved group of people. It was a city that was entirely given over to horrific immorality. not just the adults of the city, but all the way down even to the very children of the city. This is something that we will see in another night. You might say, well, what exactly is going on there in chapter 18? Well, in chapter 18, God is visiting Abraham, and he's telling him once again, I am going to give you a son. This son is going to be the son of promise. He doesn't name that this is this is Isaac, but the reality is that this story is very important because when God tells Abraham and Sarah, you're going to have a son. The Bible tells us that they laughed when they heard that this is what God's going to do because they said this is impossible. This isn't something that is physically possible to happen. We've been barren all these many years, and now you're going to give us a son. And what's very interesting is when they laugh, that ultimately would be the name that they give to Isaac. His name means laughter. Whenever they call this child Isaac, it was going to remind them of what took place in Genesis chapter 18, what's recorded for us in these verses. That when God says, No, you are going to have a son. And he's going to be the son of promise. When you laughed, you'll be reminded of that every time you speak that child's name. So this is a very, very interesting. story. But as we work our way through the story, and we will come back to this at another time because we want to focus in on that promise of the coming son of promise, Isaac. But in these verses what we see is that God's going to reveal to Abraham that he's going to judge the city of Sodom and the city of Gomorrah. So what does this passage teach us? Well it teaches us God is patient, but he's also just And what the passage is going to do is it's going to show us in a very practical situation how God's justice and God's patience work together in very practical circumstances. What God wants us to do is he wants us to view him accurately. He wants us to see him as he is. God wants us to see him as a patient, long-suffering God. But God also wants us to view him as a just God, a God who is righteous in all that he does, a God who just can't overlook and ignore sin, but he's going to have to punish evil when he sees it And so you might go, well, how can God be patient and just? How does this all work out? Well, this passage is going to give us a great example of that So how can we see that? Well I want to begin first of all in section one looking at who God is. Now when we talk about the nature of God, this is an expansive topic. In fact, when we talk about certain attributes of God or certain perfections of God, These are perfections that we can never fully grasp and understand. Like when we say that God is eternal, we'll say, well that means that He has no beginning, He has no end, He's outside of time and space, He's dependent on no one. But I want to ask you a question, do you understand that? Well the answer is not really. I can communicate this on some level, but I don't fully understand that But if we're to talk about all God's attributes and all God's perfections, out of all these attributes, the one that is his foremost quality is what we call God's holiness. We talk about God's holiness, we can say it this way. Every aspect of God's person is inseparably connected to this moral perfection of His holiness. When we talk about God, every aspect of who he is is connected to this. You cannot separate God's justice from his holiness. Or his love from his holiness, or his patience from his holiness, or his mercy from his holiness. God's holiness is the centerpiece of who he is. I'm going to give you several scriptures that talk about the holiness of God. For instance, in Psalm 29, verse 2, it says this. holiness. And in Psalm 96, this exact statement is made again. In fact, it's made several times in the Psalms. It reminds us that God is holy. Psalm 111 verse 9, it says that God's name is holy And it is reverent. We talk about God's name being holy and reverent. We're talking about the fact that there's this distinctiveness about God's nature. There is this purity about God's nature. There is this separateness from evil about the nature of God. Even when we go to the whole uh to the New Testament in 1 Peter chapter 1, verses 5 through 6, it says That as he who hath called us is holy, so are we to be holy in all manner of conversation, or the way that we conduct ourselves, the way that we live our lives. So because God is holy, He is set apart from sin, we as His children, we as disciples of Christ, we as those who have been redeemed and represent Him, we are salt and light in a fallen world. Where to be holy, where to be set apart, distinct from sin, just like he is set apart from sin. In fact, I'll give you a definition. of this word holy. And this is not one that originates with me. I'm actually going to take it from the old Westminster Confession. Believe it or not. And I'm not a Presbyterian, don't worry, okay? But I'm going to take it from the Westminster Confession because The statement is absolutely fantastic. He says this. God's holiness means that he is infinitely pure. He is perfectly free from all impurity. He hates it wherever he sees it. That's pretty good, is it not? So because God is holy, he is set apart from sin. He is set apart from sin personally and practically. So the question that we should all ask ourselves is: how in the world can a holy and righteous God commune with any man or any woman, any sinner? It's because of the cross of Christ. It's because our sin debt has been paid in full, like we talked about this this morning in our service, like that wonderful song that we sang in the choir this morning. We're reminded that at the cross Christ became sin for us. And he took our wrath upon himself. And he canceled our sin debt. So God can commune with you and me because positionally in Christ, we are holy. God accepts us in the beloved because of the basis of the work of Christ. So you and I have no ability to stand in God's presence apart from Christ. But His holiness is very important. It's something that we need to consider. And we'll see in this passage that there are a couple of aspects of God's nature connected to his holiness that are going to be demonstrated in these verses. First of all, we're going to see that God is patient. God is patient. Though God hates sin and is distinctly separate from it, he is patient in how he deals with broken and rebellious people. I want you to pause for just a moment and think about this. The fact that God is patient is something that a lot of people take advantage of, is it not? You know how many evil people in the world continue to persist in evil because God hasn't stopped them yet Now, they have convinced themselves that they're not going to answer to God, and they're going to get away with what they're doing, but because God is patient, because he's slow to demonstrate his wrath on that individual or that group of people, they persist in evil. When we see God's patience with evil people or people that have wronged us, how do we respond to that? We're not happy. Are you happy when God is patient with someone who is an enemy to you, with someone who is being wrong, wronging you, treating you unjustly, or inappropriately? The answer is of course not. We want God to deal with individuals like that. Yet on the other side, we're very thankful that he's patient when we think about the fact that he allowed us to be born in this world, to live our lives in rebellion for a season. Before we came to understand the gospel and place our faith in Christ, every single one of us lived as a rebel. We lived our lives after the course of this world. We were resisting God. We were at enmity with God. And God was patient with us. He didn't just crush us at that moment. He allowed our lives to play out. He brought the gospel to us by his grace. He convicted our hearts of sin and righteousness and judgment. He brought us to repentance and faith. He redeemed us. Patience of God. So many times when we talk about God's patience, it frustrates us when we're talking about other people have wronged us. But we're very thankful for it when we think about it ourselves. Lots and lots of scripture talks about the patience of God. Let me just give you a couple of examples. Psalm 103, 8 through 11. It says that the Lord is merciful. The word merciful means he looks at us with compassion and our desperation. It's like a person who's laying on the side of the road who is a beggar. And when we see that person who is, but we don't know this story. We may assume certain things about them, but we look at this person who is helpless. And there's something in our heart that wants to help them, show them compassion. God's like that with us. That's what mercy is. It says that God is gracious. He lavishly displays his goodness toward us when we are completely undeserving of it. He is slow to anger. He is plenteous in mercy. He will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger forever. He hath not dealt with us after our sin, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities These are incredible verses, are they not? They talk about the patience of God. Psalm 145, verses 8 through 9, it says that the Lord is gracious. and full of compassion, he's slow to anger, and of great mercy. The Lord is good to all. His tender mercies are over all his works. Another interesting passage from the prophetic books, the minor prophets, the prophet Joel, Joel chapter 2, verse 13. He says, Render your heart and not your garment, turn to the Lord your God, for he is gracious. and merciful and slow to anger and of great kindness, and he repenteth him of evil. That's an amazing statement. Turn to God. Because when God has purpose to judge your sin, if you will turn to him in humility, he will withhold what you deserve. That's what he's saying. And perhaps one of the most interesting of all the examples I want to present to you tonight is Jonah chapter 4. We know the story of Jonah. And I kind of alluded to this a little bit this morning. We're talking about Naaman. And when we talk about Naaman, we're talking about a commander in the Assyrian army. Naaman was from the enemy groups that were north of Israel. They were going to come in and they were going to destroy the nation, the northern tribes of Israel. Naaman was an enemy. And God chose to, in his kind and merciful providence, he chose to heal this man, Naaman, to demonstrate his kindness Well, the fact is that God chose many examples in the Old Testament of his kindness towards Gentiles who actually were at some point enemies to the nation of Israel. And at one point in the history, God calls a man named Jonah, and he says, Jonah, I've appointed you to go to Nineveh. And I want you to cry out against that city. I want you to preach that God's going to judge the city. I don't know about you, but Jonah could have responded. Well, we know how he responded, but his motive could have been a really complicated motive. For instance, would you like to go to a city? That was very wicked, very ruthless, very brutal. And as a prophet of God, go into that city and preach: our God, the God of Israel, is going to punish your city. He's going to destroy your city. Now, I mean to put it in kind of our our terms today, think about some of these very ruthless and evil and authoritarian dictatorships in the world today. No regard for human life. I I mean as as f as as evil as we see in the world today, I don't know that we are seeing the level of brutality. In fact I know we're not seeing the level of brutality. that you would have seen at that time period from this group of people that Mineveh was their their base of operation. I mean, Jonah would have been fearful very possibly. There's no question. He didn't want to see these people turn to God and God show mercy on them. These were enemies to God's people. He loved his people, the nation of Israel. Jonah said, I'm not going to Nineveh. I'm not going to go to that city and cry out against it. And what's very interesting is by the end of the book. This is what he says to God when God shows mercy on the nation. Very interesting. He says, Was not this my saying when I was yet in my country? I knew that thou art a gracious God, and merciful, and slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repentest thee of the evil. Jonah was actually angry that the city turned to God. He said, the whole reason I didn't want to go is because I know how patient you are. And I didn't want you to be patient with these people. I wanted you to crush them. I wanted you to wipe out the city. I wanted to leave them to themselves. That's what he's saying. What's the point? God is patient. Secondly, God is just. Though God is patient, he will not ignore our sin. Justice delayed is not justice denied. Just because God allows things to persist as they do does not mean that God has turned a blind eye, that he has forgotten, that he has not seen That he will not deal with such matters or that God is not in control. God is just. In fact, what's very interesting is The next example that I give you is from Nahum chapter 1, verses 1 through 3. This is the same city that a generation of people repented humbly and they listened to the message of Jonah. And they turned to God in humility. A generation later, this is what Nahum says against the city. The burden of Nineveh, the book of the vision of Nahum. God is jealous. The Lord revengeth. The Lord revengeth and is furious. The Lord will take vengeance on his adversaries. He reserveth wrath for his enemies. The Lord is slow to anger and great in power. He will not at all acquit the wicked. The Lord hath his way in the whirlwind and in the storm and the clouds are the dust of his feet. Pretty interesting verse, is it not? God is patient, and by the way he judges. That's what the passage is saying And so Nineveh is a great example of this. God shows them incredible patience. He shows them mercy for a generation, but then another generation comes and just blows off what God has done. God judges them. Romans chapter two verses two to six. We're sure that the judgment of God is according to truth Thinkest thou this so man that judges them that do such things, and doest the same that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? Or despiseth thou the riches of the goodness and forbearance of God, and knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance And are treasuring up for thyself wrath against the day of wrath and the revelation of the righteous judgment of God? What are these verses telling us? God is patient, but God doesn't ignore sin. So we talk about the patience of God, we talk about the justice of God. The question we should obviously ask is, well, how does this all play out in practical situations? Well, there's a third truth I want to mention. God's ways are always righteous. What I mean by that is, when God demonstrates his justice, his timing is righteous. The level of we could say the fierceness of his wrath, it's appropriate, it's righteous. When God extends patience for a season, the season that he gives, it's righteous. In other words, God will always do right and how he relates to people as they walk through this world. And the passage in front of us is going to show us this. We could put it like this the way that God governs his creation is always right. The way that the what he does is always right. What motivates him to do what he does and what he allows. It's always right. The end to which he brings all things will ultimately bring glory to him and demonstrate that he is righteous, that he does right. God does right. in how he measures his patience and his justice. Think about Job. The book of Job is is an amazing book. Because really, what Job is, is a book that teaches us that conventional wisdom, the common wisdom of people, that if you do this, then this has to be the outcome. That's not necessarily biblical wisdom. There's a side to the way that God governs and God rules that sometimes perplexes us. Sometimes we don't understand it. Job experienced this in his life. But just because we do not understand what God is doing, How he's working in circumstances does not mean that we have the right to indict him and say you're wrong, God. For instance, listen to the way that God deals with Job by the end of the book. Job 38, verse 1. Who is this that darkeneth counsels by the words without knowledge? He's talking to Job. He says, Gird up now thy loins like a man. I will demand of thee an answer. Where wast thou when I laid the foundation of the world? Declare that if thou understandest, who hath laid the measure thereof, if thou knowest, or who hath stretched the line upon it? Whereupon the foundation thereof fastened, or who laid the cornerstone thereof? He says, Do you understand how I created the worlds? Were you there? Then you don't have enough information to tell me if I'm right or wrong. wrong. That's what God's saying. Or in chapter 40 in verse 1 he says, shall he that contendeth with the Almighty instruct him? He that reproveth God, let him answer. Gird up thy loins like a man. I demand of thee, declare thou unto me. Wilt thou disannul my judgment? Wilt thou condemn me that thou mightest be righteous? This is pretty forceful, is it not? This is God speaking to Job. Job 42, verse 1, it says this. This is how God Job responds to God. He says, I know that thou canst do everything. No thought can be withholden from thee. Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore have I uttered that I understand not, things too wonderful for me which I knew not. Here I beseech thee, and I will speak, I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, and now mine eyes have seen thee. I abhor myself, I repent and ask. You know what Job is saying? God, if we're playing chess, you just checkmate and me. And I'm admitting it I have indicted you with that much information. I want you to think back to when you were in junior high. Think about some of those classes. Maybe you're in a government class. Maybe you're in an ethics class. You were talking about current events. Anybody remember those current events? I used to love current events, all right? Because when we did current events, we would take something out of a magazine that we had read or out of the newspaper, and we would talk about it to the class and then we'd give our opinion. And I I mean, would you love to go back and see a 14-year-old Pastor Joel run his mouth about current events in the world? I mean I I knew it all. You know, I had it all figured out. Don't laugh, you did it too, all right. But you know what's really funny? As you get older I I mean how how many pastors when they were ordained were like about twenty f twenty-three, twenty-four years old, something like that. And then, you know, ten years later they go back and they look at their doctrinal statement, they're like, wow, that was really, really poorly written. I did not articulate that very well. Oh man, I didn't even know what I was talking about when I wrote that. I mean, it's true. This is what happens. The truth is as we as we as we get older, we get life experience. There are things that we said when we were younger that we had no clue we were talking about. And you know when God looks at you and me and we look at him and we say, oh, you don't know what you're doing, God. Can you imagine what God thinks of that? Probably what my junior high history teacher thought when I was giving Kurt events. Just a little bit. But Job got a sense of that. He recognized, you know what, God, I don't have it all figured out. But I know you're righteous, and I know you're patient, and I know you're good, and I know you're just and I'm just gonna like I'm gonna accept that. And I'm going to live in the light of that. Do you realize the passage in front of us gives us a very practical example? Let me show you very quickly what I'm talking about. You see, how does the passage before us illustrate this in a practical way? First of all, I want to mention this. God literally came and met with Abram. This is very interesting. In verse number one, it says this. It says the Lord, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D. This is talking about God's covenant name, Jehovah or Yahweh, however you pronounce this. They actually technically don't know The Lord appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre. Verse 13, it says that the Lord said unto Abraham, verse 14, he says, Is anything too hard for the Lord at the time appointed I will return unto thee. Verse 17 it says, the Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham that which I will do? Verse 19, he says, I know him. He will command his children and his household and keep the ways of the Lord. Verses 20 through 22, it says, the Lord said Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great because of their sins, it being grievous, I will go down now and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it. It's pretty amazing how it's written, is it not? In other words, we're looking at an example of what we would call theophany The Lord Jesus Christ, pre-incarnate, comes and meets Abraham. In fact, it's interesting, in John chapter 8, when Jesus is talking about his eternality, he says, before Abraham was, I am. He says that Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he was glad in it. When he says that, I mean, he's saying it literally. The Lord Jesus Christ spoke with Abraham just like he interacted with the disciples during the incarnation. Amazing thing. He literally meets with him The second thing I want you to notice is he discloses why he's there. Verses 20 to 21, he says, because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great. Their sin is grievous, I will go down now and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it which is come unto me. You say, Well, what's he hearing? Now this is a little bit of me supposing, okay, but I think he's talking about the fact that the few righteous in the city that were there actually cried out to God because their hearts were vexed. You say, why would you say that? Well, because it tells us in Hebrews that Lot was actually a righteous man. And he was a man whose heart was vexed with the iniquities of the city. Another way is saying he saw the wickedness around him and he cried out and he said, God, you see what's going on. What's so sad about Lot is that Lot lived in a city and he saw the wickedness of the city, but he had no impact on the city. And we'll see by the end of the story that God judges the city because there's not even ten righteous people in the city, even his own family. Within his own family, if just they had embraced the God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, there would have God would have spared the city. But God is there to say, this is what I'm going to do. But this is the part that really stands out to me. Abraham pleads with God for the city, and he appeals to the fact that God is patient. And that God is righteous. And that is the basis of his appeal that God would just spare the city. As evil as the city is, I pray you'll spare it. Listen to what he says. Verse 24. Abraham drew near and said, I can just kind of picture this. Abraham's like, hold on, are you really leaving right now? Hold on, let me speak with you for just a second. I have a question. I can imagine this. He says, Will thou destroy the righteous with the wicked? I mean, my nephew's in that city. His wife's in that city. His kids are in that city. Some of his kids are married and they live in that city. My family's in that city. Will you destroy them too? Certainly he wouldn't do that, God. I mean this massive city, just this one little family. He says, God, would you do this? This is what God says. He says, well, Abraham continues, it says, Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city. Will thou also destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are therein? Far be it from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked, and that the righteous should be as the wicked, that be far from thee, shall not the judge of all the earth do rights This is what God says. If I find 50 righteous within the city, I will spare all the place for their sake. It's pretty significant, is it not? We don't know how many people lived in the city of Sodom, but the reality is for just a very, very small portion of that city. Just a handful of people in light of the entire population of the city, God said, I will withhold my judgment. What's amazing is as we work our way through the passage, he doesn't stop at fifty, he goes, Hold on a second, let me ask you again. How about 45? God says, yeah, I'll do that. He says, hold on, let me ask you one more time. How about 40? He says, okay, I'll do that. Oh, I beg you, please. How about 30? Okay, I could do that. I know I've already asked you several times. I feel kind of bad about this, but how about for 20? This is okay. I'll do that. Abraham says, I'm pleading with you for ten. He says says I'll do that. What does that show you? God is patient. Now here's what's sad. There weren't ten people in the city. And the few that were in the city that were righteous, God literally dragged them out of the city. But what does that show us? That shows us that when God demonstrates his justice, He's not careless. He's not out of control. He is very precise. And he's very careful in how he measures out his job. God wasn't going to allow Lot to be a casualty of the city. He was going to deal mercifully with Lot. As messed up as Lot was, Lot was his child. And so while he would not spare the city just for Lot, he rescued Lot from that city. What does that show us? God is very patient. I want to ask you a very simple question as we think about this. What does that teach us? What does that teach us about God's ways? What does it teach us about how we should view him? Let me give you a couple of simple thoughts. These are not going to be expounded, they're just going to be stated. The first is this: we need to have a biblical view of God. There are lots of people that love to emphasize the love of God and the mercy of God and the patience of God, but they ignore the justice of God. If God loves, there are certain things he hates. It's that simple. If you love what is pure and holy and righteous, you hate what is impure and unrighteous and evil. You can't have it both ways. Love holds fast to what is true. And so when we talk about our view of God, we have to look at him correctly. We have to recognize that every single aspect of the nature of God is connected to the holiness of And so when we view God, we need to view him as he is, not creating in our minds some image that's ultimately an idol of who God truly is. Secondly. We need to be careful to not assume the worst of what God is doing as situations unfold. You know, when we look at what's going on in the world, we really see it right in front of our noses. It's really amazing how when you study history, you can look back and you could say, Do you remember that event that took place 20 years ago or 40 years ago or 60 years ago? When it was happening, nobody understood how significant it was. Nobody did. And now we look at this moment and we see when that took place, that was the beginning of all these things happening. You know what I'm talking about? As we get older, we start being able to get a little bit of that perspective. As we read the Bible, we start seeing how God works in circumstances. But the reality is we should not presume that we understand what God is doing by simply what happens today. There's a lot more involved. Number three, we need to humbly respond to God's patience and mercy. Folks, as God is extending his mercy to you, Don't presume that you're entitled for it to continue. Don't do that When you look at a person whose life is falling apart, plead with God on their behalf. That God will work in their life and that God will continue to extend that mercy and that He'll eventually get their attention. God doesn't We need to humbly respond to the patience and mercy of God. We need to warn people to prepare to face God's justice. Folks, the reason we preach the gospel is because God commands all men everywhere to repent. He doesn't just suggest, like, hey, you know, you should probably accept me. It might be a good thing if you did that. He commands. In other words, when I say no to Christ, I am I am rebelling against him. We talked about this morning the fact that this is not a neutral matter. What you do with Christ is not a neutral thing. When someone says no, they're saying no with a hatred towards the truth many times. In fact, it's interesting. In Psalm 2, it says, why do the heathen rage? And imagine a vain thing. What is that showing you? That when people reject God, they don't just do it in a neutral way. They do it with animosity And so we need to warn people to be prepared to face the justice of God by fleeing to Christ. Lastly, I want to mention this. We should glory in the gospel. And in the patience that God demonstrated in her own conversion. Every person in this room that is a believer is a believer because God did a work in you. I love what Newton says in Amazing Grace. He says, 'Twas grace that taught my heart to fear. In other words, he's saying there was a time when I was a rebel, I was a miserable man, I was a nasty person. And God in his grace was pursuing me. I wasn't looking for him. I wasn't running to him. He was pursuing me in his grace. And his grace is what humbled me. And his grace is what broke my stubborn will. And his grace is what helped me to see the incredible work of Christ that stood available to me. The reason I believed is because God worked in me. Think about what it says in John 16, that when the Spirit comes, he'll convict the world of sin and righteousness and judgment. That's what the Holy Spirit does. He pursues the sinner, he breaks the will, he softens the heart, he opens the eyes, he exposes us to our lost condition. So that we turn humbly to Christ. And the fact is, there's a story of God's patience with us that's a part of that conversion testimony. One of the things we really emphasize this morning. Is that we need to make sure our hearts don't grow cold to God. That we don't become complacent to God. I want to encourage you this afternoon, this evening, and throughout this week, go back and think about all the details. That were a part of the story that brought you to faith in Christ. You might say, well, it was just that my mom and dad raised me in the fear of the Lord, took me to church. Well, how did they come to hear the gospel? That story started before you were born, didn't it? Yeah. You know, my dad became a believer, believe it or not, an Anglican church. Back in the uh back in the sixties, he had a youth leader that preached the gospel. Now it wouldn't be preached in the pulpit in his church, uh from my understanding. But he had a youth leader. He went to college and he started getting involved. He was at Clumpson. He was in a in a in a group called the Navigators. We have Jerry Bridges' books that we use sometimes for disciples. discipleship type stuff. And he was in that group. That's where he started reading the Bible. He started studying God's Word. And then he had a friend that invited him to a Baptist church. Well in fact is if it wasn't for all those little details, lots and lots of details, I mean, would I have heard the gospel? Well, you have a story like that too. It's the patience of God, it's the grace of God, it's the providence of God, it's the goodness of God. We need to recognize this incredible balance in the nature of God. God, this perfect demonstration of who He is. I want to invite you this evening to just reflect on that for a moment Think about God's justice. Think about God's patience. And think about the fact that the way God orders his working in the world is always Always righteous. Let's bow together for prayer this evening. Our Father in heaven, thank you for the text in front of us. Help us to remember that you are right. And how you govern your creation, how you work in people's lives, the amount of time and patience that you give when you choose to judge The severity of such judgment, how you separate the righteous from the wicked, the way that you work is absolutely overwhelming and good. I pray that you'd help us to fully grasp this to a greater degree tonight. Work in our hearts, strengthen us by your Spirit's work. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, let's take out our hymn books, please, and we will turn to our closing hymn, hymn 371, A Passion for Thee. This is a song that I really enjoy. 371. Let's stand together. We'll sing both the first and second verses of this song. And let's really think of what we've heard this morning and this evening as we think about this song. Set my heart, O dear father, on thee and be on me on his own. And a thirst for my God in my mind. Honor fill with thy stringness and I said me. The thing of Lord still I wish my strength and the first one my God in our hair I hope that your heart has been blessed to be in the Lord's house today. It's been a good day and um just thankful for how God has been working in our hearts. I'd like to ask if uh Sean you could close us in prayer tonight and uh look forward to Lord willing seeing you So go ahead, Sean. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this message tonight and uh just Uh ask that we would dwell on the truths that we learned and um just thank you that you are holy and that you are just and just ask that we would reflect on that and use that to thank you for your your patience towards us and uh and uh to um to to continue to thank you for the gospel and for saving us and uh for not allowing us to continue in in our sins and rebellion. I ask that we would enjoy the few minutes of fellowship we have here, and that it would be edifying and give us all good weeks and bring us back here safely next week in Jesus' name. Amen.