Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And today is a bonus episode. It's episode 25. It's not part of our normal series where we're going through the book of Luke. And by the way, this next week we're going to be looking at a psalm, the 28th Psalm. And the reason for that is because on Sunday we're going to be going through the 28th Psalms. So this is the bonus episode. We're going to pause for one week from our Luke series because of the passage we'll be dealing with on Sunday And then we will be back in our Luke series. So I hope that the things that I'll talk about this morning will be an encouragement. This passage that we're looking at is one from my personal reading. And uh just the other day I started in the book of Job as I'm working my way through my reading plan. And um when I read this passage and as I was reflecting on it, there were a lot of things that First of all, the Lord really spoke to my heart about. Um, and I thought, you know, this would be really an excellent topic to address for an anchored in the word. So we're going to go ahead and look at Job chapter 1, and I'm going to read verses 1 through 12. It's a little bit of a longer passage than I normally deal with. And I think the things we'll talk about are going to be helpful though. Job chapter 1, verse 1 says this. There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job, and that man was perfect and upright, one that feared God and eschewed evil. And there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters. His substance also was seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels, five hundred yoke of oxen, and five hundred she asses. Very great household. So that this man was the greatest of all the men of the East. And his sons went and feasted in their house, and every one of them uh er every every one his day, and sent and called for their three sisters to eat and to drink with them. And it was so when the days of their feasting were gone about, that Job sat sent and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning, offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said It may be that my sons have sinned and curse God in their hearts. Thus did Job continually. Now there was in the day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord. And Satan came also among them that the Lord said unto unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it. And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job There's none like him in the earth, a perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and cheweth evil. And Satan answered the Lord and said unto him, Doth Job fear God for naught? Hast not thou made an hedge about him, and about his house, and about all that he hath on every side? That was blessed the work of his hand, and his substance is increased in the land. But put forth thine hand now, touch all that he hath he will curse thee to thy face. The Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power. Only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went from the presence of the Lord. Now this passage is really setting up the entire book of Job And the book of Job is a book that is full of all kinds of rich content. There are there are there are a lot of practical lessons, and I think the most common lessons that we tend to focus on in the book of Job are don't be like his friends. Don't be uh one of Job's friends who comes and it really creates more misery for Job. And that that is a fair application. Another application that we uh we will look at is this concept that um while Satan has authority and power, it's a delegated authority and power, he answers to God, he's under God's authority. Again A great truth that we could expound in great detail. But what I'd like to focus on this morning is what I think is the heart of the entire book of Job. And as we look at all these different trails of truth that we find and unpackage them, these very rich nuggets. I think at the heart, at the center of the book of Job, is the concept that we need godly wisdom. We need a perspective that is consistent with the reality of the world in which we live. And that's really what Job is all about It's about God taking a man and and purifying him so that his perspective is consistent with reality. It is a truly biblical perspective. And so what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to just take a couple of minutes to observe some details from this passage, and really some of it is from the rest of the book of Job, and then I want us to zero in on what that godly wisdom from Job actually is. And when we come to that, you may say, you know what, I've never thought about this. Or you might say, this is something God's been working in my own heart about, and it's really good to hear this because it reinforces that principle. This really helps me to make sense of some of the things that I'm dealing with, at least to see it in a certain aspect of what God is doing. So let's move our way through the passage. First of all, I want to talk about Job's character. There's one word that comes to mind, and that's the word blameless. And there are two path two verses, two statements about this in Job 1. 1 and then in Job 1. 8. And it's it's repeated almost word for word. And it really emphasizes the kind of person that Job was. It says in Job 1, verse 1, it says there was a man in the land of Oz, whose name was Job The man was perfect and upright, one that feared God, and eschewed evil. Again in verse eight, when God is talking to Satan, he says, Hast thou not considered my servant Job? There is none like him in all the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God. and Escheweth evil. What that shows us is that the reputation of Job, not only before the people, but in the presence of God, was a consistent one. He was known as a blameless man. Doesn't mean he was sinless. In fact, we're going to get into this in just a minute, but he was a person that you would not have found fault with him if you were analyzing his life. The second observation. was Job's position before God. And the word I'd use is the word redeemed. Now when we go to Job 19, we see a statement that Job makes that is a powerful statement to his understanding of how God viewed him. And this is what it says. He says, I know that my Redeemer, very important word, liveth. that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. And though after my skin and worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God. This is one of the great statements in the Old Testament dealing with the issue of the resurrection of the body. But there's a word that he uses that's so important. He says that I know my Redeemer lives. Job understood that though he was an upright man who walked consistently before other people, he was not a sinless man. Job was someone who needed a redeemer. And so we see that he is consistent in his conduct, but he's also still a sinner. And he's a sinner that needed redemption. And he understood. that God was his redeemer. The third observation that I want to make is the disposition that Job had before God and before others and how he looked at the world around him. And I'm going to use a word that that you might not have thought of, and that's the word inconsistent. And you'd say, hold on a second. Joel, you just said he was blameless. There's a statement about his his reputation, and there's a statement about how God views him You said he's redeemed, and now you're saying he's inconsistent. Yes, I'm going to say he's inconsistent. And we all are inconsistent on some level. What I'm going to say is that Job understood I'm a sinner and I'm redeemed But there was something about the way he viewed the world that was inconsistent with the position and the view that he had of God and redemption. You say, well, where in the world do you get that? Well let me show you, because this is something that I never really thought deeply about until I read it the other day, and I started asking myself the question, what does this say about Job? Job chapter 1, verse 5 It says that it was so when the days of their feast, and these are his children were gone, that Job sat and sanctified them. And he rose up early in the morning, and he offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all. And Job said, and listen carefully to what it says. He says, It may be that my sons have sinned, and they have cursed God in their hearts, and thus did Job continually. Now that statement is a very important statement for helping us to appreciate something about the way that Job thought, not about the way he lived. About the way that he thought. He says, it might be that my children have sinned in their heart, and so he's continually sacrificing on the behalf of his children. Now I gotta ask this question, do you see anywhere in Scripture that that kind of a pattern Is is found anywhere else. I don't. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe in the times that I've read the scriptures, I've missed something, but I don't see that. I don't see anywhere in Scripture where we are taught that we can somehow bring our children into the presence of the Lord by our own actions. In other words, you know, I pray for my children's salvation. But I can't be faithful them. In other words, my children have to personally understand the gospel, place their faith in Christ. I can't trust Christ for them. I can take them to church. I can live as consistent a life before them as possible. I can I can share with them the gospel. I can pray for their redemption. But at the end of all of that They're going to have to stand before God themselves. There's something about the way that Job is looking at life that this verse is saying, that is showing us that there's something not quite right about his motivation. why he's doing what he's doing. And then we see another very interesting statement in Job chapter 1, verses 9 through 11. Now we've got to remember this is Satan and Satan is the father of all lies. But this is very revealing About what Satan says. It says in verse nine, then Satan answered the Lord and said, Doth Job fear God for naught Now, what is Satan saying to God? He's saying the reason that Job serves you is because he's getting something out of it. Now, why does Satan make this accusation? It's got to be something about what he observed in Job's life. Perhaps what we just read about in verse 5 is an indication of something about the way that Job's living that's revealing a thinking pattern that's actually not very healthy. It's actually at the heart of why the book of Job unfolds the way that it does. We'll continue. He says, You have set a hedge about him, and his house, and all that he has on every side. Thou hast blessed the work of his hands, his substance is increased in the land. Put forth thine hand now and touch all that he hath. And he will curse thee to thy face. You know what Satan is basically saying? He is accusing Job to God, saying, the reason that Job serves you The reason that he's blameless and upright and meticulous is because he is earning your protection and he's earning your favor and he's earning money and substance and prosperity from you. And you know what's amazing? I think what Satan is saying appears to be a part of the worldview thinking of Job at the time. That is what's coming out in the way that he thinks about his own children. And by the way, one of the reasons that Job's friends uh appeal to him the way that they do is because in their minds there is this idea that righteous people earn good Evil people earn bad. If you're dealing with evil in your life, it's because you earned it by doing bad things. And if you're experiencing good in your life, it's because you earned it because you're doing good things. And so really it's not so much about the fact that Job's friends were, you know, they were unmerciful and unkind. It's about their worldview was was not consistent with reality. In their minds, there is a I earn God's favor through what I do kind of a mindset. And by the way, I think it's very likely that Job also had a bit of this in the way that he thought too. You see this come out in what his wife says in Job 2, 9. His wife said unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? Curse God and die. But he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women. What shall we receive? Good at the hand of God? Shall we not receive evil? And all this Job did not sin. with his lips. What I'm showing you is there's an inconsistency. There's a part to Job's thinking that recognizes, you know what, I I I came into this world with nothing, I'm going to go out with nothing. I haven't earned anything from God. I don't deserve anything from God. I'm not building credentials to receive good things. But then there's also a side to the way that Job is thinking and reasoning and acting where it seems as if He does have a bit of that in his thinking. And here's the point of why I bring this up. This is the way many of us live our lives too We understand that we are saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. We understand that we are secured by the redemptive work of Christ. We can't strengthen or diminish our position in Christ. We understand this theologically. We believe in the gospel. But when it comes down to how we live the Christian life We live the Christian life a lot like the Galatians did, who said, you've got to bring the law back into it. Yes, you get saved by the work of Christ, but if you're a good Christian, then you're doing these things and somehow God is obligated to give you good because you've done good. And we get this kind of a mindset that frankly is inconsistent with that theological position. And so I think that in some sense this is going on with Job. And for s for certain this is going on with Job's friends. The reason that they advised him the way they did, the reason that they said the things to him that they said, the reason that Job responds at certain points in the book the way that he does, is because that thinking is a part of their worldview. And that thinking is inconsistent with a clear understanding of the gospel. Not that a Christian can't think this way. A Christian can't. Job was a believer. He was redeemed. We can think like this too. Here's a fourth observation I want to point out. And that's the kindness of God. Now, some of you may go, well, hold on a second. I mean, if God was kind, he wouldn't have taken the stuff away from Job. He wouldn't have allowed Satan to attack Job. He would have protected him and his family and all those things. Let me break this down a little bit. God's kindness was primarily more than anything else about his patience. God loved Job and was kind to him before Job went through all these things. God didn't love Job because Job earned his love, or because he was this notable person who deserved his love. God's love was all about his grace. And it's all about his good character towards Job. Job was in need of redemption just as much as any other person. And so his love for Job was not about God giving him something that he had earned. Job's worldview had an inconsistent side to it, and it needed to be disentangled, reshaped, and matured. It's not that Job wasn't a believer, and it's not that Job was wrong in every single area of how he looked at things, is that there were elements of his worldview that needed to be untangled and reshaped in a biblical and godly way. He needed to mature. He needed to be strengthened. He needed to be purified. Those are the words I would use. All of his discipline and all of his all of his righteousness, it fell short His riches, his prosperity, they were not earned. He wasn't entitled to the good things that he enjoyed. They were grace gifts. It was God's kindness. That had a redemptive purpose in allowing Job to go through the things that he went through. Now that's a statement that we may have a hard time kind of wrapping our minds around And I understand that. I have a hard time wrapping my my mind around it sometimes. But God knows that the process that Job had to go through had to go through was not as painful as the glorious benefits of becoming the kind of believer God wanted him to be The maturity that would come through that process was more valuable than the temporary suffering that he went through. It was God's kindness. that took on that redemptive purpose. It was God's kindness that walked through this process with Job. That's the patience of God. God didn't abandon Job, God didn't berate Job. He walked with him through that process very patiently and very tenderly. It was God's process that, or God's kindness that matured him and shaped him and refined him as he went through that. It's what it was God's kindness that ultimately restored Job in the end. He restored Job's joy and his prosperity and his And the good things that that he had enjoyed before. God actually gave those things back to him. Many of those things. But more than anything, it was God's kindness that gave us this entire book. so that we would not have to wander through this without some guidance beforehand. God is very kind, and that's really what the book of Job is all about. Yes, there's a lot of suffering and there's a lot of pain, there's a lot of hardship. But there is the hand of God behind the scenes shaping Job into the man that he needs to be. The last thing I want to mention, this is the practical side, is the godly wisdom that comes from the book of Job. When God is taking this man whose worldview has some tangles that need to be unraveled and put back together in the right way, and it needs to be more consistent and more healthy and more matured and more stable. What does God teach us in this? Well, one of the things that he teaches us is that it's possible to be redeemed and have a worldview. That's not healthy. It's not consistent. And so what does God have to do? He has to put us through a process in order to refine us and help us to think properly about what's going on. We need that perspective to be dealt with. Sometimes God has to do in our life something very similar to what he did in Job's life. Thankfully, it's rare that we come anywhere close to the kinds of things that Job experienced. Sometimes we go through very hard times. You might be in the midst of one right now. You can't make sense of the whole situation. And people around you can't make sense of the whole situation. But there is a sense in which you know what God is doing He's taking you through a process just like he was taking Job through that process because he wants your view of himself and yourself and the world around you. He wants it to get refocused so it's consistent with the truth. Suffering and pain are actually a necessary tool that God must use in our lives sometimes. And so I think that's really what the whole book of Job is all about. It's about God taking a man who was a believer, who was consistent. He was the best of the best of his time, if you want to compare him to other people. But there were aspects of the way that he looked at God himself and the world around him that were wrong. He had this view of the world that in some sense he had earned God's goodness. or that he had earned God's displeasure. And the fact is he needed to recognize that God was dealing with him on a grace basis entirely God's got to do the same thing with us. I hope that as you find yourself in difficult circumstances, you will come to a book like the book of Job. And allow the truth that we find there to really help you work through the process that you're in the midst of. God wants to mature you. It's not an easy process. But it is a valuable, priceless process. And God wants us to see this world the way He intended us to in the light of Scripture. Hope that you have a great rest of your weekend. That was our bonus episode, episode 25. And uh Lord willing, uh we will get back into this on Monday, and we will be in the Psalms uh for one week before we get back in our Luke series. Have a great day. Bye now.