The passage that we're dealing with tonight is Second Corinthians chapter two, verses six, down to verse sixteen. So if you could take your Bible and please turn there with me. And um it's a little bit of a longer passage and so So we're going to read it together and then spend some time together reflecting on this very important passage of Scripture. Here's what the Word of God says in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 verse 6 how be it we speak wisdom among them that are perfect Yet not the wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world that come to naught. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery Even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the world unto our glory, which none of the princes of this world knew. For had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But as it is written, I hath not seen Nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. But God hath revealed them unto us by his spirit. For the spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. For what man knoweth the things of a man save the spirit of man which is in him? Even so the things of God knoweth no man but the Spirit of God. Now, we have received not the Spirit of the world. But the Spirit which is of God, we might know the things that are freely given to us of God, which things also we see Speak not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. But the natural man receiveth not the things things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him. Neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, yet himself is judged of no man. For who hath known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ. Now I know this is a lengthy passage of Scripture, and since I'm dealing with it in hopefully one setting tonight, I'm obviously not going to pick apart every single piece of the text in front of us because really if I if I take that kind of approach, we will be in 1 Corinthians for probably the next five years of our lives. And so I'd like to kind of keep moving through it. But I want to us to get the big picture sense of what Paul is writing in these verses. So I want to begin by a summary statement, then let's kind of take ourselves back just for a moment to reflect on what we talked about last week. Summary goes this way. Godly wisdom is superior to worldly wisdom. However, only God's gracious self-revelation through Scripture And the illuminating work of the Spirit can give us this needed godly wisdom. Let me say it again. Godly wisdom is superior to worldly wisdom. However, only God's gracious Self-revelation through Scripture and the illuminating work of the Spirit can give us this needed godly wisdom. Now, if you take yourself back over the last couple of weeks, we've been talking about a deep concern that Paul has for the church at Corinth. The church has a pride problem, a big-time pride problem. And this pride problem is manifesting itself in a lot of different ways. One of the big ways that this pride problem is manifesting itself is that there's division in the church, and this division is oriented around the personalities of those who are teaching. Now there's nothing wrong with appreciating uh people that can communicate the Word of God well. I mean that's nothing wrong with that. I mean obviously Some people communicate the word very well. Some people, it's 50-50. And the fact is that God does give people in a very special way. specific way. But there's something very deeply wrong when we begin to elevate personalities and elevate individuals and elevate gifts And we begin to, rather than focus our attention on the Lord and His Word, we're representing or we're focusing our attention on the personalities of people. It's very dangerous in the church. And really it's an indication of a deep-rooted pride problem in the hearts of the people. Now, the issue that was going on at Corinth shouldn't have surprised anyone because of the nature of the culture that they lived in. It was a divisive culture. It was a culture where people love to work up their credentials and build them up and they like to establish political alliances and all of those things. So while these people are now new creatures in Christ and they place their faith in in the Lord. Lord Jesus, there's a lot of that mentality that's still in doubt. And this should be true of everybody. I mean, we as Americans living in the first century, they're our first century, 21st century There are things about the way that we live our lives. There are certain presuppositions that we have. There's certain things that we kinda overlook that if we could take ourselves back to a different time in church They would be appalled at the way that we look at certain things. We are affected by our culture, sadly but truthfully, and not every generation is necessarily affected the same way, and that's one of the values of studying churches. That's one of the values of reading the sermons and the teaching of people who've lived many, many generations ago because the things that they struggled with and the things that we struggled with. That we start with, some of them are very similar, but some of them are also kind of different. The context that they live in are going to give a perspective that can be helpful to us. So, with that in mind, Paul is elevating the authority of Scripture. Last week we talked about the importance of our view of Scripture and the preaching of the Word of God. Well, what's interesting about this discussion that Paul is making is that he's going to make a clarification statement about something that he that we read last week. And he's also going to take this concept of the importance of biblical preaching, and he's going to expand it a little bit further. Because biblical preaching is not just about giving people facts. It's not just appealing to people's minds. Or it's not just working people up emotionally. This is a spiritual work. This book is the Word of God given to us by the miraculous work of the Spirit through these human pen. And the word of God has to come to us with power in order for us to actually understand it and be gripped by it and convicted by it and that we would respond properly to it. And so this isn't an emotional thing. Sometimes people say, well, powerful preaching is when somebody gets up and yells a lot and gets really animated. That's not powerful preaching. Someone could just get up and read a sermon, but that red sermon in a monotone voice comes with the power of the Spirit. You know what? The Spirit of God can grip people's souls And this is exactly what happened when Jonathan Edwards was reading Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. He wasn't preaching it in an animated way. He wasn't trying to get people's attention to Through theatrics, he was in a monotone voice reading this sermon, and the Spirit of God took it and just boom, grabbed people's hearts by it. And that is what Paul is going to emphasize in these verses. Verses. That sense where the Spirit of God takes his word and he grips our souls with it. That's something that we desperately need. if we're going to be godly people. If we're going to have godly wisdom. So let's work our way through the text and see what he has to say here. First truth that I want you to notice from the word is this. There are two kinds of wisdom. And when I say there are two kinds of wisdom, I want you to notice the way that he puts it in verse 6. He says, how be it We speak wisdom among them that are perfect, yet not the wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world that come to naught. Two phrases in that verse really grabbed my attention. The word, howbeit we speak wisdom is kind of indicating that he's providing this clarification for what he's just said earlier. And I'm going to touch on that in a second. The second statement is, yet this is not the wisdom of this world. Do you see how there are two wisdoms that are spoken of here? A wisdom that we might call pragmatism. A wisdom that doesn't consider God and doesn't consider eternity simply thinks in terms of what works, what makes me happy, what feels good. That's what we mean by worldly wisdom. And I'm gonna expand that a little in a second. He's clarifying what he said in verse 1. When I came to you, I came not with excellence, excellency of spirit. speech or of wisdom. And so the Corinthians say, so then what you're saying is foolishness? And he says, no. What I'm saying is a different kind of wisdom. It's not the wisdom of this world. It's a wisdom that the world sees as foolishness because the values that shape a worldly perspective do not value the things that Things that God values. That's what he's saying. So he's contrasting a wisdom that is worldly and a wisdom that is godly. And we see this kind of contrast in a lot of other places. For instance, listen to what it says in Proverbs chapter 1, Old Testament example. Verse 20, it says, Wisdom crieth without. Now, this would be the godly wisdom. She uttereth her voice in the streets, she crieth in the chief places of concourse, in the openings of the gates in the city. She uttereth her voice, saying, How long, ye simple ones, will ye love? Simplicity. What an interesting statement. People enjoy not having godly wisdom. They like being able to say, well, you know, I don't need that. We see the word complacent. We could probably put in there. How long you you simple ones will you love simplicity? And scorners delight in scorning. Do you see the affectional side of this? People love to be simple. People delight in scorning. And fools hate knowledge. By the way, if you hate something that is the opposite result of something you love. So if I love something, there are going to be some things that I hate. And if I hate something, there are going to be some things I love. You can see that there's this contrasting correspondence here. Love what is evil and what? You'll hate what is good. Love what is good and what? You will hate what is evil. You can't love two things that are contrary to one another. And so what does that show you? The affectional side of simplicity and scorning and folly. He says, turn at my reproof, behold. I will pour out my spirit on you. I will make known to you, known my words unto you. I have called, but you refuse. Stretch out my hand, and no man regardeth. You said it not all my counsels, and with none of my reproofs. I will laugh at your calamity, I will mock when your fear cometh. Guess what you see here? Different wisdoms. One wisdom that says, simplicity's good, folly is great, scorning. I like it. And another that says, turn. from those things and embrace godly wisdom. You see the contrast. But you see it even more thoroughly in James chapter 3. Listen to what he says. He says, if you have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not, lie not against the truth. This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish, demonic. That's a good word we can use Where envying and strife is, there is confusion in every evil work. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure and peaceable. And gentle and easy to be entreated, full of mercy, good fruits, without partiality, without hypocrisy. Do you see this contrast? How do you know which wisdom a person has? Well, look at how they interact with the people. A person that's contentious is contentious for a reason. person who is merciful and gracious and kind and and you can actually have a conversation with them and you can explain what is on your mind like those kinds of things. You see, there's two different worldviews that are shaping those two things. We're not just talking about somebody who's passive and someone who's aggressive. We're talking about someone who is merciful and gracious versus someone who is harsh and cruel and vindictive. It's not about personality. It's about the wisdom that shapes how people relate to one another. So I would put it like this: if we ask ourselves how we handle money, guess what it does? It reveals Values. What kind of work are we willing to do? That reveals values. You say willing to do? Yeah, there's some kind of work that would be sinful and you shouldn't do those things, right? It wouldn't be honest work. Theft is one example, obviously, but we could go into things that are sinful or encourage people to do sinful things. What motives are guiding what you do and what you don't do and why you do those? things how do you handle interpersonal conflicts how do you handle commitments if you say I'm going to do this do you actually do it do you actually follow through with it? Why do you follow through with it or why do you feel like you don't have to follow through with it? How honest are you and are you willing to fulfill your word even if it's gonna hurt? How do you think about your work? About pleasure, about family life? What are your guiding principles and values Now the reason I bring those things up is to simply say this. You have uh a way of thinking that all of those all of those questions would be answered in a godly wisdom kind of a way, and all of those questions could be answered in a wormly Wisdom kind of a way. So we have two kinds of wisdom. Keep that in the back of your mind as we keep working our way through the text. Second truth I want you to notice is that God's wisdom addresses the complete picture. And verse 7 he says, but we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the world. And I love this next statement. Unto our glory. Isn't that an amazing statement? God 's wisdom leads To our glory. Not that we are glorying in ourselves like we deserve some kind of praise or worship. He's talking about the fact that God's wisdom leads to an end that was consistent with his purpose. And maybe if you uh grew up in like a Protestant denomination, you you might know this answered the catechism, why did God create man? It was so that we would know him and enjoy him forever. Well, I mean that's true. God created us for relationships. God created us to love him, to enjoy that interaction with him for all of eternity. And so God's wisdom leads us to that end. And he says that God's wisdom is something that was there even before the world. was created. Even when we go to the book of Proverbs, he says, by wisdom I founded the world and everything in it. That's what he says in Proverbs. And so there are three bold claims that he makes in this little statement, verse 7. The first claim is that he's saying, I speak God's wisdom. Paul is saying what I'm telling you. Is God's word, not mine. God's wisdom, not my wisdom. God's wisdom, not this world's wisdom. Second class, that's why he says it's the wisdom of God. Second claim is he claims that this wisdom has been revealed progressively. Notice the phrase, it's in a mystery. It's the hidden wisdom. This is what that means. There are certain things that, as God revealed them, it's sort of like an onion. Okay, if you're holding an onion, you're looking at that onion, and you peel off a layer, and what do you find below that layer? Another layer. And then you peel that layer off, and then what do you find? Another layer. And then you peel that layer off, and what do you find? Yet another layer. And you just keep going and you peel off those layers, and what are you doing? You're getting to the core of the onion. Now, each individual layer of that onion is all part of the same onion. Okay? It's not like, oh, this is a different onion than the last onion. It's all the same onion. And God revealed his wisdom in that kind of a way. So starting at at the creation, and then we have the fall, and then we have God's promise that he's going to send The seed of the woman is going to crush the serpent's head. And then we have this unfolding story of redemption all throughout the Old Testament. And every single time, God's plan of redemption is Is tested and it appears that it's going to maybe fall short. What does God do? He demonstrates his faithfulness and he just does it over and over and over and over and over. So what Paul is saying is that this is a wisdom that the longer you study the scriptures, the longer you live in this world, the more God reveals you just get more and more, fuller and fuller information about this. That's what he's saying. Thirdly, he's claiming that the ultimate result of this wisdom is our future glory God, ordained before the world unto glory. You know what that tells me? God's wisdom is centered on the gospel. God's wisdom is centered on the gospel. God's wisdom isn't just about how to manage your finances. God 's wisdom isn't just how to improve your relationships or how to have a better marriage or how to get along with your kids or how to raise your kids right. God's wisdom is more than just Facts about how to make life work. God's wisdom is rooted and centered in the gospel, and it is pushing us toward this ultimate end. That's what he's saying. And so true wisdom does not pull away from a redemptive understanding, and true wisdom does not pull away from a lack of eternal consideration. It's all about the gospel. On the other side, we have worldly wisdom. You know what it is? It's short-sighted. I'll put it like this. Worldly wisdom is all about me right now, and that's it. What works for me now? There that yeah, you might have a person who's having marriage conflicts, okay? And in this marriage conflict, you're gonna have people that are gonna come to them and say, Your husband is a toxic person. Or your wife is a toxic person. And all these little voices around are going to say, you need to pull away from your husband, pull away from your wife, draw those lines in the And don't put up with that garbage. And they're just gonna, they're gonna push and push and push and push and push. And you know what? All they're concerned about is how you feel right now. They're not thinking about how your marriage splitting up is going to affect your children. They're not thinking about how your marriage splitting up is going to affect your families. How it's going to affect your church, how it's going to affect your your finances, how it's going to affect the people that you work with. You just talk about all these issues. How that breakdown of a marriage across all of these people in a country, guess what it does? It leads to the to the absolute deterioration of a culture. I think about that school shooting that just happened the other day. Do you realize that that that young girl who shot a bunch of people in a school Her parents went through three divorces each. She was like a pinball. Now, this is in no way, I am in no way excusing anything that she did. But I asked this This question, do you not think that her parents' drama in some way might have led to the problems this girl had? The fact is that we have when we have all this turmoil and tumultuous interaction in our families, it leads to the deterioration of society. really does. And so what does godly wisdom do? It says, you need to look at more than how you feel right now and how how your pride has been dinged a little bit and how, yeah, your spouse did something Something that wasn't right and it needs to be addressed, and there's a right way to handle this situation. But get over your pride, get over yourself, and do what is right. Think about the big picture. It's not about just what makes me happy at the moment or how I can resolve this conflict immediately, but not consider the long-term effects of that. Or what gives me the most material benefit today or what's working for me. But what does worldly wisdom do? It looks at quick, simple, self-centered, without considering eternity, kind of fixes the problem. It's all about self-gratification. Godly wisdom, on the other hand, is so different. It's all about Him. It's all about the backdrop of eternity. What does God say about this issue? What honors him? What does he say is right, and what does he say is wrong? Well, you know, if it i i if I do what God says to do That's going to be very frustrating. It's going to be frustrating either way. That's going to be very painful. It's going to be painful either way. But if you do things the right way, God has a way of blessing our obedience and our faithfulness. Does it conform to his purposes? What brings glory to him? What is best for others from his perspective? Now the reason I bring this up, just to simply state, two ways that you can look at life. And two ways that will at least in the short term There's going to be a contrast. But what does God say? His way is right. His way is best. His way works. His way is the best way. Two kinds of wisdom. Truth number three, the world's rebellion demonstrates its blindness to this wisdom. Verse number 8 it says, which none of the princes of this world knew. For had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. What the the very first scripture that pops into my head when I think about this is Psalm 2. And this is what it states. He says, Why do the nations rage? And imagine a vain thing. That's a pretty amazing statement. Or should I say, question. Why do the nations that have rejected God, why do they rage against him? And against his anointed. Why do they rage against the Lord? Why do they rage against their creator? Why do they rage against the one rightful King over all creation? The answer is blindness. Blindness. He makes two claims. He says, this world sages, these are the wise people, these are the rulers, these are the princes. They were ignorant of this wisdom. He says, none of the princes of this world knew. It's a pretty emphatic statement. Second statement he says is their ignorance was demonstrated in how they related to Christ. They would not have crucified the Lord of Christ. of glory had they had such a wisdom. Did Pilate really understand what he was doing? Did the Sanhedrin really understand what they were doing? On one sense, you could say, yes, they understood they were killing an innocent man, but did they understand they are killing the Messiah? Did they understand he's going to rise from the dead? Did they understand they're going to stand before him as their judge on the final day of judgment? Do they understand that there's nothing they can do to thwart his plans? He's going to accomplish his purposes. It matters not how they respond. He will do what he's purposed to do. Then does it make any sense for them to do what they did? The answer is of course not. Why? Blindness. Spiritual blindness. Rebellion and ignorance, they go together. Really do. The world does not know God as he is, and this ignorance w leads to a rebellious attitude toward him. And this rebellion leads to a rational action against God. When people say no to God, what they are saying makes zero sense if you had all of the facts. That's the key, if you had all the facts. They're making that decision based on this little body of information that they think is the sum in total of everything. But it's not. If you could see the whole picture, you would say, what an absolute Irrational, unsense. It makes no sense what a person is doing when they fight against God. Like Jesus said to Paul, it's hard for you to kick against the pricks. What are you doing, Paul? Do you understand that you're fighting me and I'm gonna win? That's what he's saying. You can fight, you can fight, you can fight. And guess what? You're gonna be the apostle to the Gentiles Lord, what will you have me to do? It's pretty amazing. Nebuchadnezzar, you better humble yourself. I'll bring you down. What does Nebuchadnezzar do? Look at this great city that I have made for my glory. And he says, That's what I'm talking about. Boom. Right there. The fact is, the scripture is just filled with examples. Pharaoh. Wow, look at that. They're running through the Red Sea. I think I'm going to follow them. Don't Do that. What was he thinking? It makes no sense when people rebel against God in such a way. But you know what's you know what's sad? We do it too. We really do. We distrust him. We get angry at him. We get frustrated with him. We accuse him. And you know what? It's it's no more rational for a Christian Christian to do that than some of these other examples. In fact, it's more irrational because we have access to so much knowledge. And we uh we are the recipients of so much grace. And so we are sinning against far more information than these people are when we do that Truth number four, godly wisdom comes only through special revelation. I think this is kind of interesting. This is Paul building on what he said here. In verses 9 through 13 it says, But as it is written, eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them to love him. But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit, for the Spirit searcheth all things, yes, the deep things of God. For what man knoweth the things of a man save the Spirit of Man? Which is in him. Even so, the things of God knoweth no man but the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God, that we might know the things that are free Which things also we speak not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth, comparing spiritual things With spiritual. Now I I gotta tell you there's a whole lot more that I I almost want to say about this than I'm going to, but I just want to hit some highlights here. There are four facts I want to draw your attention to in this fairly lengthy and very rich statement. The first fact is that no person naturally has this knowledge in them. We are not born into this world knowing God. We are not born into this world Seeking God. We are not born into this world submitting to God. We are not born into this world morally neutral. We are born into this world, sinners, separated from God, not looking for Him, and we do not have this information in our hearts. And I want to add something here. God was under zero more obligation to give us this information. I mean that. He was under no obligation. It's called grace because he didn't have to give it to us. Now, God loves people, and God desires to save people. So God's not cold and callous, but he was under no obligation to put into our heart, what is not there. He says, I hath not seen nor ear heard, neither hath entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. Nobody imagined what the book of Romans says about what God's purposes are for people. Nobody imagined in their head what God's purposes are for his children in Ephesians chapter 1. Nobody imagined what God's purposes for the nation of Israel were. Nobody imagined those things because it would be impossible for someone to ever conceive of such an incredible plan. And so when we read the scriptures, what we are reading is things that had God not told us them, we would have never, ever come to such conclusions. That's what he means when he says, I hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. So how do we know any of these things? We'll get there. Second fact. This knowledge is only possible if God reveals it. Verse 10, it says, But God hath revealed them unto us by his spirit. Now I think this is important for us to uh some of what Paul's getting into in these verses. Is he says, how does a person know what's in the head of a person unless the man reveals it? Does that make sense? In our marriages sometimes we have these uh situations where we have confusion, all right, mixed signals that are going back and forth between husband and wife, and sometimes you know when you get to the bottom of this husband looks at his wife and says, Why didn't you just tell me that? Or the wife looks at her husband and says, Why didn't you just tell me that? I can't read your mind. Well that's your lifelong job is to read my mind. Nobody can read another person's mind In fact, uh a lot of times when we think we can read people's minds, we really get it wrong. We actually sometimes get in more trouble when we try to presume that we have read someone's mind than uh for them to just tell us. Us. And so the logic that Paul is making here is that the only way you know what's in the heart of a man is if he brings it out. The only way that you know what's in the heart of God is Interestingly, he's talking about the fact that between the three persons of the Godhead, the Father, the Son, and the Spirit, there is this perfect, eternal communion. Communion. Perfect communion. A oneness of purpose. And so in the mind of God, there was this plan of redemption. And so what does the father do? He sends the son to accomplish this work of redemption. And he sends the Spirit to communicate what the Son would do, what the Son did do, and why it matters. And then the Spirit of God takes the word and presses it on our hearts. That's what he means when he says God has revealed them unto us by his Spirit. He's talking about God giving us His word, what we call divine inspiration. Every single word of God, of the scriptures, is breathed out by God. The Spirit is speaking. It is the Spirit's sword, the word of God. So this knowledge is only possible because God's revealed it. I use the word if. He has to do it. Third fact. This is why the Spirit gave us the scriptures. Verse 11. Even so the things of God knoweth no man but the Spirit of God. And God's desire is not to hold this information in from Us again. He's not obligated, but he wants to give it to us. Why? Because he loves us. He is a glorious and good God. He wants to draw people to himself. But again, it's grace. Fact number four, God's word reveals unspeakably wonderful personal truths. Verse 12 he says, We've received not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of God, that we might know the things that are freely given us of God. All of these incredible things that are part of this gospel plan, and all these incredible things that come to us because of what God has done for us, and because of what God is doing in us. us and what God is doing through us and what God has preserved for us. All of those things, they're very personal, and they're very wonderful. And he says that's why God gave us his word. To put it another way, natural revelation is good, but it's not good enough. Conscience is also good, but it also falls short. By the way, when we look at when we look at creation, we can we can see the heavens declare the glory of God. There are things that we can observe in nature that in fact they teach us about God, but they do not give us enough information to know Him personally, intimately, to be saved from our sins. And to enjoy him forever. Our conscience reminds us that we are moral creatures. And we have this sense of right and wrong, but guess what? The conscience doesn't have the ability to give us that information for us to be safe from our sins. That is a knowledge that has to come from God through words with the Spirit working. And that is the sense of what Paul is communicating here. But there's a fifth truth that really hammers of the nail hard. Here it is. Illumination is necessary for godly wisdom to root in our hearts. Even if God just gave us the word But the spirit didn't work in us. Guess what? We wouldn't. We wouldn't get it. We would not get it. You say, well, I don't think it's fair that it's that way. Doesn't matter if you think it's fair or not. That's reality. The fact that our hearts are cold and rebellious, it takes the Spirit of God working in us. For those truths to be awakening our understanding, and those truths to be cemented in our souls, and those truths to be accompanied with passion and love and warmth. And affection for God. The Spirit of God has to work in us in such a way. And you know what that reminds us of? It's the grace of God. Verses 14 and 16 he says, but after saying all those things, he says, but the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. You go, well, hold on a second. So then what's going on? He tells us all the stuff about the word of God, but then the natural man doesn't receive it. What's the point? The spirit doesn't work. The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, their foolishness unto him. Neither can he know them, they are spiritually discerned. But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, yet himself is judged of no man. Who hath known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct him, we have the mind of Christ. You say, what's the difference? The difference is the spirit works in a person. The natural man needs God's grace to act upon him. We need God's grace to awaken us to our sinful, broken condition. When you pray for somebody to get sick You know what you're doing? , You're praying that the Spirit of God will take the word of God and awaken them to their lost condition. That's what you're you're doing. doing. If you don't believe that God has the power to do that, or you don't believe that God would do that, then why do you pray that He does it? If you pray that He does it, then why wouldn't you give the word that the Spirit uses? These things go hand in hand. We need God's grace to draw us to repentance and faith. And think about what it says in John chapter 16. It says, But when he, the Spirit, is come, he will convict the world of sin and righteousness and justice. And he talks about what he means by sin, righteousness, and judgment. What's his point? His point is this: I'm sending him to do this. But it's the grace of God that draws people to repent and believe. We need God's grace to regenerate us, making us new creatures in Christ with a new heart and new affections. I I love I love what the text says in Jeremiah and Ezekiel. where he talked about the coldness of the heart of the people. And then he says, but I'm going to give you a new heart. A heart of flesh, not a heart of stone. And you're going to walk in my ways. What is he describing? The same thing that stated in 2 Corinthians 5. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. And old things are past when all things are become new. That's not suggesting that when we become a Christian, we magically stop sinning. We never have sinful desires. We still live in a body of flesh. But there's a new life in us, a life that was not there before. There are desires that we did not experience before our conversion because God is working in this new man. It's an amazing thing to think about. When Jeremiah talks about the heart being deceitful above all things and desperately wicked, who can know it? Absolutely true. The same prophet Jeremiah says, I'm going to give you. God says, I'm going to give you. A heart of flesh. I'm going to take this rebellious, stubborn, hardened, dishonest person. I'm going to make him a lover of God. What God does in us. It's His grace. This is why illumination is so important. We need to be made alive in Christ. We need the Spirit to open our eyes. to the significance of the scriptures. The truth is this every time you come to church, and I I'm not saying that you obviously I'm sure nobody in this room has done this ever Every time they've come to church, including myself. I'll put myself in this category. But every time we walk into this building and we sit down in one of these pews and we open up our Bible, we should say, God in heaven, I plead with you, open my eyes to understand. These truths. God, take your word and press it on my heart. Awaken these dull affections. Give me a heart Heart that loves you and a heart that longs for you. Father, take this folly in my soul and give me godly wisdom. And the truth is that as the word of God is preached, and as we ask God to open our eyes and help us to understand these truths, you know what he does? He does He does it. He opens the word to us. He's not teaching us something that isn't there. He's helping us to appreciate More fully, what is there? A truth that you've heard a thousand times over the course of your life now hits you with a different kind of warmth than it has ever before. That's what we're talking about. And that's what makes the preaching and teaching of God's Word such an incredibly beautiful thing. Because there are times that we come here and we are discouraged and we are weary. and we are frustrated, we were angry, we don't want to be bothered, but we came because we felt like we had to. And then what does God do? He reaches into our heart through his word and he just presses on an issue. And he says, you need to understand this more fully than you did when you walked in here. And he lifts us up. He changes how we think about things. And he does it just a little at a time. But the person that we are today is not who we were years ago. Same name, same DNA, different person. Just like when you look in the mirror, you say, what happened to that 20-year-old guy? What happened to that 12-year-old? Same person. But kind of not. Okay? But what we are what are we? We're being changed into the image of Christ from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. So how do we apply it? Give you these thoughts quickly. One, we need to understand human nature and how we naturally relate to God. It's a dire situation, folks. And it includes us too. Though we have a conscience and the benefits of natural revelation, we need God's grace to drive us to Him. 3. Without Scripture we cannot know God. For without the Spirit's illuminating work, the Scriptures will not sink into our souls. 5. Godly wisdom produced by the Spirit works through the Scriptures, giving us unspeakable comfort and confidence. I use the word joy. We need to praise God for his grace that has drawn us to himself. We go into the new year, we think about the Christmas season. I I think it would be really appropriate for all of us if it It's possible to get into a quiet place. My house is a little hard. Might have to go in the bathroom and lock the door and turn on the the shower, right? Something like that. Now actually just get up early in the morning and sit by the fireplace. That's what I do. Just stop and think about how gracious God has been to you. Think about how kind he is. Think about how he has worked in you in this past year. And just remember his grace is what's done that. Not that you didn't have a responsibility, not that you didn't respond to it. Both good and bad. But his grace is what's brought you to where you are. And that's a lot to be grateful for. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to cement this into our hearts. Our Father, as we think about your word tonight, Our desire is simply that the Spirit would impress it deeply on our souls. Thank you for loving us when we were unlovely. Thank you for pouring out your grace on us when we were so undeserving. Thank you for opening your word to us so that we could understand. Thank you for shaping us to become more like Jesus in our character and conduct. Father, thank you for how kind you are to us. May we know Never get it get over this. May we, every time what that we walk in this room, just be overwhelmed by a sense of our need for you to speak to us. us and to work in us. We ask this in Christ's name amen.