Proverbs chapter 4, and we are continuing our study through the book of Proverbs, and we are in the topical section. And we are looking at the topic of wisdom. Last time we were together, we talked about the kind of heart that needs to be cultivated So that we have godly wisdom. And so we are going to refer back to a couple of those details later on in our lesson tonight. But what we're going to look at today is what godly wisdom looks like in somebody's life. So we've I've looked at the book of Proverbs and just kind of panned through these passages and kind of narrowed it down. to several different points that we find in the life of a person who has godly wisdom. And these points are a pattern, it's a way of life. Something that's characteristic of a person who has godly wisdom. But before we look at that, let's look at Proverbs 4, verses 18 to 19, because I think this is a very interesting and a very helpful passage as we get into this topic. Proverbs 418. But the path of the just is as the shining light that shineth more and more unto the perfect day. The way of the wicked is as darkness. They know not at what they stumble. So what Solomon basically does is he lays out two patterns of life. The way of the godly, or the just or the righteous. The person who has godly wisdom, and then on the other side he has the person who's wicked. He's separated from God. His pattern of life doesn't factor in God's ways at all. He lives for himself. And basically says the distinction the distinction between those two ways of life is their relationship to the light The person who is godly and wise is someone who walks on the path of shining light. And I love how he says it. He says, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day. The idea is that as a person matures and as they glean godly wisdom and as they go down that path of godly wisdom, the longer they walk down that road, the greater ability they have to see clearly. They're able to understand the why with the things that are going on around them. They go through a series of circumstances. that are difficult, you can't make sense of them, but because they have godly wisdom, they're able to filter that experience through godly wisdom, they're able to make sense of what's going on. They have much better clarity than a person who doesn't know the Lord. On the other side, the person who walks in his own ways, who walks in the ways of wickedness, who walks in the ways of folly, who walks in the path of the scorner, as they walk down that path, They're in the darkness. They don't realize the landmines they're stepping on. They can't make sense of the pain and the suffering that they're dealing with. And the reality is that a godly person can look at what's going on and they can say, well, the reason you're experiencing those hardships is because you have created them. You made this decision here. And now you're experiencing the fruit of that. You've made this decision here. And that's the consequence. That's what happens. But they don't understand it. It doesn't make sense to them. And so this concept of light is a really important concept. The purpose of these two verses is to remind us that wisdom gives light. And folly gives darkness. The longer you walk down the wise path, the more you can see clearly. The more you walk down the path of folly, the darker it gets. It doesn't get better, it gets worse over time. God wants us to walk in the light so we can see clearly in godly wisdom, so we can live this life as God intended us. to live this life. So how can we do that? Well first of all we want to understand the illustration of light and darkness. Light gives us the ability to see Light gives us the ability to process, to make sense of what we're seeing. Light gives us the ability to recognize dangers so that we can avoid them and stay away from those things Light is something that has degrees of brightness. I think I gave this illustration one time, but I remember we went down into DC and we went to the Museum of Natural History. And there, one of the most interesting portions of it was the rooms that had all the diamonds and had all the gold and all these interesting gems. Well what's interesting is that when you go into a room like that, if you examine one of those precious gems in a room that is The light is really dull. And you have two gems there. One is of great quality and the other one's not of great quality. They look very similar in that setting. You turn up the light a little bit, and you start to notice a few imperfections with the one gem, and the other one seems to radiate a little bit more. The more you expose that gem to the light, the greater the distinction between those gems. And eventually you get in a bright room and you look and you go, that gem is not beautiful. It's flawed. It has problems. That gem is exquisite. It's amazing. In fact, I can just I can look at it for a long time and analyze it from different angles because it's It's so beautiful, so wonderful to behold. The idea is that there's degrees of brightness which give us degrees of clarity. And so this issue of light is very, very important when we talk about wisdom. There's also a New Testament passage that kind of draws on this particular Application. That's 1 John 1, 5 to 7. Listen to what it says. This then is the message which we've heard of him, and declare unto you that God is light. And in him is no darkness at all. Now it's interesting. One of the things we've really tried to point out in the book of Proverbs is that wisdom comes in the face of God. The more you know God, the more you fear God, the more you honor Him, the more you follow His wisdom, the more you're going to have clarity. Well, we see this in this passage here, 1 John 1. It says this. It says if we say we have fellowship with him and we walk in the and and if we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. The idea is that you cannot have fellowship with God and be walking in the darkness. Be resisting him, rejecting him, walking in folly. You have to be walking in his ways, and then you're in the light. He then goes on to say this, if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth us from all sin. Now it's kind of interesting. I've made this application when I'm talking about this. But the closer we walk to God, the more he exposes where we're flawed, and we're able to address those issues, and we're able to have clarity in those issues, and we're able to grow in those issues. In the same kind of sense, when we don't have wisdom, the closer we walk with God, the more he's able to expose those areas where we're not thinking correctly, and we can think differently on those things, and we can begin to develop godly wisdom. So this understanding the illustration of light and darkness is very important. But let's move on to a second truth. We need to understand the kinds of qualities that are examples of a walk in the light rather than a walk in the darkness. We're going to look at a lot of passages, so if you have your Bible, be ready to thumb through those. Some of them are on the screen, but I didn't put all of them on there, so you do want to refer to your Bible for these. But the first passage we're going to look at is Proverbs 2. Walking in the light. Is a walk in fellowship with God. Walking in a light is a walk in fellowship with God. Proverbs 2:6 says this: the Lord giveth wisdom. Out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. Now when it talks about wisdom and knowledge and understanding coming out of God's mouth, Basically what that passage is saying is you want to have wisdom, you gotta be where God's spoken. Where is he spoken? In his word So the person that's in the Bible, the person that is at the feet of Christ, if you want to use that kind of illustration, the one who's digging into the scriptures, he's the one who has wisdom because that's how God gives it. Through what he said. He lays up sound wisdom for the righteous. He's a buckword of them that walk uprightly. He keepeth the paths of righteousness and preserveth the ways of his saints The simplest way to put it is, the person with godly wisdom, the person who walks in the light, is a person who walks with God He walks in fellowship with God. You cannot have fellowship with God and walk in that fellowship without that affecting your wisdom. And you can't have wisdom if you're neglecting your walk with the Lord. The second one is this. Walk in the light recognizes that glory is something we inherit. Not something that we pursue. Now I want to ask you a question. Is that how the world thinks about things? You want glory, you gotta go get it, right? But that's not the way of God. In fact, uh what I'm doing is I'm going I'm actually going through the uh book of Proverbs, verse by verse, chapter by chapter. So These are not necessarily, these are more like in a chronological chapter order as opposed to a logical order. I'm just going to put that out there so you're aware of that. Look at what it says in Proverbs 335. He says, the wise will inherit glory When you inherit something, it's not something that you pursue. It's something that somebody leaves for you. I don't know if you understand the difference here. The truth is that what the world teaches you is that you gotta go and get what you want. You gotta fight for it. You gotta prove your worth. You gotta work hard so that people will glory in you. But the way of the wisdom the way of wisdom isn't that way. Glory and honor is something that God gives you as opposed to you pursue. You know, that's something that affects how we live our lives. A lot of people, if that's how they live their lives, they would have to stop a lot of the ways that they go about doing what they do. They'd have to stop what they say about themselves and what they say about others, how they go about their work, how they undermine people that they interact with. Their entire life would have to be completely reoriented. if they understood and believed that principle. A third one is this. A walk in the light knows how to prioritize based on godly values. Look down at Proverbs 4, 7. So we can if you have your Bible open, we'll just kind of go from one chapter to the next. It says this in verse 7. Wisdom is the principal thing. Now what does that mean? That means that the person who has godly wisdom understands there are priorities. That means that this issue and this issue, they're both important, but they're not equally important. And so the person that has godly wisdom says That goes here and this goes here. And so in order of importance, that's the one that I have to give the most attention to. And this one's important, but it's of lesser importance. You know, one of the biggest struggles that I think people have in their lives is not that they can see that something's important, but that they can put it in the right order. Okay? It's the truth. I mean that that's really where a lot of our struggles are. So is work important? Oh yeah. But how many people put work ahead of their family? And at the end of it all, when they're retired, they have a lot of family problems, but they got a lot of money. Because they gave all their time to work and not to family. You know, your family's important and work's important. But God is our greatest priority. You know how many people really don't spend time in God's Word? They neglect their opportunities to grow and to mature in their faith. Because they have time for other things. I think leisure is important. The truth is that we need to give our minds and our bodies a rest. We need to have diversions. We need to have things that we give attention to at times. But how many people will take leisure and put it here? Ahead of family and work and God? They put it in the wrong order. The fact is that the godly wise person knows how to prioritize. And the question is, where does prioritizing come from? It comes from your value system. So whatever shapes your values determines how you prioritize. So your background has a lot to do with this. We've got to be people who the word of God is what says this is important, but this is more important. This is less important. And we let the Word of God be our authority for how we order those particular things. Number four, walking in the light realizes its limitations. Proverbs 833 says this. Hear instruction and be wise and refuse it not. Hear instruction, be wise, and refuse it not. Now this is only one verse that I could go to. There's actually lots and lots of verses in the Proverbs. that talk about how we need to be people who submit our knowledge level to somebody else's who's have has more experience than us. Somebody who's been around longer, somebody who has gone through that stage of life, somebody that studied the Word of God longer. We have to learn to be people that recognize our limitations. You know, how many times do you find somebody and okay, I've I I'm I'm I'm guilty party on this one, okay? I have a task. Probably need some help. But I want to get it done now. And so what do I do? I get it done now. And I hurt myself in the process. Okay, I remember when we were getting ready to go to Ghana, my wife had gotten a piano Because an upright piano. She she bought this for what? Was it $40, Deanna? $20 $25, $30, $40. I don't remember. She bought it at the Goodwill. This is when we were dating. And my truck is how we got it. So when we were getting ready to go to Ghana, we were gonna get rid of that upright piano. I mean there's no reason to bring that to Ghana. And I remember seeing that thing in there and I was like, you know what? I'm just taking it to the dump. I can't call a bunch of people. I'm just going to do this myself. So we took out some of the parts of that upright piano Scott's looking at his wife. This is something Scott would do, right? And you know what I did? I backed my pickup truck to the back of that sliding glass door, pushed the thing up on its end, slid it there and tipped it over into my pickup truck and actually I actually got that upright piano in by myself. And I damaged my pickup truck in the process. You know, I just didn't want to ask for help. You're laughing at me. You know what? There's a lot of guys that have done stuff like that Lots of us, okay? We we do this thing. You know what? We need to be people who learn how to recognize our limitations. I don't know everything I need other people to kind of help me through that particular matter. There are a lot of Christians that bear heavy, heavy burdens. Heavy burdens. And you know why they bur they they carry that burden alone? Because they're too proud to let somebody else carry it with them. And they're destroying their souls by it Lots and lots of times when people get to places that are very, very dark and very, very low It's because in the process of getting to that place, when they could have said, hey, I need to talk to you. Can you pray with me? Can you bear that burden with me? I'm not sure how to make sense of this. And God allows that person to minister to them and carry that burden, help them walk through that situation. Instead, they reject that. And they hold it themselves and then they break. And it's severe. I want to encourage you. Understand your limitations Godly wisdom, walking in the light, realizes I don't have all the answers, I don't have all the strength, I need God's grace, I need his church, I need his word, I need his people. I am a limited person. They hear instruction. They receive it. They become wiser. They don't refuse and do it themselves. Number five, walking in the light loves those who sharpen them. Proverbs 9:8 says this: reprove not a scorner, lest he hate thee. Rebuke a wise man, and he will love thee. Anybody here love it when people rebuke them? Nope, nobody does. I remember this very well. I was in college, and there was a guy next to me in chapel who just every single day he'd come to chapel and he would sleep. He wouldn't bring his Bible. And it was just like he was checked out. He hated being in chapel. He did not want to be there. And you know, the good floor leader that I was. I would watch this a couple of times and finally I said, uh uh uh I'm I'm I'm not gonna do this. I'm gonna say something to him about it. And the way that I handled it really wasn't probably very gracious. I said, do you have a Bible? He said, yeah. I said, why don't you bring it? I said, this is chapel, man. You need to pay attention. I was like, you got the whole night to sleep. Don't sleep during chapel. I was very, you know, I didn't hail it the right way. And I remember later in the day, I was sitting in my room and I heard this bump at my door. I went out there and there was a little note sitting on the floor next to my door. I was like, oh that's interesting. So I picked up that note and I read that note and let me tell you, it wasn't very nice. Somebody, I don't know if it was him, I don't know if it was this friend, I don't know if it was somebody that watched me have this conversation, but they shredded me big time. But you know what? A lot of what they said, though it wasn't done in a nice way, it was true. The way that I handled it was really wrong. I didn't speak kindly to the guy. I wasn't doing it in a spirit of humility or love. It was very abrasive. It was wrong. And the truth is that it hurt, but it's what I needed to hear. And the fact is that a wise person Loves the person who sharpens them. You know, when you become sharpened by another person, that means there's rough edges that get knocked off. Okay? That means that there's a part of you that's got to change It's got to get shaped by someone else's opinion and we could say their encouragement, their rebuke, whatever they have to say. Walking in the light loves those who sharpen them. When you have a friend, when you have a family member, when you have a spouse, when you have somebody that comes alongside of you and corrects you. Don't hate them for that. They may not come to you the right way, and they should come the right way. And we should come to people the right way. But godly wisdom and walking in the light says, thank you. Well what's the opposite? Walk in the darkness is you have no right to talk to me like that. Who are you to tell me I'm wrong? Who are you to impose your opinions on me? And guess what? You don't change. You don't grow. You don't mature. The difference between walking in the light and walking in the darkness. Number six. I'm I'm writing them down so I don't forget which number I'm on. Number six, walking in the light blesses others, especially those who are closest to them. Proverbs 10:1 says this: The Proverbs of Solomon, a wise son maketh a glad father, but a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother. The people that most who are most blessed by you are those who invested in you most. And the people who are most wounded by you are the people who you had really invested they invested in you and you just you threw it off. And the fact is that when a person walks in folly, they hurt the people that are the closest to them. When you've got a husband who is an unwise man, his wife bears the brunt and the hardship of being married to that kind of a person. When you have a wife who is a harsh woman, what does the scripture say? It's better to dwell in the corner of the housetop than with a brawling and contentious woman. The fact is that when you have a husband who is harsh, then you have Abigail who is at David's feet saying, take all this food and please don't kill us. Because yes, my husband, he has acted like a complete fool. You know what I'm saying? The fact is that the people closest to us are the people that are the most blessed by us or the most hurt by us. Are moms and dads who labor so much. You know, there's a lot of moms and dads out there that aren't good. I know that. They they don't do things the right way. But the fact is that in this context The people that invest in us the most, our parents, our grandparents, an uncle, an aunt, a mentor, they're the ones that are most affected by our wisdom and our father. Number seven, walking in the light is not lazy with the opportunities that it gets. Look at Proverbs ten, verse five. This one is very interesting. He that gathereth is a in summer is a wise son. But he that sleepeth in the harvest is a son that causeth shame. Let me read that again. He that gathereth in summer is a wise son, but he that sleepeth in the harvest Is a son that causes shame. You know what's really interesting about something like farming or gardening? If you're a farmer You plant that field and you work and you gotta fight everything. Yesterday we had a snake, a big old snake got stuck in my garden. I had to I had to pull that thing out of there. It was unreal. I mean it was it was that long. It was like I held it like down to the ground like that. I got these things that are getting in there, these little ground moles. They got teeth like a beaver. They call 'em voles. And they came this thing came up under my lettuce, like beautiful lettuce, and it just like it ate the whole thing from the bottom. You gotta fight this stuff. You know, and then you you don't get any rain and what happens? Everything dries out and it dies. You get too much rain and everything's full of mildew. You know, it's tough. You gotta fight the elements, all right? So you go through the whole season, and then there it is, all that corn is there on the stock All those tomatoes are there ready to be picked. All those, whatever it is, it's there. But let me tell you something. If you don't pick it right away, it's going to be wasted. You don't have six months to bring in a harvest. When the harvest is in the field, you gotta go pick it. And what you don't get, it rots. Animals eat it. It's gone The fact is, there are a lot of things in life that are that way. When you have the opportunity, you've got to take the step and you've got to do something about it. A wise person recognizes when it's time for action, it's time to work, it's time to get something done, it's time to make a decision. But a person who's lazy and doesn't see the opportunity, they let it go and it just passes them by. And that's what he's basically saying. The wise son, when the harvest is ready, he goes out and he brings it in. He doesn't want to waste that opportunity. He's not going to be lazy. He's not going to sleep. He's not going to say, oh, it's too hot today. He's going to go out and bring it in because if he doesn't, all that work has been wasted. Number eight, walking in the light recognizes the need to constantly accumulate knowledge for the sake of perspective. Proverbs 10:14 says this: wise men lay up knowledge. But the mouth of the foolish is near destruction. I love this little phrase. Wise men lay up knowledge. And what does that tell you? The wise man doesn't just learn so that he can address what's going on right now. He constantly learns because he knows down the road there's going to be a day that he's got to learn that. In other words, he is constantly accumulating knowledge so that when he needs it, he's ready to address it. I remember when I was in college, there was this one particular teacher we had. And of course this is before the internet days, all right? So now you know you can Google and you can get all the information that you need. But in those days he used to say things like this. I'd be reading the paper and I'd find a great article and I'd cut it out and I'd put it in a file And he's like, he's like, you know, I'm reading a magazine and I'm reading uh he wouldn't cut out a section of a book. Maybe he'd go and he'd like photocopy it or something. But he's like, any time that I got this idea that pops in my head. I'd write it down and I'd put it in a file. And I kept these files so that when I was preparing to teach, when I was preparing to preach, I would go to my files and I would find illustrations. I would find articles. I would find a section out of a book. And I could go back to that. Well, you know what's really interesting about that concept? He didn't need that information when he was putting it in the file. He didn't know he was going to need the information. He just knew he might need it. And so he took the time to invest in the future. That's what he was doing. Wise people recognize I don't have everything together now. I don't know when I'm going to need this information. I don't know when I'm going to need to tap into this resource. And so I'm going to learn now. I'm going to lay up that wisdom for a time down the road. Let me give you an example. So you have a kid, he's 14 years old. Is he ready to get married? Not in our culture. Now if he lived uh you know a hundred years ago in another part of the world, you know maybe he would be getting ready to get married at fourteen. They happen. Even in our c country, people getting married when they're fourteen and fifteen You know, a hundred years ago it happened. But he's not ready to get married. So what is he going to do? He's going to dedicate all his time to some worthy endeavors like Playing sports, playing video games, chilling with his friends. He's gonna give all his attention to things that really are just essentially time wasters. Now I'm not saying that those are a hundred percent time wasters, okay. I love sports. I loved it a lot. But the fact is that they neglect their future. They don't think about the fact that, hey, you know, down the road I'm gonna want to get married and I need to I need to have a a way to provide for my wife. You know, maybe I ought to learn from my mom and my dad about some skills about how to relate to, you know My future wife. And so I need to talk to my mom a lot. I need to talk to my dad, and I need to learn some things that he learned. I need to learn from older people. And they prepare for the future. They learn how to invest. They learn how to prepare for the future. And so guess what happens? When that 14-year-old who's prepared , Turns 22, 23, 24. He gets married and he has a very smooth transition into marriage. You know why that is? Because he prepared. He laid up sound wisdom. He talked to his mom, he talked to his dad, he gathered information, he prepared for his future. He prepared before he needed it. On the other side, we have people who don't do that at all. They just go through life and whatever hits them, you know, they don't even think about it. And they turn twenty-three or twenty-four and they go, Man, I'd love to get married. And they're broke. They don't have a job. They don't know how to relate to people. All they know how to do is waste time. And that's why they're getting married when they're 32, 34, 36. Why? Because they're not ready. Why aren't they ready? Because at 14 they didn't think about it. The fact is that wisdom and walking in the light is constantly gathering wisdom and laying it up because down the road, he's going to I'm going to stop there for sake of time. There's some great, great little sections here, but the whole point of this discussion today is this. As we read through these things, we are seeing the pattern of life of certain kinds of people. You may know people like this. A very godly person. You say, you know what? My dad, my uncle, this man or this woman that I knew in the church, my mom. A teacher that I had when I was in school. I had a coach. They were that kind of a person. As you talk about those things, you say, they took correction. They realized their limitations. They had good priorities. Learn from people like that. I'm going to ask you a question. Are you that kind of a person? You might say, well, I haven't been. Well, there's never a time it's never too late to try to start. Okay? It's never too late to try to invest in the lives of other people. I'm going to stop there at number eight. We'll continue on the next time that we meet. But godly wisdom, we desperately need it. May the Lord help us to be people. Have this kind of a pattern. In our lives. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, thank you so much for this section that we've looked at. First ten chapters of the book of Proverbs, and we've seen eight simple yet very significant factors that we see in the lives of godly wise people. Father, help us to have these qualities. Help us to be learners. Help us to be humble. Help us to be close to you. Help us to be people whose lives are distinctly godly wise. Help us to walk in the light and to fellowship with you. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.